ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Personnel generally, ch. 46.
Related laws reference—Clerk, other personnel, § 5.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-71. - Coverage by worker's compensation.
Volunteer firefighters, volunteer members of emergency management or civil defense organization, or rescue organization, and elected county officers and elected members of the governing authority of the county shall be covered under the workers' compensation laws of the state.
(Res. No. 2005-29, § I, 11-1-05)
Secs. 2-72—2-90. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - COUNTY MANAGER[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Res. No. 2003-26, adopted Aug. 5, 2003, redefined the position of county administrator as that of county manager, and the title of division 2 has been amended to reflect said redefinition at the discretion of the editor.

Sec. 2-91. - Position created; purpose.
There is created the position of county manager to provide administrative assistance to the board of commissioners in the performance of its duties and responsibilities.
(Res. No. 2003-26, 8-5-03)
Sec. 2-92. - Powers and duties.
The county manager, as the chief executive officer of the government of the county, shall be responsible to the board of commissioners for the proper and efficient administration of the affairs of the county, and shall have the following powers and duties:
(1)
Exercise control over county departments and agencies, directing and supervising the administration of all county offices, departments, and agencies for which the said board is responsible, or may hereafter be responsible, including the authority to appoint, suspend, discharge, transfer, discipline and/or remove department heads and employees (but the county manager may delegate to any department head such powers with respect to such department head's subordinates within his/her department);
(2)
Supervise the conduct of county employees;
(3)
Confer with and advise all elected or appointed officials of the county who are not under the immediate control of the said board but who receive financial support from the said board, such as the sheriff, clerk of court, probate judge, tax commissioner, magistrate judge and other elected or appointed officials;
(4)
Administer county laws, ordinances, and resolutions;
(5)
Be responsible for the preparation of the annual budget;
(6)
Inform the governing authority about the financial conditions and needs of the county;
(7)
Maintain accurate records reflecting its financial affairs;
(8)
Examine the accounts and records of county departments;
(9)
Supervise the performance of contracts;
(10)
Regulate purchases of county supplies and materials;
(11)
Perform all other duties delegated by the board of commissioners.
(Res. No. 92-18, 7-20-92; Res. No. 2003-26, 8-5-03)
Sec. 2-93. - Reports to board.
All reports by the county manager shall be made to the full board of commissioners in either a regular or called meeting of the board.
(Res. No. 92-18, 7-20-92; Res. No. 2003-26, 8-5-03)
Secs. 2-94—2-115. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - INDEMNIFICATION

Sec. 2-116. - Insurance authorized.
The board of commissioners may purchase and maintain policies of liability insurance or contracts of indemnity insuring or indemnifying the members of the board of commissioners and all its supervisors, administrators, employees or other elected or appointed officers, against personal liability for damages arising out of the performance of their duties or in any way connected therewith whether based upon negligence, violation of contract rights, or violation of civil, constitutional, common law or other statutory rights, whether state, federal or local. The county, through its board of commissioners shall expend state, federal and local funds for such purposes. The amount of such insurance or indemnity shall be in the discretion of the members of the board of commissioners. No action shall be maintained against the person or company issuing such insurance or contracting for such indemnity until final judgment has first been entered against the individual covered by such policy or contract, and the existence of such insurance or indemnity shall not be disclosed or suggested in any action brought against such individual.
(Res. No. 92-7, § 1, 4-14-92)
Sec. 2-117. - Waivers.
Nothing in this division shall be construed as waiving any immunity or privilege of any kind now or hereafter enjoyed by the county or any member of the board of commissioners.
(Res. No. 92-7, § 2, 4-14-92)
Sec. 2-118. - Legal defenses.
In addition to being able to obtain the insurance or indemnity referred to in section 2-116, the county, by and through its board of commissioners, shall, as a part of the compensation and terms of employment of members of the board of commissioners and its supervisors, administrators, employees or other elected or appointed officers, undertake to defend all of the civil, criminal, or quasicriminal actions brought or maintained against members of the board of commissioners, its supervisors, administrators, employees or other elected or appointed officers, arising out of the performance of their duties or in any way connected therewith, whether based upon negligence, violation of contract rights, or violation of civil, constitutional common law or statutory rights. The county, through the board of commissioners, may expend state, federal and local funds for such purposes including but not limited to attorney's fees, court costs, deposition costs, witness fees and compensation, and all other like costs, expenses and fees.
(Res. No. 92-7, § 3, 4-14-92)
Secs. 2-119—2-130. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - TRAVEL REGULATIONS

Sec. 2-131. - Introduction.
These travel regulations are designed to assist county officials and employees (hereinafter called "employees") in the classified service that are required to travel away from their official headquarters during performing their official duties, and aid the finance department in the payment of travel expenses. Each employee required to travel is entitled to reimbursement for reasonable, necessary and allowable expenses incurred. A county employee on travel status, if accompanied by someone, who is not a county employee on travel status, will not be entitled to reimbursement for any expenses incurred for that person. These regulations are intended to indicate what constitutes reasonable and necessary expenses and to provide uniformity among the various departments of county government. These regulations are designed to encompass major areas pertaining to travel while allowing the department flexibility to deal with unusual travel circumstances that are not addressed herein by requesting specific authorization for deviations from the county manager. The flexibility of this system depends on the integrity of the employees to return all unused funds.
(Res. No. 2006-5, 1-31-06)
Sec. 2-132. - Statement of purpose.
It is the county's purpose to allow travel arrangements on a limited basis provided: (a) travel appropriations are available, (b) travel is duly authorized and (c) travel is within the scope of the employee's employment and the discharge of his (her) official duties. Employees are expected to show good judgment and a proper regard for economy in incurring travel expenses. Required records must be kept of expenditures at the time incurred, submitted on the appropriate expense report and completed in strict accordance with these regulations.
(Res. No. 2006-5, 1-31-06)
Sec. 2-133. - Travel authorization.
Employees required to travel in the performance of official duties and entitled to reimbursement for expenses incurred must receive prior authorization from their department director or elected official. Blanket authorization for routine travel may be granted. A list of signatures of approving officials should be made available to finance department personnel responsible for issuing reimbursement travel checks.
The department director or elected official reflecting estimated cost, the destination and mode of transportation and general purpose of the travel, must specifically authorize all out-of-state travel in writing. All out-of-state travel should be filed with the finance department at least ten days prior to the trip. The aforementioned requirement for prior authorization of out-of-state travel pertains to ordinary anticipated travel such as workshops, conferences or seminars. Some travel, such as police investigations or prisoner transfers, by its very nature precludes a ten-day lead-time. This unforeseeable travel will be exempt from the prior authorization requirement; but the department director or elected official will be responsible for making certain that funds are available for these travel expenditures.
(Res. No. 2006-5, 1-31-06)
Sec. 2-134. - Subsistence.
Reimbursement claims for subsistence (meals and lodging) are to be reported on an "employee travel expenses statement" by date, location and amount for each meal and lodging claimed. An individual taking annual leave while away from headquarters on official business is not entitled to subsistence for the period of leave.
(1)
Meals. Per diem allotments of $30.00 per day will be made for meals, taxes and tips.
Employees are entitled to reimbursement for breakfast expenses if they depart before 7:00 a.m. and for dinner expenses if they return later than 7:30 p.m. This entitlement is based on the premise that early departure and late return times as provided above are out of necessity and not at the discretion or convenience of the employee.
As with all county expenditures, meal reimbursements are subject to verification and compliance with county financial policies, and are subject to approval by the department director and/or administration. All county expenditures and accounting are subject to the open records act.
(2)
Lodging. Reimbursement may be made for actual lodging expenses based on reasonable rates. Receipts must document all lodging claims. Travelers should always make every effort to obtain suitable accommodations at the most economical rates available. It is expected that reservations will be made in advance whenever practical, that minimum rate accommodations available will be utilized, that "deluxe" hotels and motels will be avoided and that government rates will be obtained whenever possible. Many hotels and motels grant government rates to government employees upon request. Charges exceeding reasonable rates must be explained on the employee travel expense statement and approved by the finance department. More costly lodging may be justified to some extent if an employee stays at an expensive accommodation where a meeting is held in order to avoid excessive transportation cost between a lower cost motel and the location of the meeting.
Local government officials and employees should not be charged local hotel/motel excise tax on lodging while traveling on official government business inside the state. The form "exemption of the local hotel/motel excise tax" is to be completed and presented at the hotel registration desk when registering. These forms can be obtained in the county commission office. When a room is shared with other county employees on travel status, reimbursement will be calculated, if practical, on a pro rata share of the total cost. A county employee on travel status, if accompanied by someone, who is not a county employee on travel status, will be entitled to reimbursement at a single room rate. Reimbursement for lodging should be limited to the minimum number of nights required to conduct the assigned county business.
(Res. No. 2006-5, 1-31-06)
Sec. 2-135. - Transportation.
(a)
Vehicles. First priority for travel within the state should be given to use of county owned vehicles, if available. Otherwise, travelers may choose between using a personal vehicle or common carrier. Departments should approve transportation based on the most economical mode, consistent with the purpose of the travel.
Effective February 1, 2006, the reimbursement for transportation expenses incurred by use of personally owned vehicles would be at the rate of 44.5 cents per mile. The initial point of departure should be the individual's residence or headquarters, whichever is nearer the destination point. When possible, employees should attempt to travel together to the same destination in one vehicle.
Actual odometer readings will be reported; however, personal mileage will be excluded in determining the mileage for which reimbursement will be made. Claims exceeding mileage computed by the most direct route from the point of departure to destination (due to field visits, picking up passengers, etc.) must be explained on the employee travel expense statement.
The authorized mileage rate is intended to cover the normal expenses incurred in the operation of a personal vehicle. In addition, parking and toll expenses will be paid for official travel in personal or county vehicles. A receipt should be provided when possible; if not, a written explanation should be included on the expense statement. The use of commercially leased vehicles will be left to the discretion of department personnel responsible for authorizing travel. Employees will be reimbursed for cost associated with the official use of such vehicles. Employees sharing a ride with another county employee using either a personal or county vehicle, and not claiming reimbursement for mileage, should indicate in the automobile mileage record section of the expense statement the name of the person they rode with and the date of the trip.
(b)
Common carrier. Transportation by common carrier will be scheduled plane, bus or rail. Reimbursement will be made upon presentation of a ticket stub, receipt or other documentary evidence of expenditure. Officials or employees traveling by commercial air carrier will not be reimbursed for that portion of first class air fare that exceeds the amount of the lowest fare (tourist, etc.) for the flight on which such official or employee is traveling, unless space is not otherwise available.
(c)
Shuttle/taxi service. Taxi service (when a more economical means is not available) will be reimbursed between the individual's departure point and the common carrier's departure point; between the common carrier's arrival point and the individual's lodging or meeting place; and between the lodging and meeting places if at different locations. It is expected that shuttle service will be utilized when available. Although receipts are not necessary for such items of transportation, a point-to-point explanation should be required for each such item reimbursed.
(Res. No. 2006-5, 1-31-06)
Sec. 2-136. - Miscellaneous expenses.
Registration fees required for participation in workshops, seminars or conferences that an employee is directed and/or authorized to attend would be allowed when supported by a paid receipt or a copy of the check showing payment. Any part of a registration fee applicable to meals will be reported as meal expense and not as a registration fee if the cost can be separately identified.
Expenses for official telephone and telegraph messages that must be paid for by the traveler are allowed. Reimbursement claims will indicate the location from which made, the person contacted and justification for communication. Postage expense incurred relative to travel will be allowed. Claims for laundry, valet service, theater, entertainment and alcoholic beverages will not be reimbursed.
(Res. No. 2006-5, 1-31-06)
Sec. 2-137. - Reimbursement procedures.
A diligent effort should be made by department directors and persons responsible for approving claims for travel reimbursement to see that expense statements submitted are reasonable, accurate and cover only expenses actually incurred by an employee traveling in the interest of the county. When claims for reimbursement exceed established limits, a written explanation should be made on the statement explaining these higher amounts. These claims should be closely reviewed and department directors should adjust downward any excessive expenditure before approval and remittance to the finance department.
(1)
Frequency. Employees should submit travel expense statements for reimbursement within one week after returning from the trip.
(2)
Travel expense statement. Henceforth, employees requesting reimbursement for travel expenses must submit claims on the standard "employee travel expense statement" form (see example form on file in the office of the county clerk).
(3)
Statement of propriety. Each county employee on travel status should consider seriously the wording of the statement to be signed in submitting a claim for reimbursement. The statement reads as follows: "I do solemnly swear under criminal penalty of a felony for false statements subject to punishment by fine of not more than $1,000.00 or by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than five years, that the above statements are true and have incurred the described expenses and the county use mileage in the discharge of my official duties for the county.
(Res. No. 2006-5, 1-31-06)
Secs. 2-138—2-150. - Reserved.
