ARTICLE VII. - WETLANDS PROTECTION

Sec. 30-181. - Title.
This article shall be known as the "Wetlands Protection Resolution of White County."
(Res. No. 2004-27, § I, 7-6-04)
Sec. 30-182. - Wetland protection district.
(a)
Wetland protection district. This article shall apply to all wetlands within the wetland protection district as defined herein and located within the jurisdiction of the county. The generalized wetland map, adopted as part of this article, shows the general location of wetlands and of the wetland protection district and should be consulted by persons contemplating activities in or near wetlands before engaging in a regulated activity. The generalized wetland map, together with all explanatory matter thereon and attached thereto, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this article. The generalized wetland map shall be on file in the office of the county planning commission.
(b)
Wetland protection district boundaries. The generalized wetland map is a general reference document and wetland boundaries indicated on the map are approximations. The purpose of the generalized wetland map is to alert developers/landowners if they are within proximity to a wetland, which means that there is a high likelihood of the presence of a jurisdictional wetland and a need for the developer/landowner to seek U.S. Army Corps of Engineers guidance as to whether a section 404 permit, as hereby described, will be required prior to any activity. No local permits or permission will be granted for a proposed development project that appears to contain wetlands or be located near wetlands so as to potentially alter them until the Corps of Engineers has determined whether jurisdictional wetlands exist on the site. The generalized wetland map does not necessarily represent the exact boundaries of jurisdictional wetlands within the jurisdiction of the county and cannot serve as a substitute for a delineation of wetland boundaries by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as required by section 404 of the Clean Water Act, as amended. Any local government action under this article does not relieve the landowner from federal or state permitting requirements.
(Res. No. 2004-27, § II, 7-6-04)
Sec. 30-183. - Permitting.
(a)
Local development permit requirements. No regulated activity will be allowed within the wetland protection district without written permission or permit from the county. If the area proposed for development is located within 50 feet of a wetland protection district boundary, as determined by the county planning director or their designee, using the generalized wetland map, a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' determination shall be required. If the Corps determines wetland are present, on the proposed development site, the local permit or permission will not be granted until a section 404 permit or a letter of permission is issued
(b)
Permissible uses (use as a right). The following uses shall be allowed as a right within the wetland protection district to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other resolution or law, including laws of trespass, and provided they do not require structures, grading, fill, draining, or dredging except as provided herein.
(1)
Operations conducted during normal forestry activities, including minor dredge and fill associated with road construction, harvesting, and reforestation practices provided they meet the performance standards and road construction best management practices required under section 404 of the Clean Water Act.
(2)
Conservation or preservation of soil, water, vegetation, fish, and other wildlife, provided they do not affect waters of Georgia or of the United States in such a way that would require an individual 404 permit.
(3)
Outdoor passive recreational activities, including fishing, bird watching, hiking, boating, horseback riding, and canoeing.
(4)
Forestry practicing applied in accordance with best management practices approved by the state forestry commission and as specified in Section 404 of the Clean Water Act.
(5)
The cultivation of agricultural crops. Agricultural activities shall be subject to best management practice approved by the state department of agriculture.
(6)
The pasturing of livestock provided that riparian wetlands are protected, that soil profiles are not disturbed and that approved best management practices are followed.
(7)
Education, scientific research, and nature trails.
(8)
Temporary Emergency Permit. A temporary emergency permit can be issued by White County or its designee for the following reasons:
a.
Maintenance or repair of lawfully located roads or structures and of facilities used in the service of the public to provide transportation, electric, gas, water, telephone, telegraph, telecommunication or other services, provided that such roads, structures, or facilities are not materially changed or enlarged and that, prior to the commencement of work, written notice has been given to the county or its designee and provided that the work is conducted using best management practices to ensure that flow and circulation patterns, and chemical and biological characteristics of the wetland, are not impaired and that any adverse effect on the aquatic environment will be minimized.
b.
Temporary water level stabilization measures associated with forestry operation, provided that they are necessary to alleviate abnormally wet or dry conditions that would have an adverse impact on the conduct of forestry activities if not corrected.
c.
Limited ditching tilling, dredging, excavating, or filling done solely for the purpose of maintaining or repairing existing drainage systems necessary for the cultivation of agricultural crops, provided that the maintenance or repair activity does not result in the impairment, alteration, or loss of wetlands not previously subject to agricultural and forestry use under the terms and provisions of this subsection (b).
d.
Limited excavating and filling necessary for the repair and maintenance of piers, walkways, nature trails, observation decks, wildlife management shelters, boathouses, or other similar water-related structures, provided that they are built on pilings to allow unobstructed flow of water and preserve the natural contour of the wetland.
(c)
Unacceptable uses (prohibited uses). The following uses are prohibited within the wetlands protection district:
(1)
No facilities for the handling, storage, and disposal of hazardous materials, toxic waste, or other contaminants shall be permitted within a wetland protection district.
(2)
No hazardous or sanitary waste landfill shall be permitted within a wetlands protection district.
(3)
Uses that are prohibited by other ordinance or resolution of the county, are prohibited in a wetlands protection district.
(d)
Site plans. Applications for a development permit within the generalized wetland protection district shall include a site plan, drawn at a scale of one inch equals 100 feet (the county may approve a different scale where necessary to clearly provide the required information) with the following information:
(1)
A map of all planned land disturbance activity shall bear the signature/seal of a registered or certified professional in engineering, architecture, landscape architecture, land surveying, or erosion and sedimentation control or a county surveyor, and shall conform to current guidelines as set forth in the Erosion and Sediment Control Ordinances of 1975 as amended.
(2)
Location, dimensions and area of all impervious surfaces, both existing and proposed, on the site.
(3)
The orientation and distance from the boundaries of the proposed site to the nearest bank of an affected perennial stream or water body.
(4)
Elevations of the site and adjacent lands within 200 feet of the site at contour intervals of no greater than ten feet.
(5)
Location and detailed design of any spill and leak collection systems designed for the purpose of containing accidentally released hazardous or toxic materials.
(6)
All proposed temporary disruptions or diversions of local hydrology.
(e)
Filing fee. At the time of the application, the applicant shall pay a permit fee specified by the county or its designee. A fee shall be charged in the amount of $10.00 per acre or any portion thereof, for projects involving five acres for each application: provided that there shall be a minimum fee of $250.00 and a maximum fee of $1000.00; and provided further, that the fee for those projects involving five acres or less shall be $50.00.
(f)
Review procedures. The application shall be made to the county planning commission or such parties, which may be designated by county commissioners and will be reviewed within 45 days. The review period shall include the preparation of findings (approval or disapproval) by the county planning commission or such parties which may be designated by the county board of commissioners. The applicant will receive written notification of the findings thereof. If the review process is not completed within the time period specified herein, the application is considered to be approved for the purpose of this article.
(g)
Appeals. Decisions on permit applications made by the county planning commission may be appealed to the county board of commissioners. The appeal must be made, in writing, within 15 days of the decision rendered by the county planning commission. Upon receipt of this notice the board of commissioners shall establish a date and time on which the appeal shall be heard and shall notify the applicant or permittee in writing.
(h)
Duration of permit validity.
(1)
If construction described in the development permit has not commenced within 12 months from the date of issuance, the permit shall expire.
(2)
If construction described in the development permit is suspended or abandoned after work has commenced, the permit shall expire 12 months after the date that work ceased.
(3)
Written notice of the pending expiration of the development permit may be issued by the county planning commission.
(Res. No. 2004-27, § III, 7-6-04)
Sec. 30-184. - Variances, inspection, enforcement, and miscellaneous provisions.
See Chapter 30, Article IX, Sections 30-343, 30-344, 30-345 and 30-346 for regulations on Variances, Inspection, Enforcement, and Miscellaneous provisions.
(Res. No. 2007-18, 4-3-07)
Editor's note— Res. No. 2007-18, adopted April 3, 2007, amended the Code by repealing former § 30-184, and adding a new § 30-184. Former § 30-184 pertained to enforcement, and derived from Res. No. 2004-27, adopted July 6, 2004.
Sec. 30-185. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Res. No. 2007-18, adopted April 3, 2007, amended the Code by repealing former § 30-185. Former § 30-185 pertained to judicial review, and derived from Res. No. 2004-27, adopted July 6, 2004.
Sec. 30-186. - Amendments.
These regulations and the generalized wetland map may from time to time be amended in accordance with procedures and requirements in the general statutes and as new information concerning wetland locations, soils hydrology, flooding, or botanical species peculiar to wetlands become available.
(Res. No. 2004-27, § VI, 7-6-04)
Sec. 30-187. - Definitions.
County commissioners. The county commission chairman and commissioners of White County.
Forestry. The art of producing, reproducing and growing a forest of distinctive stands of trees.
Functions. The beneficial roles that wetlands serve, including: storage, conveyance, and attenuation of floodwater and storm water; protection of water quality and reduction of erosion, habitat for wildlife, including rare, threatened and endangered species; food chain support for a wide variety of wildlife and fisheries; educational, historical, and archeological value protection; and scenic, aesthetic, and recreational amenities.
Generalized wetland map. The generalized wetland map shall be map 26F as found in the January 1992 "Joint city county comprehensive plan for White County....." said map being a subset of the U.S. Department of Interior, National Wetlands Inventory Maps.
Hydric soils. Soils that form as a result of saturated soils conditions. A list of these soils is maintained by the soil conservation service.
Hydrophytic vegetation. Macrophytic plants tolerant of or dependent on saturated soil conditions.
Jurisdictional determination. An official, written statement or map signed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
Jurisdictional wetland. A wetland area that meets the definitional requirements for wetlands as determined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
Regulated activity. Any activity which will, or which may reasonably be expected to, result in the discharge of dredged or fill material into waters of the United States excepting those activities exempted in section 30-183(b) of this resolution and exempted in section 404 of the Federal Clean Water Act.
Temporary emergency permit. A temporary permit that may be issued in certain circumstances specified herein.
Wetland. An area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and under normal circumstances does support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
Wetland delineation. The establishment of wetland boundaries by a representative of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers or an authority designated by the Corps.
Wetland protection district. All wetlands within the jurisdiction of the county, which are indicated on the generalized wetland map as "wetlands providing significant wildlife habitat and/or which may be subject to extensive mitigation."
(Res. No. 2004-27, § VIII, 7-6-04)
Secs. 30-188—30-200. - Reserved.
