Chapter 22 - COURTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 22-1—22-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - JAIL FUND[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— General penalty for violation of Code, § 1-19.
State Law reference— Magistrate courts, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-1 et seq.; violation of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq.; punishment for misdemeanors, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; maximum punishments which may be imposed for violations of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(b); county responsibility for sentencing and maintenance of inmates, O.C.G.A. § 42-5-51(a).

Sec. 22-31. - Additional penalties authorized.
(a)
In every case in which any court in this county, including any court of a municipality which has entered into the intergovernmental contract as provided for in this article, shall impose a fine, which shall be construed to include costs, for any offense against a criminal or traffic law of this state or any offense against a county or municipal resolution or ordinance, there shall be imposed as an additional penalty a sum equal to ten percent of the original fine.
(b)
At the time of posting bail or bond in any case involving a violation of a criminal or traffic law of this state or a violation of a county or municipal resolution or ordinance, an additional sum equal to ten percent of the original amount of bail or bond shall be posted. In every case in which any court of this county, including any court of a municipality which has entered into the intergovernmental contract as provided for in this section, shall order the forfeiture of bail or bond, the additional sum equal to ten percent of the original bail or bond shall be collected.
(c)
The additional penalties set forth in this section shall be in addition to that amount required by O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 to be paid into the Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund, by O.C.G.A. § 47-11-51 to be paid into the Judges of the Probate Courts Retirement Fund of Georgia, or by any other provision of law.
(Res. No. 90-4, §§ 2.01—2.03, 6-5-90)
Sec. 22-32. - Intergovernmental contracts.
If the City of Cleveland, Georgia, or the City of Helen, Georgia, or both of them, enter into an intergovernmental contract with the county providing for the use of the county jail by prisoners of such municipalities, and effective immediately upon the effective date of such agreement, and without further action by the board of commissioners, the additional penalties provided for in this article shall be imposed and collected by such municipalities and remitted to the county in accordance with this article.
(Res. No. 90-4, § 2.04, 6-5-90)
Sec. 22-33. - Jail fund; depositing of money in funds.
(a)
The additional penalties prescribed in this section shall be assessed and collected by the clerk or court officer charged with the duty of collecting monies arising from fines and forfeited bonds and shall be paid over to the county by the tenth day of the month following the month in which the same were collected.
(b)
Such additional penalties paid over to the county shall be deposited by the county into a special account which shall be known as the "White County Jail Fund."
(c)
Any person whose duty it is to collect and remit the additional penalties provided for in this article who fails or refuses to remit such sums as required by this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Res. No. 90-4, §§ 3.01, 3.02, 6-5-90)
Sec. 22-34. - Use of fund.
(a)
All moneys collected pursuant to this section and placed in the county jail fund shall be expended by the county solely and exclusively for constructing, operating, and staffing the county jails, county correctional institutions and detention facilities, or for such other purposes as specified in O.C.G.A. § 15-21-95.
(b)
The county jail fund and moneys collected pursuant to this article to be placed in the county jail fund may be pledged as security for the payment of bonds issued for the construction of jails, correctional institutions, and detention facilities of the county.
(c)
This article shall not preclude the appropriation or expenditure of other funds by the board of commissioners or by the General Assembly for the purpose of constructing, operating or staffing jails, correctional institutions and detention facilities.
(Res. No. 90-4, § 4.01, 6-5-90)
Secs. 22-35—22-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - INDIGENT DEFENSE SERVICES

Sec. 22-51. - Application for indigent defense services.
Each person lacking the financial ability to provide, for themselves, representation in his or her defense in criminal proceedings in the magistrate's court and/or probate court of the county, and desiring that the county provide such services to him or her, shall submit an application to the county requesting indigent defense representation and setting forth the specifics supporting their need for such indigent representation.
The application shall be submitted to the court clerk upon intake at the jail, upon first appearance, or at any pre-trial hearing, etc. on a form approved by the governing authority of the county.
(Res. No. 2005-3, § 1, 3-1-05)
Sec. 22-52. - Application fee.
Each application for indigent defense services shall pay an application fee of $50.00 to the clerk of the court in which indigent representation is being sought. Such fee must be paid either at the time the application is submitted or at the time the representation is provided.
(Res. No. 2005-3, § 2, 3-1-05)
Sec. 22-53. - Waiver.
The fee required by section 22-52 of this resolution may be waived only upon order of the presiding judge scheduled to hear the case in which the applicant is seeking a waiver of the application fee. The judge may order a waiver of the fee only upon a finding by the court that the defendant is unable to pay the fee or that paying the fee would cause hardship to the defendant.
(Res. No. 2005-3, § 1, 3-1-05)
Sec. 22-54. - Transfer of funds.
Within ten days after the end of each month, the clerks of the courts in receipt of application fees required by section 22-52 of the resolution shall remit the total of all application fees collected during the previous month to the governing authority of the county.
(Res. No. 2005-3, § 1, 3-1-05)
Sec. 22-55. - Separate account.
The funds remitted to the governing authority pursuant to section 22-54 of this article shall be maintained in a separate fund for indigent defense services and shall be expended only for the purpose of providing legal representation to indigent defendants in the magistrate's court and probate court of the county.
(Res. No. 2005-3, § 1, 3-1-05)
