ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Res. No. 2000-03, §§ 1—21, adopted January 4, 2000, has been treated by the editor as amending the Code by repealing former art. II, §§ 2-31—2-40, and adding a new art. II, §§ 2-31—2-51. Former art. II pertained to similar subject matter, and carried no history note.
Related laws reference—Board of commissioners, § 1.

Sec. 2-31. - Open meetings.
All meetings of the board of commissioners shall be held in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A § 50-14-1 et seq. The public shall at all times be afforded access to all meetings other than executive sessions.
(Res. No. 2000-03, § 1, 1-4-00)
Sec. 2-32. - Executive sessions.
Executive sessions of the board may be held for the purpose of discussing topics exempted from public access requirements by O.C.G.A. §§ 50-14-2 and 50-14-3. Any portion of the meeting not subject to any such exemptions shall be open to the public.
(1)
Non-exempt topics. If one or more persons in an executive session attempts to discuss a non-exempt topic during an executive session, the chairperson or other presiding officer shall immediately rule that discussion out of order and such discussion shall cease. If one or more persons persists in discussing the non-exempt topic, the chairperson or other presiding officer shall adjourn the meeting immediately.
(2)
Procedure for entering into executive sessions. No executive session shall be held except pursuant to a majority affirmative vote of the board of commissioners taken in a public meeting. The minutes of the public meeting shall reflect the names of the commissioners present, those voting for the executive session, and the specific reasons for the executive session.
(3)
Voting in executive session. No vote in executive session to acquire, dispose of, or lease real estate, or to settle litigation, claims, or administrative proceedings, shall be binding until a subsequent vote is taken in an open meeting where the identity of the property and the terms of acquisition, disposal, or lease are disclosed before the vote or where the parties and principal settlement terms are disclosed before the vote. All votes must be taken after due notice of the meeting and in compliance with the posting and agenda requirements set forth by O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1.
(4)
Executive session minutes. Minutes of executive session shall be recorded by the county clerk or designee of the chairman, but shall not be open to the public. Executive session minutes shall specify each issue discussed in executive session and if matters subject to the attorney-client privilege are discussed, then the fact that an attorney-client discussion occurred and its subject matter shall be identified, however the substance of the discussion need not be recorded and shall not be identified in the minutes. Executive session shall be kept and preserved for in-camera inspection by an appropriate court should a dispute arise as to the propriety of any executive session. Prior to the following regular meeting of the board of commissioners during which meeting minutes are considered for adoption, the county clerk shall make the recorded executive session minutes available to each member of the board for review. Executive session minutes shall be considered for adoption at the following regular meeting of the board of commissioners
(5)
Chairman or presiding officer affidavit. The chairman or other presiding officer shall execute an affidavit stating, under oath, that the executive session was devoted to topics exempt from the public access requirements. The affidavit shall include the specific exemption to the open meetings law. The affidavit shall be notarized and filed with the minutes of the open meeting.
Note: The entire board may execute an executive session affidavit.
(Res. No. 2000-03, § 2, 1-4-00; Ord. No. 2013-3, 1-8-13)
Cross reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. §§ 50-14-2, 50-14-3 and 50-14-4.
Sec. 2-33. - Visual and sound recordings.
Visual, and sound recordings shall be permitted for all public hearings.
(Res. No. 2000-03, § 3, 1-4-00; Ord. No. 2013-3, 1-8-13)
Sec. 2-34. - Quorum.
A quorum must be present for conducting meetings of the board. A quorum is a majority of all of the members of the board then in office. It is the duty of the chairman to enforce this rule. Any commissioner may raise a point of order directed to the chairman if he or she believes that a quorum is not present. If, during the course of a meeting, a commissioner or commissioners leave and a quorum no longer exists, the meeting may not continue. If a quorum is not attained within 30 minutes, the meeting may be rescheduled by the chairman with the approval of the commissioners present.
(Res. No. 2000-03, § 4, 1-4-00)
Sec. 2-35. - Chairman.
The chairman of the board of commissioners, as presiding officer, is responsible for the orderly conduct of the meeting. In order to fulfill this duty, the chairman shall enforce the rules of procedure that are adopted by the board of commissioners. The chairman shall be impartial and conduct the meetings in a fair manner. In addition to serving as presiding officer, the chairman may vote on any question or issue before the board, submit and second motions to the board, represent the county government at ceremonial functions; appoint members and chairpersons to all committees of the board with the approval of the board; and performing such other duties as shall be delegated to the chairperson by the board of commissioners or as otherwise provided by law or resolution.
(Res. No. 2000-03, § 5, 1-4-00; Ord. No. 2013-3, 1-8-13)
Sec. 2-36. - Vice-chairman.
The board shall select a vice-chairman from the board members at the beginning of each calendar year. The vice-chairman shall fulfill the duties of the chairman if the chairman is not in attendance.
(Res. No. 2000-03, § 6, 1-4-00)
Sec. 2-37. - Parliamentarian.
The county attorney shall serve as the parliamentarian for board meetings.
(Res. No. 2000-03, § 7, 1-4-00)
Sec. 2-38. - Amendments to the rules.
Any amendments to the rules of order shall be submitted by a commissioner in writing to the county administrator three business days before a regular meeting of the board. The proposed amendment shall be included in the agenda for that meeting and distributed to all board members. All amendments require a two-thirds vote of the board to be adopted.
(Res. No. 2000-03, § 8, 1-4-00)
Sec. 2-39. - Suspending the rules of order.
Rules of order may be suspended in the case of an emergency. A motion to suspend the rules requires a second, is debatable, and requires a two-thirds vote of the board. Rules governing quorums (section 2-34), voting methods and requirements (sections 2-45 and 2-46), the notification to commissioners of meetings (section 2-41(1) and (2)) and rules necessary for compliance with state law may not be suspended; provided, however, that, in the event that a state of emergency is declared by the governor or other authorized state official, the board may waive time-consuming procedures and formalities imposed by state law.
(Res. No. 2000-03, § 9, 1-4-00)
Sec. 2-40. - Regular meetings.
Regular meetings of the board of commissioners for the transaction of public business pertaining to county matters shall be held in an appropriate office of the courthouse of the county on the first Monday in each month of the year, unless otherwise posted as required by law. The time and exact location of the meetings will be set by the board of commissioners and the public will be notified thereof.
(Res. No. 2000-03, § 10, 1-4-00; Res. No. 2007-10, 3-6-07; Ord. No. 2013-3, 1-8-13)
Sec. 2-41. - Meetings other than regular meetings.
The board may meet at times and locations other than those regularly scheduled meetings.
(1)
Special meetings and rescheduled regular meetings. A regular meeting may be canceled, rescheduled or moved to a new location within the county site by the chairman for any reason. Other special meetings may be scheduled by the chairman or at the request of at least three commissioners. Whenever a rescheduled regular meeting or any other special meeting is to be held at a time or place other than the regularly scheduled time or place, written notice of the change shall be posted for at least 24 hours at the regular meeting place. In addition, written or oral notice shall be given by the clerk at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting to either the legal organ of the county or a newspaper having general circulation at least equal to that of the legal organ, as well as to each member of the county governing authority.
(2)
Meetings with less than 24 hours' notice. When emergency circumstances occur, the board may hold a meeting with less than 24 hours' notice to the public. When such meetings are to be held, the clerk shall provide notice to the legal organ of the county or a newspaper with a general circulation at least equal to that of the legal organ and to each member of the county governing authority as soon as possible. The notice shall include the subjects expected to be considered at the meeting. In addition, the minutes shall reflect the reason for the emergency meeting and the nature of the notice given to the media.
(3)
Meetings during a state of emergency. When it is imprudent, inexpedient or impossible to hold board meetings at the regular meeting place due to emergency or disaster resulting from manmade or natural causes, as declared by the governor or other authorized state official, the board may meet anywhere within or outside of the county. Such a meeting may be called by the chairman or by any two commissioners. At the meeting, the commissioners shall establish and designate emergency temporary meeting locations where public business may be transacted during the emergency. Any action taken in such meetings shall have the same effect as if performed at the regular meeting site.
(Res. No. 2000-03, § 11, 1-4-00; Ord. No. 2013-3, 1-8-13)
Sec. 2-42. - Order of business.
All regular board meetings shall substantially follow an established order of business. The order shall be as follows:
(1)
Call to order;
(2)
Pledge to the flag;
(3)
Invocation;
(4)
Acknowledgments;
(5)
Adopt previous minutes;
(6)
Old business;
(7)
Consent agenda;
(8)
New business;
(9)
County manager comments;
(10)
Public comments;
(11)
Adjournment.
(Res. No. 2000-03, § 12, 1-4-00; Ord. No. 2013-3, 1-8-13)
Sec. 2-43. - Agenda.
The county manager, with the advice of the chairman and the commissioners, shall prepare an agenda of subjects to be acted on for each meeting. All agendas shall be reviewed with and approved by the chairman prior to public distribution. An agenda work session shall be held by the county manager to finalize the agenda. The chairman and all commissioners may participate in the work session. Whenever a quorum of the board is present for an agenda work session, the meeting shall be open to the public and all notice and record-keeping requirements applicable to an open meeting shall be met. The agenda shall be made available to the commissioners at least one business day before every board meeting.
(1)
Requests for agenda items. Members of the public may request that a particular subject be placed on the agenda for a meeting. To be considered, this request shall be submitted in writing to the county administrator and received at least three business days before the agenda work session.
(2)
Changing the agenda. The order of the agenda may be changed during a meeting by a majority vote of the board. A new item may be added to the agenda by a two-thirds vote of the board only if it becomes necessary to address the item during the meeting.
(3)
Agenda must be made public. The agenda of all matters to come before the board shall be made available to the public upon request and shall be posted at the meeting site as far in advance as reasonably possible, but not more than two weeks prior to the meeting.
(Res. No. 2000-03, § 13, 1-4-00; Ord. No. 2013-3, 1-8-13)
Sec. 2-44. - Consent agenda.
A consent agenda may be prepared by the county manager for the board to unanimously adopt motions on routine items. Any items of business that are expected to receive unanimous approval without debate may be placed on a consent agenda. At the appropriate time of the meeting, the chairman shall read all of the items on the consent agenda. If a commissioner objects to an item being on the consent agenda, the chairman shall move that particular item to the regular agenda. Following the reading of the consent agenda, the chairman may ask for unanimous approval of the items on the consent agenda. If there are no objections, all the items on the consent agenda shall be approved by a majority vote of the board.
(Res. No. 2000-03, § 14, 1-4-00; Ord. No. 2013-3, 1-8-13)
Sec. 2-45. - Decorum.
All commissioners shall conduct themselves in a professional and respectful manner. All remarks shall be directed to the chairman and not to individual commissioners, staff, or citizens in attendance. Personal remarks are inappropriate and may be ruled out of order. A commissioner may not speak at a meeting until he or she has been recognized by the chairman. All comments made by a commissioner shall address the motion that is being discussed. The chairman shall enforce these rules of decorum. If a commissioner believes that a rule has been broken, he or she may raise a point of order. A second is not required. The chairman may rule on the question or may allow the board to debate the issue and decide by majority vote.
(Res. No. 2000-03, § 15, 1-4-00)
Sec. 2-46. - Voting.
Passage of a motion shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of commissioners present and voting at a meeting at which a quorum is present. Unless otherwise specified in these procedures, a majority shall mean at least one-half of the commissioners present plus one commissioner, excluding abstentions. When a two-thirds majority is specified, a majority vote shall mean at least two-thirds of the commissioners present excluding abstentions.
(Res. No. 2000-03, § 16, 1-4-00; Ord. No. 2013-3, 1-8-13)
Sec. 2-47. - Abstentions.
A commissioner shall vote on all motions unless he or she has a conflict of interest preventing him or her from making a decision in a fair and legal manner. If a conflict of interest does exist, the commissioner shall explain for the record his or her decision to abstain on any vote.
(Res. No. 2000-03, § 17, 1-4-00)
Sec. 2-48. - Public participation.
Public participation in meetings of the board of commissioners shall be permitted in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(1)
Public comments. The final agenda item of the meeting shall be reserved for comments from the public. All members of the public wishing to address the board shall submit their name and the topic of their comments to the county manager at least three business days before the agenda work session. Individuals may be allotted three minutes to make their comments and those comments shall be limited to their chosen topic. These limits may be waived by a majority vote of the board.
(2)
Public participation on agenda items. By a majority vote, the board may allow public comment on an agenda item at the time the item is being considered by the board. These comments shall be limited to the subject that is being debated. Members of the public may speak for three minutes and may speak only once. These limits may be waived by a majority vote of the board. Anyone wishing to speak at any board meeting must be recognized by the chairman before addressing the board.
(3)
Decorum. Members of the public shall not make inappropriate or offensive comments at a board meeting and are expected to comply with the rules of decorum that are established for commissioners. Individuals violating any rules of the board may be ruled out of order by the chairman or on a point of order made by a commissioner. A majority vote of the board shall rule on the point out of order. An individual violating the rules of decorum may be removed from the meeting at the direction of the chairman.
(4)
Public hearings. The board may schedule public hearings for the purpose of soliciting public comment on any subject of interest to the board. Hearings may be held immediately prior to, during or following a meeting of the board or at such other places and times as the board may determine. Hearings require at least ten minutes per side. No official action shall be taken at any such public hearing.
(Res. No. 2000-03, § 18, 1-4-00; Res. No. 2010-32, 11-1-10; Ord. No. 2013-3, 1-8-13)
Sec. 2-49. - Meeting summary.
A summary of the subjects acted upon in a meeting and the names of the commissioners present at a meeting shall be written and made available to the public for inspection within two business days of the adjournment of the meeting.
(Res. No. 2000-03, § 19, 1-4-00)
Sec. 2-50. - Minutes.
The clerk of the board shall promptly record the minutes for each board meeting. The minutes shall specify the names of commissioners present at the meeting, a description of each motion or other proposal made at the meeting, the name of the commissioner who proposed each motion, the name of the commissioner who seconded each motion, and a record of all votes. In the case of a roll call vote, the name of each commissioner voting for or against a proposal shall be recorded. It shall be presumed that a commissioner has voted in the affirmative unless the minutes show otherwise. More detailed information may be included in the minutes at the request of the board. The board shall approve the minutes before they may be considered as an official record of the board. The minutes shall be open for public inspection once approved as official by the board but in no case later than immediately following the next regular meeting of the board. A copy of the minutes from the previous meeting shall be distributed to the commissioners at least one business day before the following meeting. The minutes of the previous meeting shall be corrected, if necessary, and approved by the board at the beginning of each meeting. A majority vote is required for approval. Conflicts regarding the content of the minutes shall be decided by a majority vote. Upon being approved, the minutes shall be signed by all members of the board and attested to by the clerk of the board of commissioners.
(Res. No. 2000-03, § 20, 1-4-00; Ord. No. 2013-3, 1-8-13)
Sec. 2-51. - Committees.
The chairman, with the concurrence of the board, may create committees of members of the board to study any issue before the board. Any such committees may make recommendations to the board of commissioners but no committee shall be empowered to make any final decision on any matter before it for consideration. In addition to board members, committees may include other county officials, staff or citizens at large. Whenever a committee is created, its duties, any limitation on the scope of its duties, and the times, places, and periods of time for which the committee may operate shall be determined by the chairman with the concurrence of the board. The chairman shall serve as an ex officio member of all committees. Committee meetings shall be open to the public and shall comply with the requirements of this meeting organization ordinance and state law.
(Res. No. 2000-03, § 21, 1-4-00)
Secs. 2-52—2-70. - Reserved.
