Chapter 14 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 14-1. - Behaviors or activities constituting an offense.
Any of the following behaviors or activities shall constitute the offense of disorderly conduct and shall be punished as a misdemeanor:
(1)
Any person who, without authority of law, purposely or recklessly obstructs free pedestrian or vehicular access to any public school parking area or building designated for use of persons attending or participating in an athletic event in such a way as to deny access or in such a way as to create a hazard and fails or refuses to remove such obstruction after receiving a reasonable official request or order of a police officer or principal or his assistant or duly authorized agent of such public school that he do so;
(2)
Any person who shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby any person is placed in fear of safety of his life, limb or health;
(3)
Any person who shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby the property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged;
(4)
Any person who shall endanger the lawful pursuits of another by acts of violence, threats of violence or abusive conduct;
(5)
Any person who shall cause, provoke or engage in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct, so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another;
(6)
Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others for the purpose of causing, provoking or engaging in any fight or brawl;
(7)
Any person who shall be found jostling or roughly crowding or pushing any person in any public place;
(8)
Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others for unlawful purposes as defined by the current ordinances for the city;
(9)
Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others for the purpose or with the intent to engage in gaming;
(10)
Any person who shall go to or be at any public place with intent to obtain money from other person by illegal and fraudulent schemes, tricks, artifices or devices;
(11)
Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others for the purposes of engaging in any fraudulent scheme, device or trick to obtain any valuable thing in any place or from any person in the city, or who shall aid or abet therein;
(12)
Any person who shall, without provocation, use to or of another in his presence fighting words, that are opprobrious or abusive words which by their very utterance tend to incite an immediate breach of the peace or such words which, as a matter of common knowledge under ordinary circumstances, will, when used to or of another person in his presence, naturally tend to provoke violent resentment;
(13)
Any person operating a motor vehicle upon any parking facility, public or private, vehicle access or pedestrian walkway of any parking facility by sudden starting, stopping or turning so as to endanger the person or property of another;
(14)
Any person operating a motor vehicle upon any parking facility, public or private, vehicle access or pedestrian walkway of any parking facility at a speed great enough to endanger the person or property of another; or
(15)
Any person who aids or abets or encourages a minor to do any act which constitutes disorderly conduct or a breach of the peace.
(Ord. No. 09-05-01, § I, 5-14-2009)
State Law reference— Authority to pass laws punishing disorderly conduct, O.C.G.A. §§ 16-11-34, 16-11-39, 16-11-41.
Sec. 14-2. - Unlawful marijuana possession.
It shall be unlawful for any person to possess one ounce or less of marijuana within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. No. 09-05-02, § I, 5-14-2009)
State Law reference— Municipal jurisdiction in cases of marijuana possession, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-6.
Sec. 14-3. - Theft by shoplifting.
(a)
Manner of the offense. A person commits the offense of theft by shoplifting when he, alone or in concert with another person, with the intent of appropriating merchandise to his own use without paying for the same or to deprive the owner of possession thereof or of the value thereof, in whole or in part, does any of the following:
(1)
Conceals or takes possession of the goods or merchandise of any store or retail establishment;
(2)
Alters the price tag or other price marking on goods or merchandise of any store or retail establishment;
(3)
Transfers the goods or merchandise of any store or retail establishment from one container to another;
(4)
Interchanges the label or price tag from one item of merchandise with a label or price tag for another item of merchandise; or
(5)
Wrongfully causes the amount paid to be less than the merchant's stated price for the merchandise.
(b)
Value of property. This chapter shall only apply to goods, merchandise, or property valued within the jurisdictional limits imposed by O.C.G.A. § 36-32-9.
(c)
Transfer. Any defendant charged, within the city, with a first, second, or third offense of theft by shoplifting shall be entitled upon request to have the case against him transferred to the State Court of Liberty County.
(d)
Reporting. It shall be the duty of the clerk of court of the city to submit the required reports to the state crime information center, as required under O.C.G.A. § 35-3-30 et seq., and any amendments thereto.
(Ord. No. 09-05-03, 5-28-2009)
Sec. 14-4. - Penalties.
Any person who violates this article or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in O.C.G.A. § 16-8-14(b)(1), and any amendments thereto.
(Ord. No. 09-05-03, 5-28-2009)
