Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Code designation and citation.
The provisions embraced in this and the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of the City of Walthourville, Georgia," and may be so cited. Such Code may also be cited as the "Walthourville City Code."
State Law reference— Codification requirements, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the mayor and city council or unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
(1)
General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning. In all interpretations, the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the city council, keeping in view, at all times, the old law, the evil, and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
(2)
Liberal construction; minimum requirements; overlapping provisions. All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the city council may be fully carried out. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the other provisions of this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling. The specific controls over the general.
(3)
Gender. Words of one gender include all other genders.
(4)
Singular and plural. Every word importing the singular number only shall extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one person or thing; and every word importing the plural number only shall extend and be applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(5)
Tenses. The use of any verb in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
(6)
Joint authority. All words purporting to give a joint authority to three or more city officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such officers or other persons unless it shall be otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority.
(7)
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires the head of a department or other officer of the city to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize such department head or officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required duty, unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
(8)
Computation of time. The time within which an act is to be done, as provided in any code provision or ordinance, or in any order issued pursuant to any ordinance, when expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, except that if the last day is a Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday it shall be excluded. When any such time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
(9)
Shall and may. The term "shall" is mandatory and not merely directory. The term "may" is permissive.
(10)
Conjunctions. Where a provision involves two or more items, conditions, provisions or events connected by the conjunction "and," "or" or "either…or," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows, provided in appropriate cases the terms "and" and "or" are interchangeable:
a.
The term "and" indicates that all the connected items, conditions, provisions, or events shall apply.
b.
The term "or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or events may apply singly or in any combination.
c.
The term "either…or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or events shall apply singly, but not in combination.
(11)
Statutory references. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as now or hereafter amended. Any reference to a state act, whether by short title or year, page number and/or act number, is a reference to such act, as amended.
Sec. 1-3. - Definitions.
Words and phrases used in this Code shall have the following meanings, unless otherwise specified:
Advice and consent. Whenever the term "advice and consent" of the city council is used in this Code it shall be construed to mean an affirmative vote of the majority of the entire city council.
City. The term "the city" or "this city" means the City of Walthourville, Georgia.
City council, council. The term "city council" or "the council" means the city council of the City of Walthourville, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" means the Code of the City of Walthourville, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1. This Code consists of subparts A and B.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" means Liberty County, Georgia.
Court. The term "court" means the municipal court of the city.
Day. The term "day" means a calendar day of 24 hours.
Governing authority, governing body. The term "governing authority" or "governing body" means the mayor and city council of the City of Walthourville, Georgia.
Judge or recorder. The term "judge" or "recorder" means the judge of the municipal court of the city.
Mayor. The term "mayor" means the mayor of the City of Walthourville, Georgia.
Mayor and city council. The term "mayor and city council" means the mayor and city council of the City of Walthourville, Georgia.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Municipality. The term "municipality" shall be construed as synonymous with the term "city," "town," or "municipal corporation."
Oath. The term "oath" includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "affirm" and "affirmed" shall be equivalent to the term "swear" or "sworn."
Owner. The term "owner," when applied to a building or to land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" includes a corporation, firm, agency, partnership, association, organization, government, and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property, as hereinafter defined.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The term "property" includes real, personal, and mixed estates and interests.
Public place. The term "public place" means any park, cemetery, shopping center, schoolyard, or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available accessible to the public, regardless of whether privately or publicly owned, and any place that the public is invited or permitted to go or to congregate.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
Reasonable time or notice. The term "reasonable time or notice" means only such time as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the act required.
Resolution. The term "resolution" means a legislative act of the mayor and city council of a special or temporary character.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, but shall not include any unimproved areas between the curbline and improved walkways.
Signature, subscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" includes a mark intended as such when the person cannot write.
State. The term "state" or "this state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" means and includes any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley, viaduct or bridge, and the approach thereto, within the city.
Tenant or occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," when applied to a building or to land, includes any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of, such building or land, either alone or with others.
Week. The term "week" means seven calendar days.
Writing or written. The term "writing" or "written" includes printing and any other mode of representing words and letters.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
Sec. 1-4. - Catchlines of sections; effect of history notes.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections and subsections of this Code are intended as mere captions to indicate the contents of the section or subsection and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section or subsection, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections or subsections, including the headings and catchlines, is amended or re-enacted.
(b)
The history notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect and are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Editor's notes and state law references which appear after sections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user and have no legal effect.
Sec. 1-5. - Effect of repeal or expiration of Code section or ordinance.
(a)
The repeal of a Code section or ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued or any offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding commenced before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
(b)
When any ordinance repealing a former Code section, ordinance, clause, or provision shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former Code section, ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it shall be expressly so provided.
Sec. 1-6. - Amending Code.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code shall be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections, and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time as the Code and subsequent ordinances omitted are readopted as a new Code by the city council.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "Section ___ of the Code of the City of Walthourville, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows …." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used. "The Code of the City of Walthourville, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or chapter, article, division, or subdivision, as appropriate) to be numbered ___, that reads as follows: …." The new provision shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, chapters, or provisions sought to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, with reference to the subject matter, as the case may be.
Sec. 1-7. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby, except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the mayor and city council.
Sec. 1-8. - General penalty.
(a)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" means:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance; or
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a misdemeanor or an offense or unlawful by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a city officer or city employee to perform an official duty, unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section or it is clear from the context that it is the intent to impose the penalty provided for in this section upon the officer or employee.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided:
(1)
A person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or compulsory labor for the city on the streets, sidewalks, squares, or other public places for a period not exceeding 30 days, or any combination thereof.
(2)
With respect to violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
(3)
With respect to violations of this Code that are not continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
(d)
The imposition of a penalty does not prevent revocation or suspension of a license, permit or franchise or other administrative sanctions.
(e)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief and by such other means as are provided by law. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent equitable relief.
State Law reference— Limits on general penalty, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2); authority to punish ordinance violations by requiring labor, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-8.
Sec. 1-9. - Severability.
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or other portion of this Code is, for any reason, declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Sec. 1-10. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared whenever authorized or directed by the mayor and city council. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the city council during the period covered by the supplement, and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier, meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement, may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections ___ to ___," inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code.
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code, but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-11. - Ordinances not affected by the Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness;
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(4)
Any ordinance or resolution fixing the salary of any city officer or employee, unless superseded;
(5)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing and prescribing employment and personnel policies and procedures;
(6)
Any right of franchise granted by the city to any person, firm, or corporation;
(7)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, closing, opening, widening, paving, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city;
(8)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city;
(9)
Any appropriation ordinance;
(10)
Any ordinance or resolution which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term;
(11)
Any ordinance or resolution providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
(12)
Any zoning ordinance or amendments thereto, and any ordinance establishing a board of zoning appeals or planning commission, including joint commissions;
(13)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat or providing for subdivision regulations;
(14)
Any ordinance or resolution describing or altering the boundaries of the city or annexing property to the city;
(15)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code;
(16)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code;
(17)
Any ordinance or regulation prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations concerning through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic, limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones, not in conflict or inconsistent with this Code;
(18)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing or amending the comprehensive water conservation plan;
(19)
Any ordinance or resolution of agreement with another political subdivision; and
(20)
Any other ordinance or resolution, or part thereof, which is not of a general and permanent nature; or which is referred to elsewhere in this Code as continuing in effect.
Nor shall the repeal of any such ordinance or resolution be construed to revive any ordinance, resolution or part thereof that has been repealed or superseded by a subsequent ordinance or resolution which is repealed or superseded by this chapter. All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
