Chapter 8 - EMERGENCY SERVICES AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 8-1. - National incident management system adopted.
The mayor and city council hereby adopts the National Incident Management System (NIMS) as established under HSPD 5 and the Unified Command System, as established under O.C.G.A. § 38-3-57, as its system of preparing for and responding to disaster incidents and directs all incident managers and response organizations in the county to train and exercise and use these systems in response operations.
(Ord. No. 05-11-01, 11-8-2005)
Sec. 8-2. - State minimum fire safety standards.
(a)
It is hereby resolved by the mayor and city council, that the mayor and city council hereby deem necessary, and it is declared to be the intention of the mayor and city council to adopt and enforce the state minimum fire safety standards pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 25-2-12.
(b)
This section is declared to be a measure to promote the peace, health, and safety of the city, for the city and its inhabitants, merchants, and patrons, wherefore, it shall take effect and be in force upon its passage and the amendment of the intergovernmental agreement to furnish services between the city and the county.
(Res. No. 08-02-01R, 2-26-2008)
Sec. 8-3. - Overcharging prohibited.
In order to preserve, protect, or sustain the life, health, or safety of persons or their property, it shall be unlawful during the duration of a state of emergency, or subsequent recovery period in which the city has been designated as a disaster area, for any person located or doing business in the city to overcharge for any goods, materials, services, or housing sold within the city.
(Ord. No. 07-05-02, § 1, 5-8-2007)
Sec. 8-4. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Fee means any fee or rate charged by the county for building permits, land disturbance permits, zoning applications, special land use permits, temporary land use permits, and other fees relating to the reconstruction, repair and clean up of areas impacted by the disaster or emergency. The term "fees" shall not include those fees collected by the county on behalf of the federal or state government or those fees charged by the county pursuant to a federal or state statute or regulation.
Overcharging means charging prices for goods, materials, services, or housing which are substantially in excess of the customary charges or in applicable cases substantially in excess of the supplier's or provider's costs for such goods, materials, services or housing. The existence of overcharging shall be presumed from a substantial increase in the price at which the goods, materials, services, or housing was offered in the usual course of business immediately prior to the onset of the emergency, but shall not include increases in costs to the supplier directly attributable to higher costs of materials, supplies, and labor costs resulting from the emergency.
State of emergency. As defined by O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster, emergency, or energy emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period means the period of time that the disaster emergency continues to cause disruptions in the area impacted by the disaster emergency. The subsequent recovery period shall not exceed six months past the time when the state of emergency declaration by the governor is terminated unless extended by official action of the mayor and city council.
Temporary dwelling means any mobile or easily movable home, trailer, recreational vehicle or structure not otherwise permitted by the zoning regulations in a particular zoning district.
(Ord. No. 07-05-02, § 2, 5-8-2007; Ord. No. 07-05-03, § 2, 5-8-2007)
Sec. 8-5. - Authority to waive procedures and fee structures.
(a)
Meetings. Upon proclamation, by the appropriate state official, of an emergency or disaster of manmade or natural causes, or enemy attack impending on or affecting the state or the United States, the affairs and business of the city may be conducted at places other than the regular or usual place thereof, within or outside of the city, when it is not prudent, expedient or possible to conduct business at the regular location. When such meetings occur outside of the city, all actions taken by the mayor and city council shall be as valid and binding as if performed within the city. Such meetings may be called by the presiding officer or any two members of the governing body without regard to or compliance with time-consuming procedures and formalities otherwise required by law.
(b)
Purchasing and public works contracts. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, its designee or the emergency interim successor may contract for public works without letting such contract out to the lowest, responsible bidder and without advertising and posting notification of such contract for four weeks; provided, however, that any public works contract entered into pursuant to this subsection shall be entered on the minutes of the county as soon as practical and the nature of the emergency described therein.
(c)
Code enforcement. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, its designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily suspend the enforcement of the Code of Ordinances of the county, or any portion thereof, where:
(1)
The emergency or disaster is of such nature that immediate action outside the Code of Ordinances of the county is required;
(2)
Such suspension is consistent with the protection of the public health, safety, and welfare; and
(3)
Such suspension is not inconsistent with any federal or state statutes or regulations.
(d)
Fees. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, its designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily reduce or suspend any permit fees, application fees or other rate structures as necessary to encourage the rebuilding of the area impacted by the disaster or emergency.
(e)
Temporary dwellings. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, its designee, or the emergency interim successor may issue temporary mobile homes, trailers, recreational vehicles or other temporary dwelling structures or parks in any zoning district while the primary dwelling is being repaired; provided, such temporary dwellings or parks are designed by an engineer and the plans are approved by the county health department and county building and inspections department. The temporary permit shall not exceed six months in duration. In the case of continuing hardship and in the discretion of the governing authority or its designee, the permit may be extended for a period for an additional six months. Upon expiration of the temporary permit or an extension, the temporary dwelling shall be removed.
(Ord. No. 07-05-03, § 1, 5-8-2007)
Secs. 8-6—8-28. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - REGISTRATION OF BUILDING AND REPAIR SERVICES

Sec. 8-29. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building contractor means any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other entity engaging in, undertaking, or carrying on any business consisting of or relating to building construction, repair, renovation or making improvements to real property including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto.
Doing business. Any building contractor shall be deemed to be doing business subject to the requirements of this article if:
(1)
He has or operates an office, agency, project site, or place of business located in the unincorporated areas of the county, whether permanently, temporarily, periodically, or otherwise, that provides the following activities in the unincorporated areas of the county, expressly including but not limited to the construction, renovation, or repair of dwellings or buildings or the making of improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto; or
(2)
He performs the following activities or services in the unincorporated areas of the county, expressly including but not limited to the construction, renovation, or repair of dwellings or buildings or the making of improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto, regardless of the location of the principal office.
State of emergency means, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period means that period during which the disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed three months after the emergency declaration has been terminated by the governor.
(Ord. No. 07-05-01, § 2, 5-8-2007)
Sec. 8-30. - Building contractor registration required.
No person or other entity shall engage in, undertake, or carry on any business, in whole or in part, within the incorporated areas of the city, consisting of or relating to building, constructing, repairing, renovating, or making improvements to real property, including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto without having registered the name of the business with the governing authority of the county and having paid fees as provided by this article.
(Ord. No. 07-05-01, § 1, 5-8-2007)
Sec. 8-31. - Registration; certification.
All building contractors doing business or proposing to do business in the incorporated areas of the city during a state of emergency or the subsequent recovery period shall register and file applications with the clerk of the governing authority of the county or such other person designated by the governing authority at the county courthouse or such other place designated by the county. The building contractor shall, under oath, provide the county governing authority with a statement describing the general nature of the business to be conducted and give true and correct information as may be called for on the registration form, application or certificate provided by the county or authority.
(Ord. No. 07-05-01, § 3, 5-8-2007)
Sec. 8-32. - Registration fees.
Building contractor registration fees are hereby fixed under the terms and conditions of this article as determined by the governing authority. Registration fees shall be paid in full at the time of issuance of the registration certification.
(Ord. No. 07-05-01, § 4, 5-8-2007)
Secs. 8-33—8-52. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - CURFEWS DURING TIMES OF EMERGENCY OR DISASTER

Sec. 8-53. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Curfew means a regulation requiring the withdrawal from any person not otherwise exempt from this article from appearing in certain public areas during specified hours.
Exempt individual, unless otherwise specified in the resolution implementing the curfew, includes those individuals engaged in the provision of designated, essential services, such as, fire, law enforcement, emergency medical services, and hospital services, military services, news media employees, utility emergency repairs. The resolution may, in the discretion of the governing authority, also exempt regular employees of local industries traveling to and from their jobs with appropriate identification, building and repair contractors, properly registered according to the county ordinances (Ordinance to Require Registration and Licensing of Building and Repair Services During a State of Emergency), performing activities related to construction, repair, renovation or improvement of buildings and other structures damaged during the disaster or emergency.
State of emergency means, as defined by O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster, emergency, or energy emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
(Ord. No. 07-05-04, § 2, 5-8-2007)
Sec. 8-54. - Institution of curfew.
(a)
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, its designee or the emergency interim successor may adopt a resolution instituting a curfew when it is determined necessary to protect and safeguard the people and property of the city.
(b)
All of the territory of the unincorporated county shall be subject to the terms of the curfew, unless otherwise specified in the resolution.
(c)
The resolution instituting the curfew shall include the dates and hours that the curfew shall be in effect.
(Ord. No. 07-05-04, § 1, 5-8-2007)
Sec. 8-55. - Prohibition.
It shall be prohibited for any person, other than exempt individuals, to appear in public in the territory subject to the curfew, including, but not limited to, streets, highways, alleys, sidewalks, vacant lots, parks, public buildings, or any other public places in all or a delineated part of the city during the stated hours of the curfew.
(Ord. No. 07-05-04, § 3, 5-8-2007)
