ARTICLE VI. - EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS

Sec. 6.1. - Existing lots of record.
Any lot of record existing at the effective date of this ordinance in any "A-1," "AR-1," or "R" district, may be used for the erection of a single-family dwelling, even though its area and width is less than the minimum requirements set forth herein, except as set forth hereinafter. Front, side and rear yards shall conform with the requirements of this ordinance as closely as possible. Where two (2) adjacent lots of record with less than the required area and width are held by one owner, the request for a permit shall be referred to the board of commissioners, which may require that the two (2) lots be combined and used for one main building.
Sec. 6.2. - Yards.
6.2.1.
Front yards of through lots. In any "R" district, where a lot runs through a block from street to street, a front yard as required by this ordinance shall be provided along each street lot line.
6.2.2.
Projections into yards and courts. A wall or fence six (6) feet in height or under, or higher if a retaining wall, may be erected within the limits of any yard not extending beyond the front setback line. Any wall or fence in the front yard, not including a retaining wall, shall be limited to forty-eight (48) inches in height.
[Patio restrictions.] Patios may not be located closer than ten (10) feet to any adjacent property line.
Architectural projects. Chimneys, leaders, cornices, eaves, gutters and bay windows, and the like, may extend not more than twenty-four (24) inches into any required yard.
6.2.3.
Accessory structures. Accessory structures which are attached to the principal building shall comply with all the yard requirements for a principal structure.
Unattached accessory structures in "A-1," "AR-1," and "R" districts may be erected within a rear yard, provided they conform with the following:
Maximum height. One and one-half (1½) stories or fifteen (15) feet, except in "A-1" and "AR-1" districts.
An accessory structure shall not be less than ten (10) feet from any lot line.
An accessory structure shall be located not less than ten (10) feet from a principal structure.
Not more than two (2) accessory structures, including a private garage, shall be located in any "R" district, on one lot.
Unattached non-residential accessory structures shall comply with the front and side yard requirements for the principal structure. They shall have a rear yard of ten (10) feet, except as otherwise specified in this ordinance.
(Mo. of 10-4-1977)
