ARTICLE IV. - ZONING DISTRICTS

Sec. 400. - Establishment of Zoning Districts.
For the purposes of this Resolution, the incorporated area of City of Peachtree Corners, Georgia, is divided into Zoning Districts designated as follows:
RA-200 Agriculture-Residence District.
R-100 Single Family Residence District.
R-75 Single Family Residence District.
R-60 Single Family Residence District.
R-SR Senior Oriented Residence District.
R-TH Single Family Residence Townhouse District.
RM Multi-Family Residence District.
RM-13 Multi-Family Residence District.
RM-10 Multi-Family Residence District.
RM-8 Multi-Family Residence District.
RM-6 Multi-Family Residence District.
RMD Multi-Family Residence District (Duplexes).
R-ZT Single Family Residence District.
MH Mobile Home Park District.
C-1 Neighborhood Business District.
C-2 General Business District.
C-3 Highway Business District.
O-I Office-Institutional District.
OBP Office-Business Park District.
M-1 Light Industry District.
M-2 Heavy Industry District.
MUD Mixed-Use Development District.
INACTIVE ZONING DISTRICTS - SEE ARTICLE XIX.
R-TH Single-Family Residence Townhouse District.
(Prior to January 2005).
R-ZT Single-Family Residence Zero Lot Line/Townhouse District.
(Prior to January 2005).
(Ord. No. 2016-02-69, Exh. A, 2-28-2016; Ord. No. 2021-10-220, ยง 1, 11-16-2021)
Sec. 401. - Location and Boundaries of Zoning Districts.
The location and boundaries of the Zoning Districts are hereby established as shown on the set of maps entitled "Gwinnett County Zoning Maps" which are hereby made a part of this Resolution and referenced hereto as the official "City of Peachtree Corners Zoning Map," which shall be kept in the office of the City of Peachtree Corners Department of Planning and Development, where it shall be available for public inspection. Amendments to the City of Peachtree Corners Zoning Map shall be separately adopted at the time of any zoning action and said amended maps shall be kept in the Department of Planning and Development of Peachtree Corners.
(Ord. No. 2016-02-69, Exh. A, 2-28-2016)
Sec. 402. - Interpretation of Zoning District Boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the location of the boundaries of any Zoning District in Peachtree Corner, Georgia, the following rules shall apply:
1.
Where a Zoning District boundary line is shown as approximately following a corporate limits line, a militia district line, a land lot line, a lot line or the centerline of a street, a county road, a state highway, an interstate highway or a railroad right-of-way or such lines extended, then such lines shall be construed to be the Zoning District boundary lines. If uncertainty exists, any point on a railroad Right-of-Way shall be considered to be in a Zoning District closest to said point.
2.
Where a Zoning District boundary line is shown as being set back from a street, a county road, a state highway, an interstate highway or a railroad right-of-way, and approximately parallel thereto, then such Zoning District boundary line shall be construed as being at the scaled distance from the centerline of the street, county road, state highway, interstate highway or railroad right-of-way and as being parallel thereto. If uncertainty exists, any point on a railroad Right-of-Way shall be considered to be in a Zoning District closest to said point.
3.
Where a Zoning District boundary line divides a lot, the location of the line shall be the scaled distance from the parcel lot lines. In this situation, the requirements of the Zoning District in which the greater portion of the lot lies shall apply to the balance of the lot, except that such extension shall not include any part of a lot that lies more than fifty (50) feet beyond the Zoning District boundary line.
4.
In the case of a through lot fronting on two approximately parallel streets, that is divided by a Zoning District boundary line paralleling the streets, the restrictions of the Zoning District in which each frontage of the through lot lies shall apply to that portion of the through lot.
(Ord. No. 2016-02-69, Exh. A, 2-28-2016)
