ARTICLE XV. - ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT, PENALTIES AND REMEDIES

Sec. 1500. - Zoning Enforcement Officer.
The Director of the Department of Planning and Development or his/her designee is hereby authorized and directed, on behalf of the City Council of City of Peachtree Corners, to administer and enforce this Resolution. Such authority shall include the right to order, in writing, the remedy of any condition found in violation of this Resolution, and the right to bring legal action in all courts of competent jurisdiction to ensure compliance with its provisions, including injunction, mandamus, abatement or other appropriate action or proceeding.
(Ord. No. 2016-02-69, Exh. A, 2-28-2016)
Sec. 1501. - Building Permit Required.
No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, added to or structurally altered without a Building Permit issued by the Department of Planning and Development Director. No building Permit shall be issued except in conformance with the provisions of this Resolution.
All applications for Building Permits for uses other than one-(1)-family and duplex dwellings shall be accompanied by plans in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the sizes and the locations on the lot of any existing buildings or structures, the shape, size, height, use and the location on the lot of the building or structure to be erected, moved, added to or structurally altered and such other information as may be necessary to provide for the enforcement of this Resolution.
(Ord. No. 2016-02-69, Exh. A, 2-28-2016)
Sec. 1502. - Certificates of Occupancy Required.
A Certificate of Occupancy issued by The Department of Planning and Development Director is required prior to use or occupancy of:
1.
Any lot or change in the use thereof.
2.
A building hereafter erected or a change in the use of an existing building.
3.
A change in any lawful non-conforming use. The Certificate of Occupancy shall state specifically wherein the non-conforming use fails to meet provisions of this Resolution.
No Certificate of Occupancy shall be issued unless the lot or building or structure complies with all the provisions of this Resolution.
A record of all Certificates of Occupancy shall be kept on file in the office of The Department of Planning and Development Director and a copy shall be furnished, on request, to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building or land involved.
(Ord. No. 2016-02-69, Exh. A, 2-28-2016)
Sec. 1503. - Penalties for Violation.
Any person, firm or corporation convicted by a court of competent jurisdiction of violating any provision of this Resolution shall be guilty of violating a duly adopted Ordinance of the City of Peachtree Corners, and shall be punished either by a fine of not less than twenty-five ($25) dollars nor more than one thousand ($1,000) dollars, or by confinement in the Gwinnett County jail for a total term not to exceed sixty (60) days, or both.
(Ord. No. 2016-02-69, Exh. A, 2-28-2016)
Sec. 1504. - Alternative Sentences or Penalties.
The court shall have the power and authority to place any person found guilty of a violation of this Resolution on probation and to suspend or modify any fine or sentence. As a condition of said suspension, the court may require payment of restitution or impose other punishment allowed by law.
(Ord. No. 2016-02-69, Exh. A, 2-28-2016)
