ARTICLE X. - PERFORMANCES AND PROMOTIONS

Sec. 14-325. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Athletic show means any sporting event or display of sporting goods where an admission fee is charged.
Concert means any musical event where an admission fee is charged.
Cultural event means any work of art exhibit where an admission fee is charged.
Educational event means any gathering for the purpose of learning about a specific subject where an admission fee is charged.
Exposition means any display of goods or services where an admission fee is charged.
Performance means any nonrecurring event for which an admission fee is charged.
Promoter means the organizer of any performance, show, concert, event or exposition.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-261)
Sec. 14-326. - Exemption provisions.
No flat fee or occupation tax shall be imposed and no certificate shall be required for any event sponsored or conducted by the U.S. Government, the state or any political subdivision, including any local school system board of education.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-262)
Sec. 14-327. - Occupation tax certificate required, application.
(a)
Except as provided for herein, all persons, firms or corporations desiring to conduct a performance or nonrecurring concert, exposition, show, or similar event, or any athletic, cultural or educational event, shall, before engaging in such business, trade or profession, make application for an occupation tax certificate in the form and manner prescribed by the city or its designee.
(b)
The application shall include the information required for all general occupation tax certificates.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-263)
Sec. 14-328. - Permits required.
No occupation tax certificate shall be issued until the applicant has the county planning and development department's approval for the location along with the county fire marshal's approval.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-264)
Sec. 14-329. - General operating provisions.
(a)
It shall be the duty of any person operating as a promoter or organizer under this article to furnish accurate and complete information to the city or its designee. Failure to comply with these requirements may be punishable as provided for in section 14-34.
(b)
Independent vendors participating as part of a promoter-sponsored event, exposition, performance, concert or show shall not be required to apply for or obtain an occupation tax certificate; provided, however, that:
(1)
The promoter of any such undertaking shall have in effect at the time of the undertaking a valid occupation tax certificate for the appropriate line of business.
(2)
The promoter shall have first, prior to commencing the undertaking, have furnished the city or its designee with a true and accurate list of the name and address of each vendor, along with the location and dates of operation.
(3)
The promoter shall have paid an administrative fee for each participating vendor and an occupation tax on the total aggregate taxable receipts for all participants or vendors operating or conducting business at such undertaking. The administrative fee shall be in an amount as established by the mayor and council from time to time.
(4)
Such undertaking shall be for a period not to exceed ten consecutive days.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-265)
Sec. 14-330. - Unlawful or prohibited activities.
It shall be unlawful for any organizer of a performance or promotion to knowingly allow any criminal activity in connection with such performance or promotion involving larceny, burglary or theft or any description as defined in the Georgia Criminal Code Title 26; or any felony or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude or crime against a person or property.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-266)
Secs. 14-331—14-348. - Reserved.
