ARTICLE VII. - PRECIOUS METALS DEALERS[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Local governments authorized to license, regulate, and tax dealers in precious metals or gems, O.C.G.A. § 43-37-1 et seq.

Sec. 14-235. - Applicability of certain sections.
(a)
Section 14-240 shall not apply to any precious metals or goods containing precious metals obtained from industrial producers, manufacturers, licensed dealers, or distributors.
(b)
Sections 14-237 and 14-238 shall not apply to registered pawnbrokers, scrap metal processors, or secondhand dealers. Pawnbrokers, scrap metal processors, and secondhand dealers are not, however, relieved from compliance with section 14-240 when the purchase of precious metals or goods containing precious metals are from persons or sources other than industrial producers, manufacturers, or licensed dealers or distributors.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-181)
Sec. 14-236. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Nonpermanent location means any location designated to be used to conduct the aforementioned business, in any movable vehicle, and temporary or movable structure, including, but not limited to, vans, mobile homes, trailers, hotels and motels, lodges, or any similar nonpermanent structure designed by applicant to be used to conduct such business for a limited or specific time.
Permanent location means a business domiciled within a properly constructed building which must be located within a properly zoned area according to the planning and zoning ordinance.
Precious metals means any metals, including, but not limited to, in whole or in part, silver, gold, and platinum.
Precious metals dealer means any person, partnership, sole proprietorship, corporation, association, or other entity engaged in the business of purchasing, selling, bartering, or acquiring in trade any precious metals from persons or sources other than manufacturers or licensed dealers for resale in its original form or as changed by melting, reforming, remolding, or for resale as scrap, or in bulk.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-182)
Sec. 14-237. - Occupation tax certificate required, application.
(a)
All persons, firms or corporations desiring to engage in the business, trade or profession of a precious metals dealer shall, before engaging in such business, trade or profession, make application for an occupation tax certificate in the form and manner prescribed by the city or its designee.
(b)
The application shall include, but shall not be limited to, the information required on all occupation tax returns, along with the following additional information:
(1)
Full name, date of birth, address, and Social Security number of applicant.
(2)
Full names, dates of birth, and Social Security numbers of any other persons having an ownership interest in the proposed business. In the case of a corporation, this list shall include owners of ten or more percent of the common or preferred stock.
(3)
Full names, dates of birth, and Social Security numbers, and titles of corporate officers where appropriate.
(4)
Full name, address, telephone number, date of birth, title, and Social Security number of individuals to be employed.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-183)
Sec. 14-238. - Work permits required.
Prior to the issuance of an occupation tax certificate, a work permit shall be required for the owners, managers, and employees.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-184)
Sec. 14-239. - Applicant disqualifications.
No occupation tax certificate shall be granted to any person under the age of 18 or who has been convicted, pled guilty or entered a plea of nolo contendere under any federal, state or local law of any crime involving moral turpitude, illegal gambling, any felony, criminal trespass, public indecency, misdemeanor involving any type of sexual related crime, theft or violence against person or property, any crime of possession, sale, or distribution of illegal drugs, distribution of material depicting nudity or sexual conduct as defined under state law, criminal solicitation to commit any of these listed offenses, or attempts to commit any of these listed offenses.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-185)
Sec. 14-240. - Records and information to be maintained; display of transaction number; identification; digital photographs; fingerprints; records storage.
Engaging in the business of buying used or previously owned precious metals in the city is hereby declared to affect the public interest due to the opportunity it affords for the disposal of stolen property. In the public interest, and as set forth herein, all precious metals dealers shall maintain records documenting all precious metals transactions.
(1)
All precious metals dealers shall maintain records documenting accurate descriptions of all property purchased. Such description shall include, to the extent possible, the manufacturer, model, serial number, style, material, kind, color, design, number of stones if jewelry, and all other identifying names, marks, and numbers. The precious metals dealers shall assign a transaction number documenting each transaction, and ensure each item received is tagged with the transaction number.
(2)
The tag bearing the transaction number must remain attached to the item until the property is disposed of by sale, trade, or other lawful means. This subsection does not apply to the purchase of property from licensed wholesale or distributor businesses for the purpose of retail sales; however, the precious metals dealer shall be required to maintain all purchasing records for property exempted from this subsection.
(3)
The precious metals dealer shall require all persons selling property to show proper identification prior to conducting a transaction. Proper identification is defined as a government issued photo identification card, such as a driver's license, military identification card, state identification card, or passport.
(4)
The precious metals dealer shall also document the name, address, telephone number, race, sex, height, weight, driver's license number, date of birth, and Social Security number of the person selling the property, along with the date and time of transaction. This documentation shall be made at the time of the transaction.
(5)
The precious metals dealer shall photograph, with a digital camera or web camera, the person selling the property. The photograph shall clearly show a frontal view of the subject's face along with the transaction number and a photograph of the item being sold. Digital images shall be labeled and stored in such a manner that they are safe from corruption, readily identifiable, and readily available for review.
(6)
The precious metals dealer shall obtain from each person selling any property, the fingerprint of the right hand index finger, unless such finger is missing, in which event the print of the next finger in existence on the right hand shall be obtained with a notation as to the exact finger printed. The fingerprint shall be imprinted onto the transaction form in the designated area along with the signature of the person selling the property. The fingerprint must be clear and legible. In the event that more than one transaction form is required, a fingerprint and signature will be obtained for each form. Fingerprints and the information required herein shall be obtained each time such person pledges, trades, pawns, exchanges, or sells any property.
(7)
Items of property that appear to be new, unused, and in their original packaging cannot be accepted by the precious metals dealer unless the customer can supply a copy of the original sales receipt, or other proof of purchase from the place of purchase, to the precious metals dealers who shall retain the receipt or proof of purchase on file.
(8)
The precious metals dealer shall store the above records, digital images, and fingerprints for a period of four years and make them available to law enforcement personnel upon request.
(9)
Every precious metals dealer shall enter each transaction as it occurs into the electronic automated reporting system via the internet to the administrator of the electronic automated reporting system. The administrator of the electronic automated reporting system will electronically transmit all transactions to the county police department.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-186)
Sec. 14-241. - Daily report to Gwinnett County police; required format.
Every precious metals dealer shall make a daily report, in such form as may be prescribed by the county chief of police, of all pawnshop transactions that occurred during 24 hours ending at 9:00 p.m. on the date of the report.
(1)
Daily reports shall list all property sold, the transaction number for each transaction, and a description of the property, including, to the extent possible, the manufacturer, model, serial number, style, material, kind, color, design, number of stones if jewelry, and any other identifying names, marks, and numbers. The daily report shall also list the name, address, race, sex, height, weight, driver's license number, date of birth, and Social Security number on the automated reporting system along with the date and time of the transaction.
(2)
Every precious metals dealer shall enter each transaction as it occurs into the electronic automated reporting system via the internet to the administrator of the electronic automated reporting system. The administrator of the electronic automated reporting system will electronically transmit all transactions to the county police department.
(3)
In the event that the electronic automated reporting system becomes temporarily or permanently disabled, precious metals dealers will be notified as soon as possible by the county police department. In this event, the precious metals dealer will be required to make records of transactions in paper form as prescribed by the county police department. Such paper forms must include all information as enumerated in section 14-240. Precious metals dealers shall be responsible for maintaining an adequate inventory of these forms.
(4)
The county chief of police or his designee shall select and designate the required automated reporting system and required equipment needed. There will be a fee assessed to the precious metals dealer for each reported transaction. Said fee may be assessed against the persons selling property. The accessed fee shall not exceed 50 percent of the actual cost charged by the police department or the third party administrator. This fee will be invoiced to the precious metals dealers and collected by the county chief of police or his designee, which may be a third party administrator of the automated reporting system.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-187)
Sec. 14-242. - Property not to be disposed of for 30 days after acquisition; location of property; police holds.
(a)
All property received through any precious metals dealer transaction shall be held for at least 30 days before disposing of same by sale, transfer, shipment, or otherwise.
(b)
All property purchased shall be held and maintained by the precious metals dealer on the premises of the precious metals dealer or, if impracticable, at such other location as may have been previously approved in writing by the county chief of police or his designee. The county chief of police shall not approve any off-premises storage facilities located outside the city.
(c)
The county police department has the authority to place property that is the subject of police investigation on "police hold." In that event, the county police department shall notify the precious metals dealer of the need for a police hold and identify all property subject to the police hold. Upon notification, it shall be the responsibility of the precious metals dealer to maintain the subject property until such time as the property is released from police hold status or the property is confiscated as evidence.
(d)
No occupation tax certificate shall be granted to any applicant for a nonpermanent location as defined in section 14-236.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-188)
Sec. 14-243. - Dealing with minors.
It shall be unlawful for any precious metals dealers, his agents or employees, to receive through any precious metals dealer any property from minors. A minor, for the purpose of this section, is an individual 17 years of age or under.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-189)
Sec. 14-244. - Responsibility for enforcement.
The county police department shall have the responsibility for the enforcement of this article. Sworn officers of the county police department and civilian employees designated by the county chief of police shall have the authority to inspect establishments licensed under this article during the hours in which the premises are open for business. These inspections shall be made for the purpose of verifying compliance with the requirements of this article and state law. This section is not intended to limit the authority of any other city or county officer to conduct inspections authorized by other provisions of the county code.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-190)
Sec. 14-245. - Penalty for violation.
Any person, firm, company, corporation or other entity who violates any provision of this article may be subject to arrest or summoned to appear in the city municipal court and, upon conviction or other finding of guilt, be punished by a fine of up to $1,000.00 or 60 days imprisonment, or both.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-191)
Secs. 14-246—14-268. - Reserved.
