ARTICLE V. - TALL STRUCTURE PERMIT

Sec. 10-122. - Required.
(a)
Any person shall obtain a tall structure permit from the mayor and council prior to commencement of the erection within the city of a chimney, cooling tower, elevator bulkhead, fire tower, gas tank, solarium, steeple, stacks, stage tower or scenery loft, tank, water tower, ornamental tower and spire, or necessary mechanical appurtenances or other structure not governed by the special use permit process that would be 50 feet or greater in height from the ground.
(b)
The erection, within the city, of a wireless telecommunication, cellular telecommunication, television or radio transmission tower or antenna shall be subject to the provisions, requirements and limitations of chapter 58.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 14-116)
Sec. 10-123. - Application; contents; fee.
All applications for tall structure permits shall be submitted to the department of planning and development. Each application shall contain, as a part thereof, detailed plans and specifications which show the nature of the structure, its proposed use, height of the structure and its proposed location, with all property lines being clearly defined and distances from the proposed structure to all property lines. An application for a tall structure permit shall not be accepted for processing without the information required in this article. An application fee shall be charged by the department in an amount stated in the schedule of fees and charges.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 14-117)
Sec. 10-124. - Review of application by airport division.
If, upon receipt of an application for a tall structure permit, the department deems that the proposed structure may interfere with the use of the airways of the county by the public or interfere with the operation of existing or proposed airport facilities, a copy of the application shall be submitted by the department to the airport division of the department of transportation for review and recommendation.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 14-118)
Sec. 10-125. - Public hearing.
Before taking action upon the proposed tall structure permit, the mayor and council shall hold a public hearing on the matter. At least 15 days prior to the date of the public hearing, the following notice requirements shall be instituted by the department of planning and development:
(1)
A sign shall be erected, in a conspicuous location, on or adjacent to the property under consideration. The sign shall state the time, place, location, and purpose of the public hearing.
(2)
A letter shall be sent by regular mail to all abutting property owners of record, as indicated by the county tax commissioner's records, giving notice of the public hearing. The letter shall state the same information as required for the sign.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 14-119)
Sec. 10-126. - Criteria for disapproval.
All applications for a tall structure permit shall be considered by the mayor and council and in the exercise of its discretion under the police power vested in the body may disapprove any application where the proposed structure could interfere with or endanger the public using the existing or proposed air facilities located within the city, or where the structure to be erected could endanger the person or property of citizens of the county or where the structure to be erected would not be compatible from an aesthetic viewpoint with existing or proposed development in the area of the proposed facility, or where the structure to be erected would not be acceptable or after evaluation would be found to be incompatible from an architectural standpoint with existing or proposed structures in the area.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 14-120)
Sec. 10-127. - Penalty for violation of article.
(a)
Any person who attempts to erect or erects a structure described in this article without having first obtained a tall structure permit from the board of commissioners in the manner provided in this article shall be deemed in violation of this article. Any responsible party or other persons convicted by a court of competent jurisdiction of violating any provision of this article shall be guilty of violating a duly adopted ordinance of the city and shall be punished either by a fine not to exceed $500.00 or by imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, or both. The court shall have the power and authority to place any person guilty of violation of this article on probation and to suspend or modify any fine or sentence. As a condition of the suspension, the court may require payment of restitution or impose other punishment allowed by law.
(b)
If any structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained in violation of this article or without obtaining the required permits, or if any building, structure or land is used in violation of this article, the city attorney or other appropriate authority of the city, in addition to any other remedies, may institute an injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance, or use; or to correct or abate such violations. Each and every day such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance or use continues may be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 14-121)
Sec. 10-128. - Governmental exemption.
The provisions of this article shall not apply to governmental facilities and structures.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 14-122)
Secs. 10-129—10-154. - Reserved.
