ARTICLE VI. - FINANCE

Section 6.10. - Property tax.
The city council may assess, levy, and collect an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city that is subject to such taxation by the state and county. This tax is for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government, to provide governmental services, for the repayment of principal and interest on general obligations, and for any other public purpose as determined by the city council in its discretion.
Section 6.11. - Homestead exemption.
The city council may grant an exemption from all city ad valorem taxes in an amount to be fixed by the governing authority at not more than $1,000.00 on a homestead owned and occupied by a resident of the city as a residence and homestead, and only so long as actually occupied by the owner primarily as such. The value of the residence in excess of the amount to be exempted shall remain subject to taxation. Any such resident shall not receive the benefits of such homestead exemption unless he or his agent provides the tax assessors of Cobb or Douglas county with such affidavits, copies of deeds, or other information as such tax assessors might request showing that such resident and such property qualify for this exemption. After any such person has filed the proper documents and has been allowed [for] the exemption provided herein, it shall not be necessary that he make application thereafter for any subsequent year, and the exemption shall continue to be allowed to such person. It shall be the duty of such person to notify the tax assessor's office and the city tax collector in the event he becomes ineligible for any reason for the exemption provided in this paragraph. The homestead exemption provided for herein shall not be granted nor the amount fixed within the limits prescribed herein until the governing authority of the city provides by ordinance for the granting of such exemption and the amount thereof. The amount of such exemption may be increased or decreased from year to year by the same procedure. The governing authority of the city may provide by ordinance for the proper administration of this exemption as the same may be necessary.
Section 6.12. - Homestead exemption for persons over age sixty-five.
The city is authorized to grant to each person who is 65 years of age or over an exemption from all ad valorem taxes levied by such city in the amount of $2,000.00 on the homestead owned and occupied by such person as a residence. The city may limit the grant of the exemption provided for in this paragraph to qualified persons whose net income from all sources, as defined by state law except as hereinafter provided, together with the net income of their spouses who also occupy and reside at such residences, does not exceed a limitation established from time to time by the city for the immediately preceding taxable year for income tax purposes. For the purposes of this paragraph, net income shall not include income received as retirement, survivor, or disability benefits under the private retirement, disability, or pension system, except such income which is in excess of the maximum amount authorized to be paid to an individual and his spouse under the Federal Social Security Act, and income from such sources in excess of such maximum amount shall be included as net income for the purposes of this paragraph.
Section 6.13. - Millage rate; due dates; payment methods.
The city council, by ordinance, shall establish a millage rate for the city property tax, a due date, and the length of time in which these taxes must be paid. The city council, by ordinance, may provide for the payment of these taxes by installments or in one lump sum and may authorize the voluntary payment of taxes prior to the time when due. The city council may, by ordinance, provide for a discount for prompt payment of taxes.
Section 6.14. - Occupation and business taxes.
The city council, by ordinance, shall have the power to levy such occupation or business taxes as are not denied by general state law. Such taxes may be levied on both individuals and corporations who transact business in this city or who practice any profession or calling therein to the extent such persons have a constitutionally sufficient nexus to this city to be so taxed. The city council may classify businesses, occupations, professions, or callings for the purpose of such taxation in any way which may be lawful and compel the payment of such taxes as provided in section 6.20.
Section 6.15. - Licenses; permits; fees.
The city council, by ordinance, shall have the power to require any individuals or corporations who transact business in this city, or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein, to obtain a license or permit for such activity from the city and to pay a reasonable fee for such license or permit where such activities are not now regulated by general state law in such a way as to preclude city regulation. Such fees, if unpaid, shall be collected as provided in section 6.20. The city council, by ordinance, may establish reasonable requirements for obtaining or keeping such licenses as the public health, safety, and welfare necessitates.
Section 6.16. - Franchises.
The city council shall have the power to grant franchises for the use of the city's streets and alleys for the purposes of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, electric companies, cable television, gas companies, transportation companies, and other similar organizations. The city council shall determine the duration, provisions, terms, whether the same shall be exclusive or nonexclusive, and the consideration for such franchises.
Section 6.17. - Service charges.
The city council, by ordinance, shall have the power to assess and collect fees, charges, and tolls for sewer, sanitary, health services, or any other service rendered inside and outside the corporate limits of the city. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in section 6.20.
Section 6.18. - Special assessments.
The city council, by ordinance, shall have the power to assess and collect the cost of construction, reconstruction, widening, improving, or installing any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, street lights and lampposts, storm sewers, sanitary sewers, waterlines, or other utility mains, lines, and appurtenances from the abutting property owners under such terms and conditions as are reasonable in the discretion of the city council. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in section 6.20.
Section 6.19. - Construction; other taxes.
This city shall be empowered to levy any other tax allowed now or hereafter by state law and the specific mention of any right, power, or authority in this article shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general powers of this city to govern its local affairs.
Section 6.20. - Collection of delinquent taxes and fees.
The city council, by ordinance, may provide generally for the collection of delinquent taxes, fees, or other revenue due the city by whatever reasonable means as are not precluded by general state law. This shall include providing for the dates when the taxes or fees are due, late penalties or interest, issuance and execution of fi. fas., creation and priority of liens, rendering delinquent taxes and fees personal debts of the persons required to pay the taxes or fee imposed, revoking city licenses for failure to pay any city taxes or fees, allowing exceptions for hardship, and providing for the assignment or transfer of tax executions or liens. The director of the finance department shall be the tax collector and tax receiver for the city.
Section 6.21. - General obligation bonds.
The city council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized under this charter or the general laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuance by municipalities in effect at the time the issue is undertaken.
Section 6.22. - Revenue bonds and revenue anticipation certificates.
Revenue bonds and revenue anticipation certificates may be issued by the city council as state law now or hereafter provides. Such bonds are to be paid out of any revenue produced by the project, program, or venture for which they were issued.
Section 6.23. - Short-term loans.
The city council shall have the power to borrow money on a short-term basis. Any short-term loan obtained by the city must be repaid by December 31 of the year in which the loan was obtained unless otherwise provided by present or future state law.
Section 6.24. - Fiscal year.
The city council shall set the fiscal year by ordinance. The fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for financial accounting and reporting of each and every office, department, agency, and activity of the city government, unless otherwise provided by general state or federal law, except for the Austell gas system which shall have the power to fix its own fiscal year which may differ from the city's fiscal year.
Section 6.25. - Adoption and amendment of budget.
(a)
The city council shall adopt and may thereafter amend from time to time an annual budget, provided that the budget as finally adopted and amended must provide for all expenditures required by state law or by other provisions of this charter and for all debt service requirements for the ensuing fiscal year, and the total appropriations from any fund shall not exceed the estimated fund balance, reserves, and revenues of such annual budget.
(b)
The city council, by ordinance, shall adopt the final budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than the first day of the fiscal year. If the city council fails to adopt the budget by this date, the amounts appropriated for operations for the fiscal year just ended shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-month basis, with all items prorated accordingly until such time as the city council adopts a budget for the ensuing fiscal year. Such adoption shall constitute and take the form of an appropriations ordinance setting out the estimated revenues in detail by sources and making appropriations according to fund and by organizational unit, purpose, or activity.
(c)
The amount set out in the adopted budget for each organizational unit shall constitute the annual appropriation for such; and no expenditure shall be made or encumbrances created in excess of the otherwise unencumbered balance of the appropriations or allotment thereof to which it is chargeable unless by a majority vote of the city council.
Section 6.26. - Tax levies.
As the next order of business following adoption of the budget, the city council shall levy, by ordinance, such taxes as are necessary. The taxes and tax rates set by such ordinance shall be such that reasonable estimates of revenues from such levy shall at least be sufficient, together with other anticipated revenues, fund balances, and applicable reserves, to equal the total amount appropriated for each of the several funds set forth in the annual operation budget for defraying the expenses of the city.
Section 6.27. - Changes in appropriations.
The city council, by majority vote, may make changes in the appropriations contained in the current operation budget at any regular meeting or special or emergency meeting called for such purpose.
Section 6.28. - Independent audit.
There shall be an annual independent audit of all city accounts, funds, and financial transactions by a certified public accountant selected by the city council. The audit shall be conducted according to generally accepted accounting principles. Any audit of any funds by the state or federal governments may be accepted as satisfying the requirements of this charter. Copies of all audit reports shall be available at printing cost to the public.
Section 6.29. - Contracting procedures.
Subject to general state law provisions on municipal contracts, no contract with the city shall be binding on the city unless:
(1)
It is in writing;
(2)
It is drawn by or submitted to and reviewed by the city attorney; and
(3)
It is made or authorized by the city council and such approval is entered into the minutes of the city council.
Section 6.30. - Centralized purchasing.
The city council may prescribe procedures for a system of centralized purchasing for the city.
Section 6.31. - Sale of city property.
(a)
The city council may sell and convey any real or personal property owned or held by the city for governmental or other purposes as provided by general state law, as now exists or is hereafter amended.
(b)
The city council may quitclaim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon report by the city manager and adoption of a resolution, both finding that the property is not needed for public or other purposes and that the interest of the city is of no readily ascertainable monetary value.
(c)
Whenever in opening, extending, or widening any street, avenue, alley, sidewalk, or public place of the city a small parcel or tract of land is cut off or separated by such work from a larger tract or boundary of land owned by the city, the city council may authorize the mayor to execute and deliver in the name of the city a deed conveying the cut-off or separated parcel or tract of land to an abutting or adjoining property owner or owners in exchange for rights-of-way of the street, avenue, alley, sidewalk, or public places, or in settlement of any alleged damages sustained by the abutting or adjoining property owner. All deeds and conveyances heretofore and hereafter so executed and delivered shall convey all title and interest the city has in such property, notwithstanding the fact that no public sale after advertisement was or is hereafter made.
