ARTICLE III. - ADMINISTRATIVE AFFAIRS

Section 3.10. - Administrative departments.
(a)
Except as may otherwise be provided in this charter, the city council, by ordinance, shall prescribe the functions or duties of and establish, abolish, or alter all nonelective offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city, as is necessary for the proper administration of the affairs and government of this city. Subject to the foregoing, the following city departments are established: police, streets and sanitation, water and sewage/mechanic, parks and recreation, general administration, finance, community affairs, and fire.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter or general state law, the directors of departments and other appointed officers of the city shall be appointed solely on the basis of their respective administrative and professional qualifications.
(c)
All appointive officers and directors of departments shall receive such compensation as prescribed by ordinance or pay scale as adopted from time to time by the city council.
(d)
There shall be a director of each operating department as determined by the mayor and council. A department director may only be removed by the mayor for cause pursuant to the personnel policies as determined by the city council. Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in a department director's position, a new department director shall be appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent, by majority vote, of the city council.
(Ord. of 2-6-1989; Ord. of 1-8-1990; 1991 Ga. Laws, p. 4498, § 9; 1993 Ga. Laws (SB 284), § 9; Ord. of 2-3-1997, § 2; Ord. of 6-5-2000, § 1; Ord. of 9-11-2000, § 1)
Editor's note— Currently the streets, sanitation, water, sewer and mechanical functions of the city are managed by the city's public works department.
Section 3.11. - Powers and duties of the department directors.
The department director shall be the administrative official of the department and shall be responsible to the city council for the administration of his department. The department directors shall have the following powers and duties:
(1)
To hire, appoint, evaluate, reprimand, and subject to adverse disciplinary action all city employees supervised by the department directors within their departments, except as otherwise provided by general state law, this charter, city ordinance, or personnel policies adopted pursuant to this charter. The procedure to be followed by the department directors in fulfilling such duties shall be governed by the personnel policies as adopted by the city council;
(2)
To attend all city council meetings and their respective committee meetings;
(3)
To submit to the finance director an annual budget for their respective departments. The department budgets will be compiled into a proposed balanced budget by the finance director and submitted to the finance committee for review and recommendation to the city council for approval;
(4)
To advise their respective committees as to the future needs of their departments;
(5)
To make any report as the council committee or city council may require concerning the operation of their departments and of any employees subject to their direction and supervision;
(6)
To prepare an inventory showing all real and personal property utilized by their departments and to submit such inventory to the finance director for compilation;
(7)
To make budgeted purchases from time to time of supplies, materials and equipment for their departments up to a dollar amount set by the council without first obtaining specific approval of the committee chairperson, the council committee, or the city council, provided that all other provisions of this charter and the ordinances of the city are complied with, including bid requirements, if applicable. All purchases in excess of such amount must be approved by the committee chairperson, the council committee, or the city council, depending on the amount of the expenditure;
(8)
To recommend to the council committee items of city personal property which the department director deems to be unnecessary or unfit for the use of the city. Upon approval by the council committee, the department director shall conduct all sales of such property declared to be surplus. The department director shall make all necessary publications and notices, procure bids, and, with the assistance of the finance director, conduct the bid openings and the sales;
(9)
To be responsible for the preparation and publication of all notices and announcements required by law with respect to the operation of their departments. Such notices shall be given to the general administration department for review and submittal for publishing;
(10)
To supervise and report to the proper council committee regarding the performance of all contacts made for services or materials related to their departments; and
(11)
To perform such other duties as may be assigned by the city council, the city charter, city ordinance, or general state law.
(1993 Ga. Laws (SB 284), § 10; Ord. of 2-3-1997, §§ 3, 4)
Section 3.12. - Boards, commissions, and authorities.
(a)
The city council may create by ordinance such boards, commissions, and authorities to fulfill any functions as the city council deems necessary and shall by ordinance established the composition, period of existence, duties, and powers thereof.
(b)
All members of boards, commissions, and authorities of the city shall be appointed by the city council for such terms of office and in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance, except where other appointing authority, term of office, or manner of appointment is prescribed by this charter or general state law.
(c)
The city council may provide for the compensation and reimbursement for actual and necessary expenses of the members of the board, commission, or authority, and may pay them a fee for attending meetings.
(d)
Any vacancy on a board, commission, or authority of the city shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner prescribed herein for original appointment, except as otherwise provided by this charter, by general law, or by ordinance.
(e)
No member of a board, commission, or authority shall assume office until he has executed and filed with the city clerk an oath obligating himself to honestly, faithfully, and impartially perform the duties of his office to the best of his ability.
(f)
Any member of a board, commission, or authority may be removed from office for cause in accordance with and as provided in sections 5.18 and 5.19 hereof.
(g)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter or by general state law, each board, commission, or authority of the city shall elect one of its members as chairman, one member as vice-chairman, one member as secretary, and one member as assistant secretary. Each board, commission, or authority of the city may establish such bylaws, rules, and regulations, not inconsistent with this charter, ordinances of the city, or general state law, as it deems appropriate and necessary for the fulfillment of its duties or the conduct of its affairs, copies of which shall be filed with the city clerk.
(1993 Ga. Laws (SB 284), § 10)
Section 3.13. - City attorney.
The mayor shall appoint, with the advice and consent of the city council, a city attorney, together with such assistant city attorneys as may be authorized and shall provide for the payment of such attorney or attorneys for services rendered to the city.
(1993 Ga. Laws (SB 284), § 10; Ord. of 2-3-1997, § 5; Ord. of 9-11-2000, § 2)
Section 3.14. - City clerk.
The mayor shall appoint a city clerk with the advice and consent by the city council. Such appointment and council vote shall occur upon a vacancy in such position. The duties of the city clerk shall be:
(1)
To keep an accurate record and minutes of all meetings of the city council, to keep and affix the city seal as required to all official documents of the city, to attest the mayor's execution of official documents, and to certify under the city's seal such documents as may require certification;
(2)
To perform such other duties as the city council may establish and as required by the city charter, city ordinance, or general state law.
(1993 Ga. Laws (SB 284), § 10; Ord. of 2-3-1997, § 6; Ord. of 4-5-1999; Ord. of 9-11-2000, § 3)
Section 3.15. - Personnel policies.
This city council may adopt rules and regulations consistent with this charter concerning:
(a)
The method of employee selection and probationary periods of employment;
(b)
The administration of a position classification, a pay plan, and a grid scale pay range and may delegate to the directors of departments and council committees the duty to set pay within such ranges; the methods of promotion and application of service ratings thereto; and the transfer of employees within the classification plan;
(c)
Hours of work, vacation, sick leave, and other leaves of absence, overtime pay, and the order and manner in which layoffs shall be affected;
(d)
Such dismissal hearings as due process may require; and
(e)
Such other personnel policies as may be necessary to provide for adequate and systematic handling of personnel affairs.
(1993 Ga. Laws (SB 284), § 10)
