ARTICLE IV. - JUDICIAL BRANCH

Section 4.10. - Creation; name.
There shall be a court to be known as the Municipal Court of the City of Austell.
Section 4.11. - Judge.
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge of the municipal court unless he shall have attained the age of 21 years and is a resident of Cobb County or Douglas County, Georgia. Members of the State Bar of Georgia shall be given preference in selection, but it is not required that the judge be a member of the state bar. The judge shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city council. The judge may be removed from office by the city council in accordance with and as provided in Sections 5.18 and 5.19 of this charter. The compensation of the judge shall be set by the city council. Before entering on the duties of his office, the judge shall take an oath given by the mayor that he will honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of his office to the best of his ability without fear, favor, or partiality. The oath shall be filed with the city clerk.
(1993 Ga. Laws (SB 284), § 11; Ord. of 2-3-1997, § 7; Ord. of 9-11-2000, § 3)
Section 4.12. - Convening.
The municipal court shall be convened at regular intervals as designated by the judge or as provided by ordinance.
Section 4.13. - Jurisdiction; powers.
(a)
The municipal court shall try and punish violations of all city ordinances.
(b)
The municipal court shall have authority to punish those in its presence for contempt.
(c)
The municipal court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction including fines of an amount up to the maximum of $1,000.00 or imprisonment for up to a maximum of six months, or both, or may sentence any offender upon conviction to labor for the city on the streets, sidewalks, squares, parks, or other public places or to do community service work for up to 30 days per offense, or any combination of the foregoing.
(d)
The municipal court may use the bail bond and fine schedule adopted by the city council from time to time for those offenses specified therein as minimum punishment for the offenses specified. For any offense, whether or not appearing on the schedule, the municipal court may impose, upon conviction, a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 and imprisonment in the city jail not to exceed six months and work and labor on the city public works or community service not to exceed 30 days, either or all or any part of either or all. Whenever any person shall give bail for his appearance and shall fail to appear at the time fixed for trial, his bond shall be forfeited by the judge. In the event that cash or property is accepted in lieu of bond for security for the appearance of a defendant at trial and if such defendant fails to appear at the time and place fixed for trial, the cash so deposited shall be, on order of the judge, declared forfeited to the city, or the property so deposited shall have a lien against it for the value forfeited, which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as a lien for city property taxes.
(e)
The municipal court shall have the authority to bind prisoners over to the appropriate court when it appears by probable cause that a state law has been violated.
(f)
The municipal court shall have the same authority as superior courts to compel the production of evidence in the possession of any party to enforce compliance with its orders, judgments, and sentences and to administer such oaths as are necessary.
(g)
The municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summonses, subpoenas, and warrants which may be served and executed by any officer as authorized by this charter or by general state law. The judge of the municipal court and the mayor are authorized to issue warrants for the arrest of persons charged with offenses against any ordinance of the city.
(h)
The judge of the municipal court shall have the same authority as a magistrate of the state court of Cobb County to issue warrants for offenses against state laws committed within the city.
(i)
The municipal court is specifically vested with the jurisdiction and powers throughout the entire area of this city granted by general state laws to mayor's, recorder's, and police courts, and particularly by such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances and prosecution of traffic violations.
(Ord. of 4-6-1992; Ord. of 8-3-1992; Ord. of 10-5-1992)
Editor's note— Subsection (d) of this section refers to the "city jail." The city has no jail. Jail confinement for violation of city ordinances is in the county jail.
Section 4.14. - Certiorari.
The right of certiorari from the decision and judgment of the municipal court shall exist in all criminal cases, and such certiorari shall be obtained under the sanction of a judge of the superior court of Cobb County or Douglas County, depending upon the situs of the offense, under the laws of the State of Georgia regulating the granting and issuance of writs of certiorari.
Section 4.15. - Rules for court.
With the approval of the city council, the judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court; provided, however, that the city council may adopt in part or in toto the rules and regulations for procedure in the superior court or any lower court under the general laws of the State of Georgia. The rules and regulations made or adopted shall be filed with the city clerk, shall be available for public inspection and, upon request, a copy shall be furnished to all defendants in municipal court proceedings.
Section 4.16. - Clerk of court.
Upon a vacancy, the clerk of court shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent, by majority vote, of the city council. The clerk of court shall personally, or in the person of an appropriate designee, attend each session of the municipal court, and perform such duties as the city council may by ordinance direct.
(Ord. of 2-3-1997, § 8; Ord. of 9-11-2000, § 4)
