ARTICLE VII. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 7.10. - Eminent domain.
The city council is empowered to acquire, construct, operate, and maintain public ways, streets, sidewalks, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets, market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewage treatment, waterworks, electrical systems, gas mains and lines, gas system facilities, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities, and any other public improvements inside or outside the city, and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be taken under the state law of eminent domain, subject to such amendments as shall be enacted, or any other state law applicable now or provided in the future.
Section 7.11. - Official bonds.
The officers, officials, directors of departments, and employees of this city, both elective and appointive, shall execute such bonds in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the city council shall from time to time require, or as may be provided by state law.
Section 7.12. - Prior code and ordinances.
All codes, ordinances, bylaws, rules, and regulations now in force in the city not inconsistent with this charter are declared valid and of full force and effect until amended or repealed by the city council.
Section 7.13. - Pending matters.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this charter, all rights, claims, actions, orders, contracts, and legal or administrative proceedings shall continue; and any such ongoing work or cases shall be dealt with by such city agencies, personnel, or offices as may be provided by the city council.
Section 7.14. - Penalties.
The violation of any provisions of this charter, for which penalty is not specifically provided for herein, is declared to be a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000.00 or by imprisonment not to exceed 365 days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
Section 7.15. - Construction.
(a)
Section captions in this charter are informative only and are not to be considered as a part thereof.
(b)
The word "shall" is intended to be mandatory and the word "may" is not mandatory, but permissive.
(c)
The singular shall include the plural and the masculine the feminine and vice versa.
Section 7.16. - Severability.
If any article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof of this charter shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect or impair other parts of this charter, unless it clearly appears that such other parts are wholly and necessarily dependent upon the part held to be invalid or unconstitutional, it being the legislative intent in enacting this charter that each article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence or part thereof be enacted separately and independently of each other, and the remainder of this charter would have been enacted without such invalid or unconstitutional part had it been known upon enactment that the part in question would have been held invalid or unconstitutional.
Section 7.17. - Repealer.
An act incorporating the City of Austell, approved August 17, 1929 (1929 Ga. Laws, p. 862), as amended, is repealed in its entirety and all amendatory acts thereto are likewise repealed in their entirety. All other laws and parts of laws in conflict with this charter are amended to allow the provisions hereof.
Section 7.18. - Effective date.
This act shall become effective upon its signature by the Governor.
