ARTICLE XI. - INDUSTRIAL CHEMICAL PRODUCTS DISTRIBUTORS

Sec. 10-478. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Hazardous substance means any substance or chemical product for which any one of the following applies:
(1)
The manufacturer or producer is required to prepare an MSDS for the substance pursuant to any applicable federal law or regulation.
(2)
The substances is listed pursuant to title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
(3)
The substance is listed as radioactive material in 10 CFR 110, Appendix B.
(4)
The substances is defined in section 46-141(c)(3), (6) and (7).
(5)
The substance is a toxic pollutant as that term is defined in section 46-174.
(6)
The substance meets the characteristics of ignitability, corrosiveness, toxicity and reactivity as set forth in 40 CFR 261.21 through 261.24.
Industrial chemical distributor means any entity whose primary business is the production, for resale or distribution, of chemical products or compounds where either the distributed product, the component chemicals used to produce the distributed property or the byproduct or waste of the process is a hazardous substance.
License fee means the fee paid to the city to obtain a business license.
MSDS means a material safety data sheet prepared pursuant to state law or pursuant to the regulations of the federal occupational safety and health administration of the federal department of labor.
Taxable gross revenue means the gross revenue of an industrial chemical distributor from the business of production or storage, for resale chemical products or compounds within the city limits without reduction for taxes, costs, fees or other expenses.
Taxable gross revenue fee means the fee paid to the city under this article and in addition to the business license fee.
(Code 1985, § 14-80; Ord. of 6-1-1992)
Sec. 10-479. - Licenses and permits, generally.
(a)
In addition to a business license or any other permit required by the city, or other governmental or regulatory entity, all persons now or hereafter engaged as industrial chemical distributors in the city shall annually register their businesses with the city and obtain a permit to operate as an industrial chemical distributor. It is unlawful to engage in such business in the city without a business license, the applicable permit and without paying the fees set forth in this Code.
(b)
No persons shall engage in the business as an industrial chemical distributor until a permit for the same has been issued by the city.
(c)
Any industrial chemical distributor shall register with the city and shall apply for renewal of any existing permit and shall pay the annual permit fee not later than March 1 of each calendar year; provided, however, any new business shall register with the city and shall obtain the permit before it commences business. Upon application of renewal, the industrial chemical distributor shall provide any updated information as required by the mayor.
(Code 1985, § 14-81; Ord. of 6-1-1992)
Sec. 10-480. - Taxable gross revenue fee schedule and penalties.
(a)
There shall be paid by all industrial chemical distributors a taxable gross revenue fee of five percent of the taxable gross revenue as herein defined. The fee shall be payable monthly and shall be paid no later than the 20th of the month following the month for which such fee is due. No proration pursuant to section 10-8 shall apply to such fees.
(b)
Failure to pay a license fee or taxable gross revenue fee when due shall result in a penalty of ten percent of the fee or any portion thereof. Any fee not paid on or before the due date shall be considered delinquent and shall from that date bear interest at the rate of one percent per month until paid in full.
(c)
The city shall retain the right to audit all financial records related to the operations within the city of all licensees hereunder, and all licensees hereby agree to fully cooperate in such audit. Failure to cooperate in an audit shall be grounds for revocation. The following may also be grounds of revocation or denial of a permit:
(1)
The applicant has failed to obtain any paper, document or approval necessary in pursuance of its business as may be required by an officer, agency or department of the city, state, or the United States under authority of any law, ordinance or resolution the county, state or United States.
(2)
The applicant has supplied false information to the city.
(3)
The applicant has failed to pay any fee required under this article or has otherwise failed to comply with the provisions of this article.
(4)
The applicant, during the 12-month period preceding the filing of this application has engaged in any deceptive business practices.
(5)
The applicant has failed to comply with the requirements or regulations imposed by this Code or federal or state law or rules with regard to the production, handling, storage or transportation of its products or materials.
(d)
No permit required under this article shall be transferable under this article.
(Code 1985, § 14-82; Ord. of 6-1-1992)
Secs. 10-481—10-498. - Reserved.
