ARTICLE IV. - DEPARTMENTS AND COMMITTEES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-252. - Departmental organization.
The city administrator may recommend persons to be appointed as department heads. The mayor and council shall appoint a director or head of each department or agency who shall be its principal officer.
Sec. 2-253. - Department heads.
Each department head shall be responsible for the administration and direction of the affairs and operations of his department or agency, subject to the direction of the city administrator and/or mayor and council. Each such department head shall:
(1)
Be immediately responsible to the mayor for the effective administration of his department and all activities assigned thereto;
(2)
Keep informed as to the latest practices in his particular field and inaugurate, with the approval of the mayor and council or their designee, such new practices as appear to be of benefit to the service and to the public;
(3)
Submit annual reports of the activities of his department to the city administrator;
(4)
Establish and maintain a system of filing and indexing records and reports in sufficient detail to furnish all information necessary for proper control of departmental activities and to form a basis for the periodic reports to the mayor and council or their designee;
(5)
Have power, when authorized by the mayor and council, to appoint and remove, subject to personnel regulations, all subordinates under him; and
(6)
Be responsible for the proper maintenance of all city property and equipment used in his departments.
Sec. 2-254. - Interdepartmental cooperation.
Each department shall cooperate with every other department and shall furnish, upon the direction of the mayor and council or their designee, any other department such service, labor, and materials as may be requisitioned by the head of each department, as its own facilities permit.
Sec. 2-255. - Appointment of committees and chairs by mayor and city council.
All committees, committee chairs, and officers of the city council shall be recommended by the mayor and approved by the council and shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor and council. Furthermore, the mayor and council shall have the power to appoint new members to any committee at any time.
Sec. 2-256. - Reports.
Within 30 days after the close of each fiscal year, the mayor and council or their designee shall obtain a report from the various city departments for the previous year and shall recommend any adjustments necessary or advisable to the city council. The mayor and council or their designee shall have the power to require reports from all officers and employees of the city as he may deem necessary to carry out his executive responsibilities.
(Comp. Ords. 1970, § 3-101)
Secs. 2-257—2-275. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - STANDING COMMITTEES

Sec. 2-276. - Establishment by council.
The city council may establish such standing committees as it deems necessary or appropriate from time to time.
Sec. 2-277. - Appointment of chairperson, members.
At the first meeting of each year, the city council shall appoint a chairperson together with such other members, if any, that the city council desires to appoint to each standing committee, said appointments being from the members of council. Said appointment shall be for that calendar year.
Secs. 2-278—2-302. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - ETHICS COMMITTEE

Sec. 2-303. - Composition; appointment.
The ethics committee shall consist of three persons, one appointed by the mayor, one appointed by the council, and the third appointed by the two persons appointed by the mayor and council subject to approval by a majority of the city council. The third member of the ethics committee shall be a member in good standing of the state bar.
Sec. 2-304. - Qualifications; terms.
All members shall be residents of city and shall serve three-year terms. Members of the ethics committee must be approved by at least a three-fourths vote of the mayor and council and shall be appointed initially in such a manner as to permit one term to terminate each year.
Sec. 2-305. - Compensation.
The members of the ethics committee shall serve without compensation.
(Res. of 1-8-2007, div. E, § I)
Secs. 2-306—2-328. - Reserved.
