Chapter 17 - POLICE DEPARTMENT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; officers and employees, § 2-71 et seq.
State Law reference— Municipal authority to provide police protection, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, para. 3(a)(1); law enforcement officers and agencies, O.C.G.A. title 35.

Sec. 17-1. - Functions generally.
The police department shall be responsible for law enforcement and protection in the city. The head of the department shall be the chief of police.
(Code 1985, § 4-1-1)
Sec. 17-2. - Powers and duties of chief of police.
The chief of police shall:
(1)
Execute all orders and directions of the city manager.
(2)
Abate or remove any nuisance when so directed by the municipal judge.
(3)
Maintain the peace, good order and tranquility of the city by the enforcement of all municipal ordinances and state or federal laws.
(4)
Place on the recorder's docket the names of all persons violating any of the municipal ordinances and arrest and take into custody all persons who violate any city ordinances, state or federal laws.
(5)
Under the general direction of the city manager, be in charge of the police department, have supervision over the members, and properly delegate police powers to duly authorized officers.
(6)
Serve subpoenas and warrants of the municipal court.
(7)
Issue and serve summons for any violation of any law or ordinance and serve all processes, executions and attachments of the municipal court.
(8)
Perform such other duties as may be required by the city manager.
(Code 1985, § 4-1-2)
Charter reference— Chief of police, § 23.
State Law reference— Training requirements for police chiefs, O.C.G.A. § 35-8-20.
Sec. 17-3. - Police patrol and arrest powers.
(a)
The police officers of the city shall have the authority to patrol any street, alley, path, sidewalk or park, in and around any stores, cafes, taverns, restaurants, dance halls, service stations or any other establishment in the city.
(b)
An officer while on duty for the city shall have authority to enter any type of business while open to the public and check to see if everything is being carried on in a lawful manner. After business hours, and while closed to the public, an officer for the city has authority to check places of business, to see if the doors and windows are locked.
(c)
An officer for the city shall have the authority to check and investigate, enter and patrol any park, business, residence or public place within the city limits if the officer has probable cause or sufficient reason to believe some act is being committed which would involve the violation of a law or a city ordinance; a personal injury or damage to property; or if any of the above appear to be imminent.
(Code 1985, § 4-1-3)
State Law reference— Arrest of persons, O.C.G.A. § 17-4-1 et seq.
