Chapter 16 - PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Cemeteries, ch. 6; flood damage prevention, ch. 9; parks and recreation, ch. 15.
State Law reference— Municipal powers of planning and zoning, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, para. 4; urban redevelopment, O.C.G.A. § 36-61-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 16-1—16-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PLANNING COMMISSION

Sec. 16-26. - Established; purposes.
In order to guide and accomplish coordinated and harmonious development of the city which will, in accordance with existing and future needs, best promote the public health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity, and the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development, the city planning commission is hereby created and established.
(Code 1985, § 7-1-1)
Sec. 16-27. - Composition; appointment and removal of members; regular terms; filling vacancies; compensation.
(a)
The planning commission shall consist of five members all to be appointed by the city commission. The terms of the members shall be staggered. The terms of the members of the planning commission shall be for three years or until their successors are appointed. Any vacancy in membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by the city commission.
(b)
The city commission shall have the authority to remove any member for cause.
(c)
All members shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for actual expense incurred in connection with their official duties.
(Code 1985, § 7-1-2; Ord. No. 87-028, § 7-1-2, 8-24-87; Ord. No. 2000-013, § I, 6-12-00; Ord. No. O-11-01, § I, 7-23-01)
Sec. 16-28. - Organization.
The planning commission shall elect a chairman, vice chairman and secretary from among its members. The term of these officers shall be for one year, or until they are reelected or their successors are elected.
(Code 1985, § 7-1-3)
Sec. 16-29. - Meetings; required records.
The planning commission shall meet at least once each month at the call of the chairman, and at such other times as the chairman may determine. It shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations, which record shall be a public record.
(Code 1985, § 7-1-4)
Sec. 16-30. - Employees.
The planning commission shall use the staff resources of the city planning department and such other as may be assigned from time to time by the city manager.
(Code 1985, § 7-1-5)
Sec. 16-31. - Functions and duties generally.
It shall be the function and duty of the planning commission to make such careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of existing conditions and probable future developments and to prepare such plans for physical, social, and economic growth as will best promote the public health, safety, morals, convenience, prosperity or the general welfare as well as efficiency and economy in the development of its political jurisdiction. In particular, the planning commission shall have the power and duty to:
(1)
Prepare a master plan or parts thereof for the development of its political jurisdiction.
(2)
Prepare and recommend for adoption to the appropriate governing authority or authorities a zoning ordinance and map, or amendments thereto, for its political jurisdiction.
(3)
Prepare and recommend for adoption to the appropriate governing authority or authorities standards for the subdivision of land, or amendments thereto, within its political jurisdiction.
(4)
Review all applications for rezoning, subdivisions, annexation, flood control permits, soil erosion control permits and changes to rights-of-way for compliance with this article and related regulations and standards.
(5)
Recommend approval or disapproval to the city with respect to applications, for rezoning, subdivisions, annexation, flood control permits, soil erosion control permits and changes to rights-of-way.
(6)
Perform such other duties and functions as may be required.
(Code 1985, § 7-1-6; Ord. No. 86-023, § 7-1-6, 10-13-86)
Secs. 16-32—16-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PLANNING DEPARTMENT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Officers and employees, § 2-71 et seq.

Sec. 16-51. - Functions generally.
The planning department shall be responsible for code enforcement administration, zoning administration, soil erosion control, flood hazard area control and for developing and maintaining a comprehensive plan of development for the city.
(Code 1985, § 7-1-21)
Sec. 16-52. - Duties of director of planning.
The director of planning shall:
(1)
Execute all orders and directions of the city manager.
(2)
Under the general direction of the city manager, be in charge of the planning department and have supervision over the department.
(3)
Perform other functions as may be required by the city manager.
(Code 1985, § 7-1-22)
Sec. 16-53. - Duties of code enforcement officer.
The code enforcement officer shall:
(1)
Enforce all decisions of the city commission and all regulations dealing with zoning, subdivisions, buildings, flood hazard areas, soil erosion, weed control, water and wastewater and public nuisances.
(2)
Perform such other duties as may be required by the city manager.
(Code 1985, § 7-1-23)
Sec. 16-54. - Building code regulations.
(a)
In the event that the code enforcement officer should determine that there is a violation of the building code, electrical code, gas code, housing code, energy code, mechanical code, one- and two-family dwelling code, excavation and grading code, existing building code, swimming pool code, unsafe building abatement code, fire prevention code, or the plumbing code of the city, he shall give written notice to the person in possession of such premises in violation or, if there is no person in possession of the premises, then the notice shall be tacked upon the front of the premises near the main entrance thereof and, after 14 days from the giving of the notice, and if the violation has not been corrected within the 14-day period, the code enforcement officer shall exercise all actions against such persons as are authorized under law.
(b)
In the event any violation of this Code poses an immediate threat to the public health, safety or welfare, the code enforcement officer shall have the authority to discontinue any and all city services to the violating premises until the violation is corrected.
(Code 1985, § 7-1-26)
