Chapter 21 - SUBDIVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 5; fire prevention and protection, ch. 8; flood damage prevention, ch. 9; planning and development, ch. 16; streets and sidewalks, ch. 20; utilities, ch. 23; zoning, ch. 24.
State Law reference— Sales of subdivided land, O.C.G.A. § 44-3-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 21-1. - Definitions.
When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning given in this section. Terms not herein defined in this chapter or in section 1-2, shall have their customary dictionary definitions where not inconsistent with the context.
Lot shall mean a portion or parcel of land separated from other portions or parcels by description as on a subdivision plat or record of survey map or as described by metes and bounds, and intended for transfer of ownership or for building development. For the purpose of this chapter, the term does not include any portion of a dedicated right-of-way.
Planning commission shall mean the Toccoa Planning Commission.
Street shall mean an accepted or nonaccepted way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as an avenue, boulevard, road, highway, expressway, lane, alley or other way, and for the purpose of this chapter streets are divided into the following categories:
(1)
Major thoroughfares. Those streets designated as such on the major thoroughfare plan of the city.
(2)
Connector streets. A street within a subdivision used to carry traffic from the residential streets to the major thoroughfares and includes the principal entrance and circulation streets of a subdivision.
(3)
Residential street. A street used primarily for access to the abutting properties.
(4)
Alley. A minor way used for service access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
(5)
Cul-de-sac. A residential street with only one outlet, sometimes called a "dead end" street.
(6)
Marginal access street. A residential street parallel and adjacent to major thoroughfares and which provides access to abutting properties with protection from through traffic. A marginal access street with only access shall be considered a cul-de-sac.
(7)
Private street. A street owned privately by an individual(s), corporation or other legal entity other than the city, over which the general public has no right of use. A private street shall always be nonaccepted for public use.
(8)
Public street. A street over which the general public has acquired the right to use. A public street can be accepted or nonaccepted.
(9)
Accepted street. A street to which the city has accepted title as public right-of-way and is maintained by the city pursuant to such acceptance. All accepted streets shall be public streets.
(10)
Nonaccepted street. A street to which title has not been accepted by the city and which, accordingly the city does not maintain. A nonaccepted street can be a private or public street. A nonaccepted street shall not be allowed within the city unless the developer provides an outline of plans and provisions for the maintenance of the street and enters into a contract with the city to bring the street up to street design standards within 36 months and requests the city to accept the street. The city shall have the right to deny the extension of any city services to any property only adjoining or abutting a nonaccepted street. In making a decision as to the extension or the provision of city services to property owners adjoining nonaccepted streets, the city may take into consideration among other things, safety, pavement conditions, access to and from the nonaccepted street, and other considerations concerning the effective and efficient delivery of city services.
Subdivider shall mean the person having such a proprietary interest in the land to be annexed or subdivided as will authorize the maintenance of proceedings to annex or subdivide such land under this chapter, or the authorized agent of such person for the purpose of proceeding under this chapter.
Subdivision shall mean all divisions of a tract or parcel of land into five or more lots, building sites or other divisions for the purpose whether immediate or future, of sale, legacy or building development, or any development of a new street or change in existing streets or rights-of-way thereof. Provided, however, that the combination or recombination of portions of previously platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are equal to the standards of the city are not included within this definition.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-1, 9-14-87)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 21-2. - Application of chapter.
Whenever the provisions of this chapter and those of some other ordinance or statute apply to the same subject matter, that ordinance requiring the highest, or more strict, standard shall govern.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-111, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-3. - Amendments.
This chapter may be amended from time to time. Before enacting an amendment to this chapter, the city commission shall hold a public hearing thereon, notice of which shall be published at least ten days prior to such hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the city.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-101, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-4. - Variations.
From time to time it may be necessary to consider certain variations to the provisions of this chapter. These variations may be necessary because of terrain or topography. A variation will be considered provided the person seeking the variation submits an application in writing to the city and pays the required variance application fee. Each proposed variance shall be considered by the planning commission. If the application is approved by the planning commission it shall be submitted for consideration by the commission and shall then be treated as an amendment requiring a public hearing with at least ten days notice. If approved the variation will be listed and maintained as a specific amendment to this chapter.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-102, 9-14-87)
Secs. 21-5—21-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PLATTING JURISDICTION AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 21-31. - Platting authority.
No plat of a land subdivision shall be entitled to record in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county unless it shall have the approval of the city commission inscribed thereon. The filing or recording of a plat of a subdivision without the approval of the city commission as required by this chapter is declared to be a misdemeanor.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-11, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-32. - Use of plat.
The transfer of, sale, agreement to sell or negotiation to sell land by reference to or exhibition of, or other use of a plat of a subdivision that has not been given final approval by the city commission and recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county is prohibited, and the description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document shall not exempt the transaction from such penalties.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-12, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-33. - Opening and improving streets.
The city commission shall not accept, annex, lay out, open, improve, grade, pave or light any street or lay any utility lines in any street, unless such street corresponds to the street location shown on an approved subdivision plat or on an official street map adopted by the city commission, and unless such street meets the construction specifications of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-13, 9-14-87)
Cross reference— Street improvements, § 20-31 et seq.
Sec. 21-34. - Erection of buildings.
No building permit shall be issued until the proposed subdivision has been approved by the city.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-14, 9-14-87)
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 5.
Sec. 21-35. - Annexation of subdivisions.
No subdivided property or property otherwise intended for use as a subdivision shall be annexed into the city until such subdivision has been recommended by the planning commission, and approved by the city. The city, upon recommendation of the planning commission, shall have the right to propose certain conditions on any property sought to be annexed prior to annexation. These include conditions regarding the maintenance of streets in the subdivision and the extension or provision of city services to the property owners sought to be annexed. No city utilities shall be extended or subsidized by the city to service contiguous property until annexation has taken place. In subdivisions not annexed, the developer will pay 100 percent of all costs of utility extensions, including gas, water and sewer.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-15, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-36. - Nonaccepted streets.
Nonaccepted streets shall be allowed in the city pending acceptance. Maintenance, including drainage, paving and signs, shall be the responsibility of the owners. Under no circumstances shall the city maintain the street. The city shall not accept title to a previously nonaccepted street unless the street meets city standards and specifications.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-16, 9-14-87)
Secs. 21-37—21-55. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW OF SKETCH PLAN

Sec. 21-56. - Review by planning department.
Prior to the filing of a final plat, the subdivider, or authorized agent, is urged to confer with the planning department, who shall review the sketch plan of the proposed subdivision to determine if the subdivision meets all the requirements of the community design ordinance. It is the intent of this requirement that the subdivider may familiarize himself with these regulations, the planning department and the procedures of the planning commission to advise and assist the subdivider prior to the preparation of the final plat and related material.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-21, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-57. - Sketch plan specifications.
The sketch plan should show in sketch form the proposed layout of streets, lots, and other features in relation to existing conditions. The sketch plan may be a free-hand sketch made on a print showing ground elevations or contour intervals. The sketch plan should include all of the contiguous property under one ownership and should include the following information:
(1)
Subdivision name.
(2)
Name and address of the record owner of the land proposed to be subdivided, and the proprietor of the subdivision.
(3)
Date, scale and north arrow of map.
(4)
Proposed street design and layout.
(5)
Vicinity map.
(6)
Acreage in total tract.
(7)
Approximate lot boundaries and number of lots.
(8)
Proposed use of property to be subdivided.
(9)
Storm water control plans.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-22, 9-14-87)
Secs. 21-58—21-80. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - FINAL PLAT PROCEDURE

Sec. 21-81. - Application for plat approval.
The subdivider shall submit to the city planning department, at least 14 days prior to the next regular or called meeting of the planning commission, the following which shall be reviewed within 21 days:
(1)
A letter requesting review and approval of a subdivision plat and giving the name and address of the person to whom the notice of the hearing by the planning commission on the plat shall be sent.
(2)
Ten paper copies or a reproducible mylar sepia of the subdivision plat and other documents, as may be specified, if required, and the original tracing or reproducible print thereof drawn in the permanent ink or equivalent on drafting cloth or film.
(3)
A subdivision plat filing fee of $4.00 per lot.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-31, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-82. - Review of plat.
(a)
The planning department shall review the subdivision plat for conformance with the rules and regulations of this chapter and report their findings and recommendations to the planning commission, which shall afford a hearing on the subdivision plat, notice of the time and place of which shall be sent by the planning department to the person requesting plat review and approval, not less than five days prior to the date of the hearing.
(b)
Thereafter, the planning commission shall recommend approval or disapproval of the plat. Subsequently, the city commission shall hold a public meeting to consider the plat. A notation of approval, if appropriate, shall be made on two prints of the plat. A notation of the action shall be made in the minutes of the commission including a statement of the reasons therefore if the plat is disapproved.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-32, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-83. - Recording subdivision plat.
Upon approval of the subdivision plat, the planning department shall have the plat recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county. The subdivider shall be responsible for payment of the recording fee.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-33, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-84. - Subdivision plat specifications.
The subdivision plat shall conform to and meet the following specifications and contain the required information:
(1)
The subdivision plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn in ink with mechanical lettering and at a scale not smaller than one inch to 100 feet on transparent plastic film.
(2)
Show proof of response from the department of transportation on all subdivisions abutting state highways.
(3)
Show ground elevations and contours based on the datum plane of the U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey, except that the developer will provide five-foot contours if requested by the planning department.
(4)
Information to be provided on plat:
a.
Name and address of owner of record and subdivider.
b.
North point and scale.
c.
Vicinity map showing location.
d.
Bearings and distances to the nearest existing street lines or bench marks or other permanent monuments shall be accurately described on the plat.
e.
Municipal, county and adjacent property lines accurately tied to the lines of the subdivision by distance and angles when such lines traverse or are reasonably close to the subdivision.
f.
Exact boundary lines of the tract, determined by a field survey, giving distances to the nearest one-tenth foot and angles to the nearest minute, which shall be balanced and closed with an error of closure not to exceed one to 3,000.
g.
Name of subdivision, streets and total acreage.
h.
Street, center line and right-of-way data, including property line dimensions to points of curvature, curve radii, tangent lengths, angles of deflection and angles of intersection.
i.
Lot lines with dimensions to the nearest one-tenth foot and bearings.
j.
Minimum building setback lines.
k.
Lots numbered in numerical order and blocks lettered alphabetically.
l.
Location, dimensions and purposes of any easements and any areas to be reserved or dedicated for public use.
m.
Accurate location, material and description of monuments and markers.
n.
A statement, either directly on the plat or in an identified attached document, of any private covenants.
o.
Name of record owners of adjoining property or name of recorded subdivision plats of adjoining property as applicable.
p.
Specific provisions for storm water control in conformance with section 21-189.
q.
Provisions for water supply and sewerage.
r.
Such street cross sections and center line profiles as may be required by the planning department.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-34, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-85. - Required certification.
The following certificates are required for each plat filed under this article:
(1)
An engineer's or surveyor's certification, directly on the final plat, as follows:
"It is hereby certified that the plat is true and correct and was prepared from an actual survey of the property by me or under my supervision; that all monuments shown herein actually exist or are marked as `future', and their location, size, type and material are correctly shown; and that all engineering requirements of the land subdivision chapter of the city, have been fully complied with.
EXPAND
By  _____ .   Registered Professional Engineer
No. _____ .
_____ .   Registered Georgia Land Surveyor
No. _____ ."
  (2)
An owner's certification, directly on the final plat as follows:
"Owner's Certification:
State of Georgia, County of Stephens."
"The owner of the land shown on this plat and whose name is subscribed hereto, in person or through a duly authorized agent, certifies that this plat was made from an actual survey, that all state, city and county taxes or other assessments, now due on this land have been paid.
EXPAND
Agent _____ . Owner _____ .
Date _____ . Date _____ ."
  (3)
A certificate of approval of the subdivision plat by the city commission, directly on the plat, as follows:
"Pursuant to the Land Subdivision Chapter of the City of Toccoa, Georgia, all requirements of approval having been fulfilled, this plat was given approval by the Toccoa City Commission on ________, 19___.
EXPAND
_____ _____
Date City Clerk"
  (Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-34(4)(S)(1—3), 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-86. - Performance bond.
A performance bond, for the estimated cost of the road, shall be provided by the developer to insure completion and acceptance of the street to meet city standards within 36 months. The performance bond amount will be determined by the addition of all costs associated with developing and completing the road based on specifications established in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-34(4)(S)(4), 9-14-87)
Secs. 21-87—21-105. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - GENERAL DESIGN AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 21-106. - Suitability of the land.
Land subject to flooding, improper drainage or erosion or that is for topographical or other reasons unsuitable for residential use shall not be platted for residential use nor for any other use that will continue or increase the danger to health, safety, or property destruction, unless the hazards can be and are corrected.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-41, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-107. - Name of subdivision.
The name of the subdivision must have the approval of the commission. The name shall not duplicate nor closely approximate the name of an existing subdivision or street.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-42, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-108. - Access.
Access to every subdivision shall be provided over an accepted street. This shall not preclude internal streets within the subdivision from being nonaccepted.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-43, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-109. - Conformance to adopted major-thoroughfares and other plans.
(a)
All streets and other features of the major thoroughfare plan of the city shall be platted by the subdivider in the location and to the dimension indicated on the major thoroughfare plan adopted by the commission.
(b)
When features of other plans adopted by the commission such as schools or other public building sites, parks or other land for public uses are located in whole or in part in a land subdivision, such features shall be either dedicated or reserved by the subdivider for acquisition within a reasonable time by the appropriate public agency.
(c)
When a plat proposes the dedication of land to public use that the commission finds not required or suitable for such public use, the commission shall refuse to approve the plat, and shall notify the subdivider of the reasons for such action.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-44, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-110. - Large-scale developments.
A comprehensive group development, including large scale construction of housing units together with necessary drives and ways of access, may be approved by the planning commission although the design of the project does not include standard streets, lot and subdivision arrangements, if developed according to the planned unit development provisions established in section 24-166 et seq.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-45, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-111. - Easements.
(a)
Easements having a minimum width of ten feet and located along the side or rear lot lines shall be provided, as required for utility lines, and underground mains and cable.
(b)
Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way, channel or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater or drainage right-of-way of adequate width. Parallel streets may be required by the commission in connection therewith.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-47, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-112. - Reservation of public sites and open space.
(a)
Where the features of the comprehensive plan, such as school sites, parks, playgrounds and other public spaces are located in whole or in part in a proposed subdivision, such features shall be reserved by the subdivider, provided however that no more than ten percent of the total area of the subdivision, shall be required for reservation to fulfill the requirements of this section. Whenever the land required for such plan features is not purchased, acquired, optioned, or condemned by the appropriate public agency within a two-year period from the date of recording the subdivision or by the time that at least 75 percent of the lots are built on and occupied, whichever is sooner, the subdivider may, after approval by the commission, claim the original reservation and cause it to be subdivided in a manner suitable to the subdivider, subject to the provisions of this chapter. Whenever the public body responsible for land acquisition executes a written release, stating that the reserved land is not to be acquired, the commission shall waive the reservations requirements.
(b)
The commission shall not approve plats when such planned features, as specified by the comprehensive plan, are not incorporated into the plat.
(c)
Whenever the commission finds that proposed reservation of land or dedication of land for public use is not required or suitable for such public use it may require the rearrangement of lots to include such land.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-48, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-113. - Community assets.
In all subdivisions due regard shall be shown for all natural features such as large trees, and watercourses, and for historical spots and similar community assets which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and value to the property.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-49, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-114. - Acceptance of streets.
All streets dedicated for use by the public and accepted by the city must meet the minimum requirements for streets as set forth in this chapter. The city shall not accept any street or other right-of-way which does not meet those requirements. Acceptance of a public street shall require approval of the city commission.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-50, 9-14-87)
Secs. 21-115—21-135. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - REQUIREMENTS FOR STREETS AND OTHER RIGHTS-OF-WAY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Streets and sidewalks, ch. 20.

Sec. 21-136. - Continuation of existing streets.
Existing streets shall be continued at the same or greater width, but in no case less than the required width.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-51, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-137. - Street names.
Proposed streets which are obviously in alignment with others already existing and names, shall bear the names of existing streets. In no case shall the names for proposed streets duplicate existing street names, irrespective of the use of the suffix street, avenue, boulevard, drive, place, way or court. Through its index list of street names on file the city can assist the subdivider in avoiding duplication.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-52, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-138. - Dead-end streets.
Where, in the opinion of the commission, it is desirable to provide street access to adjoining property, streets shall be extended to the boundary of such property and provided with a temporary turn-around.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-53, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-139. - Development along major thoroughfares, limited access highway or railroad right-of-way.
Where a subdivision abuts or contains a major thoroughfare, a limited-access highway or a railroad right-of-way, the commission may require a street approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way either as a marginal access street or, at a distance suitable for an appropriate use of the intervening land, with a nonaccess reservation suitably planted. Due regard should be given requirements for approach grades and future grade separations in determining distances. Lots shall have no access to major thoroughfare (or limited access highway), but only to access street.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-54, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-140. - Alleys.
Alleys may be required at the rear of all lots used for multifamily, commercial or industrial developments but shall not be provided in one- and two-family residential developments unless the subdivider provides evidence satisfactory to the planning commission of the need for alleys.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-55, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-141. - Additional width on existing streets.
Subdivisions that adjoin existing streets shall dedicate additional right-of-way to meet the above minimum street width requirements.
(1)
The entire right-of-way shall be provided where any part of the subdivision is on both sides of the street.
(2)
When the subdivision is located on one side of an existing street, one-half of the required right-of-way, measured from the centerline of the existing roadway shall be provided.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-56, 9-14-87)
STREET DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
EXPAND
Street Category
Design Factor Major
Thoroughfare Connector Street Residential Street Cul-de-sac Alley
Right-of-way width (1) 60;ft; 60;ft;  60;ft; 20;ft;
*Turnaround width N/A N/A N/A 100;ft; N/A
Length N/A 600;ft; Min.
(4) 600;ft; Min.
(4)
1800;ft; Max. 800;ft; Max. N/A
Grade: Max. percent
Min. percent 7%
0.5% 10%
0.5% 17%
0.5% 17%
0.5% 17%
0.5%
Horizontal curve
minimum radius 800;ft; 300;ft; 100;ft; 100;ft; 100;ft;
Tangent length min. between reverse curves 200;ft; 100;ft;  50;ft;  50;ft; 25;ft;
Verticle curve min. sight distance 500;ft;
(2) 200;ft;
(2) 200;ft;
(2) 200;ft;
(2) 100;ft;
(2)
Angle of street intersection 90 Degrees for All Streets
Offset between st. intersections Not Less than 125;ft; Jog
Between Intersections
Curb minimum radius at intersections  30;ft;  25;ft;  20;ft;  20;ft; N/A
Pavement width (1) 24;ft; (3) 20;ft; (3) 20;ft; (3) 12;ft;
Pavement turnaround outside diameter (3) N/A N/A N/A  80;ft; N/A
  (1)
Width as set in major thoroughfare plan.
(2)
Sight line to object six feet above grade.
(3)
There shall be at least 10;ft; between the pavement and right-of-way.
(4)
Permitted distance between blocks.
Secs. 21-142—21-160. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - DESIGN STANDARDS FOR BLOCKS AND LOTS

Sec. 21-161. - Block lengths and widths.
Block lengths and widths shall be as follows:
(1)
Blocks shall be not greater than 1,800 feet nor less than 600 feet in length, except as approved by the city.
(2)
Blocks shall be wide enough to allow two tiers of lots, except where fronting on major thoroughfares, limited access highways, or railroads or prevented by topographical conditions or size of property; in which case the city commission may approve a single tier of lots of minimum depth.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-71, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-162. - Lot sizes and proportions.
(a)
Lots shall meet the minimum lot width and lot area requirements of chapter 24 or as set forth hereinafter, whichever is more stringent.
(b)
The following health and sanitary conditions shall be observed:
(1)
Residential lots served by public water system but not a public sewerage system shall not be less than 100 feet wide at the building setback line nor less than 12,000 square feet in area.
(2)
Residential lots not served by public water system or public sewerage system shall not be less than 100 feet wide at the building setback line nor less than 15,000 square feet in area.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-72, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-163. - Adequate building sites.
Each lot shall contain an adequate building site not subject to flooding and outside the limits of any existing easements or building setback lines required by this chapter and chapter 24.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-73, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-164. - Lot line arrangements.
In so far as practical, side lot lines shall be at right angles to straight street lines or radial to curved street lines. Each lot must front for at least 30 feet upon a public or private street.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-74, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-165. - Building setback lines.
(a)
Building setback lines shall meet the requirements of chapter 24.
(b)
In the case of electric transmission lines where easement widths are not definitely established, there shall be a minimum building setback line from the center of the transmission line as follows:
EXPAND
Voltage of Line Minimum Building Setback
12KV - 46KV 37½ feet
46KV - 69KV 50 feet
69KV - 161KV and over 75 feet
  (Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-75, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-166. - Double and reverse frontage lots.
Double frontage, and reverse frontage lots, should be avoided except where essential to provide separation of residential development from traffic arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation. A planting screen easement of at least ten feet, and across which there shall be no right of access, shall be provided along the line of lots abutting such a traffic artery or other disadvantageous use.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-76, 9-14-87)
Secs. 21-167—21-185. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VIII. - REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS

Sec. 21-186. - Performance and specifications.
Every subdivider shall be required to make the improvements outlined in this article in accordance with the specifications herein or otherwise adopted by the city.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-81, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-187. - Monuments.
(a)
Monuments shall be placed at all block corners, angle points, points of curves in streets and at intermediate points as required by the commission. Monuments shall be of reinforced concrete with dimensions of at least four inches by four inches by 24 inches with bronze center pins of one-fourth inch length and after installation the top shall be six inches below finished grade.
(b)
Lot corners shall be marked with solid steel rods not less than five-eighths inch in diameter and 24 inches in length and driven so as to be flush with the finished grade.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-82, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-188. - Grading.
(a)
No grading or excavation shall begin until the subdivision has been given plat approval.
(b)
All dedicated streets, roads, and alleys shall be graded by the subdividers so that pavements and sidewalks can be constructed to the required cross section. The minimum width of grading shall be the pavement width as specified in section 21-141 plus ten feet on each side. Deviation from the above will be allowed only when due to special topographical conditions.
(1)
Preparation. Before grading is started, the entire right-of-way area shall be first cleared of all stumps, roots, brush and other objectionable materials and all trees not intended for preservation.
(2)
Cuts. Boulders and other obstructions shall be removed to a depth of two feet below the subgrade. Rock, when encountered, shall be scarified to a depth of 12 inches below the subgrade.
(3)
Fill. All suitable material from roadway cuts may be used in the construction of fills, approaches, or at other places as needed. Excess materials, including organic materials, soft clays, etc., shall be removed from the roadway. Roadway fills shall be rolled, compacted and constructed in accordance with the approved recommendations of a certified independent soils testing company, and the in-place fill shall be tested and certified by that company to be adequate for the intended subsequent use. The cost of such tests shall be borne by the subdivider. The filling of utility trenches and other places not accessible to the roller shall be mechanically tamped.
(4)
Subgrade. The subgrade shall be properly shaped, rolled and uniformly compacted to conform with the lines, grades and typical cross section as shown on drawings approved by the planning commission. Unsuitable materials shall be excavated and replaced with acceptable material.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-83, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-189. - Storm drainage.
(a)
An adequate system, including necessary ditches, curbs, gutters, pipes, culverts, street drains, drop inlets, bridges and other improvements shall be provided for the conducting of all surface water through the site. Specifications for curb, gutters and ditches are established in illustrations located at the end of this chapter.
(b)
Drains and cross drains shall be provided to accommodate all natural water courses as well as water flowing from the site and shall extend beyond the roadway shoulders sufficiently to protect the embankment slopes.
(c)
Pipe sizes and slopes shall be determined by acceptable engineering calculations and shall provide for not less than a ten-year return frequency storm. In no case shall cross drains be less than 15 inches in diameter and longitudinal drains less than 12 inches in diameter.
(d)
Stormwater runoff from the improved site shall not exceed the rate of runoff that existed prior to the proposed improvements. The subdivider shall engage a registered engineer to design such storm water control improvements including storm water holding basins, as are required to meet this objective of preventing increased erosion and flooding. The subdivider shall submit such design and calculations for the storm water drainage system, including elevations and capacities of pipes and holding basins to the city for approval prior to any construction.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-84, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-190. - Installation of utilities and driveways.
After grading is completed and approved and before any base is applied, all of the underground work, water mains, gas mains, etc., and all service connections shall be installed completely and approved throughout the length of the road and across the flat section. All driveways for houses to be built by the subdivider shall be cut and drained, if necessary.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-85, 9-14-87)
Cross reference— Utilities, ch. 23.
Sec. 21-191. - Water supply system.
(a)
Water mains shall be properly connected to the city water supply system and shall be constructed in such a manner as to serve adequately for both domestic use and fire protection, all lots shown on the subdivision plat.
(b)
The sizes and materials of water mains, the location and types of valves and hydrants, the amount of soil cover over the pipes and other features of the installation shall be approved by the city and shall conform to accepted standards of good practice for municipal water systems.
(c)
The subdivider shall submit a plan showing the location of all water system improvements, including locations of service connections to the city for approval prior to construction.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-86, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-192. - Sanitary sewers.
(a)
When the subdivision is located within the service area of the city sewerage system, sanitary sewers shall be installed in such manner as to serve adequately all lots with connection to the city system. Where lots cannot be economically connected with a sewerage system, they must contain adequate area for the installation of approved septic tank and disposal fields and must be approved in writing by the county health department.
(b)
All sewer facilities shall be installed in accordance with the standards of the department of natural resources of the state, the city and the county health department.
(c)
The subdivider shall furnish a plan for the proposed sewerage system showing locations of all improvements, including sewer taps and invert and top elevations of manholes, to the city for approval prior to any construction.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-87, 9-14-87)
Sec. 21-193. - Street and alley improvements.
(a)
Curb and gutter required. All dedicated streets must be constructed with either pre-cast concrete curb, or integral concrete curb and gutter conforming to the following dimensions:
(1)
Pre-cast concrete or granite curb: Six inches by eight inches.
(2)
Integral concrete curb and gutter, as specified in illustrations located at the end of this chapter.
Option: The city may waive this provision provided the developer installs a drainage system according to the illustration located at the end of this chapter.
(b)
Paving required. All dedicated streets must be prepared and paved according to the following methods or by equivalent methods that are acceptable to the city:
(1)
Base. The base shall consist of a graded aggregate base course having a minimum thickness of six inches after being compacted to 98 percent modified proctor and constructed on a prepared subgrade in accordance with these specifications and in conformity with the lines, grades and typical cross section as shown on the drawings submitted to and approved by the commission.
a.
All materials shall be secured from an approved source and shall generally conform to Georgia Department of Transportation minimum acceptable standards for this area in materials and application.
b.
All materials shall be mixed to the extent necessary to produce a thoroughly pulverized and homogenous mixture.
c.
The base course shall be maintained under traffic and kept free from ruts, ridge and dusting, true to grade and cross section until it is primed.
d.
No base material shall be deposited or shaped when the subgrade is frozen or thawing or during unfavorable weather conditions.
(2)
Pavement. Wearing surface shall conform to mixes found suitable by Georgia Department of Transportation and shall be applied after prime coat. Unless otherwise approved by the commission, pavement shall be constructed as follows:
a.
Prime coat shall be cut-back asphalt or cut-back asphalt-emulsion applied on a clean slightly damp surface in the amounts of from 0.10 to 0.30 gallons per square yard, depending on the nature and condition of the surface.
b.
Wearing surface shall consist of an approved hot plant mix prepared in a central plant, applied by a suitable paving machine and compacted to a minimum thickness of two inches of 19 millimeter base and one inch of F mix topping, in accordance with Department of Transportation specifications for material and application procedures.
c.
Care and precaution shall be taken that all joints between such structures and manholes and curbs, and the surface mixture are well sealed.
(Ord. No. 87-029, § 7-3-88, 9-14-87; Ord. of 6-13-11; § I)
Curb and Gutter Specifications
INSERT DIAGRAM ON MSP 1167 HERE
Curb and Gutter Specifications
TYPICAL CROSS SECTION
INTEGRAL CONCRETE CURB AND GUTTER
INSERT DIAGRAM ON MSP 1168 HERE
