ARTICLE V. - Finance and Fiscal
CHAPTER 1. - Taxation and Other Revenue

Sec. 5-101. - Ad valorem tax; grant of authority.
For the purpose of raising revenue for the support and maintenance of the city government and for other corporate purposes, the mayor and council shall be authorized to access, levy, and collect an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city that is subject to taxation for state and county purposes under the laws of this state and to provide for the manner and method in which such taxes shall be collected.
Sec. 5-102. - Sanitary tax.
The mayor and council shall have power and authority to levy and collect a sanitary tax against all real estate owned, held and possessed in the City of Hapeville. Said sanitary tax shall be fixed or assessed by the mayor and council, by resolution or ordinance and may be collected either monthly, quarterly, semi-annually or annually, in the discretion of the mayor and council and when said sanitary tax is levied it shall be a lien on the property against which it is assessed and shall be collected by the issuance of executions against said property and/or the owners thereof.
Sec. 5-103. - Utility liens.
Any water and sewer bill due the City of Hapeville for more than 60 days beyond the final payment date, may be proper resolution or ordinance of mayor and council, be declared a lien on the real estate served by the water meter through which passed the water unpaid for as provided herein, and such liens shall be entered in a special docket maintained in the office of the city clerk for that purpose; and further, such liens may be executed, levied upon, and satisfied the same as otherwise provided in this charter for executing liens for delinquent taxes, street and sewerage assessments, and shall bear interest at the rate of seven percent (7%) per annum on the unpaid balance from the date of entry in said lien docket until and through the date of payment or until such lien is otherwise satisfied as prescribed by law.
Sec. 5-104. - Occupation and taxes.
The mayor and council shall have the power and authority to levy and collect any occupation taxes that are not prohibited by the constitution and general laws of Georgia. These taxes may be levied, collected and compelled in accordance with state law and local code not in conflict with state law.
(Ord. No. 2004-23, ยง 2(5-104), 12-21-2004)
Sec. 5-105. - Regulatory fees.
The mayor and council shall have the power and authority to levy and collect regulatory fees so long as such fees are based upon customary governmental investigations or inspections of such businesses and professions so as to protect the public health, safety, or welfare or in the course of enforcing a state or city building, health, or safety code and the same approximate the reasonable cost of the actual regulatory activity performed by the city.
(Ord. No. 2004-23, ยง 2(5-105), 12-21-2004)
Sec. 5-106. - Excise taxes; wholesale and retail dealers.
The mayor and council shall have the authority to impose, assess, levy and collect an excise tax upon the sale, transfer or dispensing of wine by wholesale and retail dealers within the city.
Sec. 5-107. - Insurance premiums taxes and licenses.
The mayor and council shall have the power and authority to impose and collect license fees and taxes on life insurance companies in the manner provided by an act of the General Assembly of Georgia approved February 20, 1964 (Ga. Laws 1964, p. 122), as now or hereafter amended; and on fire and casualty insurance companies in the manner provided by an act of the General Assembly approved April 12, 1968 (Ga. Laws 1968, p. 3706), as now or hereafter amended.
Sec. 5-108. - Service charges.
The mayor and council, by ordinance, shall have the authority to assess and collect fees, charges, and tolls for water, sewer, sanitary and health services, or any other services rendered within and without the corporate limits of the city. If unpaid, these charges or fees shall be collected as provided in section 5-112.
Sec. 5-109. - Special assessments.
The mayor and council, by ordinance, shall have the authority to assess and collect the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, sewers, drainage structures or other utility mains and appurtenances from the abutting property owners under any terms and conditions as are reasonable. If unpaid, these charges shall be collected as provided in section 5-112.
Sec. 5-110. - Installment payments may be authorized.
The Mayor and Council of Hapeville shall have power and authority within its discretion by proper ordinance or resolution to allow the payment of all taxes to the City of Hapeville to be paid in installments on such dates as the mayor and council by ordinance or resolution may designate, and shall further have power and authority to give such discounts as within its discretion may be proper for the payment of such taxes on the dates named in the ordinance or resolution.
Sec. 5-111. - Interpretation; other taxes.
The mayor and council shall be empowered to levy any other tax now or hereafter authorized by state law and the specific mention of any right, power or authority in this chapter shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general powers of the city to govern its local affairs.
Sec. 5-112. - Collection of delinquent taxes and fees.
The mayor and council, by ordinance, may provide for collection of delinquent taxes, fees or other revenue due the city pursuant to authority granted by this charter or by the constituting and general laws of Georgia or by any other authority not precluded by the constitution and general laws of Georgia. This authority shall include providing for the dates when the taxes, fees or other revenues are due; late penalties or interest; issuance and execution of fi. fas.; creation and priority of liens; making delinquent taxes, fees and other revenues, personal debts of the persons required to pay the taxes, fees or other revenues imposed; providing for the assignment or transfer of executions and collection of transferred executions; providing for the billing and collecting of principal, interest and costs of delinquent executions as an addition to and a part of the annual ad valorem tax bill, where such local activities are otherwise allowed by state law.
(Ord. No. 2004-23, ยง 2(5-112), 12-21-2004)
CHAPTER 2. - Borrowing and Indebtedness

Sec. 5-201. - General obligation bonds.
The mayor and council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized by this charter or by the constitution and general laws of the state. This bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with state laws governing bond issuances by municipalities in effect at the time the issue is undertaken.
Sec. 5-202. - Revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the mayor and council as now or hereafter authorized by state law.
Sec. 5-203. - Short term notes.
The mayor and council may issue short term notes as now or hereafter authorized b state law.
Sec. 5-204. - Improvement bonds.
(a)
In order to facilitate the financing of any municipal improvements authorized by law, the mayor and council shall have authority to issue bonds of the city in the aggregate amount of assessment for the improvement then unpaid, which bond or bonds and the interest thereon shall in no event become a liability of the city or of the mayor and council issuing them.
(b)
These bonds shall mature at a date and bear an interest rate as the council may determine by ordinance but in no event shall the rate of interest exceed that which the assessments are to bear.
(c)
These bonds shall be signed by the mayor and attested by the clerk of council, and shall have the impression of the corporate seal of the city thereon, and shall be payable at a place designated by ordinance.
(d)
These bonds shall be designated as "improvement bonds," and shall, on the face thereof, recite the nature and location of the improvement for which they have been issued, and shall recite that they are payable solely from assessments which have been levied upon the lots and tracts of land abutting upon or being the situs of the improvement made.
(e)
These bonds shall be sold at not less than par, and the proceeds thereof applied to the payment of the costs and expense of the improvement for which the bonds are issued, or the bonds, in the amount that shall be necessary for that purpose, may be turned over and delivered to the contractor, in respect to the improvement at par value, in payment of the amount due on the contract, and the portion thereof which shall be necessary to pay other expenses, incident to and incurred in providing for the improvements, shall be sold or otherwise disposed of as the mayor and council by ordinance shall direct.
CHAPTER 3. - Fiscal Control

Sec. 5-301. - Fiscal year; municipal budget preparation and submission.
(a)
The mayor and council shall establish a fiscal year for the city and all its agencies by ordinance unless otherwise provided by state or federal law.
(b)
The mayor and council shall prescribe by ordinance the procedure for the preparation and submission of an annual operating budget and of a capital improvement program and capital budget of the city.
Sec. 5-302. - Municipal appropriations; ordinance required.
(a)
The mayor and council shall annually appropriate, by ordinance, the funds necessary to operate all the various agencies and departments, and to meet the expenses of the city for the next fiscal year as provided in the municipal budget.
(b)
The mayor and council shall not appropriate funds for any given fiscal year which, in aggregate, exceed a sum equal to the amount of unappropriated surplus expected to have accrued in the city treasury at the beginning of the fiscal year, together with an amount not greater than the total municipal receipts from existing revenue sources anticipated to be collected in the fiscal year, less refunds as estimated in the budget report and amendments thereto.
(c)
All appropriated funds, except for the mandatory appropriations required by law and those required to meet contractual obligations or the continued appropriation and authorization of state or federal grants, remaining unexpended and not contractually obligated at the expiration of the municipal appropriations ordinance, shall lapse.
Sec. 5-303. - Supplementary appropriations.
(a)
In addition to the appropriations made by the municipal appropriations ordinance and amendments thereto, the mayor and council may make additional appropriations which shall be known as supplementary appropriations ordinances, provided no supplementary appropriation shall be made unless there is an unappropriated surplus in the city treasury or the revenue necessary to pay the appropriation has been collected into the general fund of the city treasury.
(b)
In no event shall a supplementary appropriations ordinance continue in force and effect beyond the expiration of the municipal appropriations ordinance in effect when the supplementary appropriations ordinance was adopted and approved.
Sec. 5-304. - Deficits.
If at any time during the year expenditures exceed revenues and a deficit is created, it shall be the duty of the mayor and council, before appropriating any other sum for any other purpose, to appropriate a sufficient sum to immediately discharge any such deficit which has occurred.
CHAPTER 4. - Purchasing, Contracting and Disposition of Property

Sec. 5-401. - Contracting procedures.
The mayor and council shall prescribe by ordinance the procedures to be followed in the making of contracts which shall bind the city. All contracts and all ordinances which shall make or authorize contracts shall be approved as to form by the city attorney. The mayor shall sign and authorize all contracts. The city clerk shall authenticate all contracts. The original of all contracts shall be maintained on file in the office of the city clerk.
Sec. 5-402. - Purchasing procedures.
The mayor and council shall prescribe by ordinance the procedures for all purchases of services and real and personal property by the city.
(Ord. No. 94-16, 8-2-1994)
