ARTICLE IV. - Organization and Administration
CHAPTER 1. - General Provisions

Sec. 4-101. - City offices, departments and agencies.
Except as provided by this charter, the offices, departments and agencies of the city shall be created and established by ordinance, and the offices and departments shall be responsible for the performance of the functions and services enumerated therein. The operations and responsibilities of city departments and agencies may be distributed among any divisions, or bureaus, and shall consist of any officers and employees as may be provided by ordinance or administrative regulations consistent therewith.
Sec. 4-102. - Administrative organization.
The mayor and council may, by ordinance, organize, combine, consolidate, or discontinue any offices, departments, agencies, or divisions of the city government as it may from time to time deem desirable and consistent with this charter.
Sec. 4-103. - Boards and commissions.
(a)
The mayor and council may, by ordinance, unless otherwise provided by law, create boards and commissions which may perform the duties prescribed, including, but not limited to, making studies, conducting research and investigations, holding hearings and preparing recommendations as to needed ordinances and resolutions and for any other purposes authorized.
(b)
The mayor and council may provide by ordinance, unless otherwise provided by law, for the manner of appointment, makeup and composition of boards and commissions, their periods of existence, and for the compensation of their members and employees, in whole or in part. The mayor and council may provide by ordinance for reimbursement of the actual and necessary expenses incurred by the members of boards and commissions in the performance of their official duties. The mayor and council shall have the authority to annually appropriate money derived from taxation, contributions, or otherwise for and to boards and commissions to provide for their operation, either in whole or in part.
(c)
Any vacancy in the office of any member of a board or commission shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner prescribed for original appointment.
(d)
Any member of a board or commission may be removed from office for cause by a majority vote of all of the council members.
(e)
Each board and commission may establish bylaws, rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this charter, ordinances, or applicable state law, as it deems appropriate and necessary for its internal organization, election of officers, and for the conduct of its affairs, copies of which shall be filed with the city clerk and approved by the mayor and council prior to their being effective.
CHAPTER 2. - City Officers

Sec. 4-201. - City clerk; appointment; duties; compensation.
(a)
The mayor and council shall annually appoint a city clerk who shall hold office for one (1) year, or until his successor is appointed and qualified.
(b)
The city clerk shall be clerk of the mayor and council, shall attend all meetings of the mayor and council, and keep the minutes, books and files of each; shall collect all fines, taxes and other money due the city; shall attend to the issuance of all licenses and permits; shall sign and issue all executions and other writs and processes for the collection of taxes due the city; and shall perform such other duties as may be required by the mayor and council.
(c)
The compensation of the city clerk shall be fixed by the mayor and council.
Sec. 4-202. - City attorney; appointment; qualifications; duties; compensation.
(a)
The mayor and council shall annually appoint a city attorney who shall hold office for one (1) year, or until his successor is appointed and qualified.
(b)
The city attorney shall be an active member of the State Bar of Georgia in good standing.
(c)
The city attorney shall be legal counsel to the city and shall perform any other duties as may be provided by ordinance.
(d)
The compensation of the city attorney shall be fixed by the mayor and council.
Sec. 4-203. - City manager or administrative assistant authorized.
At such time as they in their discretion shall see fit, the mayor and council may by ordinance provide for the employment of and employ an administrative assistant or a city manager who shall perform such duties and services as may from time to time be prescribed by the mayor and council and for such compensation as the mayor and council may authorize. The revenue of the city from sources otherwise provided in this charter may be expended for purposes of paying such salary and expenses as the mayor and council may provide for the city manager or administrative assistant.
CHAPTER 3. - Personnel

Sec. 4-301. - Merit system.
(a)
The mayor and council shall establish by ordinance a system of personnel administration based upon merit principles. The system shall be divided into a classified and an unclassified service which shall comprise such positions as provided by ordinance.
(b)
The mayor and council shall adopt by ordinance rules and regulations to govern the classification of positions, appointment, promotion, transfer, layoff, removal and discipline of employees, employee qualifications, terms and conditions of employment, retirement and benefits, and other measures that promote the hiring and retaining of capable, diligent, honest, career employees.
Sec. 4-302. - Personnel board; appointment; qualifications; duties.
(a)
There shall be a personnel board, consisting of three (3) members, appointed by the mayor and council for six-year staggered terms of office. Vacancies in unexpired terms shall be filled by the mayor and council by appointment for the remainder of the term. A member of the board may be removed only for cause after being given a written statement of the charges against the member, and, if he requests, a public hearing on the removal. A certified copy of the charges and transcript of the record shall be filed with the city clerk.
(b)
Each member of the board shall be qualified elector of the city. No member of the board shall hold or be a candidate for any elective public office or position. The mayor and council may compensate members of the board for their services. Members of the board shall elect a chairman and such other officers as desired who shall serve for a term of one (1) year.
(c)
The functions and duties of the board shall be as follows:
(1)
Advise the mayor and council and the official responsible for personnel administration on problems concerning personnel administration.
(2)
Review and submit recommendations on personnel rules and regulations on any other matter concerning the administration of personnel in the municipal service, and report to the mayor and council, at least once each year, its findings, conclusions, and recommendations.
(3)
Perform such other duties as required by the mayor and council.
(4)
Hear an appeal, or delegate to another entity the hearing of an appeal, of any officer or employee when the right of appeal is given by effectuating ordinance, policy, or procedure enacted pursuant to the authority of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 94-17, § 1, 8-2-1994; Ord. No. 2018-02 , § 1, 1-23-2018)
Sec. 4-303. - At-will employment.
The provisions of sections 4-301 and 4-302 and the use of the term "merit" as well as the creation and use of a personnel board are not in any way intended to waive or modify for local application the at-will provision of employment in the State of Georgia codified in O.C.G.A. § 36-7-1 or as such code is hereafter amended nor is it the intention of the City to create a contract of employment for definite period.
(Ord. No. 2004-23, § 1, 12-21-2004)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 94-17, § 2, adopted Aug. 2, 1994, provided that § 4-303, the personnel board of appeals, be stricken in its entirety. The user's attention is directed to § 4-302(c)(4) for updated provisions concerning such subject matter.
