ARTICLE I. - Incorporation, Powers, Boundaries

Sec. 1-101. - Incorporation; name.
The City of Hapeville, Georgia, and the inhabitants thereof shall continue to be a body politic and corporate under the name of the City of Hapeville (hereinafter at times referred to as the "city"). The city shall be the legal continuation and successor to the city as heretofore incorporated; shall continue to be vested with all of the property and rights of property which now belong to the city; and shall have perpetual succession.
Sec. 1-102. - General powers.
(a)
The city shall have all the powers, duties, rights, privileges, and immunities vested in the city now or hereafter granted to municipal corporations by the Constitution, by the General Laws of the State of Georgia, and by this charter. The city shall exercise and enjoy all powers of self-government not specifically prohibited by the Constitution, the General Laws of the State of Georgia, or by this charter, including all powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, and general welfare of the city and of its inhabitants, and all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted as fully and completely as if these powers were enumerated in this charter.
(b)
The city may sue and be sued; may contract and be contracted with; may acquire and hold any property, real and personal as may be devised, bequeathed, sold or in any manner conveyed or dedicated to or otherwise acquired by it, and from time to time may hold or invest, sell or dispose of any of its property; and may have a common seal and alter it at will.
(c)
No enumeration of particular powers in this charter shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers; but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to municipalities under the Constitution or applicable laws of the State of Georgia.
Sec. 1-103. - Specific powers; certain powers enumerated.
(a)
The city may acquire, construct, operate and maintain, by condemnation or otherwise, inside or outside the city limits, public ways, streets, sidewalks, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, public buildings, libraries, sanitary landfill, sewers, drains, sewage treatment or waterworks systems, electrical or gas systems, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, flood control, recreational, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, areas and facilities, and any other public improvement. The city, by ordinance, may establish and enforce rules and regulations necessary to preserve order, peace, and dignity on any property or facilities so acquired inside or outside the corporate limits of the city.
(b)
In addition to the powers now or hereafter granted to municipalities by law, the city shall have all powers enumerated in Appendix A of this charter which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
(c)
The City of Hapeville shall have and be authorized to exercise all redevelopment and other powers authorized or granted to municipalities pursuant to Chapter 44 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., the "Redevelopment Powers Law," as now or hereafter amended. These powers shall include, without being limited to, all redevelopment powers, the power to issue tax allocation bonds and incur other obligations without such bonds or obligations constituting debt within the meaning of Article IX, Section V of the Constitution of the State of Georgia, and the power to enter into contracts with private persons, firms, corporations, and business entities for the period specified in such "Redevelopment Powers Law."
(Ga. Laws 1990, Act No. 743, ยง 1)
Sec. 1-104. - Construction of powers.
The powers of the city shall be construed liberally in favor of the city. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers shall not be construed as limiting in any way the powers of the city.
Sec. 1-105. - Boundaries; official map.
(a)
The corporate boundaries of the city shall be the same as those of the City of Hapeville as provided by law and existing on the effective date of this charter, or as hereafter lawfully changed. The city clerk shall maintain a current map and written legal description indicating the boundaries of the city. Photographic, types, or other copies of the map or description certified by the city clerk shall be admitted as evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as with the original map or description.
(b)
The boundaries of the city are described in Appendix B of this charter which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
