ARTICLE VI. - Municipal Court

Sec. 6-101. - Municipal court created; presiding officer.
(a)
There is hereby created a municipal court for the trial of the offenses and offenders against the laws and ordinances of the city. The municipal court shall replace the former recorder's court. All discussions, judgments, rulings, sentences, and actions of the municipal court shall be made and are those of the municipal court. The municipal court shall be presided over by the city municipal court judge. The municipal court judge shall be elected by the mayor and council in the same manner that it elects other officers of the city.
(b)
The judge's salary shall be fixed by the mayor and council, and the judge shall take such oath as may be prescribed by the mayor and council. The judge shall be subject to removal, with or without any stated cause, upon a majority vote by the mayor and council.
(c)
Any vacancy in the office of the municipal court judge by reason of death, resignation, removal or other reason shall be filled by appointment of the mayor and council. In his disqualification or absence, the municipal court judge pro tem or judge pro hac vice may hold the court, and may exercise all the powers conferred by law or this charter upon the judge.
(d)
The mayor and council by appropriate ordinance shall have the power and authority to provide for the appointment of the judge pro tem, and to provide for judges pro hac vice to serve in the absence or disability of the city judge, and to provide such salary and/or remuneration as they deem appropriate.
(Ord. No. 2004-23, § 3(6-101), 12-21-2004)
Sec. 6-102. - Penalty for violation of laws, ordinances.
The judge or any authorized presiding officer of the municipal court may punish for any violation of a city ordinance or law by fine not exceeding $1,000.00; by imprisonment not to exceed six months; by work in the work gang on the public streets, or on such public works as the authorities may employ the work gang, or by any one or both of these punishments in the discretion of the judge or presiding officer of said court.
(Ord. No. 2004-23, § 3(6-102), 12-21-2004)
Sec. 6-103. - Authority of municipal judge as justice of the peace and municipal court judge.
The judge shall to all intents and purposes be a justice of the peace and municipal court judge, so far as to enable him to issue warrants for offenses committed within the city, which warrants may be executed by any member of the police force of the city, and to commit the offenders to jail, or to admit them to bail, in bailable cases, for their appearance at the next term of the court of competent jurisdiction to be held in and for said county or own his or her own motion and within his or her own discretion to bind the case over to the state or superior court where the offense would constitute a violation of state law.
(Ord. No. 2004-23, § 3(6-103), 12-21-2004)
Sec. 6-104. - Sentence for contempt.
When sitting in a court as a municipal court judge, the judge shall have the power to punish for contempt by fine not exceeding $100.00, by imprisonment in the manner prescribed in section 6-102 not exceeding 30 days, or by one or both, or any part thereof, in the discretion of the judge.
(Ord. No. 2004-23, § 3(6-104), 12-21-2004)
Sec. 6-105. - Warrants; form, scope, execution; judge's authority to hear evidence, grant bond.
(a)
The judge shall be authorized to issue warrants for any offense under any law or ordinance of the City of Hapeville or this state and when the offense is against state laws and not covered by municipal law or ordinance, may hear evidence and commit to jail or take bond for appearance before the grand jury or a state court having jurisdiction to try the same. If the offense charged in the warrant to be one against any law or ordinance of the City of Hapeville, the arresting officer shall carry the same before the municipal court, where same shall be disposed of as other cases of arrest not under warrant.
(b)
All warrants issued by the judge, or the municipal court, shall be directed to the "Chief of Police of the City of Hapeville, any policeman or marshal thereof, and to all and singular the sheriffs, deputy sheriffs, and constables of the State of Georgia," and any one of said officers shall have the authority to execute warrants.
(c)
Judge or judge pro tem of the city shall have the right and authority to sign all warrants, summonses, receipts, executions or other processes, which the judge of the municipal court has authority to sign, when the judge of the municipal court is absent, incapacitated, or in any way unavailable, provided such warrants, summonses, receipts, executions, or other processes are returnable only to the judge of the municipal court.
(Ord. No. 2004-23, § 3(6-105), 12-21-2004)
Sec. 6-106. - Witnesses.
The judge or any officer of the municipal court authorized by ordinance shall have power and authority to subpoena witnesses to attend the municipal court, under the same rules and regulations that regulate and govern the superior courts of this state, to compel attendance, and to punish any witness who has been duly subpoenaed and fails to attend, under the provisions heretofore, provided for contempt.
(Ord. No. 2004-23, § 3(6-106), 12-21-2004)
Sec. 6-107. - Ministerial officers of municipal court; attendances, duties.
The ministerial officers of the municipal court shall be the policemen of the city to whom all means and final processes shall be directed. Officers of a sufficient number shall attend the sessions of the court for the purpose of executing the orders of said court, and shall do and perform such duties connected with the court as may be required of them.
(Ord. No. 2004-23, § 3(6-107), 12-21-2004)
Sec. 6-108. - Certiorari; costs; bond required; failure to give bond.
(a)
Any persons convicted before the judge or other presiding judge of the municipal court shall have the right to petition the Superior Court of Fulton County for issuance of a writ of certiorari or by appeal in traffic cases, provided all costs are first paid and bond and security given in double the amount of the fine imposed, to answer the final judgment rendered in the case.
(b)
Nothing in this section shall prevent the defendant who desires to obtain a writ of certiorari or by appeal in traffic cases therefor from the superior court from doing so; provided, however, that the applicant failing to give bond and security may, in the discretion of the judge, be placed in jail to await the final judgment of the appeal. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent any person convicted in the municipal court of a violation of any ordinance of the city from petitioning a writ of certiorari directly to the superior court in accordance with provisions of state law such cases.
(Ord. No. 2004-23, § 3(6-108), 12-21-2004)
Sec. 6-109. - Hearing on certiorari; notice; costs; forfeiture of bond.
The judge of the superior court who grants certiorari or by appeal in traffic cases may hear the appeal after giving notice to each party, or his attorney, of the time and place of hearing, the judge being required to certify and send up to the superior court a complete and accurate history of the case, as his answer to the petition for certiorari, and the defendant having the right to traverse the answer as provided by law.
The mayor and council may pass ordinances regulating the costs for appeals and certiorari; and for the forfeiture of all bonds.
(Ord. No. 2004-23, § 3(6-109), 12-21-2004)
Sec. 6-110. - Reserved.
