Subpart B - RELATED LAWS
CHAPTER 1. - Water and Sewer Authority[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— The provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise indicated, are derived from Ga. L. 1979, p. 3461.

Sec. 1.101. - Creation.
There is hereby created the Hapeville Water and Sewer Authority. Provided that the authority shall not transact any business or exercise any powers hereunder until the governing body of the City of Hapeville shall by proper resolution declare that there is a need for such authority to function in the city.
Sec. 1.102. - Powers; generally.
The authority shall have the right, power and authority to operate, build and maintain a waterworks system, together with the right to acquire lands, construct waterworks facilities, including projects embracing sources of water supply and related facilities; to sell water and its related facilities to individuals and private concerns.
Sec. 1.103. - Same; revenue anticipation certificates.
The powers granted by this act shall authorize the authority to lay or construct water mains and water distribution systems within the limits of the city, and to issue water revenue anticipation certificates for such purposes as may be authorized by law.
Sec. 1.104. - Same; police powers; connections; refusal of service.
The authority shall have the right, power and authority to exercise police powers over the entire water system and shall have the right and authority to make rules and regulations governing the construction, operation and maintenance, extension and connection with any water main within the limits of the city, and shall have the right and authority to require all users of water who connect with the water mains to install proper meters and make connections in accordance with the rules and regulations provided therefor and shall have the right and authority to refuse to sell or furnish water to any firm, person or corporation who fails or refuses to comply with such rules and regulations as may be promulgated for the operation of the water system. Nothing contained herein shall be construed as requiring the authority to furnish water to any consumers if in the discretion of the authority it is not deemed feasible or desirable to do so.
Sec. 1.105. - Membership; officers; meetings; employees.
The water system is to be constructed, maintained and operated by a six (6) member board to be known as the Hapeville Water and Sewer Authority. The members of the board shall be appointed by the governing authority of the city. The first members appointed hereunder shall be appointed for terms of one (1), two (2), three (3), four (4) and five (5) years as shall be designated by the governing authority. The sixth member shall be a member of the governing authority, that is, the Mayor and Council of the City of Hapeville; and, the sixth member shall be appointed by the governing authority for a term to run concurrently with the term to which the member was elected to the governing authority. Successors to these members and future members shall be appointed by the governing authority for terms of five (5) years, each, except the member of the governing authority, whose term shall expire at the end of the term to which he is elected. All members shall serve until their successors are appointed and qualified. The governing authority of the city shall fill any vacancy which occurs on the authority for the unexpired term. The members shall elect a chairman, vice chairman and secretary who shall serve for such periods as shall be fixed by the authority. The authority shall make an annual report of its action to the mayor and council. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. A regular meeting shall be held once each month on a day to be set by the authority. The majority of the authority shall have the right to call a special meeting. Each member of the authority shall be given at least three (3) days' written notice of each special meeting. The authority shall employ such other employees as the authority shall deem proper for the transaction of business and provide the compensation therefor. All such compensations shall be paid out of earnings of the authority.
Sec. 1.106. - Qualifications of members.
Only one (1) member of the water and sewer authority shall be a member of the Mayor and Council of the City of Hapeville, the governing authority of the city. No other member of the water and sewer authority shall be eligible to hold an elective public office of the state, county or municipality unless first resigning as a member of the authority. No person shall be eligible for appointment to the water and sewer authority who is serving in an elective public office of the state, county or a municipality except the one member shall be and is required to be a member of the Mayor and Council of the City of Hapeville.
Sec. 1.107. - Water system; regulatory authority of board; collection of unpaid charges.
The board shall have general supervision and control over the entire water system or systems that may be constructed and placed in operation for the city, together with the right to expand or curtail such operations as it may deem advisable. The board shall regulate and provide for the use of its water, fix the time, place and rates for such usage, and in default may cause such services to be discontinued until all arrears are fully paid; provided further that any such rate or charge shall constitute a lien upon the property to which such service was rendered, and the authority may issue executions for any amount that may be past due and the secretary or clerk of the board is hereby authorized and empowered to issue execution therefor, which may be levied and collected as other executions. The board shall have the power to construct, alter, expand and maintain such water system with the funds made available to it by the city governing authority by the issuance and sale of bonds, or revenue-anticipation certificates issued by the city, and by funds arising from the operation of the water system. The authority shall have the right to join with the city in the issuance of revenue-anticipation certificates and pledge the revenues of the authority to the payment of such certificate so issued.
Sec. 1.108. - Eminent domain; applicability of Revenue Bond Law.
The said authority is authorized, with approval of the city governing authority, to acquire by eminent domain such property as it may require for the expansion and development for its water and sewerage system together with rights-of-way, easements, and such other rights as may be proper for the development and expansion of the system. The authority shall have, with the approval of the city governing authority, in addition to the rights granted by this act all of the authority as provided by the act known as the "Revenue Bond Law," approved March 31, 1937 (Ga. Laws 1937, p. 761), as amended, and especially the powers as defined in sections 2 and 3 thereof and sections in sequence thereof and as fully and completely as if they were set out in this act, and all property and rights so secured shall be construed to be the property of the City of Hapeville, and as an act of the city.
Sec. 1.109. - Disposition of revenues.
The board is hereby charged with the duty of collection for all services rendered by the water system of the city and is hereby required to keep money collected in a bank or banks as may be required by the city governing authority. Any person handling such funds shall be required to give a surety bond in such amount as may be required by the board and approved by the governing authority. The board at all times shall maintain a schedule of fees, rates and tolls for the services of the water system as shall be sufficient to retire any revenue certificates, or other indebtedness incurred in the construction, maintenance, operation, and expansion of the water system, and to provide for any reserves and funds required to be maintained by the city in connection with the issuance of any such revenue certificates, together with sufficient amounts to pay the current operating costs of such water system. Any funds accumulated in excess over the payments and legally required reserves may be allowed to accumulate in a special reserve account in an amount equal to three (3) years' payments, at which time any further accumulation would be eliminated by reduction of user rates.
Sec. 1.110. - Employees; quarterly reports.
The board shall have the power to employ or discharge its employees at its pleasure. It shall make quarterly reports to the city governing authority of all monies it has received and expenditures made in the operation of the water system.
Sec. 1.111. - Removal of board members.
The board shall be amenable to the city governing authority and subject to removal from office for neglect of duty of malfeasance in office.
Sec. 1.112. - Sewerage system; authority to construct and maintain.
The water and sewer authority is hereby authorized to construct a city sewerage system in the city, and all rights conferred to the board to construct, operate and maintain a water system for the city and to join with the county in the issuance of revenue-anticipation certificates for that purpose, shall likewise apply to the construction, operation and maintenance of a sewerage system for the city.
Sec. 1.113. - Ownership of systems by city.
Any water or sewerage system that may be constructed under the provisions of this act shall be construed to be the property of the City of Hapeville, and nothing in this act shall be construed to limit the City of Hapeville in issuing bonds, revenue certificates or any other means of financing as are now or hereafter recognized by law for the development of the water or sewerage facilities. The powers and rights conferred by this act shall be cumulative to the powers and rights that now exist.
Sec. 1.114. - Cost of facilities borne by recipients of service.
In exercising the powers herein granted, it is hereby declared to be the intention of the General Assembly that the governing authority of the City of Hapeville and the water and sewer authority created herein shall implement and carry out such powers, as far as practicable, in such a manner that the cost of establishing and maintaining the facilities herein authorized shall be borne by those citizens of Hapeville benefiting from the establishment and maintenance of such facilities.
Sec. 1.115. - Governing authority's powers.
The city governing authority may, in its discretion, alter, change, modify or repeal any of the rules and regulations adopted by the water and sewer authority.
Sec. 1.116. - Governing authority, defined.
The term "city governing authority" used in this act shall be construed to mean the regularly elected mayor and council of the city.
Sec. 1.117. - Severability.
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this act shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases of this act, which shall remain of full force and effect, as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional were not originally a part hereof. The General Assembly hereby declares that it would have passed the remaining parts of this act if it had known that such part or parts hereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
CHAPTER 2. - Development Authority[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— The provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise indicated, are derived from Ga. L. 1982, p. 2524, 2618, which acts were ratified by the voters November 2, 1982 as amendatory of Art. IX, Sec. IV, Para. II of The Constitution of 1976. The act was continued in force by Ga. L. 1987, p. 4961.

Sec. 2.101. - Creation.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Hapeville Development Authority which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality and political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation thereof and by that name, style and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity.
Sec. 2.102. - Purpose.
The said authority is created for the purpose of acquiring, constructing, adding to, extending, improving, equipping, maintaining, and operating any public industrial, commercial, business or office projects, buildings and other public facilities, parking lots or garages and other parking structures and any and all other facilities useful or desirable in connection therewith, acquiring the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, with the right to contract for the use of or to lease or sell any or all of such facilities, including real property, and to do any and all things deemed by the authority necessary, convenient or desirable for and incident to the efficient and proper development and operation thereof, and to attain development and promote for the public good, general welfare, trade, commerce, industry and employment opportunities and to promote the general welfare of the community, by creating a climate favorable to the location of new industry, trade and commerce, and the development of existing industry, trade and commerce, and same is vested with authority to ascertain and designate areas it deems proper to be blighted, retarded or slum areas which constitute a serious and growing menace injurious to the public health, safety, morals and welfare of the residents of the City of Hapeville; the existence of such areas constitutes substantially and increasingly to the spread of disease, crime and constitutes increasingly an economic and social liability, substantially impairs or arrests the sound growth of the municipality, retards the provision of housing for commercial accommodations, aggravates traffic problems and substantially impairs or arrests the elimination of traffic hazards and the improvement of traffic facilities; and the prevention and elimination of such areas is a matter of state and local policy and state and local concern in order that the state and its political subdivisions shall not continue to be endangered by areas which are focal centers of economic and social liability, and while contributing little to the tax income of the state and its municipalities, consume an excessive proportion of its revenue because of the extra services required for police, fire, accident, hospitalization and other forms of public protection, services and facilities; in order to alleviate the aforesaid problems and to accomplish the aforestated purpose, the authority shall be vested with such powers as are necessary to accomplish same by acquisition, clearance and disposition subject to use restrictions of property, both real and personal, since the prevailing condition of decay may make impractical the reclamation of the area by conservation or rehabilitation; some areas or portions thereof may be susceptible to conservation or rehabilitation in such a manner that the conditions and evils hereinabove enumerated may be eliminated or remedied or prevented and to the extent feasible, savable areas should be conserved and rehabilitated through voluntary private action and regulatory processes; and the authority may do any and all things deemed by such authority necessary, convenient or desirable for and incident to the efficient proper development and operation thereof.
Sec. 2.103. - Membership.
The authority shall consist of nine (9) members, one of whom shall be the Mayor of the City of Hapeville, Georgia, or his designated member from the City Council of the City of Hapeville.
(a)
Qualifications. All persons who have resided within the limits of the City of Hapeville for at least six (6) months shall be eligible for nomination to membership on the authority.
(b)
Composition and appointments. The remaining eight (8) positions for membership in the authority shall be comprised as follows: The eight (8) positions shall be filled by resolution of the Mayor and Council of Hapeville. The Mayor of the City of Hapeville or his designee shall serve during the term of office for which he was elected. The chairman of the authority shall be selected by a majority of its members at the first annual meeting of each calendar year. The members of the authority shall serve four (4) year staggered terms as follows: For the initial membership of the authority, of the eight (8) positions filled by resolution of the Mayor and Council of Hapeville, two (2) positions shall be filled for a one (1) year term, two (2) positions shall be filled for two (2) year terms, two (2) positions shall be filled for three (3) year terms and two (2) positions for a four (4) year term. Thereafter, upon completion of a term for appointment, each successor shall be appointed for a four (4) year term and until their successors have been selected and appointed. Any member of the authority may be selected and appointed to succeed himself. All appointments shall be for a term commencing on January 1 and ending December 31. The members of the authority shall enter upon their duties immediately after such appointment. The authority shall elect one of its members to serve as vice chairman who shall be elected for a term of one (1) year or until his successor is selected and qualified and annually thereafter the authority shall select one of its members in the same manner for a one (1) year term. The authority shall also select a secretary-treasurer which secretary-treasurer need not necessarily be a member of the authority and, if not a member, he or she shall have no voting rights and said secretary-treasurer shall be elected to serve at the pleasure of the authority. No member of the authority shall hold more than one office except that of secretary-treasurer. Four (4) members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. A majority of the members shall be empowered to exercise the rights and perform all the duties of the authority and no vacancies on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to act. In the event of a vacancy on the authority through death, resignation or otherwise, the same shall be filled for the unexpired term of the member ceasing to be a member of such authority for any reason in the same manner that such member originally became a member of the authority. The authority shall make rules and regulations for its own government. It shall have perpetual existence. In the event the number of members of the authority or the qualifications of the membership or the manner in which the members of the authority shall be selected shall ever be the subject of change, the same may be accomplished by an act of the general assembly, except that the general assembly may not alter the term of office of any duly appointed member then serving.
Sec. 2.104. - Definitions.
As used herein the following words and terms shall have the following meanings:
(a)
The word authority shall mean the Hapeville Development Authority herein created.
(b)
The word project shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition, construction, installation, leasing, furnishing, or equipping of new industrial, commercial, business, office, trade or public facilities or the improvement, modification, renovation, acquisition, expansion, modernization, rehabilitation, leasing, equipping, furnishing, or remodeling of existing industrial, commercial, business, office, trade, or public facilities located or to be located within the City of Hapeville, including, but not limited to: one or more buildings or structures to be used in the production, manufacturing, processing, assembling, storing or handling of any agricultural, manufactured, mining or industrial product, or any combination of the foregoing; one or more buildings or structures or property useful or necessary in the transportation of persons or property; one or more buildings or structures or property to be used, maintained and operated as a multiuse coliseum and civic center type facilities to be used for athletic contests: games, meetings, trade fairs, expositions, political conventions, agricultural events, theatrical and musical performances and all other public entertainments permitted by law, and the usual facilities related thereto, including, without limitation, refreshment stands and restaurants; one or more buildings or structures or property useful or necessary in the accommodations of people, including, but without limitation, any hotel, motel, motor inn, lodginghouse, lodge or any combination thereof; one or more buildings or structures used for any industrial, commercial business, office, public or other use; and parking facilities or parking areas, including but not limited to related buildings and the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertakings, and extensions and improvements of such facilities.
(c)
The term cost of project shall include: all costs of construction, purchase or other form of acquisition; all costs of real or personal property required for the purposes of such project and of all facilities related thereto, including land and any rights or undivided interest therein, easements, franchises, water rights, fees, permits, approvals, licenses and certificates and the securing of such franchises, permits, approvals, licenses and certificates and the preparation of applications therefor; all machinery, equipment, initial fuel and other supplies required for such project; financing charges, interest prior to and during construction and during such additional period as the authority may reasonably determine to be necessary for the placing of such project in operation; costs of engineering architectural and legal services; fees paid to fiscal agents for financial and other advice or supervision; cost of plans and specifications and all expenses necessary or incidental to the construction, purchase or acquisition of the completed project or to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project; administrative expenses and such other expenses as may be necessary or incidental to the financing herein authorized. There may also be included, as part of such cost of project, the repayment of any loans made for the advance payment of any part of such cost, including the interest thereon at rates to be determined by the authority, which loans are hereby authorized if made payable solely from the proceeds of such authority's bonds or notes or revenues to be received in connection with the leasing sale or financing of the project. The cost of any project may also include a fund or funds for the creation of a debt service reserve, a renewal and replacement reserve, and such other reserves as may be reasonably required by the authority with respect to the financing and operation of its projects and as may be authorized by any bond resolution or trust agreement or indenture pursuant to the provisions of which the issuance of any such bonds may be authorized. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds or notes issued.
(d)
The terms revenue bonds and bonds shall mean any bonds of the authority which are hereunder authorized to be issued, including refunding bonds, as though such revenue bonds had originally been authorized to be issued under the provisions of the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. Laws 1957, p. 36 et seq., as amended) amending the law formerly known as the Revenue Certificate Law of 1937 (Ga. Laws 1937, p. 761 et seq., as amended) and in addition shall also mean any obligations of the authority, the issuance of which are hereinafter specifically provided for.
(e)
Any project or combination of projects shall be deemed self-liquidating if, in the judgment of the authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom, including, but not limited to, any revenues derived from the City of Hapeville or other political subdivision under any contracts with the authority, will be sufficient to pay the cost of operating, repairing and maintaining the project to pay the principal and interest on the revenue bonds which may be issued to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of such project, projects, or combination of projects.
Sec. 2.105. - Powers.
The authority shall have the powers:
(a)
To sue and be sued, except as expressly provided for herein;
(b)
To adopt and alter a corporate seal;
(c)
To acquire by purchase, lease or otherwise, and to hold, lease and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(d)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by condemnation, upon the approval of the Mayor and Council of the City of Hapeville, and in accordance with the provisions of any and all laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real property, or rights or easements therein, or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority, the authority being under no obligation to accept and pay for any property condemned under the provisions hereof, except from the funds provided under the authority hereof, and in any proceedings to condemn, such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the suit, action or proceedings as may be just to the authority and to the owners of the property to be condemned; and no property shall be acquired under the provisions hereof upon which any lien or other encumbrance exists, unless at the time such property is so acquired a sufficient sum of money be deposited in trust to pay and redeem the fair value of such lien or encumbrance;
(e)
To appoint, select and employ officers, agents and employees, including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and fix their respective compensations;
(f)
To make contracts and leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired, and to contract with the City of Hapeville and with the State of Georgia and any departments, institutions, agencies, counties, municipalities or political subdivisions of the State of Georgia, public corporations and with others upon such terms and for such purposes as may be deemed advisable for a term not exceeding 50 years; and the City of Hapeville is hereby authorized to enter into contracts and related agreements for the use by the City of Hapeville or the residents hereof of any project, structure, building or facility or a combination of two or more projects, structures, buildings or facilities of the authority for a term not exceeding 50 years; and said city shall be and the same is hereby specifically authorized to levy taxes, without limitation as to rate or amount, and to expend tax monies of the city and any other available funds and to obligate said city to make payment thereof to the authority upon such terms as may be provided in any contract entered into by and between the authority and the City of Hapeville, in order to enable the authority to pay the principal of and interest on any of its bonds as same mature and to create and maintain a reserve for that purpose and also to enable the authority to pay the cost of maintaining, repairing and operating the property or facilities so furnished by said authority;
(g)
To acquire, construct, own, repair, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate, maintain and manage projects, as hereinabove defined, the cost of any such project to be paid, in whole or in part, from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the authority or from such proceeds and any grant or contribution from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof or from the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(h)
To finance (by loan, grant, lease or otherwise), construct, erect, assemble, purchase, acquire, own, repair, remodel, renovate, rehabilitate, modify, maintain, extend, improve, install, sell, equip, expand, add to, operate or manage projects and to pay the cost of any project from the proceeds of revenue bonds, notes or other obligations of the authority or any other funds of the authority, or from any contributions or loans by persons, corporations, partnerships (limited or general) or other entities, all of which the authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use;
(i)
To borrow money to further or carry out its public purpose and to execute revenue bonds, notes, other obligations, leases, trust indentures, trust agreements, agreements for the sale of its revenue bonds, notes or other obligations, loan agreements, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds, security agreements, assignments and such other agreements or instruments as may be necessary or desirable, in the judgment of the authority, to evidence and to provide security for such borrowing;
(j)
To accept loans and/or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may require;
(k)
To accept loans and/or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or such agency or instrumentality or political subdivision may require;
(l)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(m)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the constitution and laws of this state; and
(n)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given hereunder.
Sec. 2.106. - Revenue bonds.
The authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties and liabilities vested in the authority created hereby, shall have power and is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds, subject to the approval by the Mayor and Council of the City of Hapeville, for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as herein defined of any one or more projects. The principal of and interest on such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special funds herein provided for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates per annum, payable at such time or times, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 40 years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds.
Sec. 2.107. - Same; form; denomination; registration; place of payment.
The authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of the principal thereof and the interest thereon, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the state. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered forms, or both, as the authority may determine, and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both principal and interest.
Sec. 2.108. - Same; signature; seal.
In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes, the same as if such officer had remained in office until such delivery. All such bonds shall be signed by the chairman of the authority and the official seal of the authority shall be affixed thereto and attested by the secretary-treasurer of the authority. Either of such signatures on any coupons may be by facsimile signature of the chairman and the secretary-treasurer of the authority in accordance with the provision of applicable law. Any bond may be signed, sealed and attested on behalf of the authority by such persons as the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of such bonds such persons may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office.
Sec. 2.109. - Same; negotiability.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act shall have and are hereby declared to be negotiable under the laws of this state, subject to provisions for registration.
Sec. 2.110. - Same; sale; proceeds of bonds.
The authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interest of the authority and the proceeds derived from the sale of such bonds shall be used solely for the purpose provided in the proceedings authorizing the issuance of such bonds.
Sec. 2.111. - Same; interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim certificates or temporary bonds, with or without coupons exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
Sec. 2.112. - Same; replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The authority may also provide for the replacement of any bonds or coupons which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
Sec. 2.113. - Same; conditions precedent to issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things other than those proceedings, conditions and things which are specified or required hereunder. Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions hereof shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posed, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the authority.
Sec. 2.114. - Same; credit not pledged and debt not created.
Revenue bonds issued by the authority hereunder shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of the City of Hapeville, nor of the State of Georgia or any municipality, county, authority, instrumentality or political subdivision of the State of Georgia, which may contract with such authority.
Sec. 2.115. - Same; trust indentures as security.
In the discretion of the authority, any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or without the state. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues and earnings to be received by the authority. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair and insuring of the project, and the custody, safeguarding and application of all monies; and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the authority, and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds; and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depositary of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other monies be satisfactory to such purchasers, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state or any other state or the United States to act as such depositary and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee, and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
Sec. 2.116. - To whom proceeds shall be paid.
The authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of bonds to any officer or person who, or any agency, bank or trust company which, shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes hereof, subject to such regulations as such resolutions or trust indentures may provide.
Sec. 2.117. - Sinking fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings, and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the authority to the payment of the principal of and interest on revenue bonds of the authority, as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument may provide, and such funds, so pledged from whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture, into a sinking fund, which said sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payment of (1) the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due, (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due, (3) the necessary charges of paying agents for paying principal and interest and other investment charges, and (4) any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as hereinabove provided. The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be maintained as a trust account for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds, or in the trust indenture, any surplus monies in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be cancelled and shall not again be issued.
Sec. 2.118. - Remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia or granted hereunder or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this act or by such resolution or trust indenture, to be performed by the authority, or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
Sec. 2.119. - Funding and refunding bonds.
The authority is hereby authorized to provide by resolution, subject to the approval of the Mayor and Council of the City of Hapeville, for the issuance of bonds of the authority for the purpose of funding or refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and premium, if any. The issuance of such funding or refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the authority in respect to the same, shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this act insofar as the same may be applicable.
Sec. 2.120. - Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this act or any suit or action against such authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to the validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this act shall likewise be brought in said court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
Sec. 2.121. - Validation.
Bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of the revenue bond law, as amended, or as the same may be hereafter amended. The petition or validation shall also make a party defendant to such action any municipality, county, authority, political subdivision or instrumentality of the State of Georgia which has contracted with the authority for the services and facilities of the project for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated and any such municipality, county, authority, political subdivisions or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any exist, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the contract or contracts adjudicated as a part of the basis of the security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The bonds, then validated, and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds and the security for the payment thereof and interest thereon and against the authority issuing the same, and any municipality, county, authority, political subdivision or instrumentality, if a party to the validation proceedings, contracting with the said authority.
Sec. 2.122. - Interest of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties or existence of said authority or its officers, employees or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds.
Sec. 2.123. - Monies received considered trust funds.
All monies received pursuant to the authority of this act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as grants or other contributions, or as revenues, income, fees and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this act.
Sec. 2.124. - Rates, charges and revenues; use.
The authority is hereby authorized to prescribe and fix rents and rates and to revise same from time to time and to collect payments, fees, tolls and charges on each project or for the services, facilities and commodities furnished; and in anticipation of the collection of the revenues of such undertakings or projects, to issue revenue bonds as herein provided to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, betterment or extension of its undertakings or projects; and to pledge to the punctual payment of said bonds, and interest thereon, all or any part of the revenues of such undertakings or projects, including the revenues of improvements, betterments or extensions thereto thereafter made.
Sec. 2.125. - Rules and regulations for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed under the provisions hereof, including the basis on which services and facilities, or both, shall be furnished.
Sec. 2.126. - Governmental function.
It is hereby declared that the authority is created for a public purpose and will be performing an essential governmental function in the exercise of the powers conferred upon it hereunder in the development and promotion of civic and cultural growth, public welfare, trade, commerce, education, amusement, recreation or to alleviate traffic congestion in the City of Hapeville and thereby better protect the lives and property of its residents and others using its streets.
Sec. 2.127. - Immunity from tort actions.
The authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the State of Georgia and the officers, agents and employees of the authority, when in the performance of the work of the authority, shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents and employees of the State of Georgia. The authority may be sued in the same manner as private corporations may be sued on any contractual obligations to the authority.
Sec. 2.128. - Property subject to levy and sale.
The property of the authority shall not be subject to levy and sale under legal process except such property, revenue, income or funds as may be pledged, assigned, mortgaged or conveyed to secure an obligation of the authority, and any such property, revenue, funds or income may be sold under legal process or under any power granted by the authority to enforce payment of the obligation.
Sec. 2.129. - Construction.
This amendment and all provisions, rights, powers and authority granted hereunder shall be effective, notwithstanding any other provision of the constitution to the contrary, and this amendment and any law enacted with reference to the authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of its purposes.
Sec. 2.130. - Special tax districts.
The City of Hapeville shall be empowered and authorized to create special tax districts within the City of Hapeville upon the areas of any projects for redevelopment or development that said authority may determine, and to levy and collect taxes within said districts based on values of real property fixed by the tax digest of the City of Hapeville to meet, pay for and retire any and all financial obligations of the authority, its bonds and/or revenue certificates, and may pledge said revenue, and to levy and collect taxes within said districts for the retirement of said financial obligations. No such special taxes shall be levied by the City of Hapeville for any purpose against property used exclusively for residential purposes within any such tax district.
Sec. 2.131. - Effective date.
This amendment shall be effective immediately upon proclamation of its ratification by the governor.
Sec. 2.132. - General assembly.
This amendment is self-enacting and does not require any enabling legislation for it to become effective. However, the general assembly may, by law, further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the authority and the exercise thereof and may enlarge and restrict the same and may, likewise, further regulate the management and conduct of the authority not inconsistent with any other provisions of this constitution. The authority shall be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia, and the scope of its operation shall be limited to the territory embraced within the corporate limits of the City of Hapeville as the same now or may hereafter exist.
