ARTICLE IV. - PAWNSHOPS[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Pawnbrokers generally, O.C.G.A. § 44-12-130 et seq.; municipal authority to license and regulate pawnbrokers, O.C.G.A. § 44-12-136.

Sec. 22-176. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Employee means any person employed or allowed to perform duties, whether or not such person receives a salary, wages or compensation or consideration, but not including the person covered on the license or renewal application.
Goods, whenever used in this article, shall carry its normal meaning, and further it should be construed in the broadest sense allowable and should include all forms of personal property.
Owner means any person, partner or stockholder owning 25 percent or more of a business.
Pawnshop means any business which shall, in any manner, lend or advance money or other things for profit on the pledge of possession of personal property, or other valuable things other than securities or written evidences of indebtedness, or which deals in the purchasing of personal property or other valuable things on condition of selling the same back to the seller at a stipulated price.
Sec. 22-177. - Licenses required.
Every person doing business in the county as a pawnshop, prior to commencing business, shall make proper application for and receive the appropriate business license or licenses as set forth in this article.
Sec. 22-178. - Application for license and permit.
(a)
Applicants for a license or permit shall file a written, sworn application on a form provided by the county clerk, signed by the applicant if an individual, by the partner making application if a partnership, or by the president if a corporation, with the clerk of the county showing:
(1)
The name or address of the principals, agents and employees of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed that it will be carried on in the county; the local address or addresses of such person or persons; capacity in which such person or persons will act (as proprietor, agent, employee or otherwise); the name and the address of the person, firm or corporation for whose account the business will be carried on, if any; and if a corporation, under the laws of what state it is incorporated;
(2)
The fingerprints of the principals, agents or employees of the applicant's business and other evidence which establishes to the satisfaction of the sheriff, subject to the approval of the board of commissioners, the good character of such persons to carry on the business;
(3)
The place or places in the county where it is proposed to carry on the applicant's business, the zoning district at the place or places, and the length of time during which it is proposed that the business shall be conducted;
(4)
The place or places, other than the permanent place of business of the applicant, where the applicant within the six months preceding the date of the application conducted any other type of business, stating the nature thereof and giving the post office and street address or office in which such business was conducted;
(5)
A brief statement of the nature and the character of the advertising done or proposed to be done in order to attract customers;
(6)
Whether or not the person or persons having the management or supervision of the applicant's business have been convicted of a crime or violations of any municipal ordinance, the nature of such offense and the punishment assessed therefor;
(7)
Credentials from the person, firm or corporation for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act as such representative; and
(8)
Such other information as to the identity or character of the person or persons having the management or supervision of the applicant's business or the method or plan of doing such business as the county clerk may deem proper to fulfill the purpose of this article in the protection of the public good.
(b)
The application shall state thereon that, "It is unlawful for any person to make a false statement on this application." Any false statement made on the application form will be cause to revoke the license issued thereunder and also shall constitute a violation of state law.
Sec. 22-179. - Exclusions; exceptions.
Businesses which limit the purchase of used valuables to the acceptance of trade-ins for credit for new goods or the dispensing of refunds in regard to valuables previously purchased from the business, shall not be required to be licensed as prescribed by this article nor to be covered under the provisions of this article.
Sec. 22-180. - Employee permit.
Each person authorized or allowed to conduct any place of business covered under this article shall be considered an employee and must have an approved license or an employee permit, and this permit must be displayed along with the business license in accordance with license display requirements.
Sec. 22-181. - Business license fee.
All businesses licensed under this article shall pay a license fee per calendar year in the amount provided in the county fees. Any co-owner, agent, employee or any other persons authorized to transact business, other than the licensee, shall be required to have employee permits for each license under which he operates or transacts business. There shall be no fee for employee permits issued under this section. Licenses and permits issued hereunder shall be a personal privilege and shall not be transferable, except that employee permits may be transferred from one licensed business to another. There shall be no proration or refund of any license fee.
Sec. 22-182. - Character qualifications.
No license or employee permit shall be issued to or renewed for any person who conducts or is employed in a business in which such owner or employee has, within ten years of issuance or renewal, been convicted of, or pled guilty or nolo contendere to, any felony involving any federal or state offense or any federal or state misdemeanor involving theft-related offenses, unless a longer time has been ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction. The licensee will submit the identity of all owners and employees to the county clerk on a continuing basis as changes occur. This information is to be forwarded to the sheriff's office for the purpose of allowing a complete check in order that these character qualifications are fulfilled prior to the issuance or renewal of any license or permit issued under this article.
Sec. 22-183. - Location of businesses.
All businesses licensed under this article shall be located in strict compliance with county zoning regulations and at a location with an identifiable street address, which shall be stated on the license or renewal application along with other required information; and no business licensed under this article shall change its address without giving advance notice to the county clerk and the sheriff's office, and receiving approval of the change, the approval being granted if the new location complies with this article and the city zoning regulations.
Sec. 22-184. - Records to be kept; inspection; violations.
(a)
All pawnshops, in addition to other records, shall keep books wherein shall be entered an accurate description of all property received by or pledged or sold to them. Such description shall include the brand name of the article, any identifying mark, number, initial, social security number or name of any person or company and a statement of the kind of material of which it is made. A permanent bound set of the pawn tickets shall constitute the book required by this article.
(b)
In such books there shall be entered also the name, age, address, signature, and identification number from a driver's license or similar identification of the person by who same was delivered, deposited or sold, the name of the agent or employee receiving the item, the time when such transaction occurred, the price paid for the goods purchased and the check number issued, if applicable.
(c)
All books and records required by this article and items pledged or sold hereunder shall at all times be subject to inspection and examination by any city, county, state or federal law enforcement officer. Any person engaged in any business licensed under this article who shall fail or refuse to keep the records as provided in this article, or who shall make false entries concerning the transaction or who shall fail or refuse to permit an inspection by any of the aforementioned law enforcement officers of the records and of the property deposited with or sold to such person shall be guilty of a violation of this article.
(d)
Any licensee found to have violated this section shall receive a written warning upon such finding. If a licensee is found to have violated this subsection a second time, the licensee's license shall be suspended for a period of two years and no person living at the same address as the licensee may become licensed under this article without first showing to the satisfaction of the county that the business will be totally separate from, independent of, and unaffiliated with the licensee whose license has been suspended.
Sec. 22-185. - Standard forms required.
All businesses licensed under this article shall use a standard form for pawn and a standard form for purchase, and no ticket may be used for a dual purpose. Standard forms may differ only by the name of the business and business address. The design of this form shall be provided by the sheriff's office and the forms shall be numbered and chronologically used and sent to the sheriff's office. Each number missing from the chronological sequence shall be considered a separate violation of this article.
Sec. 22-186. - Weekly report.
(a)
Every licensee shall prepare a daily report for the sheriff's office, in such form as may be prescribed by the sheriff's office, of all property pledged to or bought by the licensee during the preceding 24 hours ending at 8:00 p.m. on the effective date of the report. In addition to any other information required by the sheriff's office, the report shall disclose:
(1)
The name and address of the licensee;
(2)
Time of transaction;
(3)
Serial numbers of pawn tickets;
(4)
Full description of articles, including kind, style, material, color, design, kind and number of stones in jewelry, and all identifying names, marks, and numbers;
(5)
A description of persons pledging, selling, or pawning; including name, address, information from such person's driver's license or government-issued identification, including weight, height, and eye color; and
(6)
Serial numbers on items.
(b)
Insufficient or incomplete reports shall be rejected.
(c)
Any licensee or employee who fails or refuses to prepare and keep reports as provided in this section or makes false entries concerning a transaction or who fails or refuses to permit an inspection or examination of the report by any police officer, designated by the chief of police to conduct such inspections, shall constitute a violation of this Code, which shall be punishable as provided in this article.
Sec. 22-187. - Identification required.
Each licensee shall require any person pawning, pledging, or selling an article or articles to display his government-issued identification that, at a minimum, contains a photograph, date of birth, height, weight, eye color, race and gender, as well as the identification number, driver's license number or social security number of the person, the type of identification and the name of the board of county commissioners issuing such identification. The licensee shall record all of the above information from such identification.
Sec. 22-188. - Purchased articles not to be disposed of for ten days after acquisition.
Every business licensed under this article shall hold on the premises designated in the license for doing business every item purchased for at least ten working days not including holidays or weekends, before disposing of same by sale, transfer or shipment. The provisions of this section shall not apply to items purchased from licensed wholesalers in the normal course of business.
Sec. 22-189. - Pawned articles not to be disposed of for 30 days after acquisition.
Every business licensed under this article shall hold pawned goods for at least 30 days, unless redeemed by the owner or on authority of the owner, before disposing of same by sale, transfer, shipment or otherwise.
Sec. 22-190. - Display of goods pledged or purchased.
(a)
For a period of ten working days from the date of purchase and 30 days from the date of pledge, unless redeemed by or by authority of the person who pledged the goods, all goods purchased or pawned, and required to be included in the records and reports specified in this article, shall be kept on the licensed premises. A copy of the pawn ticket or the number of the original pawn ticket shall be affixed to each item that is subject to the provisions of this section.
(b)
Any person desiring to examine any merchandise shall first file with the sheriff's office an incident report or stolen property report and upon giving notice, in writing to the owner or employee, which notice shall include a full description of the stolen items including all identifying characteristics, the person's name, address, identification and signature, such individual shall be allowed to examine any merchandise of the type described in the request on the premises.
(c)
Such written information shall be kept in sequential, dated order in a permanent file or book. This record shall be kept in addition to all other records required herein.
Sec. 22-191. - Alteration.
Any items required to be kept or displayed under the provisions of this article shall be kept in their original form as they existed when first purchased, and their physical characteristics shall not be altered in any numerical or material manner.
Sec. 22-192. - Erasures or obliterations or write-overs or type-overs are not allowed.
No persons licensed under this article shall erase, obliterate, type over, write over or in any way cause the original entry on the records required by this article to become illegible. All pawn or purchase tickets filled out in error shall be sent to the sheriff's office in their numbered order along with the weekly reports and shall have the word "VOID" typed or written across the front. Such entry shall not be used to cause the original entry to be illegible. If an error is made, and the ticket is still to be used, then a single line shall be drawn through the incorrect entry. This line shall not cause the original entry to be illegible, and the correct information entry shall be made on the next available area.
Sec. 22-193. - Records maintained for four years.
The record for each pawn or purchase transaction regulated by this article shall be maintained for a period of not less than four years from date of the transaction.
Sec. 22-194. - Dealing with minors.
It is unlawful for any person licensed under this article to receive in pawn or in purchase any goods of any character or of any description from any person who has not attained the age of 17 years.
Sec. 22-195. - Hours of operation.
All businesses licensed under this article shall close their establishments and cease transacting any business no later than 11:00 p.m. each day and begin their operation and commence transacting business at no time before 7:00 a.m. each day.
Sec. 22-196. - Business transactions to be conducted in licensed premises; exception.
(a)
No business transactions by any business licensed under this article shall be conducted outside the building designated as the normal place to conduct transactions unless the business does not have a building.
(b)
The term "business transaction" means any part of a business including the inspection or appraisal of any goods when it is possible for such goods to be taken outside the building where transactions are normally made ("possible" being here used in the broadest sense); and no person other than those possessing a license or employee permit shall be allowed to conduct any form of business transaction either inside the establishment or on any part of outside land area covered under address of the license.
Sec. 22-197. - Articles with serial numbers removed or altered may not be accepted.
No business licensed under this article shall accept any article which has had the serial number altered, obliterated or removed from such article or which the person who is making the business transaction knows should have a serial number on it. Licensees shall immediately report any attempted business transaction of this nature to the sheriff's office.
Sec. 22-198. - Compliance with records requirements required for pawn acceptance.
No business licensed under this article shall take any item in pawn or purchase or take full possession or title thereto, without entering such transaction of such goods on his books and on the standard forms as provided for in this article.
Sec. 22-199. - Ownership of other pawn business in other town or same town.
Any owner of a business licensed under this article shall not transfer goods from one business, where he has a minority or majority ownership, to another business without the goods meeting all regulations of the ordinances of the county regarding pawnshops.
Sec. 22-200. - Violations; penalties.
(a)
Any person licensed under this article who shall do any of the following acts shall be in violation of this article:
(1)
Fail to make any entry of any required item in the permanent record book;
(2)
Make any false entry therein;
(3)
Falsify, obliterate, destroy or remove from his place of business such permanent record book so that information is illegible;
(4)
Refuse to allow any duly authorized law enforcement officer to inspect such permanent record book, or any goods in his possession, during the ordinary hours of business or any reasonable time, or refuse to allow any member of the general public to inspect goods in his possession being held under pawn or purchase within seven days of purchase and 30 days of the item being pawned, during ordinary hours of business;
(5)
Fail to maintain a record of each pawn or purchase transaction for at least four years;
(6)
Violate any other provisions of this article.
(b)
Operation of any business under this article in violation of any provision of this article shall constitute a separate offense for each day of operation.
Sec. 22-201. - Inspection.
As a condition of the granting of the license under this article, every licensee agrees to allow any duly authorized law enforcement officer, pursuant to his official duties, to be and remain about the licensed premises without the formality of a warrant, provided the officer does not interfere in the licensee's operation.
Sec. 22-202. - Non-formed precious metals.
It is unlawful for any person licensed under this article to purchase precious metals in a melted, smelted or non-formed state unless the purchase is from a registered dealer in precious metals.
Sec. 22-203. - Stolen items.
Every person licensed under this article shall, immediately upon request, turn over to the sheriff's office every item believed by the sheriff's office to be a stolen item. The sheriff's office shall furnish a property receipt, including the case number, to the dealer surrendering such item, and such item shall be returned to the dealer only after it has been determined that such item is not stolen. If it is determined such item is stolen, it shall be returned to its lawful owner.
Sec. 22-204. - Sale of prohibited weapons.
It is unlawful for any licensee to sell, offer for sale, or expose for sale any weapons, the sale of which are prohibited by county ordinance, state law, or federal law or regulation. Any licensee or employee thereof violating this section shall constitute a violation of this section and shall be punishable as provided in this article.
Sec. 22-205. - Security cameras required.
(a)
Any establishment which is licensed by the county to engage in the business of operating as a pawnshop and which is open to the public for business any day of the week is required to install security cameras and recording mechanisms of a type and number capable of recording evidentiary quality images for the prosecution of criminal cases, or for such other uses as may be deemed authorized by law.
(b)
Cameras and recording mechanisms meeting the requirements of this section must be capable of producing a retrievable image on videotape or other medium that can be made a permanent record and can be enlarged through projection or other means. Cameras and recording mechanisms meeting the requirements of this section shall be maintained in proper working order at all times and shall be subject to inspection by the sheriff's office.
(c)
Security videos must have a shelf life of 15 calendar days from time of daily taping. The security video must be maintained at the licensee's place of business in an unaltered state and be available for inspection by the sheriff's office.
(d)
In the event that the security cameras and recording mechanisms become inoperative, any licensee or employee thereof shall not be in violation of this section for conducting business if the licensee is diligently pursuing repairs of such system; provided that such repairs must be completed within ten days after such system becomes inoperative.
(e)
Any licensee or employee thereof violating this section shall constitute a violation of this Code and shall be punishable as provided in this article.
Sec. 22-206. - Applicability of and conflict with state law.
This article is to be construed as consistent with state law. However, these provisions are to be applied in lieu of state law and state fee and registration requirements whenever possible. It is the intent of this law that all duties delegated to the chief law enforcement officer of the county shall be exercised as provided in this article.
Secs. 22-207—22-217. - Reserved.
