Chapter 22 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Incorporation and powers, article 1: powers and construction, § 1.12; government structure, article 2: emergencies, § 2.24.

Sec. 22-1. - Definitions.
As used in this chapter, the term "emergency management" means the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency and disaster functions, other than those functions for which military forces or state and federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies or disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, protection against the effects of radiological, chemical and other special weapons, emergency transportation, plant protection, shelter, temporary restoration of public utility services, and other functions related to civilian population, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to total emergency and disaster preparedness for carrying out the foregoing functions.
(Code 2004, § 15-101)
Sec. 22-2. - Office of the city and county emergency management directors.
(a)
The city has established an emergency management agency named BLEMA (Berkeley Lake Emergency Management Agency). The agency works directly with the county's emergency management steering committee to ensure agency compatibility and to remain abreast of the latest techniques and procedures associated with emergency preparedness.
(b)
The present emergency management director of the county serves as director for the entire county. The emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
To represent the governing officials of the city on matters pertaining to emergency management;
(2)
To assist city officials in organizing city departments for emergency operations;
(3)
To develop, in conjunction with city and county departments, the county plan for emergency functions. Such plan will be consistent with the state emergency operations plan and shall be submitted to the governing officials of the county and the cities therein for approval;
(4)
To maintain the emergency management agency and to oversee the carrying out of the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports to the state emergency management agency;
(5)
To submit reports as required by governing officials in keeping with good management practices, e.g., financial, daily activity, etc.;
(6)
To operate and maintain the county emergency operations center; and
(7)
To coordinate the activities of the county emergency operating center staff during periods of an emergency, and under the supervision of the county governing officials.
(Code 2004, § 15-102)
State Law reference— Municipality has power and authority to establish and maintain emergency management organization independently of or in conjunction with another political subdivision, O.C.G.A. §§ 38-3-27(a)(1), 38-3-27(b).
Sec. 22-3. - County emergency management agency.
(a)
The county emergency management agency shall be established around existing city and county departments, and the emergency functions described in section 22-1 are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department/agency Functions 1
1. Chairman, county commissioners
Mayors of cities Direction and control
2. County police department/sheriff's office
City police Communications and warnings
3. County administrators office Emergency public information
4. County police department
City police departments
Sheriff's department Search, rescue and recovery
5. County police department
City police
Sheriff's department Law enforcement services
6. County police department
City police
Fire department Evacuation services
7. Fire department Fire services
8. Administrative services
Board of education Transportation services
9. County public utilities
City public utilities Public works services
10. Fire department
County police department
City police Medical and deceased identification services
11. American Red Cross
Emergency management Emergency shelter services
12. American Red Cross
Board of education Food services
13. Department of family and children's services Human services
14. Fire department Radiological protection
15. Fire department Damage assessment services
16. Fire and emergency services Resources management
17. Fire department Hazardous materials
Emergency management Attack preparedness
Dam failure preparedness
  1 As appropriate to the local organization, these functions can be assigned to existing departments or may be separate. Functions should be assigned consistent with the local emergency operations plan.
(b)
BLEMA is responsible for assisting county department heads in developing appropriate annexes to the local emergency operations plan (EOP) for their assigned emergency functions. Such annexes will be submitted to the emergency management director for inclusion in the local EOP for submission to appropriate local officials for approval.
(Code 2004, § 15-103)
Sec. 22-4. - Emergency activation.
In the event of a manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States, or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the city, the mayor of the city separately, or jointly with the chairperson, county commissioners, or, in their absences, their legally appointed successors may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such emergency or disaster exists or continues the following powers:
(1)
To enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management, and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources;
(2)
To seize or take for temporary use any private property for the protection of the public;
(3)
To sell, lend, give or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county and to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies; and
(4)
To perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well being of the inhabitants of the county.
(Code 2004, § 15-104)
State Law reference— Municipality has power and authority to undertake emergency management measures in times of crisis, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27(b)(1)—(6); municipality has authority to make rules and orders necessary to carry out emergency management plan during time of crisis, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-28.
Sec. 22-5. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the city, performing emergency functions pursuant to this chapter shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as city officers and employees.
(Code 2004, § 15-105)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-35(b).
Sec. 22-6. - Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, or any rule, order, or regulation made pursuant to this chapter, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished for violating city ordinance.
(Code 2004, § 15-106)
Sec. 22-7. - Liberality of construction.
This chapter shall be construed liberally in order to effectuate its purpose.
(Code 2004, § 15-107)
