ARTICLE VI. - TAXES

Sec. 6-206. - Tax levied, amount, payment; duties of dealers and wholesalers.
(a)
Scope of section. In addition to all other taxes or license fees heretofore or hereafter imposed upon retail dealers engaged in the city in the business of selling alcoholic beverages, malt beverages and/or wine, there is imposed and levied upon all hereinafter described dealers within the city an excise tax to be computed and collected as hereinafter set forth. The taxes imposed by this section shall not be levied with respect to the following:
(1)
Wine sold to and used by established and recognized churches and synagogues for use in sacramental service only;
(2)
Any sale of wine which is exempt from taxation by the state or under the Constitution of the United States;
(3)
Wine sold to persons outside the state for resale or consumption outside the state; or
(4)
Wines or malt beverages which contain less than one-half of one percent alcohol by volume.
(b)
Basis for computation of tax.
(1)
The tax levied hereunder shall be computed on the basis of $0.22 per liter of spirituous liquors and wine sold or delivered as hereinafter set forth. The $0.22 per liter shall be pro-rated down on fractional parts of liters, so that each bottle or each individual size container shall be taxed on the basis of $0.22 per liter. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this article for any such licensee to possess, own, hold, store, display or sell any liquor or wine on which such tax has not been paid.
(2)
Where malt beverages, commonly known as tap or draft beer, are sold from a barrel or bulk container, the tax levied hereunder shall be computed at the rate of $6.00 on each container sold containing not more than 15½ gallons and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of 15½ gallons; where malt beverages are sold in bottles, cans or other containers except barrel or bulk containers, a tax of five cents per 12 ounces and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of 12 ounces shall be imposed.
(c)
Computations, payment, duties of wholesale dealer and distributor. The tax imposed shall be computed and payable monthly. Each wholesale dealer or distributor selling, shipping, or delivering spirituous liquors or wine and/or malt beverages to any retail dealer in the city shall, as a condition to the privilege of conducting said business in the city:
(1)
Keep and maintain true and correct records of all sales, shipments or deliveries of spirituous liquors and wine and malt beverages to each retail dealer in the city. Such records are to be preserved for a period of not less than one year and made available on request for the inspection of any duly authorized representative of the city.
(2)
Collect from each retail dealer in the city at time of delivery of spirituous liquors or wine or malt beverages, the amount of tax due under the terms of this section and hold the same in trust for the city until such tax is remitted to the city as herein provided.
(3)
On or before the tenth day of each calendar month, each wholesaler shall make a verified and comprehensive report to the city which shall correctly show and reflect all sales and deliveries of alcoholic beverages to or for retail dealers in the city for the calendar month immediately preceding the date of said report. Said report shall show the name and address of each retail dealer, the quantities delivered to each retail dealer, the amount of excise tax collected under the terms of this section, and such other reasonable information as may be requested by the city. Said report shall be accompanied by remittance payable to the city for all taxes collected or due, as shown on said report.
(4)
The excise tax levied in this section is hereby levied upon the retailer licensed to do business in the city and it is the intent of this article to so levy this tax as to require the payment of the tax at the time of delivery by the retailer to the wholesaler, who shall have the responsibility of remitting the tax to the city on behalf of the retailer on or before the tenth day of each calendar month, as hereinbefore required. In the event the tax due hereunder is not paid on or before the tenth day of each calendar month, a ten percent penalty on the gross tax will be levied by the city against each defaulting retailing licensee for whom the tax is not paid on or before the tenth day of the month.
(d)
Noncompliance by wholesale dealer; distributor. If any wholesale dealer or distributor fails or refuses to make the reports required herein, the city shall notify such dealer or distributor in writing and if the reports are not made and the taxes are not remitted within five days from the date of such notice, such wholesale dealer or distributor shall be prohibited from making any further deliveries in the city and the retail licenses served by such wholesale dealer or distributor for whom the taxes have not been paid shall be subject to having their license suspended or revoked as herein provided.
(e)
Unlawful retail sales. It shall be a violation of this article for any person, firm, or corporation to sell at retail within the city alcoholic beverages, malt beverages or wine on which the taxes herein provided for have not been paid.
(f)
Unlawful deliveries. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this article for any wholesale dealer or distributor to deliver any alcoholic beverages, malt beverages or wine to any retail dealer in the city without at the time of such delivery collecting the excise taxes herein provided for.
(g)
Violations and penalties. Any person violating any of the provisions of this article or who shall assist any retail dealer in alcoholic beverages or wine or malt beverages in the city to evade or avoid the payment of the taxes herein provided for shall be guilty of a violation of this section and on conviction thereof in the municipal court shall be fined or sentenced as provided by this article and any such person so convicted shall also be subject to having his license suspended or revoked.
(Ord. No. O-149-12, § 1, 6-21-2012)
Sec. 6-207. - Excise tax on sale of distilled spirits by the drink.
(a)
In addition to all other taxes or license fees imposed upon retail dealers engaged in the sale of distilled spirits by the drink there is imposed an excise tax upon the sale of said drinks in the amount of three percent of the total cost of such drink which is charged to the public. Such taxes shall be collected by the licensee under this chapter and any such licensees shall remit the same to the clerk of the city on or before the tenth day of the succeeding month along with the appropriate returns showing a summary of the licensee's gross sales derived from the sale of distilled spirits by the drink. Gross sales shall include all credit card sales and those sales shall be reported and taxes collected thereon shall be submitted to the city clerk to the same extent as required of cash sales. It shall be the duty of each licensee required to make a report and pay any tax levy hereunder to keep and preserve suitable records of the sales taxable under this section, and such other books or accounts as may be necessary to determine the amount of the tax due. It shall be the duty of every licensee to keep and preserve such records for a period of three years and to provide such returns and reports as may be required by the city clerk. Licensees collecting the tax provided for in this section shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting and paying the amount due, if the amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of deduction should be the same rate authorized for deductions from state tax under Chapter 8 of Title 48 as provided in O.C.G.A. § 3-4-133. If the tax due is unpaid by the twentieth day of the succeeding month, there shall be imposed a penalty of ten percent of the tax due or $25.00, whichever amount is greater, and interest of one percent of the total due for each month or portion thereof that payment remains delinquent. The city clerk is hereby authorized to create such reports and returns as may be necessary to adequately provide for the collection of the excise tax provided in this section.
(b)
In the event the city clerk deems it necessary to verify the excise tax submitted to the city pursuant to this section, for any month, he or she shall notify the licensee of such need for verification and the licensee shall submit a verified comprehensive report to the city clerk, prepared by an auditor, reflecting all sales under this section by the licensee and the taxes submitted to the city. The licensee shall have 30 days to submit such a report to the city clerk following such a request.
(Ord. No. O-149-12, § 1, 6-21-2012; Ord. No. O-189-15, § 1, 9-17-2015)
Secs. 6-208—6-215. - Reserved.
