Chapter 50 - PIERS, DOCKS AND BOATHOUSES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Incorporation and powers, article 1: powers and construction, § 1.12; government structure, article 2: general power and authority of the city council, § 2.17.

Sec. 50-1. - Construction and maintenance standards.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Boathouse means an artificial structure or enclosure designed for the protection, reception or storage of boats.
Dock means an artificial basin or enclosure for the reception of boats or the waterway extending between two piers for the reception of boats.
Piers means a structure extending into water for use as a landing place or promenade or to protect or form a harbor or a vertical structural support.
(b)
Construction and design criteria. All docks, piers and boathouses which extend out, onto, or touch, in any way whatsoever, the lake must be equipped with reflectors of suitable size such that they may be easily seen from the reflection from coast guard approved lights equipped on any approaching boat. Such reflectors must be located at the end of each side extending onto or touching the lake and one must also be located on the end facing the lake. Floating docks, whether anchored or not, and independent of the shoreline, must be equipped with reflectors on each side. Floating docks, when anchored, must not extend more than 25 feet onto the lake, except when being used on a temporary basis for the purposes of swimming or diving. Such temporary basis shall be defined as less than one day.
(c)
Prohibited items. The following items are prohibited on, touching or in the lake whatsoever: commercial drums of any construction and of any material whatsoever.
(d)
Maintenance. It shall be the responsibility of the owner, maintainer or keeper of any dock, boathouse or pier to ensure that said dock, boathouse or pier is kept in good repair. Good repair shall be defined as in such repair such that no boards, shingles, or any material whatsoever shall fall onto or into the lake whatsoever. Further, good repair shall also mean that no part of said dock, boathouse or pier is rotten, damaged, rusted, destroyed, or broken.
(Code 2004, § 37-101)
Sec. 50-2. - Dams and spillways.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Dam means a barrier of any material whatsoever designed to prevent or slow the flow of water.
Spillway means a passage for surplus water to run over or around on obstruction of any kind whatsoever.
(b)
Prohibited items. No person, except as authorized by state law or the mayor or council, shall trespass in anyway whatsoever upon any dam or spillway within the city limits. Such trespass shall also include the touching of by any means, mechanical or otherwise, of any dam or spillway within the city limits, whatsoever.
(Code 2004, § 37-102)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-372(4)(A).
