ARTICLE V. - ON-PREMISES CONSUMPTION OF DISTILLED SPIRITS AND SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 3-226. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Distilled spirits or spirituous liquors means and includes, but is not limited to, whiskey, rum, gin, brandy, vodka, tequila and all other alcoholic beverages of a similar nature and with a similar alcoholic content.
Golf course means a large tract of land laid out with a minimum of eighteen (18) holes over a distance of at least five thousand hundred (5,500) yards, and used exclusively for playing golf.
Golf cart means a vehicle having not less than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground, having an unladen weight less than one thousand three hundred (1,300) pounds, which is designed to be and is operated at no more than fifteen (15) miles per hour and designed to carry golf equipment and not more than two (2) persons including the driver.
Hotel means every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, and in which fifty (50) or more rooms are used for sleeping accommodations of such guests and having one (1) or more public dining rooms, with an adequate and sanitary kitchen and a seating capacity for at least sixty (60) persons, where meals are regularly served to such guests, the sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being in the same building or in separate buildings or structures used in connection therewith which are in the same premises and are a part of the hotel operations. Motels meeting the qualifications set out in this definition for hotels shall be classified in the same category as hotels. Hotels shall have the privilege of granting franchises for the operation of a lounge or restaurant in their premises and the holder of such franchise shall be included in the definition of hotel hereunder.
Indoor commercial recreational establishment is limited to establishments regularly serving prepared food, with a full service kitchen (a full service kitchen will consist of a three-compartment pot sink, a stove or grill permanently installed, and a refrigerator, all which must be approved by the appropriate health officials and the fire department), prepared to serve food every hour which it is opened and where the establishment can seat one hundred (100) or more persons and deriving at least seventy (70) percent of its total annual gross sales from the sale of prepared meals or foods and recreation activities and wherein the sale of food and alcoholic beverages is incidental to its primary enterprise and activity on the premises. The primary activity on the premises of the indoor commercial recreational establishment shall be family-oriented in nature, generally to mean a use which attracts a range of individuals from all age groups. Uses may specifically include, but are not limited to, dinner theaters, bowling centers, and other similar uses. Bingo parlors, dance halls, nightclubs, taverns, billiard parlors, video arcades, skating arenas, adult entertainment or sexual related entertainment activities, and similar uses are specifically excluded from this definition of indoor commercial recreational establishments. Provided, that no indoor commercial recreational establishment shall offer alcoholic beverages for sale during the time it is sponsoring events which primarily attract persons under the lawful drinking age in the state. Provided further, that in bowling centers the sale of alcoholic beverages and the consumption thereof shall be confined to the distribution area or food area and adjacent seating. There shall be no consumption of alcoholic beverages in a bowling center upon the bowling area.
Licensee means an establishment holding a license to engage in the sale of distilled spirits or spirituous liquors, wines, champagnes or malt beverages for consumption on the premises.
Lounge means a separate room connected with, a part of and adjacent to a restaurant or located in hotels with all booths, stools and tables being unobstructed and open to view. All lounges shall be air-conditioned and have a seating capacity of at least sixty (60) persons.
Mobile service cart means a golf cart staffed by an employee of the golf course and outfitted for the storage, cooling, and refrigeration of distilled or spirituous liquors in bottles and also for the sale and service of either of these alcoholic items.
Outdoor commercial recreation is defined as a commercial recreation land use primarily conducted outside of a building, characterized by potentially moderate impacts on traffic, the natural environment, and the surrounding neighborhood. Such uses may include athletic fields, paint ball courses, golf courses, pitch and put, courts, batting cages, and driving ranges. Concession sales of alcoholic beverages are limited to golf course establishments, all other forms of outdoor commercial recreation being excluded.
Police committee means a committee consisting of the mayor and council, the chief of police, or assistant chief of police, and the city attorney.
Premises means the definite closed or partitioned-in locality, whether a room, shop or building, wherein spirituous liquors are sold by the drink.
Restaurant means any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place where meals are regularly served but having no sleeping accommodations. Such a place shall be provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and with a seating capacity for at least sixty (60) persons and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests. At least one (1) meal per day shall be served at least six (6) days a week, with the exception of holidays, vacations and periods of redecorating. The serving of such meals shall be the principal business conducted, with the serving of distilled spirits to be consumed on the premises as only incidental thereto; however, at least fifty-one (51) percent of the annual gross income must be derived from the sale of such meals, served for consumption on the premises.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 115, 7-3-79; Ord. No. 87-30, § 1, 10-20-87; Ord. No. 2007-09, §§ 1, 2, 4-17-07)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 3-227. - Penalty for violation.
Violation of any of the provisions of this article by the holder of a license under this article shall subject the holder of such license to the revocation of his license.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 116, 7-3-79)
Secs. 3-228—3-240. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSES[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Cross reference— Licenses and miscellaneous business regulations, Ch. 9.

Sec. 3-241. - Required; special provisions relative to hotels and motels.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell spirituous liquors for use or consumption on any premises without the license required in this article.
(b)
Hotel and motel corporations and their franchise restaurant corporations, operating as contemplated by section 3-226, are authorized to apply for and to hold the license contemplated under this article in their corporate names and shall name on such application an agent or manager actively employed in the operation of the hotel, motel or franchise restaurant who shall be responsible for operation under the license as provided for in this article and who shall qualify in all respects as to character and moral fitness under the provisions of this article. Should the manager or agent leave the employment of the hotel or motel corporation or its franchise restaurant corporation in the city, a new agent or manager will be named by the license holder within ten (10) days thereafter.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 117, 7-3-79)
Sec. 3-242. - Privilege.
Licenses under this article shall be mere grants or privileges and the mayor and council shall have the discretion to approve or deny any application for a license to sell spirituous liquors by the drink.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 118, 7-3-79)
Sec. 3-243. - Renewal.
All licensees under this article shall be required to renew their licenses annually on forms prescribed by the mayor and council. Any establishments which hold wine-pouring licenses at the time of the adoption of this article shall be allowed to continue to operate under this article at such location as a nonconforming use thereof.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 119, 7-3-79)
Sec. 3-244. - Factors considered in issuance.
In determining whether or not any license applied for under this article shall be granted, the following factors shall be considered in the public interest and welfare:
(1)
The applicant's reputation, character, mental and physical capacity to conduct this business;
(2)
If applicant is a previous holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquors, whether or not he has violated any law, regulation or ordinance relating to such business;
(3)
If the applicant is a previous holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquors, the manner in which he conducted the business thereunder as to the necessity for unusual police observation and inspection in order to prevent the violation of any law, regulation or ordinance relating to such business;
(4)
The location for which the license is sought as to traffic congestion, general character of the neighborhood and the effect such an establishment would have on the adjacent and surrounding property values;
(5)
The number of licenses already granted for similar businesses in the trading area of the place for which the license is sought;
(6)
If dancing is to be permitted upon the premises for which the license is sought, and applicant has previously permitted dancing upon any premises controlled or supervised by him, the manner in which he controlled or supervised such dancing to prevent any violation of any law, regulation or ordinance; and
(7)
Whether a licensee has had a license, which was issued under the police powers of the city, suspended or revoked.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 120, 7-3-79; Ord. No. 82-10, § 1, 12-7-82)
Sec. 3-245. - Conviction for felony or misdemeanor.
No original license shall be issued to any person, partnership or corporation organized for pecuniary gain where any individual having an interest, whether as owner, partner, principal stockholder, directly or indirectly beneficial or absolute, shall have been convicted or shall have taken a plea of nolo contendere, within ten (10) years immediately prior to the filing of an application, for any felony or misdemeanor of any state, the United States or for any municipal ordinance except traffic violations. The term "conviction" shall include an adjudication of guilt or a plea of guilty or nolo contendere or else the forfeiture of a bond when charged with a crime. Where the violation is for a misdemeanor, resulting in a forfeiture of a bond required by a municipal ordinance, the police committee may, after investigation, waive the same as a disqualification.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 121, 7-3-79; Ord. No. 2014-07, § 4, 8-19-14)
Sec. 3-246. - Required citizenship.
No license under this article shall be granted to any applicant who is not a citizen of the United States or a permanent resident alien. If the applicant is a partnership, the requirements of the section shall apply to all the partners.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 122, 7-3-79; Ord. No. 87-32, § 1, 10-20-87)
Sec. 3-247. - Eligibility.
No license under this article shall be issued to any applicant whose establishment does not meet the requirements of a restaurant, hotel, lounge or indoor commercial recreational establishment as defined in this article; provided, however, that this section shall not apply to any applicant who holds a city wine-to-be-consumed license at the time of the adoption of this article.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 123, 7-3-79; Ord. No. 87-30, § 2, 10-20-87)
Sec. 3-248. - Fee.
An annual fee in an amount as set by resolution of the city council, which amount shall remain in effect until modified or amended by subsequent resolution adopted by the city council shall be charged for a license to sell distilled spirits, spirituous liquors, wines, champagnes, malt beverages or any combination of them for consumption on the premises, except that private clubs licensed to sell such beverages shall be charged as set forth in this article. An additional license in an amount as set by resolution of the city council, which amount shall remain in effect until modified or amended by subsequent resolution adopted by the city council, shall be charged for a licensee to sell distilled spirits, spirituous liquors, wines, champagnes, malt beverages or any combination of them for consumption on the premises between the hours of 11:00 a.m. Sunday and 2:55 a.m. Monday. All license fees under this section shall be paid in advance on or before January first of each year, and for any license granted during a calendar year, the full license fee without proration must be paid by the licensee. However, the fee for a new license granted after June thirtieth in any calendar year shall be fifty (50) percent of the above stated annual fee for the remainder of that calendar year.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 124, 7-3-79; Ord. No. 89-24, § 1, 12-19-89; Ord. No. 2014-10, § 4, 11-18-14; Ord. No. 2018-12 , § 1, 12-18-18)
Sec. 3-249. - Issued for calendar year.
No license shall be issued for less than a calendar year period, or the remainder thereof. In case of the revocation or surrender of such license before the expiration of such calendar year period, the holder thereof shall not be entitled to receive any refund whatsoever.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 125, 7-3-79)
Sec. 3-250. - Surveyor's certificate.
All original applications for new licenses shall include a certificate from a registered surveyor showing a scale drawing of the location of the proposed or existing premises and the distance from the proposed or existing front entrance of the proposed or existing premises to the front entrance of the buildings of the nearest alcoholic treatment centers, churches, schools, colleges, and housing authority properties. The scale drawing shall show measurements of all relevant distances utilizing the most direct route of travel on the ground.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 126, 7-3-79; Ord. No 2003-16, § 15, 10-21-03)
Sec. 3-251. - Distance requirements for premises upon which distilled or spirituous liquors will be consumed.
(a)
At a minimum, the front entrance of the building housing the premises upon which distilled or spirituous liquors will be consumed must be located the distance specified below from the front entrance of any relevant building, unless otherwise specified herein. Using the most direct route of travel on the ground, measure as follows:
(1)
At least three hundred (300) feet from the premises upon which distilled or spirituous liquors will be consumed to an alcoholic treatment center;
(2)
At least three hundred (300) feet from the premises upon which distilled or spirituous liquors will be consumed to any church building;
(3)
At least six hundred (600) feet from the premises upon which distilled or spirituous liquors will be consumed to any school building or school grounds;
(4)
At least six hundred (600) feet from the premises upon which distilled or spirituous liquors will be consumed to a college campus;
(5)
At least three hundred (300) feet from premises upon which distilled or spirituous liquors will be consumed to a housing authority property;
(6)
At least three hundred (300) feet from an alcoholic treatment center to the premises upon which distilled or spirituous liquors will be consumed;
(7)
At least three hundred (300) feet from any church building to the premises upon which distilled or spirituous liquors will be consumed;
(8)
At least six hundred (600) feet from any school building or school grounds to the premises upon which distilled or spirituous liquors will be consumed;
(9)
At least six hundred (600) feet from a college campus to the premises upon which distilled or spirituous liquors will be consumed; and
(10)
At least three hundred (300) feet from a housing authority property to the premises upon which distilled or spirituous liquors will be consumed.
(b)
This section shall not apply to licenses issued to or in hotels or to private clubs.
(c)
The schools or colleges referred to in this section shall include only such state, county, city, church or other schools as teach the subjects commonly taught in the common schools and colleges of this state, and shall not include private schools or colleges wherein only specialized subjects such as law, stenography, business, music, art, medicine, dentistry, vocational occupations and other special subjects, are taught. For the purposes of this section, "schools" shall not include day care centers, or facilities which participate in Georgia's Pre-K Program.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 127, 7-3-79; Ord. No. 93-11, § 4, 12-21-93; Ord. No 2003-16, §§ 16, 17, 10-21-03; Ord. No. 2010-14, §§ 7, 8, 9-21-10)
Sec. 3-252. - Time limit on obtaining license and paying fees after approval.
All licenses must be obtained and fees paid not later than four (4) weeks from the date of the approval of the application for a license by the mayor and council, and if not so obtained, the license shall be void.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 128, 7-3-79)
Sec. 3-253. - Revocation of license; due cause.
(a)
No license which has been issued or which may be issued by the city under this article shall be suspended or revoked, except for due cause, as defined in subsection (b) below. Only after a hearing and upon the prior three-day written notice to the holder of such license of the time, place and purpose of such hearing and a statement of the charge upon which such hearing shall be held shall any license be suspended or revoked.
(b)
"Due cause" for the suspension or revocation of a license under this article shall consist of the violation of any laws or ordinances regulating such businesses, or a violation of regulations made pursuant to authority granted for the purpose of regulating such businesses, or for the violation of any city ordinance other than traffic ordinances.
(c)
Upon a finding of "due cause" for suspension or revocation by the mayor and council against the licensee, the following minimum penalties shall apply:
(1)
First offense—Three-day suspension;
(2)
Second offense—Ten-day suspension and one thousand dollar ($1,000.00) fine;
(3)
Third offense—Thirty-day suspension and one thousand dollar ($1,000.00) fine; and
(4)
Fourth offense—Revocation for a minimum of two (2) years.
(d)
In the event of revocation, no refund of any portion of the license shall be paid.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 129, 7-3-79; Ord. No. 94-9, §§ 7, 8, 5-17-94)
Sec. 3-254. - City officials holding license prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any elected or full-time appointed official of the city, or his spouse or minor children, to hold any license under this article.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 130, 7-3-79)
Sec. 3-255. - Wholesalers holding licenses prohibited.
No person shall hold a license under this article who also has any direct financial interest in any wholesale liquor business. No financial aid or assistance to any licensee under this article from any wholesaler or manufacturer of intoxicating liquors shall be permitted, provided that this section shall not be applicable to private clubs, as defined in this article.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 131, 7-3-79)
Sec. 3-256. - Nontransferable; application to decedent's estate and partnerships.
(a)
Licenses under this article shall not be transferable, except as otherwise provided in this section. In case of the death of any person holding such a license, or any interest in such a license, the same may, in the discretion of the city administrator, be transferred to the administrator, executor of the lawful heirs of the deceased person.
(b)
Nothing in this section shall prohibit one (1) or more of the partners in a partnership holding a license to withdraw from the partnership in favor of one (1) or more of the partners who were partners at the time of issuance of the license. However, such a withdrawal shall not serve to bring any new ownership into the partnership.
(c)
A licensee may take in partners or additional stockholders where it is determined that the additional capital furnished is to be used exclusively for additional inventory, for expanding the facilities of the business, or for building new facilities, and where it appears that the licensee himself receives directly none of the additional capital invested. Under this section an additional partner or new principal stockholder must be approved by the city administrator.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 132, 7-3-79; Ord. No. 91-12, § 4, 11-19-91)
Sec. 3-257. - Business to be opened within six months of receiving license.
All holders of licenses under this article must, within a six-month period after the issuance of the license, open for business the establishment referred to in the license and begin the sale of the product or products authorized by the license. Failure to open the establishment and begin the sale of such products within the six-month period shall serve as automatic forfeiture and cancellation of the unused license and no refund of license fees shall be made to the license holder.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 133, 7-3-79)
Sec. 3-258. - Discontinuation of operation for six months means automatic forfeiture.
Any holder of a license under this article who shall begin the operation of the business and sale of the product or products as authorized in the license, but who shall, for a period of six (6) consecutive months thereafter, cease to operate the business and sale of the product or products authorized in the license, shall upon completion of the six-month period automatically forfeit his license, which license shall, by virtue of the failure to operate, be canceled without the necessity of any further action by the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 134, 7-3-79)
Secs. 3-259—3-270. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - APPLICATION AND REQUIREMENTS OF LICENSEE

Sec. 3-271. - Forms; data requested.
The police committee shall have authority to prescribe forms for new or renewal applications for licenses under this article. All applicants shall furnish any data, information and records requested of them by the police committee or the police department. Failure to furnish such data, information and records within thirty (30) days from the date of such request shall automatically serve to dismiss, with prejudice, the application. Applicants, by filing an application, agree to produce for oral interrogation any person or persons requested by the police committee, police department or the city attorney who are considered as being important in the ascertainment of the facts relative to such license. The failure to produce such person or persons within thirty (30) days after being requested to do so shall result in the automatic dismissal of such application.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 135, 7-3-79)
Sec. 3-272. - Misleading or omitted information.
Any untrue or misleading information contained in or material omission left out of an original, renewal or transfer application for a license under this article shall be cause for the denial thereof. If any license has been granted under these circumstances, there shall be cause for the revocation of same.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 136, 7-3-79)
Sec. 3-273. - Zoning regulations for a licensed location.
No license to engage in the sale of spirituous liquors or distilled liquors for on-premises consumption shall be issued within the areas described in this article unless the location has been zoned GC, RSC, M-1, M-2, TCMU or TCMF under the zoning laws of the city.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 137, 7-3-79; Ord. No. 89-25, § 1, 10-17-89; Ord. No 2003-16, § 18, 10-21-03; Ord. No. 2007-08, § 4, 4-17-07)
Sec. 3-274. - Compliance with fire regulations.
(a)
Where a minimum sleeping or seating capacity is prescribed in this article, the same shall be judged by reasonable standards. The fire department shall, upon a request of the police committee, inspect such premises and report their findings to the committee.
(b)
All premises licensed under this article shall conform at all times with all fire regulations of the city.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 138, 7-3-79)
Cross reference— Fire prevention and protection, Ch. 6.
Sec. 3-275. - Licensee serving malt liquors, vinous liquors.
Persons obtaining licenses under this article shall have the right to serve malt beverages and on the premises during the same hours as are permitted under this article for the serving of spirituous liquors, wines or champagnes by the drink. Nothing under this article is intended to repeal the hours of serving same in any other type establishment not covered under licenses permitted by this article.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 139, 7-3-79)
Sec. 3-276. - Condition of premises.
All premises shall be kept clean, in proper sanitary condition and in full compliance with the provisions and regulations governing the conditions of premises used for the storage and sale of food for human consumption.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 140, 7-3-79)
Sec. 3-277. - Disturbances; obscenity, etc., prohibited.
It shall be unlawful to permit any disturbance of the peace, any obscenity or any lewd, immoral or improper entertainment, conduct or practice.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 141, 7-3-79)
Sec. 3-278. - Sales to minors and intoxicated persons prohibited.
No licensee authorized to sell distilled spirits and spirituous liquors for on-premises consumption in Union City, Georgia, nor any agent or employee of any licensee, shall do any of the following upon the licensed premises:
(1)
Sell, give, provide, furnish, or cause to be furnished any distilled spirits or spirituous liquor to any person under twenty-one (21) years of age;
(2)
Sell, give, provide, furnish, or cause to be furnished any distilled spirits or spirituous liquor to any person who is in a state of noticeable intoxication.
(Ord. No. 74-6, § 142, 7-3-79; Ord. No. 94-8, § 4, 5-17-94)
Sec. 3-279. - Minors prohibited on licensed premises unless accompanied by parent or guardian.
No person who holds a license to sell spirituous liquors by the drink shall allow any minor to be in, frequent or loiter about the licensed premises of a lounge, unless such minors are accompanied by a parent or legal guardian. However, minors shall be permitted in restaurants or private clubs, as defined in this article, without being accompanied by a parent or legal guardian, provided that this section shall not apply to minors who are employees under the terms of this article.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 143, 7-3-79)
Sec. 3-280. - Minors misrepresenting age, drinking or possessing liquor; prohibited.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any minor to intentionally misrepresent his age in any manner whatsoever.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any minor to drink or possess any spirituous liquors, as defined in this article.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 144, 7-3-79)
Sec. 3-281. - Service in back rooms prohibited; exceptions.
The sale of spirituous liquors for consumption by persons in any back room or side room which is not open to general public use is prohibited, except that private parties or conventions, which have been scheduled in advance, may be served in public or private dining rooms or meeting rooms, and, provided further, that this prohibition shall not apply to the sale of spirituous liquors for consumption to the registered guests of any hotel or motel in their designated rooms.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 145, 7-3-79)
Sec. 3-282. - Opened original packages on licensed premises prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person, except a licensee, his manager or agent in charge of the licensed premises, to carry into or have in his possession on any licensed premises any spirituous liquors in the original package, the seal of which has been broken or the original package opened.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 146, 7-3-79)
Sec. 3-283. - Authority to purchase alcoholic beverages.
The holders of licenses may purchase from wholesalers licensed by the city, alcoholic beverages in sizes of one-fifth of a gallon or larger containers, unless a particular brand is not packaged in these size contents, and then the license holder may purchase that brand in the nearest size to such containers.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 147, 7-3-79)
Sec. 3-284. - Closing hours.
No license holder shall sell, give away or otherwise dispense spirituous liquors, wines, champagnes or malt beverages between the hours of 2:55 a.m. Sunday and 11:00 a.m. Sunday and between the hours of 2:55 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. on other days.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 148, 7-3-79; Ord. No. 89-24, § 2, 12-19-89; Ord. No. 2018-12 , § 2, 12-18-18)
Sec. 3-285. - Reuse of bottles prohibited.
It shall be illegal for the licensee under this article to add to the contents of a bottle or to refill empty bottles or in any other manner to misrepresent the quantity, quality or band name of any alcoholic beverage.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 149, 7-3-79)
Sec. 3-286. - Prices and charges to be displayed; filed with police department.
All licensees under this article, except private clubs, shall display in prominent places their current prices of spirituous liquors, vinous liquors, champagnes or malt liquors by the drink: the amount of spirituous liquor to be served in each drink; as well as admission and cover charges. The licensee shall file a copy of the same with the investigating officer of the police department and he shall furnish to any customer that so desires an itemized bill of charges which shall not exceed the price list furnished to the police department. Upon any increase or decrease of prices, a new list must be filed with the police department.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 150, 7-3-79)
Sec. 3-287. - Leaving premises without paying.
Any person leaving the premises of the licensees under this article without paying his charges shall be in violation of the law, provided that this section shall not apply to private clubs or restaurants as defined in this article.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 151, 7-3-79)
Sec. 3-288. - Drinks to be served by employees.
Distilled spirits and spirituous liquors shall be served only by employees of the establishment.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 152, 7-3-79)
Sec. 3-289. - No sales outside building.
It shall be unlawful for any sales to be made outside of the building, premises or place of business licensed for such sale, except as permitted in this article. It shall not be unlawful for such sales to be made at a licensed golf course facility.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 153, 7-3-79; Ord. No. 2007-09, § 3, 4-17-07)
Sec. 3-290. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 90-12, adopted Sept. 4, 1990, repealed § 3-290 which pertained to sales on election days prohibited.
Sec. 3-291. - Employment of certain persons prohibited.
It shall be unlawful in any premises used for the sale of spirituous liquors, wines, champagnes or malt beverages by the drink under this article to employ any person in any capacity whatsoever, including performers, entertainers and musicians, who has been convicted, by this or any other state or by the United States or any other country, of soliciting for prostitution, pandering, letting premises for prostitution, keeping a disorderly place, illegally dealing in narcotics, sex offenses, or any charge relating to the manufacture or sale of intoxicating liquors, provided that this section shall not apply to private clubs, as defined in this article.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 155, 7-3-79)
Sec. 3-292. - Employment of minors.
(a)
No licensee under this article shall employ any minor in his establishment, provided that in restaurants and hotels minors may be employed where their duties are not in any way involved with the preparation of or the sale or service of any spirituous liquors, vinous liquors, champagnes or malt liquors by the drink.
(b)
This section shall not apply to private clubs, as defined in this article, and musicians and other entertainers, who are minors, may provide professional entertainment on the premises with the permission of the police committee.
(c)
It shall be the duty of all persons holding retail or wholesale licenses to sell alcoholic beverages to file with the chief of police the names of all employees, with their home addresses and home telephone numbers and new places of employment. Changes in the list of employees, with the names of new employees, must be filed with the chief of police within three (3) days from the date of any such change. All employees shall be subject to such investigative rules and regulations as may be deemed necessary from time to time by the police department of the city. A twenty-five dollar ($25.00) investigative fee shall be paid by all applicants.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 156, 7-3-79; Ord. No 2003-16, § 19, 10-21-03)
Sec. 3-293. - Copy of article maintained on premises.
It shall be the duty of the management of the premises licensed under this article to maintain a copy of this article on such premises and to instruct each and every employee of the terms thereof.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 157, 7-3-79)
Sec. 3-294. - Maximum seating capacity of lounges.
No establishment holding a license under this article as a lounge shall have a seating capacity in excess of two hundred fifty (250) persons, irrespective of any other provisions in this Code.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 158, 7-3-79)
Sec. 3-295. - Serving of standing customers at bars prohibited.
No licensee for the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises may serve any customer who is not seated, it being the purpose of this section to prohibit anyone being served while standing at a bar or while standing in any area of the establishment.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 159, 7-3-79)
Sec. 3-296. - Temporary or flashing signs to identify licensed premises prohibited.
No temporary or mobile sign, including window signs, or any flashing signs shall be permitted to identify the premises of a licensee under this article.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 160, 7-3-79; Ord. No. 2018-12 , § 3, 12-18-18)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2018-12 , § 3, adopted Dec. 18, 2018, changed the title of § 3-296 from "Temporary or flashing signs to identify licensed premises prohibited; extinguishing lighted signs on Sundays" to read as herein set out.
Sec. 3-297. - Nudity restricted.
(a)
Based on the experience of other urban counties and municipalities, including but not limited to Atlanta and Fulton County, Georgia; Dekalb County, Georgia; Smyrna, Georgia; and Richmond County, Georgia; which experiences we believe are relevant to the problems faced by Union City, we take note of the notorious and self-evident conditions attendant to the commercial exploitation of human sexuality, which do not vary greatly among general comparable communities within our country. Moreover, it is the finding of this council that public nudity (either partial or total) under certain circumstances, particularly circumstances related to the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages in so-called "nude bars," or establishments offering so-called "nude entertainment" or "adult entertainment," begets criminal behavior and tends to create undesirable community conditions. Among the acts of criminal behavior identified with nudity and alcohol are disorderly conduct, prostitution, and drug trafficking and use. Among the undesirable community conditions identified with nudity and alcohol are depression of property values in the surrounding neighborhood, increased expenditure for and allocation of law enforcement personnel to preserve law and order, increased burden on the judicial system as a consequence of the criminal behavior hereinabove described, and acceleration of community blight by the concentration of such establishments in particular areas. Therefore, the limitation of nude conduct in establishments licensed to sell alcohol for consumption on the premises is in the public welfare and it is a matter of governmental interest and concern to prevent the occurrence of criminal behavior and undesirable community conditions normally associated with establishments which serve alcohol and also allow and/or encourage nudity. To that end, this section is hereby adopted.
(b)
The following types of entertainment, attire and conduct are prohibited upon any premises licensed to sell, serve, or dispense alcoholic beverages for consumption on such premises within the city limits of Union City:
(1)
The employment or use of any person, in any capacity, in the sale or service of alcoholic beverages while such person is unclothed or in such attire, costume, or clothing, as to expose to view any portion of the female breast below the top of the areola or of any portion of the male or female pubic hair, anus, cleft of the buttocks, vulva and genitals.
(2)
Live entertainment where any person appears in the manner described in paragraph (1) of this section or where such persons (or person) perform(s) acts of, or acts which simulate any of the following:
a.
Sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation, or any sexual act which is prohibited by law;
b.
The caressing or fondling of the breasts, buttocks, anus or genitals;
c.
The displaying of the male or female pubic hair, anus, vulva or genitals.
(3)
The holding, promotion, sponsoring or allowance of any contest, promotion, special night, event or any other activity where patrons of the licensed establishment are encouraged or allowed to engage in any of the conduct described in paragraphs (1) and (2) above; provided, however, that nothing contained in this section (b) shall apply to the premises of any mainstream performance house, museum or theater which derives less than twenty (20) percent of its gross annual income from the sale of alcoholic beverages.
(c)
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this enactment are severable and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section hereof shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any Court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this enactment, since the same would have been enacted by the mayor and council without the incorporation herein of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(d)
All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
(Ord. No. 79-6, § 161, 7-3-79; Ord. No. 94-5, § 1, 2-15-94)
Secs. 3-298—3-310. - Reserved.
