ARTICLE III. - MOVING OF BUILDINGS[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Cross reference— Streets, sidewalks and other public places, Ch. 12; traffic and motor vehicles, Ch. 14.

Sec. 5-121. - Permission from council required; publication of notice of hearing.
It shall be unlawful for any used or secondhand building to be brought into the city from any point without the city or for any such building already within the city to be removed from its present location to any other location without special permission from the city council, which permission shall not be given in any case unless and until there shall have been a public hearing on written application of which hearing notice shall have been published once a week for four (4) weeks at the expense of the applicant in the official newspaper of the city, and once a week for two (2) of such four (4) weeks in the Atlanta Journal or Atlanta Constitution, which notice of such public hearing shall consist of a copy of such application for permission to remove such used or secondhand building, and such other information as may be required by the city council.
(Code 1976, § 9-101)
Sec. 5-122. - Notice of hearing after consideration of application.
The application required by section 5-121 shall be in writing addressed to the city council, and delivered to the city clerk at least five (5) days before the next regular meeting of the city council together with a deposit of the amount of money necessary to pay for the advertising cost, at which meeting of the city council such application shall be presented by the city clerk to the city council for its consideration, and if such application is found in order, and the city council determines that sufficient funds have been deposited with the city treasurer to pay the cost of advertising notice as hereinbefore provided, it shall fix a time and place for a hearing of such application and order publication of such notice stating the time and place when such application will be considered by the city council.
(Code 1976, § 9-102)
Sec. 5-123. - Information in application.
The application required by section 5-121 shall include the name of the applicant, the location and type of building applicant desires permission to remove, and the size and age of such building, the use to which it has been put, and the location to which applicant desires to remove it, the purpose for which such building is to be removed, and whether applicant is the owner of such building and the lot to which he desires to remove it, and such other information as the city council may require.
(Code 1976, § 9-103)
Sec. 5-124. - Unfit buildings not to be brought into city.
In no event will permission be granted to remove into the city any building which any government or governmental agency has found unfit for human habitation or which has been constructed of defective materials, or which has become defective from age, abuse, fire, or other cause.
(Code 1976, § 9-104)
Sec. 5-125. - Notice on lot when building moved into city.
It shall be unlawful for any house to be moved from a location without the city to a lot within the city unless there shall have been posted on the lot to which such house is to be moved a notice of the intention to move such house to such location, which notice shall be posted and shall conform to all rules, regulations and provisions relating to signs posted on lots to which houses are removed when they are moved from the right-of-way of expressways.
(Code 1976, § 9-105)
Sec. 5-126. - Permit from police department required; compliance with requirements.
It shall be unlawful for any house to be moved in, on, along or across any public street, alley, lane, road or way in the city, except in strict compliance with the provisions of this article, nor unless a special permit in writing has been issued for this purpose within the previous twenty-four (24) hours by the police department of the city.
(Code 1976, § 9-106)
Sec. 5-127. - Granting or refusing permit; deposits against loss or damage.
It shall be the duty of the police department of the city to grant the permit required by section 5-126 upon approval thereof by the fire department of the city, to which the police department shall submit the same for approval by the fire department, unless it appears that the moving of such house cannot or will not be done within twenty-four (24) hours from the time the permit would be issued, or that such moving will expose other persons or their property to great danger of injury or damage, or unless it appears that such moving will unreasonably congest traffic or work unnecessary inconvenience, delay, injury, damage or expense to others. If it appears that there is some reasonable prospect of injury or damage to others, but that refusal of such permit would work a more serious loss or injury to the mover or owner of such house, such permit may be issued upon deposit of an amount of money with the chief of police by the owner of the house or the applicant for the permit to indemnify and save anyone from loss or damage resulting from the moving; such amount of money shall be fixed by the chief of police.
(Code 1976, § 9-107)
Sec. 5-128. - Requests for permits.
Request for the permit required by section 5-126 shall be in writing filed with the chief of police of the city at least twenty-four (24) hours before it is desired to move such house and shall state the correct name and post office and street address of such mover, and the time when and the streets along or across which the house is to be moved.
(Code 1976, § 9-108)
Sec. 5-129. - Contents of permit.
The permit required by section 5-126 shall be signed by the chief of police or his duly authorized agent and shall set forth the time when and streets over or across which the house is to be moved.
(Code 1976, § 9-109)
Sec. 5-130. - Permitted during certain times on heavily traveled streets.
No house shall be moved over or across any heavily traveled street or street crossing, except between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. and then only so as to interfere with orderly and regular flow of traffic as little as possible.
(Code 1976, § 9-110)
Sec. 5-131. - Lighting outside area of structure.
No house shall be moved without at least one (1) red light at the top and one (1) at the bottom of each back corner to indicate the outside area of the street occupied by such house and likewise at each front corner of the house for the same purpose. Such lights shall be so located that the operator of any vehicle approaching such house from any direction can readily see how much of the street is being taken up by the moving of the house. All of the light shall be well-lighted at all times.
(Code 1976, § 9-111)
Sec. 5-132. - Stationing of guards required.
No house shall be moved in the city on any vehicle without a guard attending on either side and in front of and behind such moving house as the same moves along or across any street to give warning of its presence. The guards shall remain at a sufficient distance from the house to give ample warning of the presence of such house in the street in ample time to avoid any collision with any moving vehicle, train, locomotive or other moving object.
(Code 1976, § 9-112)
Sec. 5-133. - House mover's equipment.
No house mover shall commence or undertake to move any house in the city without adequate equipment in good working order.
(Code 1976, § 9-113)
Sec. 5-134. - Leaving a house unattended.
No house shall be left unattended on or partly on or across any public street, lane, alley or way in the city at any time of the day or night.
(Code 1976, § 9-114)
Sec. 5-135. - Notice of moving time and obstructed streets.
No house shall be moved on or across any public street, lane, road, alley, or way in the city without first giving the fire department of the city a written notice of the time of the moving and the names of the streets over, through, in or across which such house is to be moved in order that the fire department of the city may not be retarded or unnecessarily delayed in discharging its duties by an obstructed or congested street resulting from moving a house into, in or out of the city.
(Code 1976, § 9-115)
Sec. 5-136. - Moving prohibited under certain circumstances.
No house shall be moved nor shall any permit be granted for the removal of any house in the city at any time when it is not likely to be reasonably safe, or when it is reasonable to suppose there will be a street congestion for an unreasonable length of time on account of weather conditions or any other unusual conditions or circumstances, except upon such reasonable terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the joint chiefs of the police and fire departments of the city.
(Code 1976, § 9-116)
Sec. 5-137. - License to move over streets required; fee; exception.
(a)
Any person who shall move a house or other building as a unit on, across or along any public street or highway within the city shall first pay a license fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) to the city; provided, however, that the fee shall not be required of a church, hospital, or other eleemosynary institution. It shall be unlawful to move any house or building as aforesaid without first obtaining such license.
(b)
When anyone duly authorized, desires to move a dwelling house or other building in two (2) or more sections, in, on, or across any public street or highway within the city, the license fee shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first section, and twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for each additional section or unit to be moved which shall be paid in advance.
(Code 1976, § 9-117)
Sec. 5-138. - When necessitated by redevelopment; special permit.
Any person who shall desire to move any house or building, which shall be subject to destruction or displacement because of urban renewal or the construction of roads, streets, highways, hospitals or other public buildings, may do so by first obtaining a special permit to move such house or building from the city council, and by paying any license fee which may be required by the city.
(Code 1976, § 9-118)
Secs. 5-139—5-150. - Reserved.
