Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters shall constitute and be designated as "The Code of Warm Springs, Georgia," and may be so cited. This Code may also be cited as the "Warm Springs City Code."
(Code 2002, § 1-1)
State Law reference— Codification requirements, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
The following rules of construction and definitions shall apply to all ordinances and resolutions of the city council unless the context requires otherwise.
Generally. The ordinary signification shall be applied to all words, except words of art or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter when they shall have the signification attached to them by experts in such trade or with reference to such subject matter. In all interpretations the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the council, keeping in view, at all times, the old law, the evil and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(a), (b).
Liberal construction; minimum requirements; overlapping provisions. All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the city council may be fully carried out. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the other provisions of this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling. The specific controls over the general.
As soon as possible. The term "as soon as possible" means within a reasonable time, having due regard to all the circumstances.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(5).
Charter. The term "Charter" means the Charter of the City of Warm Springs, Georgia, as amended.
Chief of police, city marshal. The terms "chief of police," "marshal" and "city marshal" are synonymous.
City. The term "city" or "this city" means the City of Warm Springs, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" means The Code of Warm Springs, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years, or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(3).
Conjunctions. Where a provision involves two or more items, conditions, provisions or events connected by the conjunction "and," "or" or "either … or," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows:
(1)
The term "and" indicates that all the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply.
(2)
The term "or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or events may apply singly or in any combination.
(3)
The term "either … or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply singly, but not in combination.
Council, city council, mayor and council, mayor and city council. The term "council," "city council," "mayor and council" or "mayor and city council" means the mayor and council of the City of Warm Springs, Georgia.
County. The term "county" means Meriwether County, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring a city officer or city employee to do some act, it is to be construed to authorize the officer or employee to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act.
Following. The term "following" means next after.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(8).
Gender. Words of one gender include all other genders.
State Law reference— Gender, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(4).
Joint authority. A joint authority given to any number of persons or officers may be executed by a majority of them, unless it is otherwise declared.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(5).
Keeper and proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" mean and include persons, whether acting by themselves or acting as a servant, agent or employee.
May. The term "may" is to be construed as being permissive.
Mayor. The term "mayor" means the mayor of the city.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(11).
Must. The term "must" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Number. The singular and plural number include the other, unless expressly excluded.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(6).
Oath. The term "oath" includes an affirmation.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(12).
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the latest edition of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Officials, employees, boards, commissions or other agencies. Whenever reference is made to officials, employees, boards, commissions or other agencies by title only, the reference refers to the officials, employees, boards, commissions or other agencies of the city.
Owner. The term "owner," as applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership or joint tenant of the whole or of a part of the building or land.
Person. The term "person" includes any association, club, society, firm, corporation, partnership or body politic and corporate, as well as an individual.
State Law reference— Definition of "person," O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(14).
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property.
Preceding. The term "preceding" means next before.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(15).
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(16).
Public place. The term "public place" includes any place that the public is invited or permitted to go or congregate.
Real property. The term "real property" include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Shall. The term "shall" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature and subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription" include the mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(19).
State. The term "state" means the State of Georgia.
Street and road. The terms "street" and "road" include any street, avenue, boulevard, road, alley, lane, viaduct and any other public highway in the city including, but not limited to, the paved or improved surfaces thereof.
Tenant and occupant. The terms "tenant" and "occupant," applied to a building or land, include any person holding a written or oral lease of or who occupies the whole or a part of a building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future, as well as the past and present.
State Law reference— Tense of words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(7).
Week. The term "week" means seven days.
Will. The term "will" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Writing. The term "writing" includes printing and all numerals.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(23).
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(24).
(Code 2002, § 1-2)
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; effect of history notes; references in Code.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of such sections nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Cross references, Charter references, related law references and state law references which appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions or sections are to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions or sections of this Code, unless otherwise specified.
(Code 2002, § 1-3)
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect. The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect or any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
(b)
An ordinance which is in conflict in its entirety with a subsequent ordinance shall be deemed to be repealed in its entirety, even if no specific repealer is stated. If an ordinance is only partially in conflict with a subsequent ordinance, only the portion of the previous ordinance in conflict with the subsequent ordinance shall be deemed to have been repealed, even if a specific repealer is not stated.
(Code 2002, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in this Code. Repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of these subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending those provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "Section ____________ of The Code of Warm Springs, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: …." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "The Code of Warm Springs, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered ____________ , which section reads as follows: …." The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be, or by setting them out at length in the repealing ordinance.
(Code 2002, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-6. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
Supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the city. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission of such portions from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the person authorized to prepare the supplement may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the person may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections ____________ to ____________ " (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code.
(d)
In no case shall the person make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Code 2002, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-7. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" means:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance; or
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a misdemeanor or an offense or unlawful by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a city officer or city employee to perform an official duty, unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section or it is clear from the context that it is the intent to impose the penalty provided for in this section upon the officer or employee.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided, a person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by: a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 and costs, or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year, or to both such fine and imprisonment, or any or all of such penalties to be imposed at the discretion of the judge of the city court.
(1)
With respect to violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
(2)
With respect to violations of this Code that are not continuous with respect to time, each day the violations continue is a separate offense.
(d)
The imposition of a penalty does not prevent revocation or suspension of a license, permit or franchise or other administrative sanctions.
(e)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief and by such other means as are provided by law. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent equitable relief.
(Code 2002, § 1-7)
State Law reference— Limitations on penalties, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-35-3, 36-35-6(a)(2); authority of municipal judge to impose community service, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-5.
Sec. 1-8. - Severability of Code.
The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional, invalid or otherwise unenforceable by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, that unconstitutionality, invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs or sections of this Code, since they would have been enacted without the incorporation in this Code of the unconstitutional, invalid or unenforceable phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 2002, § 1-8)
State Law reference— Severability, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-9. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, insofar as they are the same as those of the Code of the city, as amended, and ordinances existing at the time of adoption of this Code, shall be considered as continuations and not as new enactments.
(Code 2002, § 1-9)
Sec. 1-10. - Prior offenses, penalties, contracts or rights not affected by adoption of Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or permitting any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance of the city in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
(Code 2002, § 1-10)
Sec. 1-11. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code affects the validity of any the following ordinances or portions of ordinances, which ordinances or portions of ordinances continue in full force and effect to the same extent as if published at length in this Code:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness.
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the city.
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any city officer or employee, unless superseded.
(5)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing and/or prescribing employment, benefits, and/or personnel policies and procedures for any city officer or city employee.
(6)
Any right or franchise granted by the city.
(7)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the city.
(8)
Any appropriation ordinance.
(9)
Any ordinance or resolution which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term.
(10)
Any ordinance or resolution providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor.
(11)
Any zoning ordinance or amendments thereto, and any ordinance establishing a planning commission, including joint commissions.
(12)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat or providing for subdivision regulations.
(13)
Any ordinance or resolution describing or altering the boundaries of the city.
(14)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(15)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein.
(16)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing or prescribing street grades in the city.
(17)
Any ordinance or regulation prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations concerning through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic, limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones, not in conflict or inconsistent with this Code.
(18)
Any ordinance or resolution of agreement with another political subdivision.
(19)
Any other ordinance or resolution, or part thereof, which is not of a general and permanent nature; or which is referred to elsewhere in this Code as continuing in effect.
(b)
No such ordinance shall be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this chapter; and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
(Code 2002, § 1-11)
Sec. 1-12. - Substantive compliance with Code.
A substantial compliance with any requirement of the Code, or ordinances, especially on the part of public officers, shall be deemed and held sufficient, and no proceeding shall be declared void for want of such compliance, unless expressly so provided by the enactment.
Sec. 1-13. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever, except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the mayor and city council.
