ARTICLE V. - OCCUPATIONAL TAXES[4]

Sec. 10-153. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative fee means the component of an occupation tax that approximates the reasonable cost of handling and processing the occupation tax.
Business means engaging in a purposeful activity, trade, profession or occupation for gain or profit.
Dominant line means the type of business within a multiple line business from which the greatest amount of income is derived.
Employee means an individual whose work is performed under the direction and supervision of the employer and whose employer withholds FICA, federal income tax, or state income tax from such individual's compensation, or whose employer issues to such individual, for purposes of documenting compensation, an IRS form W-2, but not an IRS form 1099.
Location or office includes any structure or vehicle where a business, profession, or occupation is conducted, but shall not include a temporary or construction work site which serves a single customer or project or a vehicle used for sales or delivery by a business or practitioner of a profession or occupation which has a location or office. The renter's or lessee's location, which is the site of personal property, which is rented or leased from another does not constitute a location or office for the personal property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor. The site of real property, which is rented or leased to another, does not constitute a location or office for the real property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor unless the real property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor, in addition to showing the property to prospective lessees or tenants and performing maintenance or repair of the property, otherwise conducts the business of renting or leasing the real property at such site or otherwise conducts any other business, profession, or occupation at such site.
Occupation tax means a tax levied on persons, partnerships, corporations or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession or business for revenue purposes.
Occupation tax certificate means a document issued by the city acknowledging payment of the occupation tax and administrative fee.
Practitioners of professions means:
(1)
Lawyers.
(2)
Physicians licensed under O.C.G.A. title 43, ch. 34 (O.C.G.A. § 43-34-1 et seq.).
(3)
Osteopaths licensed under O.C.G.A. title 43, ch. 34 (O.C.G.A. § 43-34-1 et seq.).
(4)
Chiropractors.
(5)
Podiatrists.
(6)
Dentists.
(7)
Optometrists.
(8)
Psychologists.
(9)
Veterinarians.
(10)
Landscape architects.
(11)
Land surveyors.
(12)
Physiotherapists.
(13)
Public accountants.
(14)
Embalmers.
(15)
Funeral directors.
(16)
Civil, mechanical, hydraulic or electrical engineers.
(17)
Architects.
(18)
Marriage and family therapists, social workers and professional counselors.
The term "practitioners of professions" shall not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business, if the business pays an occupation tax.
(Code 2002, § 10-31; Ord. of 1-10-2000(2), § 19-37)
Sec. 10-154. - Required.
Each person engaged in any business, trade, profession or occupation in the city, whether with a location in the city or, in the case of an out-of-state business, with no location in the state, exerting substantial efforts within the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, shall pay an annual occupation tax for such business, trade, profession or occupation; which tax and any applicable registration shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the place of business, if the taxpayer has a permanent business location in the city. If the taxpayer has no permanent business location in the city, such business tax registration shall be shown to the tax collecting official or his deputies or to any police officer of the city upon his or their request.
(Code 2002, § 10-32; Ord. of 1-10-2000(2), § 19-36)
State Law reference— Levy of tax authorized, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7.
Sec. 10-155. - Administrative fee; regulatory fee.
(a)
An annual nonprorated, nonrefundable administrative fee, as established from time to time by the mayor and council, is required on all occupation tax accounts for the handling and processing of the occupation tax. Payment of the administrative fee shall be due and payable at the time an occupation tax is paid.
(b)
A regulatory fee may be imposed as provided under O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9 on those applicable businesses. The regulatory fee levied in this article is an exercise of the police power of the city. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee.
(Code 2002, § 10-33; Ord. of 1-10-2000(2), § 19-38)
State Law reference— Regulatory fees, O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-8, 48-13-9; administrative fee authorized, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-10(e).
Sec. 10-156. - Levied.
(a)
An occupation tax shall be levied upon those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations within the corporate limits of the city and pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, upon out-of-state persons with no location or office in the state, based upon the business classification and the number of employees of the business or practitioner.
(b)
Business classifications and taxes shall be as established from time to time by the mayor and council. For taxpayers commencing business on or after April 1 of any year, the rate of tax shall be three-fourths the rate for the full calendar year. For taxpayers commencing business on or after July 1 of any year, the rate of tax shall be one-half the rate for the full calendar year. For taxpayers commencing business on or after October 1 of any year, the rate of tax shall be one-fourth the rate for the full calendar year.
(c)
Where a person conducts business at more than one fixed location within the city, each location or place shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of occupation tax. A fixed location is a location or office as defined by section 10-153 and that area within five feet of the perimeter of the fixed location.
(d)
Persons with no physical location either in the city or state, but which perform services or sell products within the corporate limits of the city, shall be subject to the administrative fee and occupation tax if such person has more than nominal business activity within the city, including:
(1)
One or more employees who exert effort within the jurisdiction of the city for the purpose of soliciting business or serving customers or clients; or
(2)
Owns real or personal property which is located within the jurisdiction of the city and which generates business income or is used to generate business income.
(e)
On or before December 1 of each year, the city clerk shall mail to each registered business or practitioner of a profession or occupation subject to the tax a business registration and return form for the following calendar year. Every person subject to the tax imposed by this article shall file a return, under oath, by January 31 in every year the tax is due, stating the location of the business and the number of employees upon which the tax is calculated. It shall not constitute a defense to the payment of the tax levied under this article that a person failed to receive a tax return form from the city clerk.
(Code 2002, § 10-34; Ord. of 1-10-2000(2), § 19-39; Ord. of 12-9-2002)
Sec. 10-157. - Limitations.
(a)
The city shall not require the payment of more than one occupation tax for each location of a person. A person who has locations or offices elsewhere in the state and who does not have a location or office within the city, but who is subject to occupation tax by virtue of more than nominal business activity within the city, shall be subject to occupation tax by the city, unless the person provides documentation to the city of current payment of an occupation tax to at least one other state local government. A person who has a location or office within this city and one or more locations or offices in other taxing jurisdictions within the state shall be taxed only on the number of employees within the city.
(b)
Persons from out of state with no office or location in the state subject to an occupation tax under this article shall be required to pay an occupation tax to only one local government in the state. Such local government shall be the government of the municipal corporation or county in which the largest dollar volume of business is done or the person performs services. Such persons submitting documentation to the city showing payment of such tax to another local government in the state shall be exempt from the occupation tax levied by this article.
(c)
Real estate brokers shall be subject to the occupation tax imposed by this article only if they maintain a principal or branch office in the city. No additional license, occupation, or professional tax shall be levied or collected from the broker's affiliated associate brokers and salespersons.
(Code 2002, § 10-35; Ord. of 1-10-2000(2), § 19-40)
State Law reference— Restrictions on occupational licenses, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-13 et seq.
Sec. 10-158. - Exemptions.
(a)
No occupation tax shall be levied upon the following:
(1)
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by, and who is employed in practice exclusively by, the United States, the state, a municipality or county of the state, or instrumentality of the United States or the state;
(2)
Those businesses regulated by the state public service commission;
(3)
Those electrical service businesses organized under O.C.G.A. title 46, ch. 3 (O.C.G.A. § 46-3-1 et seq.);
(4)
Any farm operation for the production of agricultural products, but not including any agribusiness;
(5)
Not-for-profit agricultural product cooperative marketing associations pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105;
(6)
Motor common carriers pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15;
(7)
Persons purchasing guano, meats, meal, flour, bran, cotton seed or cotton seed meal or hills in carload lots for distribution among the purchasers for use and not sale pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355;
(8)
Persons selling or introducing into the city agricultural products or livestock, including animal products, raised in the sale, when the sale and introduction are made by the producer of the product and the sale is made within 90 days of the introduction of the product into the city;
(9)
Insurance companies pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8;
(10)
Depository institutions pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93;
(11)
Any state or local authority or not-for-profit organization; or
(12)
Any business where the levy of such occupation tax is prohibited by the laws of the state or the United States.
(b)
The exemptions and limitations contained in this article shall not be construed to repeal or otherwise affect in any way franchise fees, business taxes or other fees or taxes otherwise permitted by law.
(Code 2002, § 10-36; Ord. of 1-10-2000(2), § 19-44)
State Law reference— Restrictions on occupational license, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-13 et seq.
Sec. 10-159. - Registration of businesses.
(a)
Before conducting any business or practicing any profession or occupation within the corporate limits of the city, it shall be the duty of each person engaging in a business, trade, profession or occupation, to register with the city clerk on forms provided for that purpose. The registration by each person shall state the location or office address from which business is conducted; identify the dominant line of business, profession or occupation conducted; state the number of employees; and identify, by name, address and other pertinent information requested, the form of business organization and its ownership. If the person claims entitlement to exemption from the tax, the basis for such exemption shall be stated on the registration form. Registration forms shall be signed, under oath, and dated, by an owner, partner or officer of the business.
(b)
Registrations shall be renewed annually, between January 1 and April 1 for the current year. Upon any change in the ownership of a registered business organization, notification of such change in ownership shall be reported, in writing, to the city clerk within ten business days on forms provided for this purpose.
(c)
It is not the intent of the city to require registration as a means of regulating any business, trade, profession or occupation, but solely as a means for acquiring information on those businesses and professions operating within the city for purposes of determining liability for payment of the occupation tax. No fee shall be imposed for filing a registration statement or for ascertaining whether such business or practitioner has paid an occupation tax to another local government.
(Code 2002, § 10-37; Ord. of 1-10-2000(2), § 19-41)
Sec. 10-160. - Due dates: delinquency.
(a)
Each administrative fee and occupation tax, as applicable, shall be for the calendar year. Any administrative fee and occupation tax shall be payable January 31 of each year, and shall be delinquent if not paid by April 1 of each year. Any amounts owed which are not paid by April 1 shall be subject to the penalties for delinquency as described in the article. For any new profession, occupation or business begun in the city after January 31 of any year, the administrative fee and occupation tax shall be due and payable immediately upon beginning business and, if not so paid within 30 days thereafter, shall be delinquent. The city clerk shall issue an occupation tax certificate indicating that the profession, occupation or business has paid the fees and taxes owed. Unless otherwise exempted by federal or state law, or this article, any person practicing a profession, occupation or business in this city without having valid certificates issued to him shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided by section 10-166.
(b)
In addition to the remedies of subsection (a) of this section, the city clerk may proceed to collect the delinquencies in the same manner as provided by law for tax executions.
(Code 2002, § 10-38; Ord. of 1-10-2000(2), § 19-42; Ord. of 5-13-2002)
State Law reference— Time for payment of fee or tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-20.
Sec. 10-161. - Certificate.
Every person subject to payment of the occupation tax imposed by this article shall display a current occupation tax certificate in a conspicuous place at the location for which such certificate was issued. If the taxpayer does not have a permanent location within the city, the occupation tax certificate shall be shown upon request to any officer of the city charged with enforcing this article.
(Code 2002, § 10-39; Ord. of 1-10-2000(2), § 19-43)
Sec. 10-162. - Confidentiality.
Information provided by a person to the city for the purpose of determining the applicability and the amount of the occupation tax or the levy or collection of occupation tax levied pursuant to this article is confidential and exempt from disclosure. Such information may be provided by the governing authority of another local government for occupation tax purposes or pursuant to court order or for the purpose of collecting occupation tax or prosecution for failure or refusal to pay an occupation tax.
(Code 2002, § 10-40; Ord. of 1-10-2000(2), § 19-45)
Sec. 10-163. - Evidence of state registration; other qualifications.
(a)
Each person who is licensed under O.C.G.A. title 43 (O.C.G.A. § 43-1-1 et seq.) by the examining boards of the secretary of state's office shall provide evidence of proper and current state licensure at the time of registering the business in accordance with section 10-159.
(b)
Any person required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualification, certificates of competency or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the issuance of a city registration, show evidence of such qualification.
(c)
Any person required to submit an annual application for continuance of that business with state or federal regulatory authorities shall do so before the city registration is issued.
(Code 2002, § 10-41; Ord. of 1-10-2000(2), § 19-46)
Sec. 10-164. - Liability of officers and agents; registration required; failure to obtain.
All persons subject to the occupation tax required in this article shall be required to register the business as prescribed in this article. When in default, the officer or agents soliciting for or obtaining business shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons who fail to obtain a certificate. Each person commencing business in the city after January 1 of each year shall likewise obtain the registration as provided in this section before commencing such business. Any person transacting or offering to transact in the city any kind of business, trade, profession or occupation without having first obtained such registration shall be subject to the penalties provided in this article and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in section 1-7.
(Code 2002, § 10-42; Ord. of 1-10-2000(2), § 19-47)
Sec. 10-165. - Civil penalty and interest.
A penalty is imposed on each business and practitioner of a profession or occupation which or who fails to apply for and obtain appropriate registration, and to pay any and all administrative fees and occupation taxes required by this article by April 1 of each year. Such penalty shall be in the amount of ten percent of the administrative fee and occupation tax determined to be due and owing under the provisions of this article. Such delinquency shall also bear interest at the rate of one and one-half percent for each month or partial month of such delinquency. Penalties provided in this section shall be in addition to any other penalties, civil or criminal, which may be applicable.
(Code 2002, § 10-43; Ord. of 1-10-2000(2), § 19-48; Ord. of 5-13-2002)
Sec. 10-166. - Inspection of records.
The city, through its employees, officers or agents, may inspect the books of any person subject to an occupation tax to determine the accuracy of the documents and information submitted by a business or practitioner to the city. Failure to submit such books or records for inspection within 30 days of an official written request shall be grounds for petitioning a court of competent jurisdiction for a subpoena requiring the production of such books and records. It is the duty of all persons subject to this article to keep and maintain adequate business records at the location or office of the business in this city and to make such records available in the city for examination by designated city agents. If, after examination of the books or records, it is determined that a deficiency exists, a penalty of ten percent of the deficiency and additional interest of one and one-half percent per month of the amount of the deficiency shall be assessed.
(Code 2002, § 10-44; Ord. of 1-10-2000(2), § 19-50)
Sec. 10-167. - Notice to persons subject to tax.
Notices given to holders of occupation tax certificates under this article shall be deemed sufficient if served by certified mail, addressed to the owners of the business at the address as shown in the business registration as filed with the city clerk.
(Code 2002, § 10-45; Ord. of 1-10-2000(2), § 19-51)
Sec. 10-168. - Executions; liens.
(a)
In addition to any other remedies provided in this article for the collection of the occupation tax, the city clerk, upon any tax or installment of the tax becoming delinquent and remaining unpaid, shall issue an execution for the amount of the tax against the person liable for the tax, including interest at the rate of one and one-half percent per month accruing thereon. The lien shall cover the property of the person liable for the tax as provided by this article, the Charter of the city and the laws of the state. The execution shall be levied by the appropriate city agent upon the property of the person liable for the tax, and sufficient property shall be advertised and sold to pay the amount of the execution, with interest and costs allowed by law. All other proceedings in relation thereto shall be as provided by this Code and the Charter of the city and the laws of the state. The defendants at execution shall have the rights of defense, by affidavit of illegality of the tax or otherwise as provided by the Charter of the city and the laws of the state in regard to tax executions.
(b)
When a nulla bona entry has been entered by the proper authority upon execution issued by the city against any person defaulting on an occupation tax, the person against whom the entry was made shall not be allowed or entitled to have or collect any fees or charges whatsoever for goods sold or services rendered after the entry of the nulla bona. If at any time after the entry of the nulla bona has been made, the person against whom the execution pays the tax in full, together with all interest, penalties and costs accrued on the tax, the person may collect any fees and charges for services and goods due the person as though the person had never defaulted in the payment of the taxes.
(Code 2002, § 10-46; Ord. of 1-10-2000(2), § 19-52)
State Law reference— Issuance of executions, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-26.
Sec. 10-169. - Application to prior delinquencies.
This article does not repeal or affect the enforcement of any ordinance or part of any ordinance heretofore passed for fees and taxes levied when such fees and taxes have not been paid in full. Such ordinances and parts of ordinances heretofore passed providing for the issuing and enforcing execution for taxes or assessments required by such ordinances or that imposed fines or penalties for nonpayment of such tax, or for failure to pay regulatory fees pursuant to such ordinances, or failure to comply with the other provisions of such ordinances, shall continue and remain in force until such tax, regulatory fee or assessment shall be fully paid.
(Code 2002, § 10-47; Ord. of 1-10-2000(2), § 19-53)
Sec. 10-170. - Public hearing before future tax increases.
Prior to final action on any future amendment to this article, subsequent to January 1, 2000, which increases the rate of, or changes the criterion basis for, the occupation tax as set forth in this article, the mayor and council shall conduct at least one public hearing. In any year when revenue from the occupation tax generated by this article is greater than revenue from occupation tax for the preceding year, the mayor and council shall hold one or more public hearings as a part of the process of determining how to use the additional revenue.
(Code 2002, § 10-48; Ord. of 1-10-2000(2), § 19-54)
State Law reference— Public hearing required, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-6.
Secs. 10-171—10-193. - Reserved.
