Chapter 62 - PLANNING[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; buildings and building regulations, ch. 22; floods, ch. 42; manufactured homes, ch. 50; roads and bridges, ch. 66; subdivisions, app. A.
State Law reference— The Zoning Procedures Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.; conflicts of interest in zoning actions, O.C.G.A. § 36-67A-1 et seq.; regional development centers, O.C.G.A. § 50-8-30 et seq.; authority to adopt plans and exercise zoning powers, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ IV.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 62-1. - Development procedures manual.
100. General Provisions.
101. Purpose.
This Manual has been prepared to facilitate the development review process by providing detailed instructions and specifications to supplement the regulations contained in the County's development regulations. The Manual can give more detailed instructions and explanations than are appropriate for the ordinances themselves. In addition, since this Manual is adopted by resolution it can be updated and modified more easily than can the ordinances.
102. Intent.
The intent of this Manual is to provide detailed information to supplement the regulations contained in the County's development regulations. The information contained in this Manual does not replace the information in the ordinances, but is to be interpreted in such a way that any conflicts between the information herein and the ordinances themselves shall be resolved in favor of the ordinances.
103. Administration, Interpretation, and Appeals.
The provisions in this Manual will be interpreted and applied by the Brantley County Director of Planning. Where an interpretation concerns a requirement of the Zoning Ordinance, it may be appealed as provided in Article X of the Zoning Ordinance. Where an interpretation concerns a requirement of the Subdivision Regulations, it may be appealed as provided in the relevant section of the Subdivision Regulations.
104. Definitions.
"Planning Department" shall mean the Brantley County Planning or the Department or the Planning Director, as indicated by the context. The Planning Director may designate one or more people to carry out his or her duties and responsibilities as set forth in this Manual.
"Review Coordinator" shall mean the person within the Planning Department designated by the Planning Director to coordinate the intake and review of applications and the placement of applications on the agenda of the appropriate commission or body.
105. Adoption and Amendments.
As provided in Article IX of the Zoning Ordinance (§909) and Article X of the Subdivision Regulations (§1004), this Manual shall be adopted and may from time to time be amended by action of the Brantley County Board of Commissioners upon the recommendation of the Planning Commission.
106. Dates and Times.
Where a date or a day of the week is used in this Manual to indicate an event or action and an occurrence of the date or day of the week is an official Brantley County holiday, the activity mentioned will occur on the next regular working day. When a time is indicated (either specifically or as "close of business") and the time falls during non-working hours (such as for a half-day holiday), the time will be interpreted as the opening time for business on the next regular working day. Normal Brantley County office hours are 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM.
200. Processing of Applications for Development Review.
201. Submittal of Applications.
Applications may be submitted to the Department of Planning by delivery or by mail at the Department's address: 104 Allen Street, Nahunta, GA 31553. Mailed or shipped applications should be marked: "Attention: Application Submittal Desk." Applications may be submitted at any time during regular working hours. All complete applications received by 4 PM local time on Tuesday of each work week will be processed according to the time schedule set forth herein. Applications received after that time will be processed based on time availability, or will be processed with the following week's applications. Note: if the Tuesday is a holiday, applications will be processed on the next regular working day.)
202. Initial Review of Applications.
It is the intent of this Manual that applications will be closely reviewed upon submittal to ensure that they are complete and meet all requirements necessary for processing. Toward that end, staff will be available each Tuesday afternoon to assist with the intake review of applications. Applications that do not meet the minimum requirements for processing will be returned to the applicant or agent as quickly as possible (no later than the close of business on Wednesday, the day after submittal) so that they may be corrected and re-filed. Applications that meet necessary submittal requirements will be distributed for processing not later than noon on the Wednesday following the Tuesday application intake day.
203. Distribution and Formal Review of Applications.
Prior to distribution, all applications will be entered in the Brantley County Tracking System. Each department that makes reviews will enter review comments into the Tracking System not later than noon on the Wednesday one week after distribution of the applications. Each agency making reviews is responsible for making a checklist of review items. Such checklists shall be available to the public upon request. If there are network or Tracking System software problems and comments cannot be entered, the reviewing agency is responsible for providing a review memorandum to the Review Coordinator by FAX or by email prior to the Wednesday noon deadline.
Where the review indicates the need for further work or discussion, it is the responsibility of the reviewing agency to request the Review Coordinator to arrange such a meeting and to include all agencies that are likely to have an interest in the outstanding issue. If there are outstanding issues, these shall be identified in the review comments. Similarly, any arrangements to obtain additional information or to meet concerning the issue will be summarized in the comments.
The agencies involved in review shall include, but are not limited to:
• Planning, Building & Planning Department
• County Engineer
• Public Works, Drainage & Traffic
• Geographic Information System (GIS)
• Fire Department
• Police Department
• Board of Health, Environmental Health Division
• Georgia Department of Transportation
• Brantley County Board of Education
• Private Utilities (Telephone, electric, cable TV, etc., serving the site)
On a case by case basis, review may also be requested from:
• Department of Natural Resources
• City of Nahunta
• City of Hoboken
• Southeast Georgia Regional Development Center (for "developments of regional impact")
• Other county, state, or federal agencies with installations in close proximity to the development site
204. Distribution of Comments to Applicants.
It is the intent of this Manual that substantive comments on an application be identified and noted for the benefit of the applicant as early in the review process as is possible, and to use the review process to find solutions to any problems and to take advantage of any opportunities that are identified.
Each week, a report of the comments on any application currently under review will be produced by the Tracking System. No later than close of business (5:00 PM) on the Wednesday that review comments are due, a copy of the report will be sent by email, fax, or U.S. mail to the applicant or agent for each currently pending case, as well as to the engineer, surveyor, architect, property owner and/or developer. Any other information or memoranda relating to comments or relevant issues will also be forwarded at this time. Note: if the Wednesday is a holiday, comments will be distributed on the next regular working day.
An applicant may also request a current report at any time by contacting the Review Coordinator, and shall receive a report within one business day.
The Review Coordinator will monitor progress on completing reviews and will remind reviewers of those reviews needed in order to be able to return a complete set of comments to the applicant by the review deadline. Where specific issues requiring meetings are identified, the Review Coordinator will begin the process of arranging such meetings. Where a review is missing, the Review Coordinator will contact the reviewer or his/her agency to arrange for a complete review. While it is the intent of this Manual that all comments be returned to the applicant and his or her design team not later than one week after distribution of the plans, in no event shall comments from County agencies be provided later than two weeks after distribution, except where the delay is at the specific written request of the applicant. It is the intent of this Manual that additional methods for distributing review comments be made available, subject to the availability of technology. These may include emailing of comments to applicants and/or posting of comments on the Internet.
205. Disposition of Applications.
Once comments have been collected, a determination shall be made by the Planning Director or his designee as to whether or not the application materially meets the requirements of the applicable ordinances. This determination shall be forwarded to the applicant or his agent in conjunction with the delivery of comments.
If the comments indicate that there are issues or problems to be resolved, the applicant may subsequently revise and re-submit an application for review according to the process described above. [Note: fees are not being addressed at this time. It is the intent that after review of fees, one re-submittal be expected as part of the initial fee and that thereafter a fee shall be charged for each re-submittal.]
If the comments indicate that the application meets all applicable requirements, the application shall be moved to the next step in the review process. If required by the type of review, the application shall be immediately placed on the next available agenda of the Planning Commission or the Board of Commissioners. The "next available agenda" will be determined by the schedule of meetings, agenda deadlines, and report distribution dates established by the Planning Director.
Where the comments indicate that all major issues are resolved, but minor corrections or changes may be required, the applicant shall be so advised. If the Planning Director offers and the applicant agrees; the application may be placed on the next available agenda with the recommendation that it be approved subject to meeting any corrections indicated by the comments.
206. Meetings to Resolve Issues.
It is the intent of this Manual that the review process be facilitated where there are significant issues by direct meetings between interested reviewing agencies and the applicant or his agent. It is further the intent that these meetings be held as expeditiously as possible to help move the application to an appropriate conclusion in an orderly manner.
When an issue or problem is identified, it is the responsibility of the reviewing agency to bring this fact to the Review Coordinator's attention. The Review Coordinator shall contact the applicant and the relevant reviewing agencies or other parties to arrange a meeting at the earliest opportunity. Such meetings shall generally be held at Brantley County facilities, but other arrangements may be made if indicated. The reviewing agencies are responsible for being represented at such meetings and being prepared to address the issues or problems noted. Reviewing agencies will reserve time on Thursday mornings to facilitate the scheduling of such meetings. Note: where the Thursday falls on a holiday, the review meetings will be scheduled for the next regular working day.
Where issues cannot be resolved by such a meeting, the scope of the conflicting positions shall be detailed and a determination made by the Planning Director. Where appropriate, the Planning Director may confer with the head(s) of other review agencies in making this determination.
The applicant may appeal any decision by the Planning Director as provided in the relevant ordinance or regulation. It is the intent of this Manual that, where appropriate and indicated by the issue or regulation, any issue that cannot be resolved be forwarded as quickly as possible to an approval authority, such as the Planning Commission or the Board of County Commissioners. Where the applicant and/or the Planning Director believe that the issues cannot be resolved through the meeting process, either may have the matter placed on the next available agenda of the Planning Commission for review.
207. Pre-Application Meetings (Optional).
Brantley County encourages applicants to meet staff prior to submittal of applications to discuss substantive issues of the development as well as the procedures and expected timetable for review of the application. These meetings can be arranged through the Review Coordinator.
208. Application Checklists.
[Note: checklists will be prepared and inserted here for use in determining the completeness of submittals.]
Preliminary Plat Checklist
The subdivision Preliminary Plat provides the legal and technical data required to confirm compliance with the Brantley County Regulations and to proceed with approval process for a subdivision. The Preliminary Plat shall consist of a map or maps, drawn at a scale of not less than one inch in two hundred feet, and showing the following (Note: References are to Article VII of the Brantley County Subdivision Regulations - §703):
□ The proposed name of the subdivision and proposed street names, and the name of former subdivision(s), if any (703.1):
□ Name and address and telephone number of the owner of record (703.2);
□ Name, address, and telephone number of the subdivider (703.3);
□ The names of owners of record and zoning of land adjacent to the tract to be subdivided (703.14);
□ Date of survey, north point and graphic scale, source of data, date of plat drawing, and space for revision dates (703.4);
□ A vicinity map (703.6):
□ Preliminary Plat Certificates and Statements and the statement "PRELIMINARY PLAT DO NOT RECORD"
a) Certificate of Preliminary Design
b) Certificate of Preliminary Plat Approval (703.5);
□ Exact boundary lines of the tract or parcel to be subdivided, indicated by a heavy line giving length and bearings, and total subdivision land area in acres (703.8);
□ Natural features within the proposed subdivision, including drainage channels, bodies of water, flood plain, wetlands and other significant features; (703.9)
□ Cultural features within the proposed subdivision, including rights-of-way widths, and names of existing and proposed streets and alleys, existing structures, existing easements, buildings, city and county lines, zoning districts and boundaries, and other significant information (703.10);
□ Proposed layout including lot lines with rough dimensions, lot numbers, block letters, street and alley lines, sites reserved through covenants, dedication or otherwise for public uses (703.11);
□ Location of existing water and sewer utilities, if a connection to a water or sewer system is proposed (703.12);
□ Proposed unit division or stage of development, if any (703.13);
□ FIRM Panel Number and flood zone designation (703.15); and
□ Building setback information including setback lines on odd shaped lots (703.16).
Final Plat Processing Checklist
Project Name: _____
Items to be addressed prior to submittal of final plat package (set up meeting with applicant if there are any questions about this):
EXPAND
DATE DONE
□ Draft plat submitted (eleven sets, or as may be determined) _____
□ Draft plat circulated _____ _
□ Comments on draft plat referred to applicant _____
□ Soils report received _____
□ Draft as-builts submitted for utilities _____
□ Draft as-builts circulated for utilities _____ _
□ Draft as-builts submitted for road and drainage _____
□ Draft as-builts circulated for road and drainage _____
□ Inspection requests submitted _____
□ Inspection requests referred to Engineering and Utilities _____ _
□ Punch list/comments received from Engineering _____
□ Engineering punch list/comments forwarded to applicant _____
□ Punch list/comments received from Utilities _____
□ Utilities punch list/comments forwarded to applicant _____
□ Engineer's estimate of cost of corrections received _____
□ Engineer's estimate of cost referred to Engineering and Utilities _____
□ County Engineer's concurrence in cost estimate received _____
□ Utility Manager's concurrence in cost estimate received _____
□ Draft bond document received _____
□ Draft bond document approved by County Attorney as to form _____
□ Draft road and easement deeds received _____
□ Draft road and easement deeds approved by County Attorney as to form _____
  Items to by included in final plat application package (Complete submittal will be forwarded to Board of Commissioners for approval on the next available agenda):
EXPAND
□ Final plat application _____
□ Final plat checklist _____
□ Final signed and stamped Mylar utility as-builts _____
□ Final signed and stamped Mylar road and drainage as-builts _____
□ DXF files _____
□ 11 × 17 copy of proposed final plat _____
□ Final executed bond _____
□ Executed road and easement deeds _____
□ Executed Mylar final plat (two sets - both sets signed) _____
□ Final signed and stamped Mylar utility as-builts checked _____
□ Final signed and stamped Mylar road and drainage as-builts checked _____
□ DXF files forwarded to GIS _____
□ Executed Mylar final plat checked _____
□ Final plat approved by BOC _____
□ Final plat signed by County officials _____
□ Final plat and deeds recorded _____
□ Copy of plat to GIS with recording information _____
  (Ord. of 2-17-2009)
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted Feb. 17, 2009, did not specify manner of inclusion; hence, codification as § 62-1 was at the editor's discretion.
Secs. 62-2—62-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PLANNING COMMISSION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Authorities, boards and commissions, § 2-61 et seq.

Sec. 62-31. - Establishment of a planning commission.
(a)
There is established and created for Brantley County an organization to be known as the Brantley County Planning Commission (the "planning commission").
(b)
The planning commission shall consist of seven members, posts 1 through 7, who shall be appointed by the board of commissioners.
(1)
Posts 1, 2 and 3 shall be for a period of three years;
(2)
Post 4 shall be for a period of four years; and
(3)
Posts 5, 6, and 7 shall be for a period of five years.
(c)
The term for a member of the planning commission shall be for a period of five years. Any member may be reappointed for one term.
(d)
The planning commission shall organized itself at its initial meeting by the election of a chairman, vice chairman and secretary. The planning commission shall meet in a facility provided for it by the county, at times as set by the members of the planning commission, but at least on a monthly basis, and in compliance with the State of Georgia's Open Meetings Act. The planning commission shall hold its first meeting within 15 days of the final appointment of all of its initial members.
(e)
Any issue coming before the planning commission for a vote must receive the vote of four members to pass, with the chair having the authority to vote on all matters. Four members of the planning commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business. The planning commission shall function under the Robert's Rules of Order.
(f)
The members of the planning commission shall serve without compensation, but shall be entitled to reimbursement for actual expenses that may be incurred in carrying out his/her duties as a member of the planning commission. Such expenses shall be paid from the general funds of the county on the filing of a claim for same in the manner as required by county policy, and upon approval of the board of commissioners.
(g)
The planning commission nor any member thereof shall have the authority or power to make any purchases or otherwise bind the county to any financial obligation or undertaking, the same being hereby expressly prohibited and reserved unto the board of commissioners.
(Res. of 8-14-2001, § I; Amend. of 9-9-2008; Amend. of 1-13-2009)
Editor's note— Section I of an amendment adopted Sept. 9, 2008, changed the title of § 62-31 from "Established; membership and term; meetings; compensation; authority" to "Establishment of a planning commission."
Sec. 62-32. - Duties and responsibilities.
(a)
The members of the planning commission shall adopt bylaws for the planning commission, and may establish committees.
(b)
The planning commission shall investigate, review, consider and recommend to the board of commissioners any codes, regulations, land use plans or other matters concerning and affecting the shortterm or longterm management, growth and development of the county.
(c)
The planning commission shall recommend an annual budget to the board of commissioners for such expenses it deems appropriate and necessary in order to carry out its duties, responsibilities and objectives. The annual budget recommendation shall be made by a date set each year by the board of commissioners.
(d)
The planning commission shall work with and give advisory supervision and guidance to any staff which the board of commissioners may from time to time secure or employ for the development and/or implementation of various codes, regulations and/or land use plans.
(e)
The planning commission may do such other things as are necessary and proper to effectuate the purpose of this article and is not expressly prohibited in this article.
(Res. of 8-14-2001, § II)
Secs. 62-33—62-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - COMPREHENSIVE PLAN[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Coordinated and comprehensive planning by counties and municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-70-1 et seq.

Sec. 62-61. - Approval for transmittal.
(a)
The board of commissioners approves the Brantley County-Hoboken-Nahunta Comprehensive Plan to be sent to the Southeast Georgia Regional Development Center and to the state department of community affairs for review for compliance with the Comprehensive Planning Act.
(b)
The board of commissioners submits the county shortterm work program update and report of accomplishments to the Southeast Georgia Regional Development Center for review.
(Res. of 12-13-1994; Res. of 3-21-1995; Res. of 9-13-2000)
