Chapter 3 - ADVERTISING[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Limitations on placement of posters, signs, and advertisements on public and private property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-58.

Sec. 3-1. - License required for billposters and distributors.
(a)
No person shall engage in or carry on the business or occupation of billposting or distributing advertising matter in the city without first having been licensed to carry on such business, as provided in the business license ordinance of the city.
(b)
Billposting or distributing advertising shall be construed to include the business or occupation of posting by tacking or posting, painting or otherwise or circulating from house to house or distributing upon the streets any advertising matter, bills, posters, pictures or any other things, matter or device whatsoever, advertising the business of any person. Provided, however, that nothing contained in this section shall be construed to apply to the painting of store, office or other signs by sign painters, nor to the posting of legal notices by public officers or attorneys in the manner and the places prescribed by law. This section shall not be construed to prevent any bona fide resident of the city by himself or a regular employee from distributing or posting bills or advertisements of his own business or to prohibit the advertising of any entertainment sponsored by any society or church for religious or benevolent purposes, provided the persons distributing the bills or advertisements receive no compensation for the same.
(Code 1966, § 3-1)
Cross reference— Licenses, taxes and business regulations, Ch. 16.
Sec. 3-2. - Permission required to advertise on public property.
It shall be unlawful to paint, print, post or in any other way affix a picture, bill or advertising matter of any kind upon any post, pole, hydrant, curb, sidewalk or other public improvement or structure without first obtaining the permission of the superintendent of utilities in the case of utility property, or the police committee in the case of other public property.
(Code 1966, § 3-2)
Sec. 3-3. - Advertising on poles, trees, other structures in streets or public grounds.
No person shall paint, print, post or in any way affix any picture, bill or advertising matter of any kind upon any mast or pole in any street or alley erected or used for supporting or conducting any wire or cable or incidental thereto or upon any tree or any structure or erection of any kind, within the limits of any public street or grounds of the city, whether permission therefor has been granted by the owner or otherwise.
(Code 1966, § 3-3)
Sec. 3-4. - Advertising on property of another.
No person shall paint, print, post or in any way affix any picture, bill or advertising matter of any kind upon any post, fence, billboard or signboard or upon a building, erection or structure of any kind within the city, unless the building or object upon which the same is placed is the property or under the control of the person so doing, or unless the consent of the owner or the person in control thereof has first been obtained.
(Code 1966, § 3-4)
Sec. 3-5. - Messy operations.
No billposter or advertising distributor shall scatter, daub or leave any paste, glue or other like substance used for affixing bills upon any public sidewalk or pavement, or scatter or throw any old bills or waste material removed from billboards on the surface of any public street or way or on the surface of any private grounds.
(Code 1966, § 3-6)
Sec. 3-6. - Scattering advertising matter.
No person shall loosely scatter or throw any bills or other advertising matter on the surface of the public streets or ways or the public grounds of the city or within the yards of private residences.
(Code 1966, § 3-7)
Sec. 3-7. - Advertisements loosely attached.
It shall be unlawful to tack advertisements or handbills to any wall, post or other place in such a manner that they may be loosened or blown about by the wind.
(Code 1966, § 3-8)
Sec. 3-8. - Manner of delivering handbills.
It shall be unlawful for any merchant or other person, by himself or his employees, to place or deposit in the streets of the city or in any of the yards of this city any handbills or other advertisements, but all advertisements and handbills shall be delivered personally or by mail.
(Code 1966, § 3-9)
