Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Cemeteries, Ch. 7; court, Ch. 9; library, Ch. 15.
State Law reference— General authority of municipalities, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-34-1 et seq., 36-35-1 et seq.; liability of municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-1 et seq.; limitations on home rule powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6; public officers and employees generally, O.C.G.A. § 45-2-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Time, place of council meetings; calling special meetings.
The mayor and council of the city shall hold their meetings in the city hall on the second and fourth Monday nights in each month at such hours as may be agreed upon by them from time to time, but the mayor shall have power to convene the council in extra session whenever in his judgment circumstances demand it.
(Code 1966, § 2-1)
State Law reference— Open meetings, meeting agenda required, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1.
Sec. 2-2. - Order of business for council.
The order of business at council meetings shall be as follows:
(1)
Roll call;
(2)
Reading and approval of minutes of last meeting;
(3)
Presentation of petitions;
(4)
Reports of city officers;
(5)
Reports of standing committees;
(6)
Reports of special committees;
(7)
Unfinished business;
(8)
New business.
(Code 1966, § 2-2)
Sec. 2-3. - Mayor to be executive officer; duty to preside at meetings; right to vote.
The mayor shall be the executive officer of the city and shall preside at all meetings of the council, but shall not vote except in case of a tie.
(Code 1966, § 2-3)
Cross reference— Duties of mayor as municipal judge, § 9-1.
Sec. 2-4. - Powers, duties of mayor pro tem.
In the absence of the mayor, his powers and duties shall be exercised by the mayor pro tem.
(Code 1966, § 2-4)
Sec. 2-5. - Quorum for council.
A majority of aldermen shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Code 1966, § 2-5)
Sec. 2-6. - Minute book to be kept.
The mayor and council shall cause a minute book to be kept of all proceedings, to be kept by the city clerk.
(Code 1966, § 2-6)
Sec. 2-7. - Ordinance book required; admissible as evidence.
The city clerk shall record all ordinances in a book kept for that purpose, together with an affidavit of the publisher, and such book or a certified copy of such ordinance by the city clerk shall be received as evidence in any court of this state or other state without further proof thereof.
(Code 1966, § 2-7)
Sec. 2-8. - Reading, passage of ordinances.
(a)
Generally. All ordinances and amendments thereto shall be read twice before being voted upon by the council, and at least six (6) days shall intervene between the first and second reading. A caption setting forth a summary of the proposed ordinance or amendment may be read in lieu of the first reading. A written copy of the proposed ordinance or amendment may be presented to the mayor and council prior to their vote in lieu of the actual vocal reading of the second reading of the ordinance or amendment.
(b)
Votes. "Yes" and "No" votes shall be recorded on the final reading or presentation. An affirmative vote of a majority of the council shall be required to pass an ordinance or amendment to an ordinance.
(Code 1966, § 2-8; Ord. No. 1112, 8-8-88)
Sec. 2-9. - Approval, signing of ordinances.
All ordinances, if passed, shall be presented by the city clerk to the mayor for his approval, and if approved the mayor and clerk shall sign the ordinance.
(Code 1966, § 2-9)
Sec. 2-10. - Veto of ordinances, orders, resolutions.
The mayor shall have the power to veto all ordinances, orders or resolutions passed by the council. When such ordinances, orders or resolutions contemplate the payment of any sums of money or liability on the part of the city for the same, the mayor shall have four (4) days in which to file his veto in writing with the city clerk. Such veto may extend to any one (1) or more items contained in any ordinance, order or resolution. Such veto shall be passed upon at the next meeting of the council, on which a "Yes" or "No" vote shall be recorded on the roll call by the city clerk. It shall require a two-thirds vote of the council to override such veto. In the absence of the mayor, a like power may be exercised by the mayor pro tem.
(Code 1966, § 2-10)
Sec. 2-11. - Effective date of ordinances.
All ordinances, after having been passed, shall be effective upon the effective date set forth therein and, if no effective date is set forth therein, shall be effective upon approval by the mayor's affixing his or her signature thereto, or upon the date of the overriding of the mayor's veto.
(Code 1966, § 2-11; Ord. No. 1120, 3-27-89)
Sec. 2-12. - Person benefitted by ordinance to pay publication costs.
The costs for the publication of ordinances for the sole benefit of any other than the city shall be paid in advance of publication by the person at whose instance or for whose benefit the ordinance has been enacted.
(Code 1966, § 2-12)
Sec. 2-13. - Right to demand roll call.
The mayor or any member of the council shall have the right to have a roll call by the clerk for a "Yes" and "No" vote on any question, order or resolution before them.
(Code 1966, § 2-13)
Sec. 2-14. - Movants' names to be entered on minutes; motions, resolutions to be written if demanded.
In all cases when a resolution or motion shall be entered on the minutes of the council, the members moving shall be entered therein. If demanded by any alderman, each motion or resolution shall be reduced to writing before being voted upon.
(Code 1966, § 2-14)
Sec. 2-15. - Form of reports, communications.
All reports and communications during council meetings shall be addressed to "The Mayor and Council of the City of Fitzgerald." Committee reports should be briefly summarized and the conclusion of the committee summed up in the form of a recommendation, resolution, or motion. All papers connected with the subject matter of the report should be attached to the report.
(Code 1966, § 2-15)
Sec. 2-16. - Manual of procedure adopted; suspending the rules.
Robert's Rules of Order is hereby adopted to govern the deliberations of the city council on all points not specifically covered by the charter, ordinance or resolution. Any rule of order may be suspended temporarily at any time by vote of five (5) aldermen.
(Code 1966, § 2-16)
Sec. 2-17. - Standing committees specified.
The council shall establish the following standing committees:
(1)
Finance.
(2)
City parks.
(3)
Public buildings and grounds.
(4)
Purchasing.
(5)
Zoning codes, enforcement and planning.
(6)
Licenses.
(7)
Sanitation.
(8)
Streets and alleys.
(9)
Police.
(10)
Fire.
(11)
Airport.
(12)
Library.
(13)
State and federal legislation.
(14)
Personnel policy.
(Ord. No. 1089, § 1, 7-14-86)
Sec. 2-18. - When committees appointed; naming of chairman.
All regular committees of the council shall be appointed at the first regular meeting of each year. The alderman whose name heads the list of any committee shall be its chairman.
(Code 1966, § 2-18)
Sec. 2-19. - Tenure for certain employees; exceptions.
(a)
The following employees of the city; city administrator, city clerk, city treasurer (the clerk and treasurer may be the same person), police chief, chief of fire department, assistant police chief, assistant chief of fire department, all other members of the police department, all other members of the fire department, assistant city clerk, street commissioner, city librarian, and city parks superintendent; will have job tenure and will be elected to serve indefinite terms until they resign or until removed for cause. Removal for cause shall be accomplished by bringing of formal charges by the person making the accusations. The person making formal charges shall submit in writing these charges to the mayor and council of the city with a trial to follow by mayor and council. The decision by the mayor and council shall be final. Action to dismiss the employee shall require a two-thirds vote. Suspension of the employee without pay until the time of trial will be allowed as deemed necessary by the committee in charge of the employee involved. The interval of time between the bringing of formal charges and the trial hearing shall not exceed ten (10) calendar days. This time may be extended by the mayor or mayor pro tem.
(b)
The provisions of this section shall not apply to employees of the water, light and bond commission.
(Code 1966, § 2-19)
Sec. 2-20. - Mayor, aldermen, members of Fitzgerald Water, Light and Bond Commission, certain persons not eligible to be candidates or to hold office.
No person who is a defaulter for any federal, state, county, City of Fitzgerald, or school system taxes required of such person or who is a defaulter for more than thirty (30) days in the payment for any utilities services furnished by the Fitzgerald Water, Light and Bond Commission to such person or his or her household, business or other property, shall be eligible to be a candidate for or hold the office of mayor, alderman, or member of the Fitzgerald Water, Light and Bond Commission, until such time as such default is paid in full.
(Ord. No. 05-1347, § 1, 4-11-05)
Sec. 2-21. - Compensation; expenses.
(a)
The mayor of the City of Fitzgerald shall receive for his or her services nine thousand dollars ($9,000.00) per year, to be paid monthly. He or she shall also be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses incurred on behalf of the city.
(b)
Each alderman of the City of Fitzgerald shall receive for his or her services six thousand dollars ($6,000.00) per year, to be paid monthly. He or she shall also be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses incurred on behalf of the city.
(c)
Each member of the water, light and bond commission for the City of Fitzgerald shall receive for his or her services six thousand dollars ($6,000.00) per year, to be paid monthly. He or she shall also be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses incurred on behalf of the commission.
(d)
The city attorney of the City of Fitzgerald shall receive as a retainer two hundred dollars ($200.00) per month, plus five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per year, to be paid monthly, for services rendered as solicitor for the municipal court of the City of Fitzgerald. The city attorney shall be paid for services rendered (other than for attendance at council meetings and service as such solicitor) at the rate of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per hour, plus reimbursement for expenses incurred in the course of providing such services.
(Ord. No. 07-1373, § 1, 4-9-07; Ord. No. 10-1421, § 1, 10-11-10)
State Law reference— Authority to provide compensation and employee benefits to municipal officers and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.
Secs. 2-22—2-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Authority to create and regulate offices, agencies and employments, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2.

Sec. 2-36. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to establish a personnel management system for the city. The policies established in this article shall be consistent with the following merit principles:
(1)
Recruiting, selecting, and advancing employees on the basis of their relative ability, knowledge and skills, including open competition of qualified applicants for initial appointments;
(2)
Providing equitable and adequate compensation;
(3)
Training employees, as needed, to assure high quality performances;
(4)
Retaining employees on the basis of the adequacy of their performance, correcting inadequate performance, and separating employees whose inadequate performance cannot be corrected;
(5)
Assuring fair treatment of applicants and employees in all aspects of personnel administration without regard to political affiliation, race, color, national origin, sex or religion and with proper regard for their privacy and constitutional rights as citizens.
(Code 1966, § 2-31)
Sec. 2-37. - Regular service.
The regular service shall be a permanent service to which this article shall apply. It shall comprise all employees serving in continuing positions with the exception of the following:
(1)
Members of the city council and other elected officials;
(2)
Members of appointed boards, committees, commissions, judges or other persons appointed by and performing special duties for the mayor or council;
(3)
Part-time, temporary employees and employees hired to work on an irregular basis;
(4)
Any person appointed to a position designated by the city council as expected, which because of its nature cannot or should not be appropriately included in the regular service. Included in this category are confidential, policy determining or key management positions. The city council may, by individual action, give an excepted, temporary or irregular employee coverage under any part, parts or all of the provisions of this article and its supporting policies. The positions designated are: city administrator, planning director, city engineer, police chief, chief of fire department, civil defense director, department of leisure services director, and leisure services department clerk.
(Code 1966, § 2-32)
Sec. 2-38. - Personnel administration.
The city administrator is hereby assigned responsibility for promulgating the personnel management system. In carrying out these duties he may designate a member of his staff as an assistant.
(Code 1966, § 2-33)
Sec. 2-39. - Personnel policies.
Personnel policies including a classification grade structure and job specifications which promulgate the purpose of this article shall be submitted for adoption by resolution of the city council.
(Code 1966, § 2-34)
Editor's note— Ordinance No. 1218, § 1, adopted September 9, 1996, adopted new personnel management policies by reference. Such policies are on file with the city.
Sec. 2-40. - Agreements authorized.
This city is authorized and empowered to enter into reciprocal agreements, upon such terms as may be agreed upon, for the use of equipment, materials, services, and personnel with any public agency or body for purposes deemed of benefit to the city.
(Code 1966, § 2-35)
Sec. 2-41. - Political activities.
(a)
Any city employee, who as a normal and foreseeable incident to his principal position, performs duties in connection with an activity financed in whole or part by federal loans or grants, comes under the Hatch Political Activity Act, 53 Stat. 1147; 54 Stat. 767; 56 Stat. 181; 56 Stat. 986; 58 Stat. 136; 58 Stat. 727; 60 Stat. 937; 76 Stat. 750; which prohibits the following:
(1)
Use of official authority or influence for the purpose of interfering with an election or nomination for office, or affecting the results thereof;
(2)
Directly or indirectly coercing, commanding or advising any other employee to pay, lend or otherwise contribute any part of his salary or compensation to any party, committee, organization, agency or person for political purposes.
(b)
No employee of this city in a regular, or part-time, temporary or irregular status may hold elective office in the city; nor shall such an employee offer as a candidate for elective office of this city while so employed. Neither shall an employee solicit any contributions or assessments or service, nor publicly endorse any candidate for any city elective office.
(c)
Nothing contained in this section shall affect the right of employees to contribute to, hold membership in, or support a political party; to vote as they choose, to express privately their opinions on all political subjects, to maintain political neutrality, or to attend political meetings provided they do not participate actively.
(Code 1966, § 2-36)
Secs. 2-42—2-55. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - DEPARTMENTS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-56—2-65. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - POLICE[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Law enforcement officers and agencies, O.C.G.A. § 35-1-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-66. - Supervision of department; obedience to chief and administrator.
The police chief is the chief executive officer of the police department but he shall always be subject to the orders and directions of the city administrator under the ordinances of the city. It is the duty of all police officers of the city to respect and obey all orders of the police chief, unless countermanded by the city administrator.
(Code 1966, § 23-1)
Sec. 2-67. - Designation of acting chief.
In case of sickness or absence of the police chief, the city administrator, with the approval of mayor and council, shall designate some member of the police force to act as chief during such temporary disability.
(Code 1966, § 23-6)
Sec. 2-68. - Power of chief to give orders.
The police chief shall have the power to give such orders not inconsistent with the laws and ordinances of the city as he may deem necessary.
(Code 1966, § 23-2)
Sec. 2-69. - Chief responsible for keeping order and good conduct of policemen.
The police chief shall be responsible for the good order of the city and for the good conduct of the members of the police force while on duty.
(Code 1966, § 23-4)
Sec. 2-70. - Chief to report to city administrator.
The police chief shall report to the city administrator all violations of the rules governing the police force when charges are filed against any police officer. The chief shall instantly report the violation to the city administrator, together with a number of witnesses, so that the matter may be investigated by the grievance committee.
(Code 1966, § 23-5)
Sec. 2-71. - Duties of police.
It shall be the duty of police officers at all times to preserve the public peace, prevent the commission of crime and arrest offenders, to protect the rights of persons and property, to provide police protection at fires, and to protect firemen and property at fires, to enforce obedience to all ordinances of the city and to see that all rules, regulations and ordinances of the city are carried into effect.
(Code 1966, § 23-3)
Sec. 2-72. - Officers' concentration on duties; availability.
Each member of the police force shall devote his whole time and attention to his duties under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the city administrator. Police officers must at all times be prepared to act immediately if notified by the chief or city administrator that his services are needed.
(Code 1966, § 23-7)
Sec. 2-73. - Stolen property.
Stolen property coming into the possession of the police shall be delivered to the police chief who shall report the same, together with its disposition, to the city administrator.
(Code 1966, § 23-12)
Sec. 2-74. - Conduct of police officers.
Each member of the police force must be quiet, orderly and civil in his conduct and deportment. He must at all times while on duty refrain from the use of violent or profane language. All members of the police force are prohibited, while on duty, from drinking intoxicating liquors, and for a violation of this provision, the city administrator shall suspend the offender until after his trial by the city council.
(Code 1966, § 23-8)
Sec. 2-75. - Personal appearance of police officers.
Every police officer while on duty must be neat in person, having clothes and boots clean and in conformity with such regulations as may be prescribed by the police chief.
(Code 1966, § 23-10)
Sec. 2-76. - Additional compensation.
No member of the police force shall receive any present, fee or reward for police services except with the approval of the city administrator with the approval of the mayor and council.
(Code 1966, § 23-11)
Sec. 2-77. - Leaves of absence.
Whenever any member of the police force desires to leave the city, or to be temporarily excused from duty, he shall make application to the city administrator, stating the length of his contemplated absence and cause, and the mayor and police committee, if no good reason exists to the contrary, may grant such request.
(Code 1966, § 23-9)
Sec. 2-78. - Political activities prohibited.
No member of the police force shall be allowed to advocate the election of any citizen to municipal office and they must refrain from active participation in political affairs.
(Code 1966, § 23-13)
Secs. 2-79—2-90. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - FIRE[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Fire prevention and protection, Ch. 11.
State Law reference— Local fire departments generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-91. - Chief to supervise department; report required.
The fire chief shall have general supervision and control of the fire department and of all property intended for the use of the fire department and shall see that the property is kept in good repair. He shall make a report at the first regular meeting in January of each year, and more often if requested to do so by the mayor and council, of the activities of the department and the condition of the engines, hoses, hooks, ladders and all other apparatus used by the fire department.
(Code 1966, § 11-1)
Sec. 2-92. - Interfering with firemen.
Any person who shall in any manner hinder, delay or attempt to hinder or delay any members of the fire department while in the official discharge of their duties or shall interfere in any manner with any member of the fire department while going to or attending or returning from a fire or shall hinder or delay any member of the fire department from performing any of the duties imposed upon him, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Code 1966, § 11-2)
Sec. 2-93. - Damaging property.
Any person who shall cut, step upon, handle in any manner or who shall take possession of or handle or injure or damage or attempt to injure or damage any hose or property of any kind owned or used by the fire department, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Code 1966, § 11-3)
Secs. 2-94—2-105. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - LEISURE SERVICES DEPARTMENT[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Cross reference— Booking; cleaning; maintenance of Grand Theater by leisure services department, § 2-228; parks and recreation, Ch. 19.

Sec. 2-106. - Established.
There is hereby created and established in conjunction with the county a leisure services department to formulate and administer recreation programs; to formulate a recreation budget and submit the budget to the mayor and council of the city, and the commissioners of the county, for approval; to administer and be responsible for such funds as are appropriated to such department by the mayor and council and county commissioners; and to make recommendations to the mayor and council and to the county commissioners regarding the acquisition, sale, maintenance and development of recreational facilities for the city and county; provided, that the department's responsibilities shall be to provide a program for and to operate parks, playgrounds, recreation centers, other recreational activities and other recreational facilities which facilities are to be furnished by the city and county.
(Code 1966, § 20-9)
Sec. 2-107. - Name.
The official name of the joint city-county leisure services department shall be the "Fitzgerald-Ben Hill Department of Leisure Services."
(Code 1966, § 20-9.1)
Sec. 2-108. - Composition; compensation of members; terms of office.
The leisure services department shall comprise five (5) members, who shall be selected as follows: Two (2) members shall be residents of the city and shall be appointed by the mayor of the city, with the advice and consent of the council. Two (2) members shall be residents of the county and shall be appointed by the chairman of the county commissioners, with advice and consent of the remaining county commissioners. The fifth member shall be a resident of either the city or the county and shall be elected by the four (4) members so appointed. Vacancies shall be filled by the respective authorities to serve out any unexpired term. Members of the leisure services department shall serve without compensation. Members shall be at least eighteen (18) years of age and shall be of good character. The four (4) members of the commission appointed by the city and county shall serve staggered four-year terms, with one (1) of the two (2) city appointees being initially appointed to a two-year term, and one (1) of the county appointees likewise appointed to a two-year term. The fifth member, to be elected by the other four (4) members, shall be elected to a two-year term.
(Code 1966, § 20-10)
Sec. 2-109. - Powers and duties.
The leisure services department shall exercise the following powers and duties:
(1)
To provide, conduct, supervise and exercise fiscal responsibility for any form of recreation or cultural activity that will employ the leisure time of the people in a wholesome or constructive manner, on public properties with the consent of the authorities of the property, and on private properties with the consent of the owner;
(2)
To appoint a full-time director who is trained or properly qualified for the work, and such other personnel as the leisure services department deems proper;
(3)
To elect from its members a chairman, vice-chairman, secretary and treasurer;
(4)
To adopt such bylaws, rules and regulations as are necessary and proper to conduct a joint recreation program;
(5)
To submit an annual budget to the city and county for approval not more than one hundred twenty (120), nor less than ninety (90) days before the beginning of the new fiscal year, except that, during the first year of the leisure services department's existence, its proposed budget shall be submitted within sixty (60) days of the date on which this section receives final approval by the city and county;
(6)
To solicit and receive gifts or bequests of money or other personal property, to be applied, principal and income, for either temporary or permanent use for recreational purposes;
(7)
To prepare and submit, within ninety (90) days after the end of each fiscal year, a report of the activities of the leisure services department to the city and county, together with such other reports as from time to time may be requested by the city or county.
(Code 1966, § 20-11)
Sec. 2-110. - Salaries.
The salaries of the director and the full-time personnel employed by the leisure services department shall be established by ordinance jointly enacted by the city and county.
(Code 1966, § 20-12)
Sec. 2-111. - Removal from office.
Members of the leisure services department may be removed from office by joint city-county action, following notice and an opportunity for a hearing, upon their conviction of any crime involving moral turpitude, or upon their ceasing to possess the qualifications for holding office.
(Code 1966, § 20-13)
Secs. 2-112—2-200. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, COMMITTEES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-201—2-220. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - GRAND THEATER COMMISSION[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Ordinance No. 1109, adopted July 18, 1988, did not specifically amend this Code; hence, inclusion of §§ 1—9 as a new Art. IV, Div. 2, §§ 2-221—2-229, was at the discretion of the editor.

Sec. 2-221. - Establishment, powers, duty, authority.
There is hereby created, set up and established a joint Grand Theater Commission for the city and county to be known as the "Grand Theater Commission" for the purposes and with the powers, duties and authority hereinafter set out.
(Ord. No. 1109, § 1, 7-18-88)
Sec. 2-222. - Membership Described.
The commission shall be composed of twenty-four (24) members, nine (9) of whom shall be appointed by the mayor and council of the city and nine (9) of whom shall be appointed by the board of commissioners of roads and revenues of the county. The following shall be ex officio members of the commission by virtue of their office: Mayor of the city chairman of the board of commissioners of roads and revenues of the county, superintendents of the schools systems for the city and the county, chairman of the water, light and bond commission, and director of arts experiment station at Tifton, Georgia. The ex officio members shall have voting power.
(Ord. No. 1109, § 2, 7-18-88)
Sec. 2-223. - Management, supervision and control of Grand Theater.
The commission shall have the management, supervision and control of the Grand Theater, which is owned jointly by the city and the county, and shall direct and control the construction, equipment, improvement, maintenance and operation thereof, including the adoption and enforcement of rules and regulations and fixing and establishment of charges and fees for the use of the theater.
(Ord. No. 1109, § 3, 7-18-88)
Sec. 2-224. - Contracts for maintenance and operation of Grand Theater.
The commission, by and with the consent and approval of the mayor and council of the city and the board of commissioners of roads and revenues of the county, is authorized and empowered to make and enter into contracts for the maintenance, improvement, operation and equipping of the Grand Theater; provided, however, that no contract obligating the city or the county for the payment of any monies shall be entered into by the commission without having first been authorized by resolution being duly passed by the mayor and council of the city and the board of commissioners of roads and revenues of the county; and provided further that any contract obligating the expenditure of funds shall be a liability of the city to the extent of fifty (50) percent and the county to the extent of fifty (50) percent of the total amount provided in the contract, and neither the city nor the county shall be liable for the payment of more than its respective portion thereof. The commission shall have no authority to bind either the city or the county for the payment of any sum of money unless and until the same has been authorized by resolution of the proper governing authorities of the city or the county.
(Ord. No. 1109, § 4, 7-18-88)
Sec. 2-225. - Lease by commission of facilities authorized; sale prohibited.
Be it further enacted by the authority the commission shall have the right to lease to private persons, firms, corporations, governmental authorities or political subdivisions, space, area, and improvements of and equipment in the theater, provided that such lease has been approved by the governing authority of the city and the county prior to its execution; and provided that the public is protected in its rightful, equal and uniform use of the theater. The commission shall have no right to sell the theater or any portion thereof, the right so to do being expressly reserved by the governing authority of the city and the county.
(Ord. No. 1109, § 5, 7-18-88)
Sec. 2-226. - Application of revenues from Grand Theater and related facilities.
All fees, charges, tolls, rentals, or other revenues derived from the operation or lease of the theater shall be used by the commission to meet, in whole or in part, the expenses and operation and maintenance of the theater. In the event the revenue from the operation or lease or the theater exceeds the expenses of operation and maintenance, such excess may, by and with the consent and approval of the governing authorities of the city and the county, be used for further development, improvement, or equipment of such theater and if not so used, shall be paid to the city and county in proportion to their respective interests therein.
(Ord. No. 1109, § 6, 7-18-88)
Sec. 2-227. - Control and use of appropriations.
The commission shall have the control and expenditure of funds appropriated by the city and the county for the maintenance, improvement and operation of such theater; provided, however, that no funds appropriated by either the city or the county shall be expended until both the city and the county have approved and deposited with the commission its pro rata portion of the total appropriation.
(Ord. No. 1109, § 7, 7-18-88)
Sec. 2-228. - Booking, cleaning and maintenance by department of leisure services.
The commission may authorize the department of leisure services to handle the booking of all activities in the theater and the cleaning and maintenance of the theater.
(Ord. No. 1109, § 8, 7-18-88)
Cross reference— Department of leisure services, § 2-106 et seq.
Sec. 2-229. - Books and accounts required; deposit of funds regulated; clerk of commission designated.
The commission shall keep separate books and accounts showing receipts from all sources and all expenditures for all purposes and shall deposit all funds received by it, including appropriations made by the city and the county, and revenues from the operation or lease of the theater in a bank named as depository for either the city or the county. The clerk of the city shall, by virtue of his or her office, be and serve as clerk of the commission.
(Ord. No. 1109, § 9, 7-18-88)
Secs. 2-230—2-245. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING POLICY[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 99-1260, §§ I—VIII, adopted November 8, 1999, enacted provisions which were not specifically amendatory of this Code; therefore, at the discretion of the editor, these provisions have been set out herein as art. V, §§ 2-246—2-253.

Sec. 2-246. - Basis for the policy.
The city is committed to protecting the safety, health, and well-being of its employees and all people who come into contact with its workplaces and property, and/or use its facilities and services.
Recognizing that drug and alcohol abuse pose a direct and significant threat to this goal, and to the goal of a productive and efficient working environment in which all employees have an opportunity to reach their full potential, the city is committed to assuring a drug-free working environment for all of its employees.
(Ord. No. 99-1260, § I, 11-8-99)
Sec. 2-247. - Definitions.
Accident means an occurrence associated with the operation of a motor vehicle if, as a result:
(1)
An individual dies;
(2)
An individual suffers a bodily injury and immediately receives medical treatment away from the scene of the accident; or
(3)
One or more of the vehicles involved incurs disabling damage as a result of the occurrence and is transported away from the scene by a tow truck or another vehicle.
Alcohol means the intoxicating agent in beverage alcohol, ethyl alcohol, or other low molecular weight alcohols including methyl or isopropyl alcohol. References to use or possession of any beverage, mixture or preparation containing ethyl alcohol (including any medication containing alcohol).
Alcohol test means a test to detect the presence of alcohol using a scientifically reliable method.
Alcohol use means the consumption of any beverage, mixture, or preparation, including any medication, containing alcohol.
CDL means a commercial driver's license.
Controlled substances/drugs means, for purposes of these procedures, cocaine, marijuana, opiates, amphetamines, phencyclidine and any other substance determined by the U.S. Department of Transportation to be a controlled substance.
Controlled substance (or drug) test means a method for determining the presence of controlled substances using a scientifically reliable method.
Employee means any person employed by the city.
Performing a safety-sensitive function means an employee is considered to be performing a safety-sensitive function during any period in which he or she is actually performing, ready to perform, or immediately available to perform any safety-sensitive function.
Safety-sensitive function means any of the following duties:
(1)
Any law enforcement function;
(2)
Any fire protection function;
(3)
Operating a city vehicle, including when not in city service (drivers and others required to operate city vehicles as part of their job duties);
(4)
Operating a service vehicle, when required to be operated by a holder of a commercial driver's license;
(5)
Controlling dispatch or movement of a city vehicle (dispatchers or those who as part of their job duties fill in for a dispatcher or cross-train);
(6)
Maintaining a service vehicle or equipment used in city service (mechanics, service mechanics, service helpers, and vehicle washers); or
(7)
Any other employee required to hold a CDL as part of their job requirements.
Substance abuse professional (SAP) means a licensed physician (medical doctor or doctor of osteopathy), or a licensed or certified psychologist, social worker, employee assistance professional, or addiction counselor (certified by the National Association of Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Counselors Certification Commission), with knowledge of and clinical experience in the diagnosis and treatment of drug and alcohol-related disorders.
(Ord. No. 99-1260, § II, 11-8-99)
Sec. 2-248. - Drug and alcohol prohibitions.
(a)
The city therefore strictly prohibits the illicit use, possession, sale, conveyance, distribution, or manufacture of illegal drugs, intoxicants, or controlled substances in any amount or in any manner by city employees and all people who come into contact with city workplaces and property, and/or use city facilities and services.
(b)
In addition, the city strictly prohibits the abuse of alcohol and prescription drugs by city employees and all people who come into contact with city workplaces and property, and/or use city facilities and services.
(c)
City employees shall not report for duty or remain on duty while having an alcohol concentration of 0.02 or greater.
(d)
City employees shall not possess alcohol while on duty or operating a motor vehicle.
(e)
City employees shall not use alcohol while performing their safety-sensitive or non-safety-sensitive job functions.
(f)
City employees shall not perform safety-sensitive or non safety sensitive functions within twenty-four (24) hours after having used alcohol.
(g)
City employees shall not use alcohol within eight (8) hours following an accident, or before undergoing a post-accident alcohol test, whichever comes first.
(h)
City employees shall not report for duty, remain on duty, or perform safety-sensitive or non-safety-sensitive functions after having tested positive for a controlled substance.
(i)
City employees shall not use, manufacture, distribute, dispense or possess controlled substances.
(j)
City employees shall not refuse to submit immediately to a drug or alcohol test (reasonable suspicion, post-accident, and random) when requested.
(Ord. No. 99-1260, § III, 11-8-99)
Sec. 2-249. - Drug and alcohol testing.
(a)
The city asserts its legal right and prerogative to test any employee for substance abuse. Any employee may be asked to submit at any time to a medical examination and/or to submit to urine, blood, saliva, breath, and/or hair testing for drugs or alcohol.
(b)
Employee acceptance of medical examinations and testing, when requested by the city, is a mandatory condition of employment. Refusal to submit to such medical examinations and tests constitutes a violation of city policy and is grounds for adverse employment action. Specifically, refusal of a medical examination or a drug or alcohol test will be considered by the city to be equivalent to a confirmed "positive" test.
(c)
Employee behavior that constitutes a refusal to submit to a test includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(1)
Refusal to take the test.
(2)
Inability to provide sufficient qualities of breath or urine to be tested without a valid medical explanation.
(3)
Tampering with or attempting to adulterate the specimen or collection procedure.
(4)
Failure to report to the collection site in the allotted time.
(5)
Leaving the scene of an accident without a valid reason before the test has been conducted.
(Ord. No. 99-1260, § IV, 11-8-99)
Sec. 2-250. - Circumstances of drug and alcohol testing.
Six drug and/or alcohol screening situations will be utilized by the city.
(1)
Pre-employment testing. All safety-sensitive and non-safety-sensitive position applicants shall undergo urine drug testing immediately following the offer of employment or transfer into a safety-sensitive position. Receipt of a negative drug test result is required prior to employment. If an applicant refuses to be tested or fails the pre-employment drug test, the applicant will be disqualified for employment for a period of six (6) months. A negative pre-employment drug test is required prior to further consideration for employment.
(2)
Post-accident testing. Conducted after accidents on safety-sensitive and non-safety-sensitive employees if there was loss of life, an injury requiring transportation to a medical treatment facility, one (1) or more vehicles incurs disabling damage where a vehicle must be towed from the scene and the employee receives a citation under state or local law for a moving traffic violation, or if the employees' performance could have contributed to the accident. Any safety-sensitive or non-safety-sensitive employee whose performance could have contributed to the accident, as determined by the city using the best information available at the time of the accident, will be given a drug and alcohol test. Post-accident drug and alcohol tests must be conducted as soon as possible after the accident. Drug tests must be performed within thirty-two (32) hours after the accident. Alcohol tests must be performed within three (3) hours after the accident.
(3)
Reasonable cause. All safety-sensitive and non-safety-sensitive employees may be subject to a fitness for duty evaluation, and urine and/or breath testing when there are reasons to believe that drug or alcohol use is adversely affecting job performance. A reasonable suspicion referral for testing will be made on the basis of documented objective facts and circumstances which are consistent with the short-term effects of substance abuse. Examples of reasonable cause include, but are not limited to, the following:
a.
Physical signs and symptoms consistent with prohibited substance use.
b.
Evidence of the manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of controlled substances, drugs, alcohol, or other prohibited substances.
c.
Occurrence of a serious or potentially serious accident that may have been caused by prohibited substance abuse or alcohol misuse.
d.
Fights (to mean physical contact), assaults, and flagrant disregard or violations of established safety, security, or other operating procedures.
Reasonable cause referrals must be made by a supervisor who reasonably concludes that an employee may be adversely affected or impaired in his/her work performance due to possible prohibited abuse or misuse.
(4)
Random. Conducted on all employees, whether or not they perform safety-sensitive functions, on a random, unannounced basis.
(5)
Return-to-duty. Safety-sensitive and non-safety-sensitive employees who have previously refused to take a drug or alcohol test, or failed such a test, shall be tested for prohibited drug or alcohol use before they return to duty. The employee must first be certified by a substance abuse professional (SAP) as capable of resuming duties. Any such employee, once returned to duty may be administered unannounced follow-up drug and alcohol tests for up to sixty (60) months after their return to duty.
(6)
Follow-up. Once allowed to return to duty, safety-sensitive and non-safety-sensitive employees shall be subject to unannounced follow-up testing for at least twelve (12) but not to exceed sixty (60) months. The frequency and duration of the follow-up testing will be recommended by the SAP as long as a minimum of six (6) tests are performed during the first twelve (12) months after the employee returns to duty. Follow-up testing is separate from and in addition to the random testing program.
(Ord. No. 99-1260, § V, 11-9-99)
Sec. 2-251. - Searches.
(a)
When the city has any reason to believe that a person is violating any aspect of this policy, he or she may be asked by the city to submit immediately to a search or inspection at any time (including during breaks and the meal period) while on city premises or in city property.
(b)
This includes a search of a person's person and/or the requirement that the person make his or her locker, lunch box, briefcase, purse, pockets, wallet, personal belongings, desk, work station, vehicles, or any other property he or she uses, or has access to, available for immediate inspection.
(c)
Entry onto city premises by any person constitutes consent to search and inspections.
(d)
An employee refusal to consent to a search or inspection when requested by the city constitutes a violation of city policy and is grounds for adverse employment action.
(Ord. No. 99-1260, § VI, 11-8-99)
Sec. 2-252. - General responsibility and applicability.
(a)
Substance abuse prevention is everyone's responsibility. The city expects all of its employees to recognize and accept this responsibility, and to do their part in assuring that, working together, we can achieve and maintain a drug-free working environment for all city employees.
(b)
This policy applies equally to all city personnel, regardless of position or employment status, including all management employees, contract employees, and part-time employees—without exception.
(Ord. No. 99-1260, § VII, 11-8-99)
Sec. 2-253. - Discipline.
Any violation of this policy shall result in adverse employment action up to and including dismissal and referral for criminal prosecution.
(Ord. No. 99-1260, § VIII, 11-8-99)
