SECTION 4. - ZONING
DISTRICTS

4-1. - Establishment of Districts.
In order that the purposes of this ordinance as defined in section 1-5 may be accomplished, there are hereby established within the City of Millen, Georgia, the zoning districts identified as follows:
A-1
Agricultural. The purpose of this district is established to provide for rural farm or non-farm residences in areas where intensive land development is unlikely to occur at present. As urban growth continues, demand will grow for amendments to remove land from the agricultural district and place it in more intensely developed zones but the intent is to reserve the bulk of land for low density residential uses.
R-E
Estate Residential. The purpose of this district is to provide single-family detached residential areas with minimum lot sizes of one acre.
R-1A
Single-Family Residential. The purpose of this district is to provide low-density single-family detached residential areas with minimum lot sizes of 10,000 square feet.
R-1B
Single-Family Residential. The purpose of this district is to provide single-family detached residential areas with minimum lot sizes of 8,000 square feet.
R-2A
Single-Family Residential. The purpose of this district is to provide single-family detached residential area with minimum lot sizes of 6,000 square feet.
R-2B
Residential. The purpose of this district is to provide orderly development of medium density single- and two-family residential use areas and also allows manufactured homes as a matter of right, with a minimum lot size of 6,000 square feet.
R-3
Residential. The purpose of this district is to provide orderly development of medium to high density residential areas for one, two, and multi-family dwellings; also allows manufactured homes as a matter of right in a conventional subdivision with a minimum lot size of 6,000 square feet.
RMH
Manufactured Housing Park. The purpose of this district is to provide for the development of property that is appropriately located and planned for manufactured housing park use. Property developed in this district is to remain in single ownership for rental or leasing purposes only. To be considered for this zoning classification, a site plan meeting the requirements of this ordinance must be submitted with any rezoning petition. Manufactured housing parks shall be developed only in strict accordance with the Manufacturing Housing Park provisions of this ordinance.
P-1
Professional District. The purpose of this district shall be to create and provide areas in which residential, professional, educational and institutional uses not normally involving the sale of merchandise, which do not generate large volumes of traffic, noise or other harmful effects on adjoining residential areas can be compatibly mixed while maintaining a healthy living environment for the residents of the district.
P-D
Planned Development District. Planned Development Districts are intended to provide an alternative method of land development and redevelopment not available within the framework of standard zoning districts. The standards and procedures of approving these districts are intended to promote flexibility of design and allow for planned diversification and integration of uses and structures while at the same time, retaining in the mayor/council the absolute authority to establish such conditions, limitations, and regulations as it deems necessary to maintain community aesthetics and to protect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
B-3
Neighborhood Commercial. The purpose of this district is to provide for and to protect areas that are convenient to and will serve immediately adjacent residential neighborhoods.
B-2
Highway Commercial. The purpose of this district shall be to provide and protect convenient areas for community shopping facilities consisting of a wide variety of sales and services.
B-1
Central Business District. The purpose of this district shall be to enhance and protect shopping facilities in the central business district of the city.
A-C
Adult Commercial. The purpose of this district shall be to provide a reasonable location within the community for the development of adult-oriented businesses including adult entertainment establishments.
I-1
Industrial District. The purpose of this district shall be to provide and protect areas for those industrial uses which do not create excessive noise, odor, smoke, dust, and which do not possess other objectionable characteristics which might be detrimental to surrounding neighborhoods, or to the other uses permitted in the district.
I-2
Heavy Industrial District. The purpose of this district shall be to provide and protect areas for those industrial uses which cannot comply with the regulations of the I-1 district.
4-2. - Zoning and Street and Road Classification and Major Thoroughfare Plan, Millen, Georgia, Maps.
The boundaries of each zoning district are shown on the official zoning map, for the City of Millen, Georgia. The classification of streets (local and collector streets and principal and minor arterials) within Millen, Georgia are shown on a map entitled "Major Thoroughfare Plan, City of Millen, Georgia". Both maps shall be dated and certified by the mayor and the city clerk, and said maps and all explanatory matter thereon accompanies and is hereby made a part of this ordinance.
Accurate copies of the "Official Zoning Map, City of Millen, Georgia and the Major Thoroughfare Plan, Millen, Georgia" shall be on file in the office of the zoning administrator at all times. Said map shall accurately show all map amendments made in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance, and the date when said amendments became effective. It shall be the duty of the zoning administrator to see to it that the official zoning map and "Major Thoroughfare Plan, Millen, Georgia", displayed in his/her office is kept up-to-date and accurately shows all amendments.
4-3. - Interpretation of Zoning District Boundaries.
When uncertainty exists with respect to the location of boundaries of any zoning district as shown on the "Zoning Map of the City of Millen," the following rules shall apply:
4-3.1.
Unless otherwise specifically indicated, where district boundaries are indicated on the zoning map as approximately following the centerline of a street, highway, railroad right-of-way line, stream bed or river bed; such centerlines shall be construed to be such district boundaries.
4-3.2.
Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines shall be construed as following such lot lines.
4-3.3.
Where district boundaries are indicated on the zoning map as approximately following the corporate limit line of the City of Millen, then such corporate limit lines shall be construed to be such district boundaries.
4-3.4.
Where district boundaries are indicated on the zoning map as being set back from a street, road, highway, railroad, stream, or river, and parallel thereto, then such district boundaries unless otherwise specifically indicated, shall be construed as being at the scaled distance from the centerline of such street, road, highway, railroad, stream, or river and as being parallel thereto.
