Chapter 8 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; standards and requirements for construction, alteration, etc., of buildings and other structures, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-1 et seq.; building trade contractors, O.C.G.A. § 43-14-1 et seq.; enforcement of adopted codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26; state minimum standards codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-21; county building, electrical, and other codes, O.C.G.A. § 36-13-1 et seq.; local government code enforcement boards, O.C.G.A. § 36-74-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 8-1. - Fire limits.
The fire limits of the city are as designated by map or legal description, duly adopted by the city council and as amended from time to time, available in the office of the city clerk.
Sec. 8-2. - Administration by building department and building official.
The person designated by the city council to enforce the provisions of this chapter shall be the head of the city's building department and shall be known as the "building official". As the title is used in this chapter, the term "building official" includes the duly appointed department head and his designees, including, but not limited to the city building official.
Sec. 8-3. - Encroachment on public property prohibited.
Any person or corporation, contractor or builder who shall, in violation of this section, encroach upon the streets and alleys or other public property of the city, shall in addition to the penalties for violation of this section, be compelled at his own expense to remove the obstructions and to repair the streets or alleys or other public property as directed by the mayor and council.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 6-1-1(d))
Sec. 8-4. - Closing streets prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any owner, contractor, builder or worker engaged in the building or repairing of any structure within the city, to close the streets of the city to the passage of persons or vehicles or in any way to endanger the life or limb of passersby.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 6-1-1(e))
Sec. 8-5. - Water and sewer connections to be supervised by city personnel.
No connection shall be made to the city water or sewerage system except as provided in this section. Notice of the proposed connection shall be given to the city at least 48 hours in advance of the time the connection is to be made. The water superintendent shall supervise all connections to the city water system. Connections to the sewerage system shall be completed under the supervision of the wastewater superintendent.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 6-1-1(f))
Secs. 8-6—8-28. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CONSTRUCTION CODES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25; enforcement of minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26.

Sec. 8-29. - State minimum standards and permissive codes adopted.
(a)
The following state minimum standards codes and permissive codes, as set forth in O.C.G.A. §§ 8-2-20 and 8-2-21, are adopted by the city as though fully set forth herein, as supplemented and amended by the state department of community affairs, and as may be amended by provisions of this chapter or of this Code generally:
(1)
International Building Code, 2012 Edition.
(2)
International Residential Code, 2012 Edition.
(3)
International Fire Code, 2012 Edition.
(4)
International Plumbing Code, 2012 Edition.
(5)
International Mechanical Code, 2009 Edition.
(6)
International Fuel Gas Code, 2009 Edition.
(7)
National Electrical Code, 2014 Edition.
(8)
International Energy Conservation Code, 2009 Edition.
(9)
International Property Maintenance Code, 2006 Edition.
(10)
International Existing Building Code, 2006 Edition.
(b)
Subsequent editions or amendments to the adopted publications and state amendments and errata shall become effective 30 days after the city council receives notice that copies of such publications have been obtained, unless the council within such 30-day period disapproves the subsequent edition or amendment.
(c)
A copy of each adopted code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance, shall be authenticated and recorded by the clerk and kept on file in the office of the clerk where they shall be available for public inspection.
Editor's note— Section 8-29 updated as per memo from city on March 14, 2019.
Sec. 8-30. - Codes remedial in nature.
The city's technical codes are remedial in nature, and shall be construed to secure the beneficial interests and purposes thereof, which are public safety, health, and general welfare through structural strength, stability, sanitation, adequate light and ventilation, and safety to life and property from fire and other hazards attributed to the built environment, including alteration, repair, removal, demolition, use and occupancy of buildings, structures, or premises, and by regulating the installation and maintenance of all electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems.
Sec. 8-31. - Quality control.
Quality control of materials and workmanship is not within the purview of this Code except as it relates to the purposes stated herein.
Sec. 8-32. - Liability of city.
The inspection or permitting of any building, system or plan, under the requirements of this Code shall not be construed in any court as a warranty of the physical condition of such building, system or plan or their adequacy. Neither the city nor any employee thereof shall be liable in tort for damages for any defect or hazardous or illegal condition or inadequacy in such building, system or plan, nor for any failure of any component of such, that may occur subsequent to such inspection or permitting.
Sec. 8-33. - Conflict of regulations.
Where in any specific case sections of the technical codes, of this Code, and of state or federal law or regulation specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be applicable.
Sec. 8-34. - Appendices to technical codes.
Appendices referenced in the code text of the technical codes shall be considered an integral part of the codes.
Sec. 8-35. - Referenced standards.
Standards referenced in the text of the technical codes shall be considered an integral part of the codes. If specific portions of a standard are denoted by code text, only those portions of the standard shall be enforced. Where code provisions conflict with a standard, the code provisions shall be enforced. Permissive and advisory provisions in a standard shall not be construed as mandatory.
Sec. 8-36. - Requirements not covered by code.
Any requirements necessary for the strength, stability or proper operation of an existing or proposed building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, or for the public safety, health and general welfare, not specifically covered by this or the other technical codes shall be determined by the building official.
Sec. 8-37. - Alternate materials and methods.
The provisions of the technical codes are not intended to prevent the use of any material or method of construction not specifically prescribed by them, provided any such alternate has been reviewed by the building official. The building official shall approve any such alternate, provided the building official finds that the alternate for the purpose intended is at least the equivalent of that prescribed in the technical codes in quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability and safety. The building official shall require that sufficient evidence or proof be submitted to substantiate any claim made regarding the alternate.
Sec. 8-38. - Required inspections.
The following inspections are mandatory:
(1)
Temporary service pole.
(2)
Manufactured home stand/tie downs.
(3)
Footing.
(4)
Monolithic slab.
(5)
Foundation wall.
(6)
Manufactured home pier footing.
(7)
Poured wall rebar.
(8)
MH curtain wall.
(9)
Retaining wall.
(10)
Concrete slab rough-in.
(11)
Framing rough-in.
(12)
Electrical rough-in.
(13)
Mechanical rough-in.
(14)
Plumbing rough-in.
(15)
Garage/porch slab base.
(16)
Energy.
(17)
Temporary power on.
(18)
Main systems testing.
(19)
Final inspection and certificate of occupancy for move in.
Sec. 8-39. - Building permits; fees.
Provisions regarding building permits are included in chapter 26, Land Use. Building permits and inspection fees shall be in the amount established by the city council and included in the city fee schedule.
Secs. 8-40—8-66. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PROPERTY NUMBERING

Sec. 8-67. - Required; specifications; placement.
All owners of dwelling houses or business buildings situated within the city shall place thereon numerals or numbers of sufficient size and legibility as to be easily read, the same to be placed in a conspicuous place on the front of the dwelling or business building.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 6-1-3(a))
Sec. 8-68. - Assignment of number by building official.
The building official shall, upon application therefor by the owner, designate and assign a number to each dwelling house and business building in the city. After a number is assigned, the owner shall obtain suitable numbers or numerals to affix the same to his dwelling house or business establishment.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 6-1-3(b))
