Chapter 10 - BUSINESSES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— For alcoholic beverages establishment regulations and excise taxes, see Chapter 4. For hotel-motel excise taxes, see Chapter 44.
State Law reference— Authority of cities and counties to license self-service motor fuel dispensing pumps, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-1; certain persons required to provide proof of licensure state licensure before issuance of city or county business license, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-6; limitations regarding persons performing investigations related to city and county business licenses, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-9; taxation of insurers, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-1 et seq.; licensing and taxation of certain businesses, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-1 et seq.; municipal and county occupation taxes for certain traveling salespersons, merchants, and dealers, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-354.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative fee means the component of the occupation tax which approximates the reasonable cost of handling and processing the occupation tax.
Business means any business, trade, occupation, profession, avocation or calling of any kind for gain or profit, directly or indirectly; provided that this shall not include any business, trade, profession and the like licensed by the state unless city licensing is allowed by state law, nor shall it include any business operating solely under a franchise granted by the city.
City clerk includes the city clerk and his designees and any alternates that may be designated from time to time by the city council to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
Employee means any individual who, for compensation, exerts substantial effort within the state for the purpose of soliciting business or serving customers or clients.
Engaged in business. Any person shall be deemed to be engaged in business and thus subject to the requirements of this chapter when he performs any act of selling any goods or services or solicits business or offers goods or services for sale for payment in an attempt to make a profit, including the sales or services of the character as made by a wholesaler or retailer or involved in any of the functions performed as a manufacturer, either as an owner, operator or agent in any business, trade, profession or occupation within this city.
Gross direct premiums means gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4.
Home repair service person means any individual engaged in plumbing, electrical, carpentry, repair or maintenance activities performed on single-family residential units located within the city; provided, however, the charges for such services, exclusive of materials, do not exceed $200.00 per residential unit per year.
Insurer means a company which is authorized to transact business in any of the classes of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5.
Location or office means a fixed place located within the city from which a person conducts business, but does not include a work site located in the city for less than six consecutive months for the purpose of serving a single customer or project.
Manufacturer means a person who, either directly or by contracting with others for the necessary labor or mechanical services, manufactures for sale or commercial use any articles, substances or commodities, including all the activities of a commercial nature wherein labor or skill is applied by hand or machinery to materials so that as a result thereof a new, different, or useful article of tangible personal property or substance of trade or commerce is produced, including the production or fabrication of specially or custom-made articles, and including the making, fabricating, processing, refining, mixing, slaughtering, packing, aging, curing, preserving, canning and preparing and freezing of fresh foods, fruits, vegetables and meats.
Occupation tax means a tax levied for revenue purposes on persons, partnerships, corporations or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession or business in the city.
Occupation tax certificate means a document issued by the city acknowledging payment of the occupation tax and administrative fee.
Practitioners of professions and occupations means those individuals listed in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1)—(18), but does not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business if such business pays an occupation tax.
Regulatory fee means a fee which approximates the cost of regulatory activity by the city.
Regulatory fee certificate means a document issued by the city acknowledging payment of a regulatory fee.
Retailer means a person who sells tangible personal property to the consumer or any other person for any purpose other than for resale.
Services means the accommodating or performing of a duty or work by a person utilizing time or talents for direct or indirect remuneration.
Wholesaler means a person who sells tangible personal property to jobbers or to another person other than the consumer.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, §§ 7-1-1, 2-5-21)
State Law reference— Similar definitions, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5.
Sec. 10-2. - Applicability of chapter.
This chapter is applicable not only to those business entities specifically mentioned herein, but also to businesses that are the topic of other chapters of this Code. The provisions of this chapter shall be supplemental to the provisions of those other chapters to the extent they are not in conflict therewith.
Sec. 10-3. - Subsequent amendments; other fees.
This chapter shall be subject to amendment or repeal, in whole or in part, at any time, and no amendment or repeal shall be construed to deny the right of the city to assess, levy and collect any of the license fees prescribed. The payment of any license fee herein provided for shall not be construed as prohibiting the assessment, levy or collection of additional license or permit fees upon the same person, firm or corporation.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-21)
Sec. 10-4. - Confidentiality.
All information furnished or secured under the authority of this chapter shall be kept in strict confidence by the city, shall not be subject to public inspection, and shall be utilized solely by the officers of the city responsible for administering the provisions of this chapter and the city's business taxes.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-4(4))
State Law reference— Confidentiality of information and penalties for violation, O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-15 and 33-8-10.
Secs. 10-5—10-26. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 10-27. - Authority to administer chapter.
The city clerk shall administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter for the application for and issuance of business licenses under this chapter of this Code.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-5)
Sec. 10-28. - Duties of city clerk.
The city clerk, or an authorized representative, shall have, among others, the following duties:
(1)
To prepare and provide the necessary forms for the registration and application for a business license and for the submission of any required information as may be necessary to properly administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(2)
To issue to each person a business license within a reasonable time after the payment of the license fee assessed and any business taxes, property or other city taxes levied in this Code; provided, however, where under other portions of this Code, permits, certifications and compliance with enumerated conditions are required for the operation of the business, the city clerk shall not issue a business license until the applicant exhibits to the city clerk the obtained permits, certification and compliance.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-6)
Sec. 10-29. - Violations and penalties.
(a)
It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person, whether based in the city or elsewhere, to transact any business of a type for which this chapter requires a license, or to carry on any business for which a license is required, however briefly or however transitorily, without first obtaining a license to do so, under the provisions of this chapter.
(b)
It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person, whether based in the city or elsewhere, made liable for obtaining a business license under this chapter, to fail to show the license or a copy thereof to any police officer within a reasonable time after the making of a demand therefor by the police officer.
(c)
It shall be a violation of this chapter to fail to pay the license fees required by this chapter by the date on which such payments are due.
(d)
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction in the municipal court of the city, be punished as provided in section 1-13.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-18)
Sec. 10-30. - Late payment penalties.
(a)
Should any occupation tax or regulatory fee imposed by this article remain due and unpaid for 90 days from the due date of the tax or fees, the person liable for the tax or fee shall be subject to and shall pay a penalty of ten percent of the tax or fee.
(b)
Any occupation tax, regulatory fee, or administrative fee which becomes delinquent shall bear interest from the date of delinquency on the unpaid amount at 1.5 percent per month or 18 percent per annum.
(Ord. of 12-1-2008, § 301(B); Ord. of 2-6-2012)
State Law reference— When payment due, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-20; penalty and interest on default in payment, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-21.
Sec. 10-31. - Defense to prosecution.
(a)
It shall be a defense to any prosecution under this chapter for failing to obtain a business license before engaging in business, that a license has in fact been issued in the manner provided by law.
(b)
It shall be presumed that no license has been issued unless at his trial the accused produces in court his currently valid business license or a certified copy thereof. In no event shall the claim by the accused that he has been issued a currently valid business license which has been lost be sustained unless that person shall have first reported the alleged loss to the city clerk and made demand for the issuance of a new license. The report of loss or demand for issuance of a replacement license must have been made prior to the arrest for the violation for which the accused is charged.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-19)
Sec. 10-32. - Owner and manager both punishable for violations.
In the event that a business is being conducted without a license, both the person owning the business and the person in charge of the management of the business in the city may be held liable for the violation of the provisions of this chapter, and upon conviction, either or both may be punished as provided for in section 10-29.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-20)
Secs. 10-33—10-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - LICENSES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 10-51. - Required.
Every business in this city or person doing business or engaged in business within the city is hereby required to have a business license from the city for the privilege of engaging in a business, profession or occupation within the corporate limits, unless city licensing is prohibited under state law or the activity is exempted by this Code.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-2)
Sec. 10-52. - Separate businesses.
In the case of a business conducted at more than one store, location or place, each store, location or place shall be considered a separate business under the terms of this chapter, and a separate license shall be required for each. Should more than one business on which a business tax is levied by this Code be conducted in or in conjunction with one place or kind of business, each business shall be separately licensed under this chapter.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-3)
Sec. 10-53. - Casual and isolated activity.
Except as otherwise provided in this article, nothing herein contained shall be interpreted so as to require any person who may engage in casual or isolated activity and commercial transactions, which involve personal assets only and activities and transactions are not the principal occupation of the individual, to obtain a business license and pay a fee therefor.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-8)
Sec. 10-54. - License not issued to persons indebted to city.
No license shall be issued to any applicant who has any outstanding indebtedness to the city, including but not limited to property taxes, business license fees, business taxes, utility bills and any other taxes or assessments.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-10(c))
Sec. 10-55. - Applicability to transient and temporary businesses.
Transient and temporary businesses shall pay any fees or taxes provided for in this article.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-4)
Sec. 10-56. - Special daily business license.
In lieu of obtaining a business license as provided in this chapter, a person not maintaining a fixed place of business in the city may obtain from the city clerk a special daily business license which shall expire at 12:00 midnight of the day for which it is issued. A new license shall be obtained for each day on which any type of business is to be conducted. Any person desiring to engage in a business licensed under this section shall obtain a license prior to engaging in business on the day for which the license is issued and pay all license fees and business taxes required under this Code.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-9)
Sec. 10-57. - Special provisions for disabled veterans.
All disabled veterans desiring to enter business without paying city license fees or business taxes must present a state disability license to the city clerk whereupon a city license will be issued and marked "FREE" on the face of the same.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-17)
Sec. 10-58. - Licensing does not confer right to engage in business.
Nothing herein contained shall be construed as granting any person whose business is subject to municipal regulation any legal right to engage in that business.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-10(g))
Secs. 10-59—10-89. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PROCEDURE

Sec. 10-90. - Time for application processing.
Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, all license applications shall be approved or disapproved within ten days of filing with the city clerk.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-10(f))
Sec. 10-91. - Application form; due date.
(a)
Every person required to procure a license under the provisions of this Code shall submit an application for the license to the city clerk, which application shall conform to the requirements of this section in addition to any other provisions of this Code. Unless otherwise provided in this Code, each application shall be a written statement upon forms provided by the city and submitted before the last day of April of each year or within ten days of opening a new business or reopening of a business under a new ownership.
(b)
Each application shall contain the following information:
(1)
Name and home address of the applicant if an individual, or home office address if a corporation or partnership;
(2)
Place where the proposed business is to be located;
(3)
Kind and class of business to be carried on;
(4)
Names and home addresses of the partners if a partnership;
(5)
Names and home addresses of the officers and directors if a corporation;
(6)
Any information as may be required by the city clerk for the purpose of determining the amount of any business taxes to be collected under this Code; and
(7)
Any additional information which the city clerk may find reasonably necessary to the fair administration of this chapter of the Code, which may include a complete record of all arrests and convictions against the applicant and every partner, officer or director of the applicant for violations of any and all laws and ordinances of the city, state or federal government other than minor traffic violations.
(c)
Each application shall be signed and sworn to by the applicant if an individual, or by a partner if a partnership, or by an officer if a corporation.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-4(1)—(3))
Sec. 10-92. - Evidence or qualification required if applicable.
(a)
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certifications of qualifications, certificates of competency or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the issuance of a city registration, show evidence of such qualification.
(b)
Each person who is licensed by the state shall post the state license in a conspicuous place in the licensee's place of business and shall keep the license there at all times while the license remains valid.
(c)
Each person or business operating within the city must show proof of a business license in the state prior to conducting business within the city. If proof is not shown, the city shall levy a fee of $100.00 for obtaining proof of said license.
(Ord. of 12-1-2008, § 302)
State Law reference— Municipal licensing and taxation of businesses, trades and professions licensed by state, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-18.
Sec. 10-93. - False statements grounds for revocation.
False statements on any application for a license shall be grounds for immediate revocation of the license or denial of the application.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-4(5))
Sec. 10-94. - Fees.
Any application, license and registration fees as fixed from time to time by the mayor and council or business taxes required under this Code shall accompany the application.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-4(6))
Sec. 10-95. - Denial by city clerk; appeal.
(a)
The city clerk shall review the application to ensure that it is complete and meets all requirements provided in this and any other chapters. If the application is proper, the city clerk shall proceed as provided in this division.
(b)
If, however, the city clerk determines that the application is not in order or any requirements for the license have not been met, then the city clerk shall deny the application and immediately provide written notice of the denial and the grounds therefor to the applicant.
(c)
The applicant may appeal the denial to the mayor and council within ten days of the denial notice being issued. The mayor and council shall hold a public hearing on the appeal within ten days of the appeal being filed with the city clerk. The mayor and council, within ten days of the hearing, may order the license granted with or without conditions or may affirm the denial of the application. The decision shall be based only upon a finding by the mayor and council that the city clerk was correct or erred in the interpretation of the regulations involved or the facts of the case.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-10(e))
Sec. 10-96. - Review by designated city officials.
If any provision of this Code provides for the review of an application for a license by a city officer designated therein, the city clerk shall forward a copy of the application to that officer. The officer charged with the duty of reviewing the application shall make a recommendation thereon, favorable or otherwise, and shall return the recommendation to the city clerk after receiving a copy of the application.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-10(a))
Sec. 10-97. - Submission to city council.
Upon the receipt of the recommendation of the reviewing officer, or upon the receipt of the application, if no reviewing officer is designated, the city clerk shall forward the recommendation and application to the mayor and council for consideration and action at its next regularly scheduled public meeting, if approval by the mayor and council is required.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-10(b))
Sec. 10-98. - Issuance.
Upon the express approval of the mayor and council, when so required, or otherwise upon a determination by the city clerk that the application is in order and all requirements have been met, the city clerk shall issue a business license to the applicant therefor, which license shall state the nature of the business authorized and bear the date of issuance and the signature of the city clerk.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-10(d))
Sec. 10-99. - Display of licenses.
All persons shall exhibit and display all licenses issued to them under this Code in some conspicuous place in their business establishment at which address the license was issued. Any transient or nonresident person, firm or corporation doing business within the city shall carry the license either upon his person or in any vehicle or other conveyance which is used in the business and the person shall exhibit the same to any authorized enforcement officer of the city when so requested.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-11)
State Law reference— Duty to post license in place of business, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-23.
Sec. 10-100. - Duration of license.
Any license referred to in this chapter shall automatically expire on December 31 of the year of its issuance. Licenses issued to transient and temporary businesses shall be valid for a period of 180 days.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-7)
Sec. 10-101. - Renewal of licenses.
Each licensee shall make a written application for renewal on forms supplied by the city clerk no later than April 30 of each calendar year, which application may require substantially the same information as the initial application.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-12)
Sec. 10-102. - Change of address.
Any person licensed hereunder moving from one location to another shall notify the city clerk of the move and the new address in writing on a form provided by the city clerk no later than the day of moving. The same business license will be valid at the new location if the new location conforms to other requirements of this Code.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-14)
Sec. 10-103. - Transfer of licenses.
(a)
Business licenses shall not be transferable except as provided in this section. In the event that the owner of a business holding a currently valid, paid-up business license should sell or transfer the business to another person, the purchaser of the business shall obtain free of charge a new license in his name for the balance of the current term of the seller's business license upon making application to the city clerk, and the purchaser shall be punishable for violation of this chapter if the transfer of the business license provided for in this section is not made before the transferee begins to engage in the business.
(b)
At the date of renewal of the seller's business license, the buyer must obtain a new annual business license and pay all license fees and business taxes required by this Code and comply with all applicable provisions of this Code and all ordinances in the same manner as if he had been the original owner of the business.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-15)
Sec. 10-104. - Issuance of replacement licenses.
In the event that the city clerk is notified that the licensee has lost his copy of the license, he shall make a new copy upon showing by the licensee that the required fees have been paid. In addition, the licensee shall be charged a replacement fee as fixed from time to time by the mayor and council. Replacement licenses shall be signed by the city clerk and shall indicate the time and date upon which issued. The possession of a replacement license shall not be a defense to any charge of violation of this chapter except a charge made after the time of the issuance of the replacement license.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-16)
Sec. 10-105. - Revocation; suspension.
(a)
Violations of this article or any other ordinance or regulation of the city shall constitute grounds for suspension or revocation of a business registration. The provisions and requirements of this article shall be enforced by injunctions.
(b)
The mayor and council after affording the licensee a five-day notice of the charges and opportunity to be heard with respect to any revocation proceedings, may, if it finds this Code to have been violated by the licensee, his agent, or employee in the operation of the business, revoke any and all city licenses in their entirety, suspend the same for a specified period of time, place the licensee on probation or place other conditions thereon as the mayor and council may deem necessary after a hearing thereon.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-13; Ord. of 12-1-2008, § 401(A))
Secs. 10-106—10-123. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - REGULATORY FEES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Regulatory fees, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-8; limitations on imposition of regulatory fees, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9.

Sec. 10-124. - Purpose.
Regulatory fees paid by businesses or practitioners are to defray cost for investigations or inspections of such businesses or practitioners as a protection to the public health, safety, or welfare or in the course of enforcing, a state or local building, health, or safety code.
(Ord. of 12-1-2008, § 206)
Sec. 10-125. - Imposed.
A regulatory fee will be imposed as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9 on the following businesses:
EXPAND
Carnivals $  200.00
Shooting galleries and firearm ranges    200.00
Pawnbrokers with firearm license (copy of state firearms license must be on file in clerk's office)    500.00
Massage parlors  1,000.00
Auto and motorcycle racing    500.00
Garbage collectors     75.00
Fortunetellers  1,000.00
Adult bookstores  1,000.00
Tattoo parlor and body piercing    500.00
  (Ord. of 12-1-2008, § 202(A))
Sec. 10-126. - Amendment.
The regulatory fee schedule may be amended to add businesses or practitioners by resolution by the mayor and council as needed.
(Ord. of 12-1-2008, § 202(B))
Secs. 10-127—10-151. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - OCCUPATION TAXES[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Taxation of businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations in a county or municipality, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-6; taxes on businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with no location in state, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7; prohibited practices in levying tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-13.

Sec. 10-152. - Purpose and scope.
The occupation tax levied herein is for revenue purposes only and is not for regulatory purposes, nor is the payment of the tax made a condition precedent to the practice of any such profession, trade or calling.
(Ord. of 12-1-2008, § 206)
Sec. 10-153. - Option to establish exemption or reduction in tax.
The mayor and council may in subsequent ordinance or resolution provide for an exemption or reduction in occupation tax to one or more types of businesses or practitioners of occupations or professions as part of a plan for economic development. Such exemptions or reductions shall not be arbitrary or capricious and the reasons shall be set forth in the minutes of the council.
(Ord. of 12-1-2008, § 402)
Sec. 10-154. - Administration; director.
The director appointed by the city council shall administer and enforce the levy, assessment, and collection of the occupational taxes imposed by this article. The city clerk and chief of police, or either of them, are designated as director for purposes of this article.
(Ord. of 12-1-2008, § 102)
Sec. 10-155. - Tax levy based on number of employees.
(a)
An occupational tax is levied upon those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices within the incorporated areas of the city or upon the applicable out-of-state businesses with no location or office in this state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, based upon the number of employees of the business or practitioner, as follows:
EXPAND
0—2 $ 50.00
3—10  100.00
11—20  175.00
21—30  250.00
31—40  300.00
41—50  400.00
More than 50  500.00
  (b)
The number of employees shall include full-time and full-time equivalent working for the business. A "full-time" employee is an employee who works 40 or more hours per week. Each part-time employee shall count as one-half an employee for occupational tax purposes. The owner and other family members working for the businesses, whether paid or not, shall be included in this count.
(c)
The number of employees shall be determined by the average number of employees of a business for the four previous quarters of operation of a business year.
(Ord. of 12-1-2008, § 201)
State Law reference— Taxation of businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with no location in state, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7.
Sec. 10-156. - Tax levy based on business location.
(a)
Wherever a business or occupation is conducted at more than one location or place within the city, each such location shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of the occupation tax imposed by this article.
(b)
An occupation tax is hereby levied on those businesses and practitioners of professions with no location or office in the state if the business' largest dollar volume of business in this state is in the city and the business or practitioner:
(1)
Has one or more employees or agents who exert substantial effort within the jurisdiction of or serving customers or clients; or
(2)
Owns personal or real property which generates income and which is located within the jurisdiction of the city.
(c)
The city shall not require an occupation tax on those real estate brokers, agents, or companies, whose offices are located outside the city and sell property in the city.
(Ord. of 12-1-2008, § 203)
Sec. 10-157. - Practitioners exclusively practicing for the government exempted.
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, a municipality or county of the state, or instrumentalities of the United States, the state or a municipality or county of the state shall not be required to pay an occupation tax for that practice.
(Ord. of 12-1-2008, § 205)
Sec. 10-158. - Insurance companies.
(a)
Generally. There is hereby levied an annual license fee upon each insurer doing business within the city in the amount of $25.00. For each separate business location in excess of one not covered by subsection (b) of this section, operating on behalf of such insurers within the city, there is hereby levied a license fee in the amount of $25.00.
(b)
Insurers insuring certain risks at additional business locations. For each separate business location, not otherwise subject to a license fee hereunder, operated and maintained by a business organization which is engaged in the business of lending money or transacting sales involving term financing and in connection with such loans or sales, offers, solicits or takes application for insurance through a licensed agent of an insurer for insurance, said insurer shall pay an additional license fee of $10.00 per location for each year.
(c)
Insurance agency license fees; independent insurance agencies and brokers. There is hereby levied an annual license fee upon independent agencies and brokers for each separate business location from which an insurance business is conducted and which is not subject to the company license fee imposed by subsection (a) of this section, in the amount of $20.00 for each such location within the city.
(d)
Gross premiums tax on life insurers. There is hereby levied an annual tax based solely upon gross direct premiums upon each insurer writing life, accident and sickness insurance within the city in an amount equal to one percent of the gross direct premiums received during the calendar year in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1. The premium tax levied by this section is in addition to the license fees imposed by subsection (a) of this section.
(e)
Gross premiums tax upon all other insurers. There is hereby levied an annual tax upon each insurer, other than an insurer transacting business in the class of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5, doing business within the city in an amount equal to 2½ percent of the gross direct premiums received during the calendar year, in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2.
(f)
Due date. License fees imposed in subsections (a), (b) and (c) of this section shall be due and payable on February 1 of each year. The due date for gross premiums tax imposed in this section shall be as provided by state law.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 2-5-30)
State Law reference— License fees of insurance companies generally, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-3; county and municipal corporation tax on life insurance companies, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1; county and municipal corporation tax on other than life insurance companies, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2; municipal authority to impose license fee on life insurance companies, O.C.G.A. § 38-8-8.
Sec. 10-159. - Proration for new businesses.
When any person commences business on or after July 1 in any year, the occupation tax and regulatory fee for the remaining portion of the year will be 50 percent (or one-half) of the tax imposed for the entire year.
(Ord. of 12-1-2008, § 301(C))
Sec. 10-160. - Due date.
Except as otherwise specifically provided in this article, all occupation taxes and regulatory fees levied by this article shall be due and payable annually on January 1 and shall be delinquent if not paid by March 1. In the event that a person commences business on any date after January 1 in any year, the tax shall be due and payable on the date of the commencement of the business for that part of the year remaining.
(Ord. of 12-1-2008, § 301(A))
State Law reference— When payment due, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-20; penalty and interest on default in payment, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-21.
Secs. 10-161—10-190. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - PEDDLING, SOLICITING AND CANVASSING

Sec. 10-191. - Registration required.
Any person peddling, soliciting or canvassing within the city shall be required to register and obtain an identification card as provided by this article.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-2-1)
Sec. 10-192. - Registration fee; application for identification card.
Any person desiring to peddle, solicit or canvass within the city shall pay to the city clerk or his designated representative a registration fee as fixed from time to time by the mayor and council and shall make application with the chief of police for an identification card which shall show payment of the registration fee and the days that the registrant has registered to peddle, solicit or canvass within the city.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-2-2)
Sec. 10-193. - Exhibition of registration card.
Each registrant shall at all times while in the city have upon his person the registration card and shall exhibit the same when requested to do so by any law enforcement officer or by any municipal authority and by any person being solicited. Possession of this registration card shall not in any way represent an endorsement or approval of any products or project by the city.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-2-3)
Sec. 10-194. - Unlawful acts.
It shall be unlawful for any person to peddle, canvass or solicit after sundown within the fire zone of the city, without having registered with the city clerk in accordance with this article, or without having on his person and in his possession an identification card issued in accordance with this article.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-2-4)
