Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal Home Rule Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; home rule for municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3; limitations on home rule for municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6; authority to adopt ordinances for regulation of matters for which no provision has been made by general law, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20; duty to codify ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19; inspection of public records, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-70 et seq.; requirements for publication of code, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19; maximum penalties that may be imposed by municipalities, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-35-6, 36-32-1, 36-32-5; additional penalties and bond in certain criminal and traffic cases, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; authority to impose community service as punishment, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-1; alternative sentences by municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-5; municipal corporation defined, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-1.

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of the City of Lincolnton, Georgia," and may be so cited. This Code may also be referred to by the shortened form "Lincolnton Code".
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 1-1-1)
State Law reference— Authority to adopt ordinances for regulation of matters for which no provision has been made by general law, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20; duty to codify ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
As used in this Code, the following terms and phrases shall have the meanings indicated unless otherwise specifically provided, and the following rules of construction shall be applied:
City. The term "city" or "this city" means the City of Lincolnton, Georgia.
City officials; city officers. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., by title only, i.e., "city clerk", "chief of police", etc., it shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards, commissions and departments of the City of Lincolnton, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" means The Code of the City of Lincolnton, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted, but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
Council, city council. The term "council" or "city council" means the City Council of Lincolnton, Georgia.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" means the County of Lincoln, Georgia.
Court. The term "court" means the court provided by law for the punishment of offenders against the laws or ordinances of the city, whether the same shall be the court now constituted or a court hereafter established pursuant to law.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires the head of a department or an official of the county to do some act or perform some function, it shall be construed to authorize the head of such department or the official to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required function, unless the terms of the provisions designate otherwise.
Department; city council; agency; commissions; boards. The name or title of any department, city council, or agency, unless otherwise specifically stated otherwise, shall be read as though the words "of the City of Lincolnton, Georgia" were added thereto.
Fee schedule or schedule of fees and charges. The term "fee schedule" or "schedule of fees and charges" means the official consolidated list of city fees and other charges adopted by the council that lists rates for utility or other public enterprises, fees of any nature, deposit amounts and various charges as determined from time to time by the city council. A copy of the city fee schedule is available in the office of the city clerk.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and neutral genders and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males and vice versa.
Governing authority, governing body. The term "governing authority" or "governing body" means the city council of Lincolnton, Georgia.
Incorporated limits or incorporated areas of the city. The term "incorporated limits" or "incorporated areas" means all areas of the city that are not situated within the territorial limits of an incorporated city or town.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any specific provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Joint authority. All terms giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving that authority to a majority of those persons or officers.
Keeper andproprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.
Law. The term "law" means and denotes applicable federal law, the state constitution and statutes, this Code, ordinances and resolutions of the city, and, when appropriate, any and all rules and regulations that may be promulgated thereunder.
Limits or corporation. The term "limits" or "corporation," means the corporate limits (legal boundary) of the city.
Mayor. Whenever the term "mayor" is used it shall mean the mayor of the City of Lincolnton.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Municipality. Wherever the term "municipality" appears in this Code, it shall mean the City of Lincolnton, Georgia.
Name of officer. Whenever the name of an officer is given, it shall be construed as though the words "of the City of Lincolnton" were added.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and any others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to that meaning.
Number. A term importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing and vice versa.
Oath. The term "oath" includes affirmation. When an oath is required or authorized by law, an affirmation in lieu thereof may be taken. An affirmation has the same force and effect as an oath.
Or, and. The term "or" may be read "and," and the term "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
Ordinance. The term "ordinance" means a legislative act of the municipal governing body of a general and permanent nature.
Owner. The term "owner," applied to a building or land, means and includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership or joint tenant of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" means and extends to associations, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property, as herein defined.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The term "property" includes real, personal and mixed estates and interests.
Public place. The term "public place" means any place including, but not limited to, buildings or conveyances to which the public has, or is permitted to have access, including restaurants, soda fountains, hotel dining rooms, lobbies and corridors of hotels, and any highway, street, lane, park or place of public resort or amusement.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Resolution. The term "resolution" means a legislative act of the city governing authority of a special or temporary character.
Shall; may. The term "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory; the term "may" is permissive.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature or subscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" includes a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The term "the state" or "this state" shall be construed to mean the State of Georgia.
Statute references. Whenever reference is made, for example, to O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3, it shall be construed to refer to the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, § 1-3-3, as amended, or to whatever section is cited.
Street. The term "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, public alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public highways in the city.
Tenant or occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of, that building or land, either alone or with others.
Time. Terms used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Week. The term "week" shall be construed to mean seven days.
Written, in writing. The term "written" or "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The term "year" shall mean a calendar year.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 1-1-2)
State Law reference— Statutory definitions and rules of construction, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; construction of statutory definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; general statutory definition, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections, history notes and references.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of the section nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect, but are intended merely to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Editor's notes, charter references and state law references that appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of the Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions, or sections are to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions, or section of this Code, unless otherwise specified.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 1-1-3)
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Form of Code; repository; maintenance.
A copy of this Code shall be kept on file in the office of the city clerk, preserved in loose-leaf form, or in such other form as the clerk may consider most expedient. It shall be the express duty of the clerk or his designee to insert in their designated places all resolutions, general resolutions and ordinances that indicate the intention of the city council to make the same a part of this Code, when the same have been printed or reprinted in page form, and to extract from this Code all provisions that may be from time to time repealed by the city council. A copy of this Code shall be available in the office of the city clerk for examination by all persons.
State Law reference— Inspection of public records, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-70 et seq.; requirements for publication of code, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-5. - Responsibility of city personnel with respect to assigned copies of Code.
Each city official or employee assigned a copy of this Code shall be responsible for maintaining the same and for the proper insertion of amendatory pages as received. Each such copy shall remain the property of the city and shall be turned over by the official or employee having custody thereof, upon expiration of his term of office or employment, to his successor or to the city clerk, in case he shall have no successor.
Sec. 1-6. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness.
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the city.
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any city officer or employee.
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the city.
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the city.
(7)
Any appropriation ordinance.
(8)
Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term.
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor.
(10)
Any zoning ordinance.
(11)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat.
(12)
Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the city.
(13)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(14)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein.
(15)
Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the city.
(b)
No such ordinance shall be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this chapter; and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Sec. 1-7. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of a Code section or ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued or any offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding commenced before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
(b)
When any ordinance repealing a former Code section, ordinance, clause or provision, shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former Code section, ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it shall be expressly so provided.
Sec. 1-8. - Amendments to Code.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code that amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of the repeal of chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from this Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code of Ordinances by the mayor and council.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of The Code of the City of Lincolnton, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language shall be used: "That The Code of the City of Lincolnton, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (division, article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which section (division, article or chapter) reads as follows:…." The new section, division, article or chapter shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, divisions, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, division, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 1-1-6)
Sec. 1-9. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever as necessary and as directed by the city council. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the mayor and council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code).
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-10. - Conflicting regulations.
(a)
If the provisions of different chapters conflict with each other, the provisions of each individual chapter shall control all issues arising out of the events and persons intended to be governed by that chapter.
(b)
If the provisions of different sections of the same chapter conflict with each other, the provision which is more specific in its application to the events or persons raising the conflict shall control over the more general provision.
(c)
If any of the provisions hereof conflict, and the conflict cannot be resolved by application of subsections (a) and (b) of this section, the more stringent regulation shall apply and the specific provision shall prevail over the general.
Sec. 1-11. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, that unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the mayor and council without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 1-1-4)
State Law reference— Severability of state legislation, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-12. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code in any manner except by ordinance or other official act of the mayor and council which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-14.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 1-1-7)
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying, or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-13. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
In this section, the phrase "violation of this Code" means:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared to be an unlawful act, an offense, or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance, rule, or regulation authorized by ordinance; or
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a misdemeanor, an offense, or an unlawful omission by ordinance, rule, or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
The phrase "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a city officer or city employee to perform an official duty, unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section or it is clear from the context of this Code that it is the intent of the city to impose the penalty provided for in this section upon the city officer or employee.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided in this Code or by general law, a person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 days, or work on the streets or public works for a period not exceeding 90 days, or both, or any combination thereof.
(d)
All sentences must be in the alternative, and fines may be imposed with the alternative of the other punishment in the event the fines are not paid. Each day any violation of any provision of this Code or any such ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation or order shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(e)
Except as otherwise provided in this Code, each day that a violation of this Code continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(f)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief and by such other means as are provided by law. Further, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any such ordinance, resolution, rules, regulation or order shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated by the city as provided by law.
(g)
The imposition of a penalty does not prohibit equitable relief.
(h)
The imposition of a penalty does not prohibit revocation or suspension of a license, permit, or franchise or the imposition of other administrative sanctions.
(i)
All fines shall be paid into the city treasury.
(j)
In the event community service is substituted for a fine, the monetary rate for hourly work shall be the federal minimum hourly wage.
(k)
If it is deemed by a court of competent jurisdiction that a punishment imposed under this Code conflicts with the laws of Georgia, the punishment shall be the maximum permitted by law.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 1-1-5)
State Law reference— Maximum penalties that may be imposed by municipalities, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-35-6, 36-32-1, 36-32-5; additional penalties and bond in certain criminal and traffic cases, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; authority to impose community service as punishment, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-1; alternative sentences by municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-5; powers of municipal court judges in criminal cases, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-3; jurisdiction of municipal court, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-6 et seq.
Sec. 1-14. - Liability for violations by corporations, other associations.
(a)
Any violation of this Code by any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization, while acting within the scope of his office or employment, shall in every case also be deemed to be a violation by such corporation, association or organization.
(b)
Any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and liable to punishment as well as the corporation or unincorporated association or organization for the violation by it of any provisions of this Code, where such violation was the act or omission, or the result of the act, omission or order, of any such person.
