Chapter 10 - FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Interference with fire plugs, § 12-17.

Sec. 10-1. - Fire prevention and safety inspections.
(a)
The state minimum fire safety standards as contemplated by O.C.G.A. § 25-2-4 and adopted by the State Safety Fire Commissioner are hereby adopted by the city as if set forth in full herein.
(b)
No building within the city other than single family residences shall be occupied unless it shall first be inspected and approved as in compliance with minimum fire safety standards as adopted above. Such inspections may be performed by any qualified individual designated by the city manager.
(c)
Any qualified individual so designated shall administer and enforce the state minimum Fire Safety Code within the city.
(d)
The state fire marshall, a deputy recognized pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 25-2-12.1 or the DeKalb County Fire Marshall shall investigate arson and other incendiary fires within the city.
(Code 1973, § 2-7217; Ord. No. 13-05, § 1, 12-16-2013)
Cross reference— Existing buildings code, § 5-161 et seq.
Sec. 10-2. - Fireworks—Discharging.
The discharge, firing or use of firecrackers, rockets, torpedoes, Roman candles, or other fireworks or substances designed and intended for pyrotechnic display, and of pistols, canes, cannons, or other appliances, using blank cartridges or caps containing chlorate or potash mixture, is hereby prohibited; provided, that the board of mayor and commissioners may allow the public display of fireworks by properly qualified individuals; provided also that such displays shall be of such character and so located, discharged or fired as, in the opinion of the chief of the county fire department, shall not be hazardous to surrounding property or endanger any person.
(Code 1973, §§ 2-801(26), 2-7252)
State Law reference— Fireworks control, O.C.G.A. § 25-10-1 et seq.
Sec. 10-3. - Same—Sale.
The sale of fireworks at retail is prohibited. The chief of the police department may, at such chief's discretion, remove or have removed, at the owners' expense, all stocks of fireworks or other combustibles exposed for sale or held in stock in violation of this section.
(Code 1973, § 2-7253)
Sec. 10-4. - Hazardous use of buildings.
It shall be unlawful for any person to locate or install in any building within the city a business or occupancy of a hazardous nature which will, according to the classifications, rulings, and regulations of any agency of the state furnishing classifications on insurable risks for fire insurance companies doing business in the state, produce an increase in the cost of fire insurance carried on in buildings housing such hazardous business or condition, if such increase exceeds ten (10) percent of the cost of insurance before the existence of such hazard, unless the owner or operator of such hazardous business presents to the owner of the property located within thirty (30) feet of the outer walls of the building occupied by the hazardous business a satisfactory obligation and agreement to assume such additional expenses as may be entailed upon the owner and the occupant of adjoining property in carrying fire insurance.
(Code 1973, § 2-732)
