ARTICLE VI. - EXISTING BUILDINGS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Fire prevention code; fire safety rules; enforcement, § 10-1.

Sec. 5-161. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them:
Enforcement authority means the safety fire commissioner, the state fire marshal, the city building official, local fire marshals, or any other state or local official responsible for the implementation, application, or enforcement of any state law or local ordinance relating to building construction, or any state or local rule or regulation relating to building construction, or any building, mechanical, electrical, plumbing, life safety or fire prevention codes, or other construction standards that apply or are intended to apply to existing buildings. The term "enforcement authority" also means any local official designated by the governing authority as the enforcement authority for the purposes of this article.
Existing building or structure means any completed building or structure which has been placed in service for a minimum of five (5) years.
Safety fire commissioner or commissioner means the office created in O.C.G.A. § 25-2-2.
(Ord. No. 815, § 2, 6-27-88)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 5-162. - Authority.
This article is enacted pursuant to the Uniform Act for the Application of Building and Fire Related Codes to Existing Buildings, Ga. Laws 1984, pp. 1160—1169, O.C.G.A. §§ 8-2-200 through 8-2-222, as authorized by O.C.G.A. § 8-2-203.
(Ord. No. 815, § 1, 6-27-88)
Sec. 5-163. - Effect of article on local enforcement authority and appeals boards.
The enforcement authority and all appeals boards of the city shall be apprised of and shall enforce this article so that its intent may be carried into effect.
(Ord. No. 815, § 3, 6-27-88)
Sec. 5-164. - Alteration or repair without total compliance with new construction requirements.
The provisions of this article shall require any state code enforcement authority and shall permit any authorized local code enforcement authority to permit the repair, alteration, addition, or change of use or occupancy of existing buildings without total compliance with any state or local rule, regulation, code, or standard for new construction requirements under the following general conditions:
(1)
All noted conditions hazardous to life, based on the provisions of applicable state and local standards or codes for existing buildings, shall be corrected to a reasonable and realistic degree as set forth in this article, with specific attention to sections 5-174 through 5-179;
(2)
The existing building becomes the minimum performance standard; and
(3)
The degree of compliance of the building after changes shall not be below that existing before the changes. Nothing in this article will require or prohibit compliance with requirements more stringent than those provided in this article.
(Ord. No. 815, § 4, 6-27-88)
State Law reference— Authority, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-204.
Sec. 5-165. - Identification and correction of certain conditions or defects.
With reference to existing buildings, authorized enforcement authorities shall give special attention to the conditions or defects described in this section in accordance with the provisions of section 5-164, so as to ensure that any such conditions or defects are identified and corrected as deemed appropriate by the enforcement authority having jurisdiction based on applicable state and local codes and through the utilization of appropriate compliance alternatives:
(1)
Structural. Any building or structure or portion thereof which is in imminent danger of collapse because of, but not limited to, the following factors:
a.
Dilapidation, deterioration, or decay;
b.
Faulty structural design or construction;
c.
The removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building; or
d.
The deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of the foundation;
(2)
Number of exits. Less than two (2) approved independent, remote, and properly protected exit ways serving every story of a building, except where a single exit way is permitted by the applicable state or local fire or building code or life safety code;
(3)
Capacity of exits. Any required door, aisle, passageway, stairway, or other required means of egress which is not of sufficient capacity to provide for the population of the portions of the building served and which is not so arranged as to provide safe and adequate means of egress to a place of safety; and
(4)
Mechanical systems. Utilities and mechanical systems not in conformance with the codes in effect at the time of construction of a building which create a serious threat of fire or threaten the safety of the occupants of the building.
(Ord. No. 815, § 5, 6-27-88)
Sec. 5-166. - Consideration of compliance alternatives.
Sections 5-167 through 5-171 contain generally acceptable compliance alternatives illustrating principles which shall be applied to the rehabilitation of existing buildings by state enforcement authorities and which may be applied by authorized local enforcement authorities in the state. It is recognized for purposes of this article that all building systems interact with each other; therefore, any consideration of compliance alternatives shall take into account all existing and proposed conditions to determine their acceptability. The compliance alternatives are not all-inclusive and do not preclude consideration and approval of other alternatives by any enforcement authority.
(Ord. No. 815, § 6, 6-27-88)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-206.
Sec. 5-167. - Compliance alternatives for inadequate number of exits.
Compliance alternatives for an inadequate number of exits include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1)
Provide connecting fire exit balconies acceptable to the enforcement authority between buildings;
(2)
Provide alternate exit or egress facilities leading to safety outside the building or to a place of safe refuge in the building or an adjoining building as acceptable to the enforcement authority;
(3)
Provide one (1) or more exterior fire escapes as acceptable to the enforcement authority where the providing of enclosed interior or enclosed exterior stairs is not practical; or
(4)
Install early fire warning and fire suppression systems.
(Ord. No. 815, § 7, 6-27-88)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-207.
Sec. 5-168. - Compliance alternatives for excessive travel distances to approved exit.
Compliance alternatives for excessive travel distances to an approved exit include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1)
Install an approved smoke detection system throughout the building;
(2)
Install an approved complete automatic fire suppression system;
(3)
Subdivide the exit travel route with smokestop doors acceptable to the enforcement authority;
(4)
Increase the fire resistance rating of corridor walls and doors; or
(5)
Provide additional approved means of escape.
(Ord. No. 815, § 8, 6-27-88)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-208.
Sec. 5-169. - Compliance alternatives for unenclosed or improperly enclosed exit stairways or vertical shafts.
Compliance alternatives for unenclosed or improperly enclosed exit stairways or vertical shafts include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1)
Improve enclosure of exit stairway;
(2)
Add a partial fire suppression system;
(3)
Add a sprinkler draft curtain; or
(4)
Add a smoke detection system.
(Ord. No. 815, § 9, 6-27-88)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-209.
Sec. 5-170. - Compliance alternatives for inadequate fire partitions or walls.
Compliance alternatives for inadequate or a total lack of fire partitions or fire separation walls shall be as set forth in section 5-169.
(Ord. No. 815, § 10, 6-27-88)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-210.
Sec. 5-171. - Compliance alternatives for lack of required protection of openings in exterior walls.
Compliance alternatives for a lack of required protection of openings in exterior walls where a fire exposure is a risk include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1)
Improve fire resistance of existing openings and protect them with fire-rated windows or doors as appropriate;
(2)
Seal the openings with fire-rated construction as approved by the enforcement authority; or
(3)
Install an approved fire suppression system.
(Ord. No. 815, § 11, 6-27-88)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-211.
Sec. 5-172. - Filing of approved compliance alternatives.
Whenever action is taken on any existing building to repair, make alterations, or change the use or occupancy of an existing structure and, when such action proposes the use of compliance alternatives, the authorized enforcement authority shall ensure that at least one (1) copy of the accepted compliance alternatives approved, including applicable plans, test data, or other data submitted for evaluation, be maintained on file in the office of the local enforcement authority. If such structure also falls under the jurisdiction of a state level enforcement authority, at least one (1) copy of same material shall be maintained on file with that authority.
(Ord. No. 815, § 12, 6-27-88)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-212.
Sec. 5-173. - Final review of projects; agreement of local authorities.
Where an existing building or structure falls within the jurisdiction of both state level and local level enforcement authorities, the final review of any part of the project which is under the jurisdiction of both such enforcement authorities shall occur with the state authority; provided, however, the local fire and building authorities must agree in writing with any compliance alternatives before such can be approved by the state authority. It is the intent of this section that the state enforcement authority be very liberal in the consideration and approval of compliance alternatives which have the documented support of local enforcement authorities.
(Ord. No. 815, § 13, 6-27-88)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-213.
Sec. 5-174. - Additions.
Additions to an existing building shall comply with the applicable requirements of state and local laws, rules, regulations, codes, and standards for new construction. Such additions shall not impose loads either vertical or horizontal which would cause the existing building to be subjected to stresses exceeding those permitted under new construction. If the existing building does not comply with the standards provided in this article and the authorized enforcement authority finds that the addition adversely affects the performance of the total building, the authorized enforcement authority may require:
(1)
The new addition to be separated from the existing structure by at least a two-hour firewall with openings therein properly protected; or
(2)
The installation of an approved automatic fire suppression system; or
(3)
Other remedies which may be deemed appropriate by the enforcement authority.
(Ord. No. 815, § 14, 6-27-88)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-214.
Sec. 5-175. - Minor alterations or repairs; reduction or removal of features, alteration or repair without further compliance, installation of mechanical systems.
Minor alterations or repairs to an existing building which do not adversely affect the performance or safety of the building may be made with the same or like materials. Existing buildings which, in part or as a whole, exceed the requirements of any applicable construction or fire safety code, may, in the course of compliance with this article, have reduced or removed, in part or total, features not required by such code for new construction, provided, however, that such features were not a condition of prior approval. Existing buildings and structures which, in part or as a whole, do not meet the requirements of the applicable code for new construction may be altered or repaired without further compliance to any such code by utilizing the provisions of this article, provided their present degree of compliance to any applicable construction or fire safety code is not reduced. Any new mechanical systems installed in an existing building shall conform to applicable codes for new construction to the fullest extent practical as approved by the authorized enforcement authorities.
(Ord. No. 815, § 15, 6-27-88)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-215.
Sec. 5-176. - Continuation of legal use and occupancy.
The legal use and occupancy of any building or structure may be continued without change, except as may be provided otherwise by this article or as may be legally provided for by any applicable state or local law, ordinance, rule, regulation, code, or standard.
(Ord. No. 815, § 16, 6-27-88)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-216.
Sec. 5-177. - Total change in use or occupancy.
(a)
A total change in the use or occupancy of an existing building which would cause a greater hazard to the public shall not be made unless such building is made to comply with the requirements of the applicable state and local rules, regulations, codes, and standards for the new use or occupancy; provided, however, the compliance alternative provisions of this article may be utilized by authorized enforcement authorities where total or strict compliance with applicable state or local rules, regulations, codes, or standards is not practical.
(b)
When the proposed use is of equal or lesser hazard as determined by an authorized enforcement authority, further compliance with any code for new construction is not required unless otherwise provided in this article. Alterations or repairs to an existing building or structure which do not adversely affect the performance of the building may be made with like materials. Any proposed change to the existing building or change in type of contents of the existing building shall not increase the fire hazard to adjacent buildings or structures. If the fire hazard to adjacent buildings or structures is increased, then requirements of applicable construction or fire safety codes for exterior walls shall apply.
(Ord. No. 815, § 17, 6-27-88)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-217.
Sec. 5-178. - Change of portion of building to new use or occupancy.
(a)
If a portion of a building is changed to a new use or occupancy and that portion is separated from the remainder of the building with vertical or horizontal fire separations complying with applicable state or local rules, regulations, codes, or standards or with compliance alternatives, then the portion changed shall be made to comply to the applicable requirements for the new use or occupancy to the extent noted in section 5-177 of this article.
(b)
If a portion of the building is changed to a new use or occupancy and that portion is not separated from the remainder of the building as noted in subsection (a) of this section, then the provisions of the applicable state and local rules, regulations, codes, and standards applying to each use or occupancy of the building shall apply to the entire building to the extent noted in section 5-177 of this article; provided, however, if there are conflicting provisions in requirements for the various use or occupancies, the authorized enforcement authority shall apply the strictest requirements.
(Ord. No. 815, § 18, 6-27-88)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-218.
Sec. 5-179. - Changes which increase floor loading.
Any proposed change in the use or occupancy of an existing building or portion thereof which could increase the floor loading shall be investigated by a state registered professional engineer to determine the adequacy of the existing floor system to support the increased loads. If the existing floor system is found to be inadequate, it shall be modified to support the increased loads or the proposed allowable floor loading shall be reduced by and posted by the appropriate enforcement authority.
(Ord. No. 815, § 19, 6-27-88)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-219.
Sec. 5-180. - Rules and regulations.
The safety fire commissioner shall promulgate reasonable rules and regulations to implement and carry out the requirements of this article.
(Ord. No. 815, § 20, 6-27-88)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-220.
Sec. 5-181. - Appeals of rulings or decisions.
Should any person be dissatisfied with any ruling or decision of the state fire marshal pursuant to the provisions of this article, the right is granted to appeal within ten (10) days to the commissioner. If the person is dissatisfied with the decision of the commissioner, appeal is authorized to the superior court within thirty (30) days in the manner provided under O.C.G.A. title 50, ch. 13. In the event of such appeal, the person shall give a surety bond which will be conditioned upon compliance with the order and direction of the state fire marshal or the commissioner or both. The amount of bond shall be fixed by the commissioner in such amount as will reasonably cover the order issued by the commissioner or the state fire marshal or both.
(Ord. No. 815, § 21, 6-27-88)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-221.
Sec. 5-182. - Immunity of state and local entities; liability of proper owner or user.
Nothing in this article shall be construed to constitute a waiver of the sovereign immunity of the state or any officer or employee thereof in carrying out the provisions of this article. Further, no action shall be maintained against the state, any municipality, county, or any duly authorized elected or appointive officer or duly authorized employee thereof, for damages sustained as a result of any fire or hazard covered by this article by reason of inspection or other action taken or not taken pursuant to this article. Nothing in this article shall be construed to relieve any property owner or lessee or person in charge thereof from any legal duty, obligation, or liability incident to the ownership, maintenance, or use of such property.
(Ord. No. 815, § 22, 6-27-88)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-222.
Secs. 5-183—5-200. - Reserved.
