Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as the "Code of Ordinances, City of Avondale Estates, Georgia," and may be so cited.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and all ordinances amending the same, the following definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the governing body:
Board of mayor and commissioners, mayor and commissioners, governing authority, governing body. The terms "board of mayor and commis- sioners," "mayor and commissioners," "governing authority" and "governing body" mean the board of mayor and commissioners of the City of Avondale Estates, Georgia.
Bonds. When a bond is required by law, an undertaking in writing, without seal, is sufficient; and in all bonds where the names of the obligors do not appear in the bond, but are subscribed thereto, they are bound thereby.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(1).
City. The term "city" means the City of Avondale Estates, Georgia. Where appropriate, it shall also mean duly authorized officials, officers and employees of the city.
Code. The term "Code" or "this Code" means the Code of Ordinances, City of Avondale Estates, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years, or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in the O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, as amended, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven (7) days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(3).
County. The term "county" means DeKalb County, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision of this Code requires an official or the head of a department of the city to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize the official or head of the department to designate, delegate, and authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
Gender. A word importing one (1) gender extends and applies to the other genders.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by the Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Keeper, proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" means and includes persons as the term "person" is defined herein, whether acting by themselves or through an agent or employee.
Month. The word "month" means a calendar month.
Number. A word importing only the singular number may extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one (1) person or thing.
Oath. The word "oath" shall include an affirmation in all cases in which by law an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Or, and. The word "or" may be read "and" and "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
Owner. The word "owner" applied to a building or land includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or person in possession under a bond for title.
Person. The word "person" extends and applies to associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships, receivers, trustees and personal representatives, and to bodies politic and corporate, as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The words "personal property" includes every species of property except real property, as herein defined.
Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" means next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The word "property" includes real and personal property.
Public place. The words "public place" means any park, cemetery, schoolyard or open space adjacent thereto, or any open area.
Real property. The words "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Shall, may. The word "shall" is considered mandatory; "may" is considered permissive.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature, subscription. The "signature" or "subscription" of a person includes a mark intended as such when the person cannot write.
State. The term "state," in reference to a political entity, means the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" means to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public highways in the city.
Tenant, occupant. The terms "tenant" and "occupant," applied to a building or land, includes any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of, such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Title of officer or official. Whenever the title of an officer is given, it shall be construed as though the words "of the City of Avondale Estates" were added.
Week. The word "week" means seven (7) calendar days.
Written, in writing. The terms "written" and "in writing" shall mean to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The word "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1973, §§ 2-103, 2-107)
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections, effect of history notes, references in Code.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections and subsections of this Code are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections or subsections, nor as any part of the section or subsection, nor unless expressly so provided shall they be so deemed when any of such sections or subsections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Cross references, Charter references, related law references and state law references which appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles, divisions or sections are to the chapters, articles, divisions and sections of this Code, unless otherwise specified.
(Code 1973, § 2-109)
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect.
(Code 1973, § 2-103)
Sec. 1-5. - Severability.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the governing body that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional or invalid by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect the remaining clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
(Code 1973, § 2-110)
Sec. 1-6. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances adopted subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and added hereto. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "Section _____ of the Code of Ordinances, City of Avondale Estates, Georgia is hereby amended to read as follows: …." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not theretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "The Code of Ordinances, City of Avondale Estates, Georgia is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _____, and to read as follows: …." The new section (or article or chapter) may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters, or provisions desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1973, § 2-112)
Sec. 1-7. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the governing body. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the governing body or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete. The new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement. Charter amendments may be included in like manner.
(b)
In the preparation of a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ through _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but, in no case, shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-8. - General penalty; continuing violations; abatement of nuisances.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city amending this Code, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in such Code, ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any ordinance shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed six (6) months, or both, or by fine, imprisonment or alternative sentencing as provided by law. Each day any violation of any provision of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
In addition to the penalties provided in this section, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any ordinance shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated by the city, as provided by law, and each day that such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(Code 1973, § 2-105)
Maximum punishment, § 1-102(29); jurisdiction of municipal court, § 1-803(2).
Sec. 1-9. - Provisions considered as continuation of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are substantially the same as ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(Code 1973, § 2-111)
Sec. 1-10. - Altering Code, ordinance or other public document.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, mutilate, or in any other manner alter any ordinance book or minute book, or any notice posted by the city for the benefit of the public, or any other document or record of the municipal government of the city.
(Code 1973, § 2-113)
Sec. 1-11. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any rates, fees or charges consistent with this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(3)
Any ordinance consistent with this Code prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations, such as prescribing through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic or limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones;
(4)
Any ordinance consistent with this Code fixing salaries of officials, officers or employees of the city;
(5)
Any budget ordinance or appropriation ordinance; any ordinance levying any tax;
(6)
Any right or franchise granted by any ordinance to any person;
(7)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening or vacating any street or public way in the city;
(8)
Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city;
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor;
(10)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city, or providing regulations for platting or subdividing property;
(11)
Any ordinance establishing or changing the boundary of the city;
(12)
Any zoning ordinance of the city.
All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
Sec. 1-12. - Prior offenses, penalties, contracts or rights not affected by adoption of Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or permitting any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance of the city in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
