Chapter 8 - ELECTIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Regulation of elections, § 1-208.
Cross reference— Election date, § 2-12.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 8-1. - Election officials.
The following offices are created for the city:
(1)
The board of mayor and commissioners shall appoint a municipal election superintendent who shall receive such compensation as provided by the board. The superintendent shall exercise the powers and duties set forth in the Georgia Municipal Election Code. The election superintendent shall attend biennially the minimum hours of training as required by state law and as selected by the secretary of state.
(2)
A chief manager and two (2) assistant managers for each election district shall be appointed by the board and shall receive such compensation as provided by the board. The election managers shall exercise the powers and duties set forth in the Municipal Election Code. No member of the board of mayor and commissioners and no employee of the city shall serve as an election manager.
(3)
At each election, prior to the opening of the polls, the board of mayor and commissioners shall appoint a sufficient number of clerks to serve at each election. The clerks shall receive such compensation as provided by the board and shall exercise the powers and duties set forth in the Municipal Election Code.
(Code 1973, § 2-501)
State Law reference— Such code is O.C.G.A. ch. 21-3.
Sec. 8-2. - Expenses.
The election superintendent is authorized to incur expenses in the preparation and conduct of an election including the cost of printing of ballots and the purchasing of all other supplies necessary for the conduct of an election. The superintendent is further authorized to incur all necessary expenses to provide voting booths for the proper conduct of all elections.
(Code 1973, § 2-502)
Sec. 8-3. - Election districts and polling places.
All the territory within the corporate limits of the city shall constitute one (1) election district, and all qualified electors residing in the city shall vote at the polling place selected by the board. The superintendent shall cause such polling place to be provided with sufficient light and heat.
(Code 1973, § 2-503)
Sec. 8-4. - Registration of electors; challenge.
(a)
Any person who is a resident of the city prior to any municipal election, and who is registered as an elector with the board of registrars of the county shall be eligible to vote in any election of the city.
(b)
Any elector of the city shall be allowed to challenge the right of registration of any person whose name appears upon the electors' list. The elector making the challenge shall appear before the superintendent on or before election day and state the grounds for the challenge in writing. The initial decision shall be made forthwith by the superintendent with a right of appeal to the board. If possible, the superintendent will notify the challenged elector and provide such elector with an opportunity to answer the challenge. If the superintendent does not find probable cause for sustaining the challenge, the challenged elector will be given the right to vote. If in doubt as to the merit of a challenge, the superintendent shall notify the chief manager and the challenged elector shall be allowed to cast a challenged ballot.
(Code 1973, § 2-504)
Sec. 8-5. - Nomination of candidates.
Each candidate, or the candidate's agent, shall file notice of the candidacy for municipal office as authorized by general law.
(Code 1973, § 2-505)
State Law reference— See O.C.G.A. § 21-3-91.
Sec. 8-6. - Qualification fees.
The board may fix a qualification fee as authorized by general law, to be paid by candidates seeking election.
(Code 1973, § 2-506)
State Law reference— See O.C.G.A. § 21-3-90.
Sec. 8-7. - Absentee ballots.
Absentee ballots may be used in all municipal elections under the provisions of the Municipal Election Code.
(Code 1973, § 2-507)
Sec. 8-8. - Vote required for election.
A candidate for municipal office may be elected in a general election by receiving a plurality of the votes cast to fill such office.
(Code 1973, § 2-508)
Secs. 8-9—8-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CONTESTED ELECTIONS

Sec. 8-31. - Grounds.
Any person who was a candidate in an election or any aggrieved elector shall be permitted to contest the election of any candidate upon any of the following grounds:
(1)
Misconduct, fraud, or irregularity by any election official sufficient to change or place in doubt the result.
(2)
Ineligibility of the candidate for the office in dispute.
(3)
Illegal votes received, or legal votes rejected, sufficient to change or place in doubt the result of the election.
(4)
An error in counting the votes or in declaring the result of an election, if such error would change the result of the election.
(5)
Any other cause which shows that another was the person legally elected.
(Code 1973, § 2-509)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-422.
Sec. 8-32. - Jurisdiction; presiding judge.
(a)
A contest case governed by this article shall be tried and determined by the superior court of the county.
(b)
The superior court shall be presided over by a superior court judge or senior judge. The superior court judge or senior judge who presides over the contest shall be selected as set out in subsection (c) of this section.
(c)
Upon the filing of a contest petition, the clerk of the superior court shall immediately notify the administrative judge for the judicial administrative district, or the district court administrator, who shall immediately notify the administrative judge, of the institution of proceedings under this article. If the county is not in the circuit of the administrative judge, the administrative judge shall select a superior court judge from within the district, but not from the circuit in which the proceeding was instituted, or a senior judge not a resident of the circuit in which the proceeding was instituted, to preside over the contest.
(d)
If the administrative judge is a member of the circuit, or if the other judges of the district are unable or are unwilling to preside over the proceeding, or if the other judges of the district are judges of the circuit, then the administrative judge shall select an administrative judge of an adjoining district to select a superior court judge from that district, or a superior court judge from the district, but not the circuit, or a senior judge who is not a resident of the circuit.
(e)
After a judge has agreed to preside over the case, the administrative judge who selected the judge to hear the matter shall enter an order in the superior court appointing such judge, and such judge shall promptly begin presiding over such proceedings in such court and shall determine same as soon as practicable. Such judge shall be reimbursed for his actual expenses for food and lodging and shall receive the same mileage as any other state officials and employees. Senior judges shall be entitled to compensation and reimbursement as the law provides for senior judge service.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-423.
Sec. 8-33. - Petition to contest results.
(a)
A petition to contest the result of a primary or election shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the superior court within five (5) days after the official consolidation of the returns of that particular office or question and certification thereof by the election official having responsibility for taking such action under this chapter or within five (5) days after the official consolidation and certification of the returns of that particular office or question by the election official having responsibility for taking such action under this chapter following a recount pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 21-3-405 and shall allege the following:
(1)
The contestant's qualification to institute the contest;
(2)
The contestant's desire to contest the result of such primary or election and the name of the nomination, office, or question involved in the contest;
(3)
The name of the defendant;
(4)
The name of each person who was a candidate at such primary or election for such nomination or office in the case of a contest involving same;
(5)
Each ground of contest;
(6)
The date of the official certification of the result in dispute;
(7)
The relief sought; and
(8)
Such other facts as are necessary to provide a full, particular, and explicit statement of the cause of contest.
(b)
The state election board shall be served with a copy of the petition, as provided in subsection (a) of this section, by serving the same on the chairman thereof, by mailing a copy to the chairman by certified or registered mail; and a certificate that such service has been made shall be filed by the plaintiff or his attorney.
(c)
When an error in the counting of votes is alleged as a ground of contest, it is sufficient for the contestant to state generally that he believes that error was committed in the counting of the votes cast for the filling of the nomination or office in dispute, or for or against the question in dispute, in one (1) or more specified precincts; and it shall not be necessary for the contestant to offer evidence to substantiate such allegation. If a recount of the votes casting any precinct shall change the result in dispute, any aggrieved litigant may require a recount of the votes affecting such result, which were cast in any other precinct, by amending his pleadings and requesting such relief.
(d)
The petition shall be verified by the affidavit of each contestant. Such affidavit shall be taken and subscribed before some person authorized by law to administer oaths and shall state that the contestant believes the facts alleged therein are true, that according to the best of his knowledge and belief the contested result of the primary or election is illegal and the return thereof incorrect, and that the petition to contest the same is made in good faith.
(e)
A statement of the grounds of contest shall not be rejected, nor the proceedings dismissed by any court, for want of form, if the grounds of contest are alleged with such certainty as will advise the defendant of the particular proceeding or cause for which the primary or election is contested.
(f)
Upon such petition being filed, the clerk of the superior court shall issue notice, in the form of special process directed to the sheriff of such county, requiring the defendant and any other person named in such petition as a candidate for such nomination or office, if any, to appear and answer such petition, on a day to be fixed in such notice, not more than ten (10) days nor less than five (5) days after the service of such notice. Such notice, with a copy of the petition attached, shall be served by the sheriff upon the defendant and any other person named therein in the same manner as petitions and process are served in other civil cases. On or before the day fixed in such notice, unless for good cause shown the presiding judge shall extend the time therefor, the defendant shall appear and answer such petition and may set up by way of answer or cross action any right of interest he may have or claim in such proceeding. Any other person who was a candidate at such primary or election for the nomination or office involved and upon whom notice was served as provided in this subsection shall be deemed a litigant to such proceeding and may set up by way of answer or cross action any right of interest or claim he may have.
(g)
After filing, any petition, cross action, or answer may be amended with leave of the superior court so as to include the specification of additional grounds of contest, other relevant facts, or prayer for further relief. After each amendment, a reasonable time to respond shall be given by the court to any opposing litigant.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-424.
Sec. 8-34. - Conduct of hearing.
(a)
Within twenty (20) days after the return day fixed in the notice as provided in section 8-33(a) to the defendant, the presiding judge shall fix a place and time for the hearing of the contest proceeding. Such judge may fix additional hearings at such other times and places as are necessary to decide the contest promptly.
(b)
The superior court shall have plenary power to make, issue, and enforce all necessary orders, rules, processes and decrees for a full and proper understanding and final determination and enforcement of the decision of every such case, according to the course of practice in other civil cases under the laws of this state, or which may be necessary and proper to carry out this chapter. The superior court shall have authority to subpoena and to compel the attendance of any officer of the primary or election complained of, and of any person capable of testifying concerning the same; to compel the production of evidence which may be required at such hearing, in like manner and to the same extent as in other civil cases litigated before such court; to take testimony; and to proceed without delay to the hearing and determination of such contest, postponing for the purpose, if necessary, all other business.
(c)
The court may, in its discretion, limit the time to be consumed in taking testimony, dividing such time equitably among all litigants concerned, with a view therein to the circumstances of the matter and to the proximity of the next succeeding primary or election.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-425.
Sec. 8-35. - Demand for jury trial; impaneling of jury; special verdict.
(a)
All issues of a contest shall be fully tried and determined by the superior court without the aid and intervention of a jury, unless a litigant to the contest shall demand a trial by jury at any time prior to the call of the case; and the superior court shall determine that it is an issue which under other laws of this state the litigant is entitled to have tried by a jury. Upon such determination, a jury shall be impaneled and the cause shall proceed according to the practice and procedure of the superior court in jury cases.
(b)
The superior court may require a jury to return only a special verdict in the form of a special written finding upon each issue of fact. In a case where a special verdict is to be rendered, the superior court shall submit to the jury written questions susceptible of categorical or other brief answer or may submit written forms of the several special findings which might properly be made under the pleadings and evidence; or it may use such other method of submitting the issues and requiring the written findings thereon as it deems most appropriate. The superior court shall give to the jury such explanation and instruction concerning the matter thus submitted as may be necessary to enable the jury to make its findings upon each issue. If, in so doing, the superior court omits any issue of fact raised by the pleadings or by the evidence, each party waives his right to a trial by jury of the issue so omitted unless before the jury retires he demands its submission to the jury. As to an issue omitted without such demand, the superior court may make a finding; or, if it fails to do so, it shall be deemed to have made a finding in accord with the judgment on the special verdict.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-426.
Sec. 8-36. - Declaration or judgment of superior court.
(a)
After hearing the allegations and evidence in the contest, the superior court shall declare as nominated, elected, or as eligible to compete in a run-off primary or election that qualified candidate who received the requisite number of votes and shall pronounce judgment accordingly; and the clerk of the superior court shall certify such determination to the proper authority. In the case of a contest involving a question submitted to electors at an election, the court shall pronounce judgments as to whether the same was approved or disapproved; and the clerk of the superior court shall certify such determination to the defendant.
(b)
When a defendant who has received the requisite number of votes for nomination, election, or to compete in a run-off primary or election is determined to be ineligible for the nomination or office sought, the court shall pronounce judgment declaring the primary or election invalid with regard to such nomination or office and shall call a second primary or election to fill such nomination or office.
(c)
If misconduct is complained of on the part of the poll officers of any precinct, it shall not be held sufficient to set aside the contested result unless the rejection of the vote of such precinct would change such result.
(d)
Whenever the superior court trying a contest shall determine that the primary or election is so defective as to the nomination, office, or eligibility in contest as to place in doubt the result of the entire primary or election for such nomination, office, or eligibility, the superior court shall declare the primary or election to be invalid with regard to such nomination, office, or eligibility and shall call for a second primary or election to be conducted among the same candidates who participated in the original primary or election to fill such nomination or office.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-427.
Sec. 8-37. - Restrictions on settlement of case.
No settlement of any case under this article shall become effective unless:
(1)
All parties to such case have been given an opportunity to object to such settlement before the superior court; and
(2)
The superior court has approved such settlement.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-428.
Sec. 8-38. - Appeals.
An appeal from the final determination of the superior court may be taken within ten (10) days from the rendition thereof to the supreme court or the court of appeals as in other civil cases. Such court shall consider applications for stays or supersedeas in such cases without regard to whether any notice of appeal has been filed or the record docketed in such cases.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-429.
Sec. 8-39. - Costs.
The contestant and the defendant shall be liable to the officers and witnesses for the costs made by them, respectively. If the result of the primary or election is confirmed, the petition dismissed, or the prosecution fails, judgment shall be rendered against the contestant for costs; and, if the judgment is against the defendant or the result of the primary or election is set aside, he shall pay the costs at the discretion of the court. After entry of judgment, the costs may be collected by attachment or otherwise.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-430.
