Chapter 19 - WRECKERS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Removal of improperly parked cars, O.C.G.A. § 44-1-13.

Sec. 19-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Disabled, as used in this chapter, means a motor vehicle disabled on a public way or other public place in such a manner as to obstruct vehicular or pedestrian travel or access to public or private property.
Operator includes all persons owning or operating wreckers for, on behalf of, or within a wrecker service in the city and all officers, agents and employees of such persons who are engaged in the business of the wrecker service.
Wrecker means an automotive vehicle equipped and used for the purpose of towing or hauling wrecked or disabled automobiles or other vehicles.
Wrecker or towing service means any person regularly engaged in the business of towing or hauling wrecked or disabled motor vehicles for hire within the city, whether or not such wrecker service maintains an office within the corporate limits of the city.
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 19-2. - Compliance with chapter.
It shall be unlawful for any wrecker service or operator to tow or haul any motor vehicle which has been wrecked, abandoned or disabled on a public way or other public place within the jurisdiction of the city from the scene of the wreck, abandonment or disablement except in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
Sec. 19-3. - Administration and enforcement of chapter.
It shall be the duty of the city manager to administer and carry out the provisions of this chapter. All police officers of the city shall have authority to issue citations and prosecute violations of this chapter.
Sec. 19-4. - Application to operate wrecker services in city; license required.
(a)
A wrecker service maintaining an office, garage, or storage area within the corporate limits of the city shall not operate until that wrecker service has an approved application on file and a license has been issued by the office of the city clerk. In addition, when necessary for the police department to remove any motor vehicle for any cause from any place within the jurisdiction of the city, no wrecker shall be used to tow or haul such vehicles unless the wrecker service has an approved application on file and a license has been issued by the office of the city clerk. The application shall contain the following information:
(1)
Name of the wrecker service and all persons having a financial interest therein.
(2)
Home and business addresses and telephone numbers of the principal operator of the wrecker service.
(3)
Description of each wrecker, including the make, model, color, year of manufacture, vehicle identification number, title number, and tag number.
(4)
The name, address, and telephone number of the owner of each wrecker if different from the operator.
(5)
Date each vehicle was first placed in service as a wrecker.
(6)
Location and telephone number of the office or garage to and from which the wrecker service is operated.
(7)
Persons, including all agents and employees, authorized to operate the wrecker and class of driver's license held by each operator.
(b)
The applicant shall file with the application either a certified copy of title showing ownership or other written instrument authorizing possession of each wrecker along with a copy of insurance certificate evidencing that the wrecker service is properly insured in accordance with the insurance laws of the state and with section 19-7 and a copy of the wrecker service's registration permit issued by the state public service commission.
(c)
Each application for a license under this chapter shall be accompanied by a certified check in the amount of two hundred dollars ($200.00) to defray investigative and administrative costs.
Sec. 19-5. - Approval of application; issuance of license; nontransferable; expiration.
(a)
The city manager shall inspect each wrecker before approving the application to determine whether the vehicle is serviceable, properly equipped, and in compliance with the provisions of this chapter and with other applicable laws. Thereafter, the city manager shall inspect each wrecker annually.
(b)
Upon approval of the application by the city manager, the city clerk shall issue a license to the wrecker service which shall authorize the wrecker service to operate in the city. The license shall not be transferable.
(c)
If the application is denied, or if the applicant withdraws his application prior to issuance of the license, the application fee shall be retained.
(d)
All licenses granted pursuant to this chapter expire on December 31 of each year. A licensee who desires to renew his license shall file application, with the application fee, by November 30 of each year.
Sec. 19-6. - Revocation of license; appeal thereof.
(a)
The city manager shall direct the city clerk to revoke the license of any wrecker owner or operator when such person has been found in violation of any terms of this chapter or upon any of the following grounds:
(1)
The license granted hereunder was procured by fraudulent conduct or false statement of a material fact as to ownership, use, possession, or operation;
(2)
The owner or licensee is found at the scene of an accident in violation of the provisions of this chapter; or
(3)
The licensee pays, in the form of a gratuity, any person not involved in an accident for information as to the location of the accident.
(b)
Any wrecker service whose license is revoked shall be notified in writing by the city manager of the revocation to take effect fifteen (15) days after mailing of the notice, the reasons therefor, the witnesses relied upon by the city manager, and that the wrecker service shall be granted a hearing before the governing body upon written request. If a hearing is desired, the request for the hearing shall be filed with the city clerk within five (5) days of the notice from the city manager. Prior to the effective date of the revocation, the governing body shall conduct a hearing for the purpose of determining whether the license shall be revoked and, upon hearing the facts, may affirm, reverse, vacate or modify the city manager's order of revocation.
(c)
Any wrecker service whose license has been revoked shall not be eligible to again apply for a license with the city for a period of one (1) year from the date of revocation.
Sec. 19-7. - Insurance.
In addition to the motor vehicle liability insurance required by state law, each wrecker service shall maintain general comprehensive liability and garage and extended operation insurance on business operations providing a minimum of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) single-limit coverage per occurrence. Copies of insurance certificates showing the name and address of the insurance company, policy number, amount of coverage and expiration of the policies shall be attached to the application required by this chapter.
Sec. 19-8. - Information printed on side of wrecker.
It shall be unlawful for a wrecker service to operate within the city any wrecker unless such vehicle has lettered in permanent paint on each side in plain view the name, address, and telephone number of the wrecker service. This lettering shall be in a contrasting color to the color of the wrecker and shall be at least two and one-half (2½) inches in height. Temporary or removable magnetic signs shall not be permitted.
Sec. 19-9. - Required equipment.
Each wrecker vehicle shall have a minimum rating of not less than ten thousand (10,000) pounds gross vehicle weight and shall be minimally equipped with the following additional equipment: one (1) broom, one (1) shovel, one (1) ABC-type fire extinguisher, and a revolving amber emergency light mounted on the top of the cab or boom of the vehicle.
Sec. 19-10. - Response to accident scene upon proper requests only.
It shall be unlawful for a wrecker service to go to any place where an accident has occurred unless called by the driver or the owner of the disabled vehicle, or by the vehicle owner's authorized representative, or by a police dispatcher. Upon being so called, a wrecker operator shall not block traffic and shall maintain his vehicle in such position as not to impede emergency vehicles and/or normal vehicular traffic.
Sec. 19-11. - Solicitation for business.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any wrecker operator or wrecker service to solicit business at the scene of a motor vehicle accident or other vehicular disablement, whether such solicitation be conducted from a wrecker vehicle, private automobile, other motor vehicle, or on foot.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any city employee to solicit business for any wrecker service or operator.
Sec. 19-12. - Responsibility for cleaning accident debris from street and right-of-way.
A wrecker operator, after having been called to the scene of an accident for the purpose of removing a damaged vehicle, shall clean all the debris caused by the accident from the street and right-of-way before he leaves. If two (2) or more wreckers are called to the same accident scene, they shall be equally responsible for cleaning.
Sec. 19-13. - Display of emergency light.
A wrecker operator shall not display the vehicle's amber emergency light except upon arrival at the scene where a call originated and when leaving the scene with the vehicle in tow. Each wrecker operator shall abide by all applicable traffic regulations and shall be responsible for any violations incurred in the process of responding to a call.
Sec. 19-14. - Release by investigating officer prior to towing.
No vehicle shall be removed from the scene of a wreck, abandonment or disablement until it is released by the investigating officer. The police officer may, in his discretion, require inside secured storage of the vehicle until any investigation and processing are completed.
Sec. 19-15. - Vehicle inventory; procedure.
(a)
Whenever any vehicle is removed by a wrecker service without the owner or operator of the vehicle present, the police officer shall make a thorough inventory of all equipment, accessories, personal articles or other items either attached to or located within the vehicle. The inventory shall be indicated on the inventory/impound form and signed by the police officer. Upon acceptance of the vehicle, and prior to its removal, the agent or employee of the wrecker service performing the removal shall sign the inventory/impound form. The officer shall retain the original, and the wrecker service shall retain a copy. A copy of the inventory/impound form shall be provided to the owner of the vehicle when the vehicle is released.
(b)
Whenever any vehicle is removed at the request of the vehicle owner and without participation by a police officer, the wrecker service performing the removal shall complete and sign an inventory form. The vehicle owner shall be given a reasonable opportunity to verify and sign the inventory form. The owner or lawful custodian of the vehicle shall keep the original of the inventory form and the wrecker service shall retain a copy.
Sec. 19-16. - Vehicle storage area.
Each wrecker service shall maintain an area for storage of towed vehicles sufficient to provide storage in a manner not inconsistent with applicable zoning ordinances and other laws. The storage area shall be enclosed or the entire perimeter fenced. Towed or hauled vehicles shall not be parked or left standing on any city, county, or state right-of-way at any time or under any circumstances. All stored vehicles shall be subject to reclamation twenty-four (24) hours a day.
Sec. 19-17. - Release of impounded vehicle.
Any person claiming a vehicle impounded under this chapter shall produce evidence of such person's identity and ownership or right of possession to the police department which shall issue an order to the wrecker service to release the vehicle and deliver the vehicle to the person upon payment of the fees for removal and storage. Thereupon, the impounded vehicle shall be surrendered by the person in charge thereof, who shall issue a receipt for such impounded vehicle and for payment of the fees for removal and storage.
Cross reference— Impounding vehicles, § 18-121 et seq.
Sec. 19-18. - Notification to county public safety department; required reports.
(a)
The operator of any wrecker removing a private motor vehicle in the city from another person then having possession of such motor vehicle at the request of any person other than a police officer or dispatcher shall report this action to the county public safety department in the same manner and timeframe as required by the county for the unincorporated area of the county.
(b)
The owner or operator of any business providing wrecker service or storage facilities within the city shall furnish reports to the county public safety department in the same manner and timeframe as required by the county for the unincorporated area of the county.
Sec. 19-19. - Maximum fees and charges.
The maximum reasonable costs of removal, relocation, and storage pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be established annually by the governing body, a copy of which shall be filed with the city clerk.
