ARTICLE II. - TRAFFIC ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 18-20. - Authority to install traffic-control devices.
The city manager shall cause to be placed and maintained traffic-control signs and devices when and as required under this chapter and other traffic ordinances of this city to make effective the provisions of this chapter and such ordinances. The city manager may cause to be placed and maintained such additional traffic-control devices as deemed necessary to regulate traffic under this chapter and other traffic ordinances of this city or under state law, or to guide or warn traffic.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 56)
Sec. 18-21. - Duty and authority of police officers.
(a)
It shall be the duty of officers of the police department to enforce this chapter and all other traffic laws of the city and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in the city.
(b)
Officers of the police department, or such officers as are assigned by the chief of police, are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand, or signal in conformity with traffic laws; provided that, in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers of the police department may direct traffic as conditions may require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
(c)
County fire officers when at the scene of a fire, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate vicinity.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 18)
State Law reference— Authority to regulate traffic by means of police officers, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(2).
Sec. 18-22. - Delegation of powers and duties.
The city manager may delegate to any officer in the police department the duties and responsibilities conveyed to him by this chapter.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 19)
Sec. 18-23. - Traffic violations bureau—Created; administration; accepting fines.
(a)
A traffic violations office to assist the court with the clerical work of traffic cases shall be established. The office shall be in charge of such persons and shall be open at such hours as the governing body may designate.
(b)
The municipal judge who hears traffic cases shall designate the specified offense under this chapter or other traffic ordinances of this city and applicable state traffic laws in respect to which payment of fines may be accepted by the traffic violations office in satisfaction thereof, and shall specify by suitable schedules the amount of such fines, provided such fines are within the limits declared by law or ordinance, and shall further specify what offenses shall require appearance before the municipal judge.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 114)
State Law reference— Traffic violations bureau, O.C.G.A. § 40-13-50 et seq.
Sec. 18-24. - Same—When person charged may elect to appear thereat.
(a)
Any person charged with an offense for which payment of a fine may be made to the traffic violations office shall have the option of paying such fine within the time specified in the notice of arrest at the traffic violations office upon entering a plea of guilty and upon waiving appearance in court; or may have the option of depositing required lawful bail and upon a plea of not guilty shall be entitled to a trial as authorized by law.
(b)
The payment of a fine to the office shall be deemed an acknowledgment of conviction of the alleged offense, and the office upon accepting the prescribed fine shall issue a receipt to the violator acknowledging the payment thereof.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 115)
Sec. 18-25. - Same—Duties.
The following duties are hereby imposed upon the traffic violations office in reference to traffic offenses:
(1)
Accept designated fines and issue receipts to such violators as are permitted and desire to plead guilty and waive court appearance.
(2)
Receive and issue receipts for cash bail from the persons who must or wish to be heard in court, enter the time of their appearance on the court docket, and notify the arresting officer and witnesses, if any, to be present.
(3)
Keep an easily accessible record of all violations of which each person has been guilty during the preceding five (5) years, whether such guilt was established in court or in the traffic violations office.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 116)
Sec. 18-26. - Same—Following procedure.
The traffic violations office shall follow such procedure as may be prescribed by this chapter or other traffic ordinances of this city or as may be required by any laws of this state.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 117)
Sec. 18-27. - Records of traffic violations.
The traffic violations office shall keep a record of all violations of this chapter and other traffic ordinances of this city or the state vehicle laws of which any person has been charged, in the municipal court, together with a record of the final disposition of all such alleged offenses. Such record shall be so maintained as to show all types of violations and the total of each. Such record shall accumulate during at least a five-year period and from that time on the record shall be maintained complete for at least the most recent five-year period. Such matters shall be filed alphabetically under the names of the persons so arrested or convicted.
All such records shall be public records.
(Code 1973, App. II, §§ 14, 17)
State Law reference— Records to be kept, O.C.G.A. § 40-13-27.
Sec. 18-28. - Licenses and reports of conviction to state department of public safety.
(a)
Whenever any person is convicted of any offense for which state law mandates the suspension of the license of such person by the state department of public safety, the municipal court shall require the surrender to it of any driver's license then held by the person so convicted and the license and citation shall be forwarded to the state department of public safety within the time frame prescribed in O.C.G.A. § 40-5-53(a).
(b)
Citations for other convictions of offenses pertaining to the operation of motor vehicles shall be forwarded to the state department of public safety in the manner and within the time frame prescribed in O.C.G.A. § 40-5-53(b).
(c)
Any payments to the municipal court or municipal court clerk from the state department of public safety for the submission of uniform citations shall be paid into the city treasury.
Sec. 18-29. - Accidents—Immediate notice.
The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to or death of any person or property damage to an apparent extent of that amount prescribed in O.C.G.A. § 40-6-273 or more shall immediately, by the quickest means of communication, give notice of such accident to the police department if such accident occurs within this city.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 24)
Sec. 18-30. - Same—Police department to investigate; etc.
It shall be the duty of the police department to investigate traffic accidents and to arrest and assist in the prosecution of those persons charged with violations of law causing or contributing to such accidents.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 15)
Sec. 18-31. - Same—Reports by police.
(a)
It shall be the duty of every member of the police department investigating a traffic accident to make a written report of such officer's findings as soon as practicable after completing the investigation.
(b)
The police department shall maintain a suitable system of filing traffic accident reports required by this section.
(c)
A copy of all accident reports shall be submitted to the department of public safety in the manner and within the time frame as prescribed in O.C.G.A. § 40-9-31.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 16)
Sec. 18-32. - Vehicle inspection.
It shall be an offense against the city for any person to drive or operate on any of the streets of the city any motor vehicle required to be inspected by state law which has not been so inspected.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 130)
State Law reference— Inspection authorized, O.C.G.A. § 40-8-200; display of valid emission inspection sticker, O.C.G.A. § 12-9-55.
Sec. 18-33. - Driver's license.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle upon the streets of the city without having a valid driver's license in such person's immediate possession at the time.
(b)
Refusal to display a valid driver's license upon the demand of a law enforcement officer shall constitute a violation of this section.
(c)
A person convicted of a violation of subsection (b) of this section shall be fined in an amount not to exceed that amount prescribed in O.C.G.A. § 40-5-29(c).
(Code 1973, App. II, § 131)
State Law reference— Driver's license, O.C.G.A. § 40-5-29.
Sec. 18-34. - Procedure upon arrest.
Except when authorized or directed under state law immediately to take a person arrested for a violation of any of the traffic laws before the municipal judge, any police officer, upon making an arrest for violation of this chapter or other traffic ordinance of the city or laws of the state, shall take the name, address, and operator's license number of the alleged violator and the license tag number of the motor vehicle involved and shall issue to such person on a form provided, a notice to answer to the charge against such person at a place and time to be specified in the notice.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 119)
State Law reference— Form of citation, O.C.G.A. § 40-13-1.
Sec. 18-35. - When summons for arrest to be issued.
In the event any person fails to comply with a notice given to such person or attached to a vehicle or fails to make appearance pursuant to a summons directing an appearance in the traffic violations office, or if any person fails or refuses to deposit bail as required and within the time permitted by ordinance, the traffic violations office may forthwith secure and issue a summons for such person's arrest.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 124)
Sec. 18-36. - Penalty for failure to appear when served with copy of charges.
Any person who has been lawfully served with a copy of charges to appear in the municipal court and shall fail to appear at the time and place indicated in such copy of charges shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction in the municipal court shall be punished as provided in this Code.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 125)
Sec. 18-37. - Disposition of traffic fines and forfeitures.
All fines and forfeitures collected upon conviction or upon the forfeiture of bail for any person charged with a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or other ordinance of the city shall be paid into the city treasury.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 126)
Secs. 18-38—18-49. - Reserved.
