Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Home rule and supplemental powers of municipalities, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶¶ II and III; Municipal Home Rule Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; home rule as to municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3; limitations on home rule for municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6.

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as the "The Code of the City of Nicholson, Georgia," and may be so cited. Such ordinances may also be cited as the "Nicholson Code."
(Code 2018, § 1.101)
State Law reference— Duty to codify ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions of specific terms.
Words and phrases used in this Code shall have the following meanings, unless otherwise specified.
General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
City. The term "city" means the City of Nicholson, Georgia. Where appropriate, it shall also mean duly authorized officials, officers, and employees of the city.
City limits or corporate limits. The term "city limits" or "corporate limits" means the corporate limits (legal boundaries) of the city.
Code. The term "Code" refers to The Code of the City of Nicholson, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. When a number of days is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted. If the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise such privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action shall fall on a public or legal holiday as set forth in state law, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following business day to exercise such privilege or to discharge the duty.
Conjunctions. Where a provision involves two or more items, conditions, provisions, or events connected by any of the conjunctions "and," "or," "either…or," or "neither…nor," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows, provided in appropriate cases the terms "and" and "or" are interchangeable:
(1)
The term "and" indicates that all the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply.
(2)
The term "or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or events may apply singly or in any combination.
(3)
The terms "either…or" and "neither…nor" indicate that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or events shall apply singly, but not in combination.
City Council, governing authority, governing body. The terms "City Council," "governing authority," and "governing body" mean the City Council of the City of Nicholson, Georgia.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" means the County of Jackson, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring a city officer or city employee to do some act, it is to be construed to authorize the officer or employee to designate, delegate, and authorize subordinates to perform the required act.
Gender. A word importing one gender extends and is applied to any other gender.
May. The term "may" is to be construed as being permissive.
Number. A word importing only the singular number may extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one person or thing.
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the latest edition of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Officials, officers, etc. References to officials, employees, boards, commissions, or other agencies by title only shall be construed as referring to the city officials, city employees, city boards, city commissions, or other city agencies.
Person. The term "person" includes individuals and any association, club, society, firm, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, body politic and corporate, or any combination thereof.
Personal property. The term "personal property" means every type of property except real property, as hereinafter defined.
Real property. The term "real property" means lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
Shall. The term "shall" is mandatory.
State. The term "state" means the State of Georgia.
Tenant or occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," when applied to a building or to land, means any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Zoning Administrator. The term "Zoning Administrator" means the city official or his duly authorized designee responsible for the implementation and enforcement of the zoning and land use provisions of this Code.
(Code 2018, § 1.102)
Sec. 1-3. - Interpretation and general rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following rules of construction shall be observed as to those terms not specifically defined, unless inconsistent with the manifest intent of the City Council or the context clearly requires otherwise:
(1)
The ordinary signification shall be applied to all words except terms of art or words connected with a particular trade or profession or subject matter, in which case they shall have the signification attached to them by experts in such trade or profession or as to such subject matter.
(2)
In all interpretations, the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the City Council, keeping in view, at all times, the old law, the evil, and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
(3)
All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the City Council may be fully carried out. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, such provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, and general welfare.
(4)
Where any provision of this Code imposes a greater restriction on the subject matter than any other provision of this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling. The specific controls over the general.
Sec. 1-4. - Section titles, history notes, and state law references.
The titles of sections in this Code are intended as mere captions to indicate the contents of the sections, and shall not be deemed or taken to be literal titles of such sections, nor as any part of such sections nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the titles thereof, are amended or reenacted. The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section indicating the source matter of the section and the state law references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
State Law reference— Descriptive headings and history notes not part of the law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-5. - City fee schedule.
The term "fee schedule" means the official consolidated list maintained in the City Clerk's office that lists rates for utility or other public enterprises, fees of any nature, deposit amounts, and various charges as may be established by resolution and amended from time to time by the City Council.
Sec. 1-6. - Severability of Code.
The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional, invalid, or otherwise unenforceable by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, that unconstitutionality, invalidity, or unenforceability shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, or sections of this Code, since they would have been enacted without the incorporation in this Code of the unconstitutional, invalid, or unenforceable phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section.
(Code 2018, § 1.110)
Sec. 1-7. - Effect of repeal or expiration of ordinance.
(a)
The repeal of a Code section or ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued or any offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding commenced before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
(b)
When any ordinance repealing a former Code section, ordinance, clause, or provision contained therein shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former Code section, ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it shall be expressly so provided.
Sec. 1-8. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any rates, fees, or charges consistent with this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(3)
Any ordinance consistent with this Code prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations, such as prescribing through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic, or limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones;
(4)
Any ordinance consistent with this Code fixing salaries of, or providing policies and programs for, providing retirement, disability or death benefits for, officials, officers, or employees of the city;
(5)
Any budget ordinance or appropriation ordinance, or any ordinance levying any tax;
(6)
Any right or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution;
(7)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening, or vacating any street or public way in the city;
(8)
Any ordinance accepting the dedication of land or a street to the city;
(9)
Any ordinance establishing or changing the boundary of the city; or
(10)
Any resolution of the city not in conflict with this Code.
(b)
All such ordinances and resolutions are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
(Code 2018, § 1.109)
Sec. 1-9. - Provisions considered as continuation of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are substantially the same as ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(Code 2018, § 1.108)
Sec. 1-10. - Amendments to the Code.
All ordinances passed subsequent to the passage of the ordinances originally included herein, which amend, repeal, or in any way affect this Code, may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and added hereto. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby.
(Code 2018, § 1.106(a))
Sec. 1-11. - Supplementation of Code.
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections ___ through ___" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Code 2018, § 1.106(b))
Sec. 1-12. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any part or portions of this Code, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever, except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the Mayor and City Council.
Sec. 1-13. - General penalty.
Whenever in this Code, or in any ordinance or resolution of the city amending this Code, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in such Code, ordinance or resolution the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any ordinance or resolution shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed 120 days, or both, or to labor on the streets, sidewalks, squares or other public works for a period not exceeding 120 days, or by fine, imprisonment or alternative sentencing as provided by law. Each day any violation of any provision of this Code or of any ordinance or resolution shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 2018, § 1.107)
