ARTICLE III. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 34-61. - Use, occupancy, and construction.
No building, structure, land, or water shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no building or structure or part thereof shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in conformity with the regulations of this chapter or amendments thereto, including the use provisions for the zoning district in which it is located, and any specific use provisions, if applicable.
(Code 2018, § 16.301)
Sec. 34-62. - Use prohibited when not specified.
Any use not specifically permitted as a use by right or specifically indicated as a conditional use in any given zoning district as provided in article IV of this chapter shall be prohibited in that zoning district.
(Code 2018, § 16.302)
Sec. 34-63. - Specific use provisions.
In cases where a use is a permitted use in the zoning district in which said use is located but there are specific use regulations for that use specified in article V of this chapter, such regulations shall also apply and must be complied with. It shall be unlawful to establish a use without conforming to the specific use provisions of this chapter, when applicable.
(Code 2018, § 16.303)
Sec. 34-64. - Minimum requirements.
Within each zoning district, the regulations set forth shall be minimum requirements and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of building, structure, or land, except as may be altered through conditions of zoning applied to specific properties.
(Code 2018, § 16.304)
Sec. 34-65. - Every use must be upon a lot of record.
No building or structure shall be erected or use established unless upon a lot of record as defined by this chapter, except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter.
(Code 2018, § 16.305)
Sec. 34-66. - One single-family dwelling on a lot.
Except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, only one single-family dwelling and its accessory buildings may hereafter be erected on any one lot intended for such use. This provision shall not be construed to prevent the construction of more than one detached single-family condominium or multiple-family dwelling on a single lot in districts where permitted, subject to setbacks and separation as provided in this chapter.
(Code 2018, § 16.306)
Sec. 34-67. - Height limitations.
(a)
Except as otherwise specifically provided in this section, no building or structure shall hereafter be erected, constructed, reconstructed, or altered so as to exceed the maximum height of buildings and structures specified in this chapter; provided, however, the City Council may upon application and approval of a conditional use allow buildings and structures to exceed these height limitations, subject to procedures for conditional uses established in article VIII of this chapter.
(b)
The height limitations established herein shall not apply to chimneys, smokestacks, church spires and steeples, domes, flagpoles, public monuments, observation towers, water towers, electricity transmission towers, utility poles, and similar structures.
(Code 2018, § 16.307)
Sec. 34-68. - Maximum density, minimum lot size, and minimum lot width.
No lot shall hereafter be developed with a number of housing units that exceeds the residential density for the zoning district in which the lot is located as established by this chapter. No lot shall hereafter be developed that fails to meet the minimum lot size and minimum lot width for the zoning district in which the lot is located as established by this chapter, except as otherwise specifically provided. No lot shall be reduced in size, and no principal building shall hereafter be constructed, so that the maximum density, minimum lot size, or minimum lot width of the zoning district, as the case may be, in which said lot and building are located are not maintained, except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter.
(Code 2018, § 16.308)
Sec. 34-69. - Minimum floor area per dwelling unit.
No new dwelling shall hereafter be constructed or occupied that fails to meet the minimum floor area for a dwelling unit as established by the zoning district in which the property is located as specified in this chapter. No existing dwelling shall be reduced in size so that its floor area fails to meet the minimum floor area for a dwelling unit as established by the zoning district in which the property is located as specified in this chapter.
(Code 2018, § 16.309)
Sec. 34-70. - Minimum required yards and building setbacks.
(a)
No building or structure shall hereafter be erected in a manner to have narrower or smaller front yards, side yards, or rear yards than specified for the zoning district in which the property is located. Buffer requirements established by this chapter, where applicable, supersede these minimum required yards.
(b)
No lot shall be reduced in size, and no principal building shall hereafter be constructed, so that the front, side, or rear yards of the zoning district in which said lot and building are located are not maintained.
(c)
This section shall not apply to portions of lots affected by public acquisition of part of the lot.
(d)
No part of a yard shall be included as a part of the yard required for another building.
(Code 2018, § 16.310)
Sec. 34-71. - Principal building separation.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this section, on lots where more than one principal building is permitted, the building separation shall be a minimum of 20 feet for one-story structures, and 30 feet when one or both principal buildings are two-story or taller structures.
(b)
Individual dwelling units within attached single-family fee simple dwellings (townhouses, which are zero lot line on one or both sides) shall be exempt from this requirement, although this provision shall apply to townhouse buildings. Development in the TC, Town Center zoning district shall also be exempt from this building separation requirement.
(Code 2018, § 16.311)
Sec. 34-72. - Maximum building coverage.
No lot shall hereafter be developed to exceed the maximum building coverage specified for the zoning district in which it is located, if applicable.
(Code 2018, § 16.312)
Sec. 34-73. - Minimum landscaped open space.
No lot shall be developed with less than the minimum landscaped open space specified for the zoning district in which said lot is located, if applicable, or as may be established by any other article or section of this chapter, if applicable.
(Code 2018, § 16.313)
Sec. 34-74. - Minimum required landscape strips and buffers.
No lot shall hereafter be developed and no building or structure shall hereafter be erected or use established in a manner so that the minimum landscape strips and buffers required by this chapter for the zoning district in which said building, structure, or use is located, or for the specific use if buffer and landscape strip requirements are established for said use.
(Code 2018, § 16.314)
Sec. 34-75. - Street frontage requirement.
No building or structure shall hereafter be erected on a lot, and no lot shall hereafter be created or subdivided, that does not abut for at least 30 feet on a public street, or an approved private street, unless specifically provided otherwise by this chapter.
(Code 2018, § 16.315)
Sec. 34-76. - Zoning of annexed lands.
Property annexed or proposed to be annexed into the city limits shall be zoned in accordance with the Zoning Procedures Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq., and this chapter. Such property annexed may be zoned by the City Council to any zoning district or districts established in this chapter.
(Code 2018, § 16.316)
Sec. 34-77. - Validity of existing conditions of zoning or use approval.
Notwithstanding the repeal of prior ordinances in conflict with this chapter upon its adoption, if a property was zoned subject to conditions or use approved subject to certain conditions existing and in effect at the time of adoption of this chapter by City Council, such zoning conditions or conditions of use approval shall continue to apply to said property.
(Code 2018, § 16.317)
Secs. 34-78—34-100. - Reserved.
