Chapter 10 - CITY COUNCIL
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - Vacancy of office; excused absences; leave of absence.
(a)
A person holding an elected office of the City of Nicholson shall be deemed to have abandoned their office if:
(1)
They fail to attend eight or more combined regular City Council meetings and/or work sessions in any 12 month period;
(2)
Fails to attend three consecutive regular City Council meetings or work sessions or combination thereof.
(b)
The Mayor and City Council, in their sole discretion, may consider any absence as excused if said absence is the result of illness, bereavement leave, or other circumstances beyond the individual's control.
(c)
Upon request made of a member in writing, the Mayor and City Council may grant any member a leave of absence from their office of a period not to exceed three months. If such leave is granted, and absences from meetings of the Mayor and City Council shall be excused and shall not count toward a determination that the individual has abandoned their office.
(Ord. of 6-6-2022)
Secs. 10-2—10-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS AND PROCEEDINGS

Sec. 10-19. - Regular meetings.
(a)
Business meetings. Regular business meetings of the City Council shall be held at 6:30 p.m. on the first Monday of each month or on such other day as determined by a majority vote of the City Council. All regular business meetings shall be held at the Nicholson Community Center; provided, however, that in the event that construction or any other inconvenience makes it impossible to hold meetings in the regular location, a notice containing the foregoing information shall be posted and maintained in a conspicuous place available to the general public at the regular meeting place of the City Council.
(b)
Work sessions. Regular work session meetings of the City Council shall be held at 6:30 p.m. on the last Thursday of each month or on such other day as determined by a majority vote of the City Council. All work session meetings shall be held at the Nicholson Community Center; provided, however, that in the event that construction or any other inconvenience makes it impossible to hold meetings in the regular location, a notice containing the foregoing information shall be posted and maintained in a conspicuous place available to the general public at the regular meeting place of the City Council. No votes or binding action may be taken by the City Council during a work session meeting.
(c)
Cancellation, rescheduling, recess, and relocation of meetings. Any regular business meeting or work session may be canceled, rescheduled, recessed or moved to a new location within the city by a vote of the Mayor and two councilmembers.
(Code 2018, § 2.101; Ord. No. 2008-04, §§ 11, 12(a), 9-1-2008)
State Law reference— Public notice required as to time, place, and dates of regular meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d).
Sec. 10-20. - Special meetings.
(a)
When emergency circumstances occur, the City Council may hold a meeting as allowed by state law and the city Charter. When such meetings are to be held, the City Clerk shall provide notice to the legal organ of the city and to each member of the city governing authority as soon as possible. The notice shall include the subjects expected to be considered at the meeting. In addition, the minutes shall reflect the reason for the emergency meeting and the nature of the notice given to the media and public.
(b)
When it is imprudent, inexpedient, or impossible to hold City Council meetings at the regular meeting place due to emergency or disaster resulting from manmade or natural causes, as declared by the governor or other authorized state official, the City Council may meet anywhere within or outside of the city. At the meeting, the councilmembers shall establish and designate emergency temporary meeting locations where public business may be transacted during the emergency. Any action taken in such meetings shall have the same effect as if performed at the regular meeting site.
(Code 2018, § 2.102; Ord. No. 2008-04, § 12(b), (c), 9-1-2008)
Sec. 10-21. - Meeting minutes.
The City Clerk shall promptly record the minutes for each City Council meeting. The minutes shall specify the names of councilmembers present at the meeting, a description of each motion or other proposal made at the meeting, the name of the councilmember who proposed each motion, the name of the councilmember who seconded each motion, and a record of all votes. In the case of a roll call vote, the name of each councilmember voting for or against a proposal shall be recorded. It shall be presumed that a councilmember has voted in the affirmative unless the minutes show otherwise. More detailed information may be included in the minutes at the request of the City Council. The City Council shall approve the minutes before they may be considered as an official record of the City Council. The minutes shall be open for public inspection once approved as official by the City Council, but in no case later than immediately following the next regular meeting of the City Council. A copy of the minutes from the previous meeting shall be distributed to the City Council in the agenda package for the following meeting. The minutes of the previous meeting shall be corrected, if necessary, and approved by the City Council at the beginning of each meeting. A majority vote is required for approval. Conflicts regarding the content of the minutes shall be decided by a majority vote. Upon being approved, the minutes shall be signed by the Mayor and attested to by the City Clerk.
(Code 2018, § 2.103; Ord. No. 2008-04, § 21, 9-1-2008)
State Law reference— Municipal operations during emergencies, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-54; notice in the event of special circumstances, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d)(3).
Sec. 10-22. - Visual and sound recordings.
Visual, sound, and visual and sound recordings shall be permitted for all public hearings, as long as such recordings are in accordance with state law.
(Code 2018, § 2.104; Ord. No. 2008-04, § 3, 9-1-2008)
State Law reference— Visual and sound recordings permissible, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(c).
Secs. 10-23—10-47. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - CITY COUNCIL RULES OF PROCEDURE

Sec. 10-48. - Agendas of City Council meetings and order of business.
(a)
Order of business. All regular City Council meetings shall substantially follow an established order of business. The order shall be as follows:
(1)
Call to order.
(2)
Roll call - recognize councilmembers and staff present.
(3)
Pledge of Allegiance.
(4)
Approval of prior meeting minutes.
(5)
Approval of budget report.
(6)
Organizational and procedural items (if any).
(7)
Reports and presentations (if any).
(8)
Unfinished business (if any).
(9)
New business.
(10)
Public comment.
(11)
Adjournment.
(b)
City Clerk preparation and agenda availability. The City Clerk shall prepare an agenda of subjects to be acted on for each meeting. Work session topics and City Council agenda items shall be submitted consistent with the process established by the Mayor. The agenda shall be made available to City Council at least one business day before every City Council meeting.
(c)
Public request for agenda item. Members of the public may request that a particular subject be placed on any work session agenda. To be considered, this request shall be submitted in writing to the Mayor.
(d)
Changing the agenda. The order of the agenda may be changed during a meeting by a majority vote of the City Council. A new item other than a zoning matter may be added to the agenda by a majority vote of the City Council only if it becomes necessary to address the item during the meeting. An existing item may be removed from the agenda by the majority vote of the City Council.
(e)
Agenda must be made public. The agenda of all matters to come before the City Council shall be made available to the public upon request and shall by posted at the meeting site as far in advance as reasonably possible, but not less than 24 hours prior to the start of the meeting. Notice of the agenda for emergency meetings will be handled in accordance with state law.
(f)
Consent agenda. A consent agenda may be prepared by the Mayor for the City Council to unanimously adopt motions on routine items. Any items of business that are expected to receive unanimous approval without debate may be placed on a consent agenda. At the appropriate time of the meeting, the Mayor shall read all of the items on the consent agenda. If a councilmember objects to an item on the consent agenda, the Mayor shall direct that the particular be moved to the regular agenda. Following the reading of the consent agenda, the Mayor may ask for unanimous approval of the items on the consent agenda. If there are no objections, all the items in the consent agenda shall be approved by a majority vote of the City Council.
(Code 2018, § 2.201; Ord. No. 2008-04, §§ 13, 14(a)—(c), 15, 9-1-2008)
Sec. 10-49. - Presiding officer to conduct meeting; appointment if necessary.
(a)
The presiding officer shall be responsible for the orderly conduct of the meeting. In order to fulfill this duty, the presiding officer shall be impartial and conduct meetings in a fair manner. The presiding officer may name a sergeant-at-arms to assist in maintaining the orderly conduct of the councilmembers for voting and quorum purposes.
(b)
If the Mayor and the Mayor Pro Tempore are absent or otherwise unable to serve as presiding officer at a meeting and at least three councilmembers are present, the remaining councilmembers shall select a councilmember to serve as presiding officer of the meeting until either the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tempore is present at the meeting.
(Code 2018, § 2.202; Ord. No. 2008-04, § 7, 9-1-2008)
Sec. 10-50. - Parliamentarian.
The city attorney shall serve as the parliamentarian for City Council meetings.
(Code 2018, § 2.203; Ord. No. 2008-04, § 8, 9-1-2008)
Sec. 10-51. - Robert's Rules of Order.
This article shall serve as the rules and procedures for the Mayor and City Council. In the absence of applicable rules and procedures which may, from time to time, be encountered during the public meetings, Robert's Rules of Order Newly Revised, 12th edition (2020), shall be followed.
(Code 2018, § 2.204; Ord. No. 2008-04, § 23, 9-1-2008)
Sec. 10-52. - Additional procedures and deadlines.
The Mayor is authorized to establish detailed procedures and deadlines as necessary to ensure the effective organization of City Council proceedings and orderly handling of business to come before the City Council, in accordance with the rules and procedures adopted by the Mayor and City Council.
(Code 2018, § 2.205; Ord. No. 2008-04, § 22, 9-1-2008)
Sec. 10-53. - Amendments to rules.
Any proposed amendment to the rules of order shall be submitted by a councilmember in writing to the Mayor three business days before a regular meeting of the City Council. The proposed amendment shall be included in the agenda for that meeting and distributed to all councilmembers. All amendments require a unanimous vote of the City Council to be adopted.
(Code 2018, § 2.206; Ord. No. 2008-04, § 9, 9-1-2008)
Sec. 10-54. - Suspension of rules.
Rules of order may be suspended in the case of an emergency. A motion to suspend the rules requires a second, is debatable, and requires a vote of either two councilmembers and the Mayor, or three councilmembers. Rules governing quorums, voting methods and requirements, the notification to councilmembers of meetings, and rules necessary for compliance with state law may not be suspended; provided, however, that in the event that a state of emergency is declared by the governor or other authorized state official, the City Council may waive time-consuming procedures and formalities as authorized by state law.
(Code 2018, § 2.207; Ord. No. 2008-04, § 10, 9-1-2008)
Sec. 10-55. - Decorum.
All councilmembers shall conduct themselves in a professional and respectful manner. All remarks shall be directed to the Mayor and not to individual councilmembers, staff, or citizens in attendance. Personal remarks are inappropriate and may be ruled out of order. A councilmember may not speak at a meeting until he has been recognized by the Mayor. All comments made by a councilmember shall address the motion that is being discussed. The Mayor shall enforce these rules of decorum. If a councilmember believes that a rule has been broken, he may raise a point in order. A second is not required. The Mayor may rule on the question or allow the City Council to debate the issue and decide by majority vote.
(Code 2018, § 2.208; Ord. No. 2008-04, § 16, 9-1-2008)
Sec. 10-56. - Public comments and public hearings.
Public participation in meetings of the City Council shall be permitted in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(1)
Public comments. The floor shall be open for public comments at one point during the meeting. The public comments section will last a maximum of 30 minutes, and speakers' comments will be limited to three minutes each. All members of the public wishing to address the City Council shall submit their names and the topic of their comments to the City Clerk prior to the start of any meeting held by the City Council; provided, however, that all applicants for rezoning actions and individuals who wish to oppose a rezoning action who have contributed more than $250.00 to the campaign of a councilmember shall file a campaign disclosure form as required by O.C.G.A. § 36-67A-3 at least five calendar days prior to the first hearing by the City Council. Individuals will be held to established time limits. These limits may be waived by a majority vote of the City Council.
(2)
Public hearings. The Mayor may schedule public hearings for soliciting public comment on any subject of interest to the City Council. Hearings may be held immediately prior to, during, or following a meeting of the City Council, or at such other places and times as the Mayor may determine. Hearings require at most ten minutes per side. These limits may be waived by a majority vote of the City Council. No official action shall be taken during any such public hearing. Hearings on zoning decisions shall be governed in accordance with the zoning policies and procedures.
(3)
Decorum. Members of the public shall not make inappropriate or offensive comments at a City Council meeting and are expected to comply with the rules of decorum that are established for councilmembers. Individuals violating any rules of the City Council may be ruled out of order by the Mayor or on a point of order made by a councilmember. A majority vote of the City Council shall rule on the point of order. An individual violating the rules of decorum may be removed from the meeting at the direction of the Mayor.
(Code 2018, § 2.209; Ord. No. 2008-04, § 19, 9-1-2008)
