ARTICLE VII. - ADMINISTRATIVE AND LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 32-261. - Administration and interpretation.
The administrative officer shall administer and interpret the provisions of this chapter; provided, however, that the City Council may, in its discretion, overrule any action taken or interpretation of this chapter by the administrative officer.
(Code 2018, § 17.801)
Sec. 32-262. - Fees.
The fees shall be in amounts as established and as may be amended by the City Council from time to time, the fee schedule of which is available upon request in the office of the City Clerk.
(Code 2018, § 17.802)
Sec. 32-263. - Additional specifications.
The administrative officer, in consultation with the city engineer, is hereby authorized to prepare and recommend standard drawings and constructions specifications for private and public improvements not specified in this chapter. Upon their adoption by the City Council, they shall become mandatory.
(Code 2018, § 17.803)
Sec. 32-264. - Variances.
(a)
Standard for approval of variances. Upon application by the subdivider or land developer and after review by the planning commission, the City Council shall be authorized to grant a variance or variances upon a showing that one or more of the following criteria has been met:
(1)
There are unusual, exceptional, or extraordinary circumstances or conditions applying to the property that do not apply generally to other property in the same vicinity or use district, and such conditions are not the result of the owner's or occupant's own actions. Such conditions may include topography, unique natural conditions, surroundings of the subject property, or the size or peculiar shape of the lot.
(2)
As a result of such unusual circumstances or conditions, there is an unnecessary hardship or practical difficulties that render it difficult to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
(3)
The authorization of such variance will not be materially detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to property in the vicinity or district in which the property is located, and the variance will be in harmony with the general purposes and intent of the provisions of this chapter.
(4)
The variance approved is the minimum variance that will reasonably make possible the legal use of the lots, land, building or structure.
(b)
Procedure for obtaining variance.
(1)
Application. Application for a variance shall be filed with the administrative officer on a form prescribed by the city.
(2)
Hearing before planning commission. Upon receiving a completed application for a variance, the administrative officer shall arrange for the application to be scheduled for public hearing before the planning commission. The applicant shall be notified in writing of the date, time, and place of the hearing, by written mail, personal service, or facsimile, at least 15 days prior to the public hearing before the planning commission. The public shall be given notice of the date, time, place, and nature of the hearing by publication in the city's legal organ at least 15 days prior to the public hearing. At all public hearings, the applicant shall have an opportunity, personally or through counsel, to present evidence and argument in support of his application for a variance.
(3)
Recommendations and report to City Council. The planning commission shall review the application at the advertised public hearing. The planning commission shall determine whether the evidence supports a finding that the required criteria have been met and recommend approval, conditional approval, or denial of the application to the City Council. The administrative officer may write a report and provide findings or recommendations, including conditions of approval.
(4)
Hearing before Nicholson City Council. The City Council shall consider and act upon (i.e., approve, conditionally approve, or deny) the variance application after conducting a public hearing and considering the recommendations of the planning commission and, if provided, those findings and recommendations of the administrative officer. The applicant shall be notified in writing of the date, time, and place of the hearing held by the City Council, by written mail, personal service, or facsimile, at least 15 days prior to the public hearing. The public shall be given notice of the date, time, place, and nature of the hearing by publication in the city's legal organ at least 15 days prior to the public hearing. At the public hearing, the applicant shall have an opportunity, personally or through counsel, to present evidence and argument in support of his application for a variance.
(5)
Posted notice of hearing. In addition to any notice of hearing already specified in this section, at least 15 days prior to any public hearing referenced in this section, the City shall post at least one sign in a conspicuous location on the property where a variance is sought, stating the date, time, and place of the hearing and specifying the name and address of the current owner of the property, the location of the property, the present land use district of the property, and the nature of the proposed variance. The sign shall remain on the property until the public hearing is held. The city is authorized to charge the applicant a fee for any such sign to cover any costs incurred for its preparation, installation, and removal.
(c)
Compliance with conditions of variance and approved plans. Compliance with any conditions imposed in the City Council's approval of a variance, and adherence to the submitted plans, as approved, is required. Any departure from such conditions of approval and approved plans constitutes a violation of this chapter and invalidates any variance issued subject to such conditions.
(Code 2018, § 17.804)
Sec. 32-265. - Administrative appeal.
Any person aggrieved by an interpretation or decision of the administrative officer in the administration or enforcement of this chapter may file an appeal to the City Council. If any person desires to appeal a decision or action of the administrative officer in the administration or enforcement of this chapter, he shall file an appeal application with the administrative officer within 30 days of the date of the action or decision of the planning commission or the administrative officer being appealed. Upon receipt of said application, the administrative officer shall arrange a date and time before the City Council on which the appeal shall be heard and shall notify the applicant in writing by first class mail. The application for an appeal shall include specific information regarding the nature of the appeal, the basis for the appeal, statute or code references, and supporting documentation submitted with the appeal application.
(Code 2018, § 17.805)
Sec. 32-266. - Enforcement, violations, remedies, and penalties.
(a)
Generally. Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter or the requirements of an approved plat, development plan, or permit is subject to any or all of the enforcement actions and remedies described in this section.
(b)
Notice of violation. If the administrative officer or his designee determines that an applicant or other responsible person has failed to comply with any provision of this chapter or any term or condition of a permit, approved plat, or development plan, he shall issue a written notice of violation to such applicant or other responsible person. Said notice of violation may be issued prior to or concurrent with the issuance of a stop-work order. Where a person is engaged in activity covered by this chapter without having first secured the appropriate permit therefor, the notice of violation shall be served on the owner or agent of the owner of the property where the activity is taking place.
(c)
Content of notice of violation. Each notice of violation shall contain the following:
(1)
The name and address of the owner, applicant, or other person responsible for the site where the violation occurred or is occurring;
(2)
The address or other description of the site where the violation occurred or is occurring;
(3)
A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
(4)
A description of the remedial measures necessary to correct the violation;
(5)
The date for the completion of such remedial measures, after which further enforcement action will be taken; and
(6)
A statement of the penalty or penalties that may be assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed.
(d)
Stop-work order. Upon learning or discovering a violation of this chapter or any approved site plan or permit issued pursuant to this chapter, the administrative officer or his designee may immediately issue a stop-work order which forbids all further work at the job site until the stop-work order is withdrawn or otherwise removed. The stop-work order shall be posted on the job site and mailed to the applicant at the address shown on the permit or approved site plan. The stop-work order shall remain in effect until the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation have been taken or any violation has otherwise been corrected to the satisfaction of the administrative officer; provided, however, that the administrative officer may withdraw or modify any stop-work order to enable the applicant to take necessary remedial measures to cure any such violation.
(e)
Failure of remedial measures. In the event that the remedial measures described in the notice of violation have not been completed by the date set forth for such completion in the notice of violation, any one or more actions or penalties described in this section as appropriate may be taken or assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation was directed and/or the property where the violation occurred or is occurring.
(f)
Withholding, modification, revocation, or suspension of approvals or pending approvals. The administrative officer or his designee may at any time refuse to issue, revoke, modify, or suspend a plat, plan, or permit for the building or other development activity or improvements constructed or being constructed on the site in violation of this chapter until the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein. A suspended, revoked, or modified permit may be reinstated after the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein, provided such permit may be reinstated (upon such conditions as the enforcement officer may deem necessary) to enable the applicant or other responsible person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such violations.
(g)
Withholding of utility service. The administrative officer or his designee may request or direct any utility service provider to withhold utility service to any property on which a violation is alleged to have occurred.
(h)
Citation. The administrative officer or his designee shall have authority to issue citations for violations of this chapter and to prosecute such violations before a court of competent jurisdiction.
(i)
Penalty for violating chapter. Any person who violates or fails to comply with any provision of this chapter, or any plat, development plan, or permit issued pursuant to this chapter, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 or by imprisonment not exceeding 60 days, or both, for each such violation or failure to comply hereunder. Each day any violation of this chapter shall continue shall constitute a separate offense. Any violation or failure to comply that continues for more than one day shall constitute a public nuisance.
(Code 2018, § 17.806)
Sec. 32-267. - Amendment.
The City Council may amend this chapter in a manner consistent with state law. Before enacting such amendment to this chapter, the planning commission shall provide a recommendation on the proposed amendment. The City Council shall hold a public hearing thereon, notice of which shall be published at least 15 days prior to such hearing in the city's legal organ or a newspaper of general circulation in the city.
(Code 2018, § 17.807)
