ARTICLE II. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 32-37. - Delegation of authority to administrative officer.
The City Council hereby delegates to the administrative officer the authority to approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove final plats for minor subdivisions, lot combination plats, and boundary line adjustments; provided, however, such delegation does not authorize the administrative officer to accept public improvements for the City Council. The administrative officer is vested with the authority to review, approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove development plans. No person shall refuse entry or access to the administrative officer upon request to enter onto property for purposes of inspection, upon the presentation of appropriate credentials, nor shall any person obstruct, hamper, or interfere with any such administrative officer while in the process of carrying out his official duties.
(Code 2018, § 17.301)
Sec. 32-38. - Planning commission authority.
The planning commission shall be authorized and have the duty to review and make recommendations to the City Council on applications for preliminary plat approval and final plat approval for major subdivisions, and to review and make recommendations to the City Council on applications for a variance from the strict terms of this chapter.
(Code 2018, § 17.302)
Sec. 32-39. - Jurisdiction.
This chapter shall apply to all incorporated lands within the city limits.
(Code 2018, § 17.303)
Sec. 32-40. - Land is one tract until subdivided.
Until property proposed for subdivision has received final plat approval and been properly recorded, the land involving the subdivision shall be considered as one tract, except land may be considered as multiple tracts if legally recorded as such before the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived.
(Code 2018, § 17.304)
Sec. 32-41. - Subdivision of land.
No person shall subdivide land except in conformance with this chapter. It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person to sell, transfer, agree to sell, offer at public auction, negotiate to sell, or subdivide any land until a preliminary plat, if required, and the final plat have been approved and the final plat recorded in accordance with this chapter. Said restriction applies to lands subdivided for nonresidential as well as residential uses. The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document used in the process of selling or transfer shall not exempt the transaction from this chapter or from the penalties established herein. Under appropriate circumstances and when legally authorized, the city, through its attorney, administrative officer, or other official designated by the City Council, may enjoin such transfer of, sale, or agreement by appropriate action.
(Code 2018, § 17.305)
Sec. 32-42. - Development of land.
(a)
No person shall disturb or develop land or engage in development except in accordance with this chapter. It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person to disturb or develop any land until a development plan, if required, has been approved by the administrative officer in accordance with this chapter. No person shall begin construction of any improvements on any lot prior to the approval of a preliminary plat, if required by this chapter.
(b)
The administrative officer shall not authorize or permit the clearance of trees and vegetative materials, except for grubbing, outside approved construction limits.
(Code 2018, § 17.306)
Sec. 32-43. - Building and other permits.
No person shall construct or participate in the construction of any building or other structure or engage in any excavation, grading, or land-disturbing activity on any parcel of land regulated by this chapter unless a development permit authorizing such activity has been issued in accordance with the provisions and procedures of this chapter, and other zoning and development rules and regulations as applicable.
(Code 2018, § 17.307)
Sec. 32-44. - Public roads and lands.
No land dedicated as a public road or other public purpose shall be opened, extended, or accepted as a public road or for any other purpose unless such dedication of public road or other public purpose is constructed in accordance with the specifications and procedures of this chapter and accepted by the City Council.
(Code 2018, § 17.308)
Sec. 32-45. - Preliminary plat, development plans, and development permit required.
No person shall begin development, land-disturbing activity, or construction of any improvements on any lot or land except in compliance with this chapter. No development permit shall be issued for land-disturbing activity or the installation of improvements prior to the approval of a preliminary plat of such land, if required, nor prior to approval by the administrative officer of plans for land disturbance and installation of improvements.
(Code 2018, § 17.309)
Sec. 32-46. - Recording of subdivision plats.
No subdivision plat nor any part thereof shall be recorded with the clerk of superior court of the county unless the administrative officer has approved such plat for recording. The clerk of the superior court of the county shall not record a plat of a subdivision, whether evidenced as a plat or as an attachment to a deed, unless such plat is a final plat approved by the administrative officer and contains the administrative officer's signature thereon.
(Code 2018, § 17.310)
Sec. 32-47. - Exemption from plat approval.
The following types of land subdivision, transfer, and sale are specifically exempted from the plat approval requirements of this chapter; provided, however, that such exemptions shall not apply to land development requirements and improvements requirements of this chapter or the Nicholson zoning rules and regulations applicable to said subdivision:
(1)
Retracement surveys and easement surveys, as specifically authorized in this chapter.
(2)
The creation and sale of cemetery plots.
(3)
The sale of lots consistent with previously approved and recorded plats or deeds.
(4)
The creation of leaseholds for space within a multiple-occupancy building or the division of property into leaseholds for commercial, industrial, or institutional use.
(5)
The creation of leaseholds for the agricultural use of property where the use does not involve the construction of a building to be used as a residence or for other purposes not directly related to agricultural use of the land or crops or livestock raised thereon.
(6)
Any division of land to heirs through a judicial estate proceeding or any division of land pursuant to a judicial partition or occurring from the foreclosure of a deed of trust; provided, however, that such exemption shall not require the city to approve development on such lots if the resulting lots or parcels fail to meet any applicable city regulations regarding lot size, lot width, and other dimensional requirements.
(7)
Mortgage lots, as defined, and as otherwise regulated in section 32-50.
(Code 2018, § 17.311)
Sec. 32-48. - Exemption from development permit.
A development permit shall not be required for any of the following activities; provided, however, that such exemption from a development permit does not necessarily imply exemption from obtaining a land disturbance permit as required by the city's soil erosion and sedimentation control rules and regulations as set forth in this Code:
(1)
Work authorized by or conducted pursuant to the requirements or directives of local, state, and federal departments, agencies, and authorities.
(2)
Emergency work authorized by the administrative officer, where a bona fide emergency exists as determined by the administrative officer.
(3)
Timber harvesting consistent with the requirements of applicable state law, and forestry activities.
(4)
Agricultural activities not involving construction of a building or structure.
(5)
Construction of a single, detached, single-family dwelling unit or manufactured home, including accessory structures and uses.
(6)
Development for utilities within a city right-of-way (other than work within a right-of-way associated with approved development plans), but only if a driveway permit or utility encroachment permit has been issued by the city.
(Code 2018, § 17.312)
Sec. 32-49. - Burial of materials.
(a)
No person shall bury, or cause or permit any person to bury, any trash, garbage, refuse, glass, cans, tires, appliances, or other similar manmade objects or materials on any property under subdivision or development, except within the limits of approved landfills or other sites specifically approved for such purposes.
(b)
No person shall bury, or cause or permit any person to bury, any tree stumps, limbs, and similar natural materials on any property under subdivision or development, except that the administrative officer may permit the burial of such natural materials on property under subdivision or development if the site for burial of natural materials is specifically designated on the preliminary and final plat for the subdivision, if applicable, and on plans for the development, and a deed restriction is placed on the lot or development prohibiting the construction or development of a building, structure, or parking area on said burial site.
(Code 2018, § 17.313)
Sec. 32-50. - Mortgage lots.
This section addresses situations where a bank, lending institution, or county tax assessor requires the creation of a small tract of property (e.g., one acre to two acres) from a larger existing parcel (usually farmland or timberland). In the case of a bank or lending institution, it is when a person can show the administrative officer in writing that an application for a loan or mortgage involving real property has been filed with a bank or lending institution and said bank or lending institution requires, for purposes of the loan or mortgage, a description of property that encompasses less land area than the lot of record. In the case of the county tax assessor, it is where a new tax parcel is required to be created for purposes of differential or preferential tax assessment (rather than referring to the entire existing lot of record).
(1)
In such instances, as many as three mortgage lots (see definition) may be lawfully created from the parcel of record within a given three-year period without constituting a subdivision. Minimum lot size established by the AG zoning district in chapter 34 shall not be construed to prevent the creation of mortgage lots pursuant to this section, even if the resulting mortgage lot created is less than the minimum lot size required by said zoning district. The applicant shall be required in the case of a mortgage lot to file with the administrative officer a copy of the survey plat creating the mortgage lot, and said plat may be recorded in the records of the county superior court clerk as a mortgage lot plat of record, upon approval and signature by the administrative officer.
(2)
If created, a mortgage lot shall be no less than one acre and no larger than two acres in size.
(3)
No mortgage lot shall be created unless it has a minimum of 30-foot-wide access easement from a road abutting the property frontage of the larger lot of record to the boundary of the mortgage lot.
(Code 2018, § 17.314)
Sec. 32-51. - Review of subdivisions along state routes.
(a)
No subdivision plat containing land which abuts a state route shall be approved until such plat has been submitted for review and comment by the Georgia Department of Transportation, in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 32-6-151.
(b)
When the city receives such a plat, it shall submit two copies of the proposed subdivision plat to the Georgia Department of Transportation if such proposed subdivision includes or abuts on any part of the state highway system. The Georgia Department of Transportation, within 30 days of receipt of the plat, shall recommend approval and note its recommendation on the copy to be returned to the administrative officer or recommend rejection. Failure of the Georgia Department of Transportation to act within this 30-day period shall constitute approval. If the plat is recommended for rejection, the reasons for rejection and requirements for approval shall be given to the administrative officer in writing; but such recommendation shall be advisory only and shall not be binding.
(Code 2018, § 17.315)
Sec. 32-52. - Creation of homeowners' association.
(a)
Required. For any major subdivision involving common areas, open spaces, and/or a stormwater detention facility on a separate tract within the subdivision, a homeowners' or property owners' association shall be required to be created which shall be responsible for the ownership and maintenance of common areas, open spaces, and/or stormwater detention facilities within the subdivision. The homeowners' or property owners' association must be maintained as the responsible owner of such facilities and lands, and shall not be dissolved unless another ownership entity is accepted by the City Council.
(b)
Mandatory membership. Membership in the homeowners' association must be mandatory for each property in the development.
(c)
Bylaws and covenants. Such association must also include homeowners' or property owners' declaration and bylaws, including covenants, conditions, and regulations applicable to each property in the development.
(d)
Approval and recording. The instruments of such creation and financial endowment shall be submitted to the administrative officer for review and approval; covenants are also subject to approval by the city attorney, and such approval shall be obtained prior to recording. Said instruments shall also be recorded at the time of final plat recording with cross references to recording information on both the instruments and the final plat. A copy of the recorded instruments shall be filed with the administrative officer following recording.
(e)
Reserve account. At the time control of the association is passed from the declarant to the property owners, the association shall have a reserve account of not less than $125.00 per occupied residence for residential associations or for nonresidential subdivisions, an amount approved by the administrative officer. There shall be no debt incurred to the association.
(f)
Enforcement. The declaration and bylaws shall be enforced by an association management company, which shall have the power to compel the payment of membership dues and assessments.
(g)
Condominium association. For condominium projects, incorporation of a condominium association consistent with state law will serve in lieu of the requirements of this section.
(Code 2018, § 17.316)
Sec. 32-53. - Retracement surveys.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 44-2-26, the owner of real property or of any interest therein or any holder of a lien thereon may file a plat of the property in the office of the clerk of superior court of the county in which the property or any part thereof is located. Said plat shall be considered a retracement survey, provided that it contains the surveyor certification box for retracement surveys as required by this chapter. Such retracement survey shall not require local approval and shall be entitled to be filed and recorded.
(Code 2018, § 17.318)
Sec. 32-54. - Surveyor certification box for retracement surveys.
(a)
Each plat of a retracement survey shall have depicted thereon a box which contains the following applicable certifications of the land surveyor:
"This plat is a retracement of an existing parcel or parcels of land and does not subdivide or create a new parcel or make any changes to any real property boundaries. The recording information of the documents, maps, plats, or other instruments which created the parcel or parcels are stated hereon. RECORDATION OF THIS PLAT DOES NOT IMPLY APPROVAL OF ANY LOCAL JURISDICTION, AVAILABILITY OF PERMITS, COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL REGULATIONS OR REQUIREMENTS, OR SUITABILITY FOR ANY USE OR PURPOSE OF THE LAND. Furthermore, the undersigned land surveyor certifies that this plat complies with the minimum technical standards for property surveys in Georgia as set forth in the rules and regulations of the Georgia Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors and as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 15-6-67."
(b)
The land surveyor shall sign on a line immediately beneath the certification on the plat. At the discretion of the land surveyor and in conformity with local regulations, the surveyor may electronically sign the certification using a facsimile signature. The facsimile signature may be a reproduction of an original signature or an electronically created signature. If the land surveyor elects to use a facsimile signature, the surveyor must maintain full control over the application and use of such signature.
(c)
In the case of a plat that is a retracement survey, the land surveyor shall state clearly the recording information of any document, map, plat, or other instrument which created any of the parcels depicted. The depiction of gores, overlaps, or other parcel delineation as may be necessary to remedy or address title issues or deficiencies shall be allowed as part of the retracement function.
(d)
Plats bearing the certification required for retracement surveys shall be entitled to recordation without further review or local approval.
(Code 2018, § 17.319)
Sec. 32-55. - Easement surveys.
Plats that depict existing or proposed easements, including for any purpose including utilities, access, no access, or for conservation purposes, may be recorded using the certification for retracement surveys, provided that there are no changes to any real property boundaries, and provided that the plat includes information required by this chapter. Plats bearing the certification required for retracement surveys shall be entitled to recordation without further review or local approval.
(Code 2018, § 17.320)
Secs. 32-56—32-80. - Reserved.
