Chapter 3 - ADVERTISING[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Advertising sale of malt beverages, § 4-28; streets and sidewalks, Ch. 19.

Sec. 3-1. - Notices, handbills or signs, posting prohibited on utility poles or public buildings; exception.
It shall be unlawful for any person to post, paint or place, or cause to be posted, painted or placed, any notice, sign, handbill, picture or advertisement whatsoever on any street telegraph or telephone pole, lamppost or upon the walls of any public building, or upon any property of the city except that legal elections and similar notices may be posted on bulletin boards.
(Code 1975, § 32-20)
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, Ch. 6.
Sec. 3-2. - Posting handbills, etc., on private buildings or fences, exception.
It shall be unlawful for any person to post, paint or place, or cause to be posted, painted or placed upon any private building or fence, any handbills, pictures, signs or advertisement whatsoever without first obtaining the consent of the owner thereof in writing.
(Code 1975, § 32-21)
Sec. 3-3. - Distribution of handbills on streets.
It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute or cause to be distributed on any of the streets, avenues, alleys, parks, or any vacant property within the city any handbills, circulars, dodgers, pamphlets, posters, or literature of any kind; provided, however, distribution is permitted to the extent that same does not create litter, does not interfere with traffic, and does not otherwise endanger the safety and/or welfare of any individual as a result of said distribution.
(Code 1975, § 32-22; Ord. No. 03-10, § 1, 9-8-2003)
Cross reference— Streets and sidewalks, Ch. 19.
Sec. 3-4. - Placing handbills in or on automobiles.
It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute in the city any handbill or other similar form of advertising by throwing or placing the same in or on any automobile or other vehicle.
(Code 1975, § 32-23; Ord. No. 03-11, § 1, 9-8-2003)
Cross reference— Motor vehicles and traffic, Ch. 14.
Sec. 3-5. - Banners across streets.
It shall be unlawful for any person to extend or suspend any sign or banner across any street in the city without permission from the city council.
(Code 1975, § 32-24)
Cross reference— Streets and sidewalks, Ch. 19.
Sec. 3-6. - Sound trucks and sound-amplifying devices.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or permit to be operated in the city any sound-amplifying devices or equipment for any purpose whatever, whether the same be stationary or operated from a vehicle, unless a permit has been obtained from the city council to do so; provided, however, it shall be unlawful for any person to make any loud and raucous noise to the disturbance of the peace. Any person to whom a permit has been issued under this section who abuses his discretion and causes or permits loud and raucous noises shall subject the permit to immediate revocation.
(b)
The words "sound-amplifying equipment" as used in this section shall mean any machine or device for the amplification of any sound.
(Code 1975, § 32-25)
Cross reference— Motor vehicles and traffic, Ch. 14.
