CHAPTER V. - MUNICIPAL SERVICES AND REGULATORY FUNCTIONS
ARTICLE I. - MUNICIPAL SERVICES

Section 5-10. - Streets.
(a)
The Mayor and Council are hereby vested with the power and authority to open, lay out, grade, widen, construct, straighten, alter, relocate, pave, replace, curb, vacate, abandon, close and otherwise permanently improve any and all streets, sidewalks, alleys, ways and squares, and to maintain, relocate, repair, replace and remove streets, curbing, sidewalks, alleys, ways and squares, and to exercise complete control over the streets, alleys, ways, sidewalks and squares in the City of LaFayette.
(b)
The Mayor and Council are further vested with the power and authority to provide for the removal and disposition of any and all obstacles and nuisances in regard to the streets, alleys, ways and sidewalks and other public places within the City and are hereby empowered with the authority to adopt appropriate ordinances to accomplish these purposes.
Section 5-11. - Municipal Utilities.
The Mayor and Council shall have the power and authority to acquire, own, hold, lease, build, maintain, and operate a system of waterworks, electric lights, sewerage and gas distribution; to establish rates and charge fees for services rendered to any of said systems; to finance any of said systems through appropriate bond issues in accordance with the laws of Georgia; to exercise the power of eminent domain in regard to any of said systems, both within and without the corporate limits; and to furnish the services of any said systems to consumers outside the corporate limits of the City of LaFayette by contract or otherwise.
Section 5-12. - Sewers and Drains.
The Mayor and Council shall have the power and authority to provide for the establishment, extension and maintenance of a system of sewers and drains, together with a sewerage disposal system. This power includes the authority to extend said system beyond the corporate limits by contract or otherwise. For those purposes the City of LaFayette is granted the power of eminent domain within and without its corporate limits. The Mayor and Council may provide by ordinance for reasonable connection fees for tapping onto the water and sewer lines of said City and may compel citizens to tap onto the same when such service is made available. They may cause said connections to be made when the owners refuse, and issue executions for the amount so expended, which execution shall be special liens on the property connected with said water and sewerage systems from the date of the order of connection, and may be enforced and collected in the same manner as City Tax executions or any general execution as provided by State Law.
Section 5-13. - Right-of-Way.
The City of LaFayette shall have the right, easement and franchise of laying the necessary mains, pipe, conduits and drains for waterworks and sewerage system purposes and gas systems along the highways and county maintained roads in the County of Walker without cost; it shall have full power and authority to enact and enforce such rules, regulations and ordinances as may be necessary to protect the water basin and water shed, from which the water supply or any portion thereof is taken, from contamination and to protect said waterworks and sewerage system and gas system including the mains, pipes, and conduits, whether the same be situated within or without the corporate limits of said City. Said City of LaFayette shall likewise have the same powers and privileges with regard to its electrical system and the erection and maintenance of poles, lines and other necessary apparatus in connection with said system.
Section 5-14. - Eminent Domain.
The Mayor and Council are hereby empowered to acquire, construct, build, operate and maintain public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets, market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewerage treatment, waterworks, impoundments for storage of water, electrical systems, gas systems, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities, and any other public improvements or purposes, inside or outside the City, and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be taken under section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia, 1933, subject to such amendments as shall be enacted thereto or under any power or procedure of eminent domain now or hereafter provided by the General Assembly of Georgia.
ARTICLE II. - REGULATORY FUNCTIONS[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Charter cross reference—See § 4-19 of Charter.

Section 5-20. - Power to Regulate and License.
The Mayor and Council shall have the power and authority to provide by ordinance for the registration and licensing of any trade, business, occupation, vocation, personal gain or profit of whatever nature, engaged in or carried on within the limits of the City of LaFayette, regardless whether or not the subject has an office or establishment within said City. The Mayor and Council shall be authorized to fix the amount, terms, and manner of issuing and revoking licenses, provided that this authority is subject to the Constitutions and Laws of the United States and the State of Georgia. This power is conferred for the purpose of regulation under the police powers of the City and for the purpose of raising revenue for the operation of the City government through the imposition of a tax or fee on the privilege of operating within the City. This authority extends over individuals, partnerships, associations, corporations and their agents.
Section 5-21. - Franchises
The Mayor and Council shall have authority to exercise control over the use of Streets of the City of LaFayette, The power is hereby conferred upon the Mayor and Council to grant franchises for the use of said City's streets and alleys, for the purpose of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, gas companies, electric companies, ambulance companies, taxicabs, community antenna television companies, and transportation companies. This franchise right extends to, but is not limited to, the erection of poles, stringing of wires, laying of pipe, lines and conduits both above and below the surface. The Mayor and Council shall determine the duration, provisions, terms, whether the same shall be exclusive or nonexclusive, and the consideration of such franchises; provided, however, that no franchise shall be granted for a period in excess of thirty-five (35) years and no franchise shall be granted unless the City receives just and adequate compensation therefor. The Mayor and Council shall provide for the registration of all franchises with the City Clerk in the Registration Book to be kept by him. The Mayor and Council may provide by ordinance for the registration within a reasonable time of all franchises previously granted.
(Ord. No. 96-15, § 1, 8-12-96)
Section 5-22. - Planning and Zoning
(a)
The Mayor and Council of the City of LaFayette, may, in the interest of public health, safety, order, convenience, comfort, prosperity or general welfare, adopt by ordinance a plan or plans for the districting or zoning of the City for the purposes of regulating the location of trades, industries, apartment houses, dwellings, or other uses of property; or for the purpose of regulating the height of buildings, fences or other structures; or for the purpose of regulating the alignment of buildings or structures near street frontages. The zoning regulations may be based upon any one (1) or more of the purposes above described. The City may be divided into such number of zones or districts, and such districts may be of such shape and area as the Mayor and Council of said City shall deem best to accomplish the purposes of the zoning regulations; in the determination and establishment of districts and regulations, classifications may be based upon the nature or character of the trade, industry, or profession or other activity conducted or to be conducted upon the premises; the number of persons, families or other group units to reside in or use said building; the public, quasi public or private nature of the use of premises; upon any other base or bases relevant to the promotion of the public health, safety, order, morals, convenience, prosperity or welfare.
(b)
The Mayor and Council of the City of LaFayette may by ordinance elect to use the powers and authority granted in the General Laws of Georgia and any amendments thereto (General Planning Enabling Act of 1957, Ga. L. 1957, p. 420 as amended) for the preparation and amendment of overall plans for the orderly growth and development of said City; providing for the regulation of the subdivision of land; and for providing for the regulation of structures in mapped streets, public building sites, and public open spaces.
Section 5-23. - Building, Electrical, Plumbing Regulations.
The Mayor and Council shall have the power and authority to enact such reasonable rules and regulations as they may deem necessary or expedient, regarding the construction of buildings, remodeling of buildings, plumbing, gas installation, and electrical wiring and equipping of buildings in order to promote the safety and welfare of its citizens and to guard against fire or other property damage. This power may, in the discretion of the Mayor and Council, be exercised by adoption of any such standard building, electrical, gas and plumbing codes as may be deemed appropriate. The Mayor and Council shall be empowered to engage the necessary personnel to enforce such rules and regulations as adopted, and to charge reasonable fees for inspection and permits; and may require the obtaining of a permit as a condition precedent to any construction, building, gas, electrical or plumbing work. The Mayor and Council may enact all ordinances necessary to enforce such rules and regulations.
Section 5-24. - Abatement of Nuisance.
The Mayor and Council are hereby empowered to define a nuisance in the City of LaFayette and to provide for its abatement. The Mayor and Council of the City of LaFayette shall have jurisdiction of all nuisance abatement proceedings therein, unless under the ordinance said jurisdiction is granted to the Recorder of the City of LaFayette. The Mayor and Council may provide by ordinance for any building, structure, or condition maintained in violation of any law of this State or any ordinance of the City of LaFayette, to be adjudged a nuisance and for its abatement at the owner's expense upon his failure or refusal to abate the same within ten (10) days after written notice from said City to do so. The Mayor and Council may by ordinance provide for the issuance of an execution for the expense of abatement which shall be a lien upon the property on which said nuisance existed, which execution may be enforced and collected in the same manner as City executions or in the same manner as general executions may be enforced and collected under State Law.
Section 5-25. - Additional Regulatory Functions.
The Mayor and Council shall further have the power to enact any and all ordinances pertaining to licensing, zoning and planning, and building, electrical and plumbing regulations, under the authority of any and all General Laws of this State, as are deemed necessary and beneficial for said City by the Mayor and Council.
Section 5-26. - Penalties.
The Mayor and Council shall have the right to fix by Ordinance penalties for violations of any ordinances enacted under the authority of this Article and may also provide by ordinance methods of enforcing the same.
