CHAPTER VII. - RECORDER'S COURT[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Cross reference— Court, Ch. 9.

Section 7-10. - Creation.
There is hereby established a Court to be known and designated as the "Recorder's Court, City of LaFayette."
Section 7-11. - Place and Time of Session.
Sessions of the Recorder's Court, City of LaFayette, shall be convened at the place designated by ordinance and at such times as designated by ordinance or at such times as deemed necessary by the presiding officer to keep current the docket thereof.
Section 7-12. - Recorder—Creation, Establishment of Office.
Sessions of the Recorder's Court, City of LaFayette, shall be presided over by the Recorder who shall be elected by the voters of the City and shall take office at the first regular meeting of the Mayor and Council in January of each year. In the absence or disability of the Recorder or during any vacancy of the office of Recorder, the Mayor shall serve as Recorder and shall be clothed with all of the rights, powers and privileges of the Recorder and shall perform the duties of the office of Recorder so long as such absence, disability or vacancy shall continue.
Section 7-13. - Same—Qualifications.
The Recorder shall be a qualified voter of the City of LaFayette and shall have resided in the City of LaFayette at least one (1) year immediately preceding the date of his election or appointment and shall continue to reside in the City of LaFayette during his term of office, and shall have attained the age of twenty-five (25) years.
Section 7-14. - Same—Oath.
Before entering on the duties of his office, the Recorder shall take such oath as the Mayor and Council may prescribe by ordinance.
Section 7-15. - Same—Term.
The Recorder shall serve for a term of two (2) years; and until his successor is elected and qualified.
Section 7-16. - Same—Compensation.
The compensation of the Recorder shall be fixed by the Mayor and Council; however, the same shall not be less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) per month. Any reduction in the compensation of the Recorder shall not be effective during the term in which said reduction is enacted.
Section 7-17. - Same—Vacancy.
The office of Recorder shall become vacant upon the incumbent's death, resignation, removal from office in any manner authorized by law or forfeiture of his office, or when he ceases to reside within the Corporate Limits of the City of LaFayette. Vacancies shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor and Council for the remainder of the unexpired term.
Section 7-18. - Jurisdiction, Punishment and Penalties.
The Recorder shall have power to try all cases and violations against the laws and ordinances of the City of LaFayette and to punish offenders by imposing fines to an amount not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), to imprison offenders for a period not more than six (6) months, or at labor on the roads and streets or [other] public works of the City of LaFayette for not more than six (6) months; and the Recorder shall have the power and authority to impose any one (1) or more of these punishments for each violation of any law or ordinance of the City of LaFayette when the Recorder shall find the facts of the case so justified. The Recorder's Court, City of LaFayette, is specifically invested with all jurisdiction and powers within the corporate limits of the city of LaFayette granted by State Laws generally to Mayors, Recorders and Police Courts except the Recorder's Court, City of LaFayette, shall have jurisdiction in respect to the trial and abatement of all nuisances in said City only when authorized by ordinance.
(Ord. of 2-12-90, § 1, Ord. No. 93-3, § 1, 5-19-93)
Section 7-19. - Contempt.
The Recorder shall have authority to punish for contempt against his lawful authority whether in his presence or otherwise, and punishments may be inflicted at the discretion of the Recorder for contempt by fine not exceeding fifty dollars ($50.00) or by imprisonment not exceeding five (5) days, either or both, at the discretion of the Recorder.
Section 7-20. - Summons, Subpoena.
The Recorder shall have authority to issue summons and subpoena for witnesses and to compel their attendance whether residents of the City or not; to issue subpoena duces tecum for witnesses and the production of books and papers whether in the City or not, and compel their production; and to punish, as for contempt, failure to obey his legal summons and subpoena and orders.
Section 7-21. - Execution, Levy, Sale to Enforce Collection of Fine.
Whenever any person is convicted and sentenced to pay a fine or when the payment of a fine is a portion of the sentence, and said person fails to or refuses to pay said fine, the collection thereof shall be enforced by execution, levy and sale in the same way and manner as the collection of taxes is enforced in the City of LaFayette.
Section 7-22. - Warrants.
The Recorder shall have authority to issue warrants for violations of the laws and ordinances of the City of LaFayette which are committed within the corporate limits of said City, which warrants may be executed by any police officer of said City.
Section 7-23. - Appearance Bonds—Amount, Conditions, Effect.
The Chief of Police or any Policeman of the City shall release any person arrested for a violation of the laws and ordinances of the City, upon said persons giving a bond with good and sufficient security to be approved by the Chief of Police or Assistant Chief of Police or such other person as may be designated by ordinance to approve appearance bonds, payable to the Mayor of the City of LaFayette in [an] amount fixed by the person designated to approve said bonds, for the personal appearance of such person before the Recorder's Court, City of LaFayette, at the time and place therein specified, to answer the charges against him, and from time to time until the principal in such bond is tried and the case disposed of, and not to depart from the City of LaFayette except by leave of the Court.
Section 7-24. - Same—Forfeiture.
In the event the principal fails to appear before the Recorder's Court, City of LaFayette, as stipulated in his appearance bond, said bond shall be forfeited in said Court and the presiding officer thereof shall have the power and authority to order the principal in said bond rearrested and placed in the City Jail or guardhouse or such other place as offenders are imprisoned by said City until his case may be tried and disposed of, or to admit the defendant to bail as the Recorder may deem proper.
Section 7-25. - Right of Appeal—Prerequisites.
Any person convicted of violating any of the laws and ordinances of the City of LaFayette shall have the right of appeal to the Superior Court of Walker County, Georgia; provided, all costs are first paid to the City Clerk, who shall, upon payment thereof, certify in writing that the same has been paid and the bond and security given in double the amount of the fine imposed, to personally appear, stand and abide by the final judgment in said case; and if no fine is imposed and the defendant is imprisoned or sentenced to work on the streets or other public works in said City, then a bond shall be given in the amount which shall be fixed by the Recorder in his sound discretion.
Section 7-26. - Same—Rules and Regulations Applicable.
Unless otherwise provided by law, an appeal to the Superior Court shall be by writ of certiorari only and in accordance with Chapter 4, Title 5 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
(Ord. No. 04-09, § 1, 5-10-2004)
Note— (Ga. Laws 1969, p. 2298)
Section 7-27. - Same—Bonds to be Approved.
All bonds given in appeal cases shall be approved by the Recorder.
Section 7-28. - Same—Affidavit in Lieu of Bond.
Nothing in this article shall prevent the defendant if he wishes to appeal his case from filing an affidavit in forma pauperis in lieu of giving bond and security and the payment of the costs.
Section 7-29. - Same—Affidavit; Bond to Act as Supersedes.
Upon the affidavit provided for in section 7-28 being given or bond provided for in section 7-27 being given and approved, the same shall act as a supersedeas of the judgment sought to be reviewed by appeal, until the final judgment is rendered in said case.
Section 7-30. - Costs.
Upon the conviction of any person for the violation of any law or ordinance of the City of LaFayette, the Recorder may, in his discretion, tax the cost of the proceedings against the person convicted and the cost shall be computed under the provisions of the laws of the State of Georgia fixing costs in the Justice of the Peace Courts of said State, except that the Mayor and Council of the City of LaFayette may establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation of the Recorder's Court, City of LaFayette, and in that event the costs shall be computed based upon the schedule of fees established by the Mayor and Council of the City of LaFayette and the collection of the costs shall be enforced in the same manner as provided for collection of fines in Section 7-21 [of this Charter].
Section 7-31. - Rules for Recorder's Court.
Except as otherwise provided herein the Recorder shall have full power and authority to make rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the business of said Court; provided, however, the rules of evidence applicable to the Superior Courts of this State shall apply in the Recorder's Court of the City of LaFayette.
