Chapter 8 - ANIMALS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority to exercise animal control, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(3); dogs generally, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-1 et seq.; Georgia Animal Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 4-1-1 et seq.; vicious animals, O.C.G.A. § 51-2-7; substances and procedures for euthanasia of dogs and cats by animal shelters, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-5.1.; impounding of animals, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-9.2; return of animal to owner, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-9.3; notification to owner of impoundment of animal, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-9.4.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 8-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Abandoned animal. Any domesticated animal shall be considered abandoned when it has been placed upon public property or within a public building, unattended and uncared for, or upon the private property of another without the express permission of the owner, custodian or attendant of the private property and is unattended or uncared for. Any animal shall also be considered as abandoned which has been upon or within the property of the owner or custodian of the animal for a period of time in excess of 36 hours unattended and without proper food and water.
Animal at large means an animal which is not an animal under restraint.
Animal control officer means any person so designated by the chief of police to perform the duties of animal control and ordinance enforcement, to perform the duties of dangerous dog control officer, and further to perform the duties of animal control officer pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 4-8-22(c), as amended from time to time.
Animal under restraint. Any animal is considered under restraint if it is:
(1)
Within the property limits of its owner or on property where its presence is expressly permitted by the property owner;
(2)
Controlled by a leash;
(3)
At heel or beside a competent person and is obedient to the person's commands;
(4)
Participating in a hunting activity allowed by state law and is not otherwise in violation of this chapter. For purposes of this subsection, there shall be no violation of this chapter where an animal is participating in a hunting activity and crosses the property of another, unless such property has been posted with signs prohibiting hunting in accordance with state law or such property is within a residential subdivision; or
(5)
Within a vehicle either parked or in transit.
Dangerous dog means any dog that, according to the records of an appropriate authority:
(1)
Inflicts a severe injury on a human being or domesticated animal without provocation on public or private property at any time after March 31, 1989; or
(2)
Aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the safety of humans or domesticated animals without provocation after the dog has been classified as a potentially dangerous dog and after the owner has been notified of such classification.
Domesticated animal means a dog or cat, except a dog classified as a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog by the animal control officer or other authorized agents.
Guard dog means any dog which has been trained by a recognized training facility to attack persons or other animals independently or upon command and any dog which, while not so trained, is reasonably expected to perform as a guardian of the property upon and within which it is located. A recognized training facility shall be deemed to mean any person, partnership, company or corporation holding:
(1)
A state kennel license; and
(2)
A business license for either of the above purposes.
Owner means any person or legal entity, including, but not limited to, a corporation, partnership, firm, or trust owning, possessing, harboring, keeping, or having custody or control of a domesticated animal, potentially dangerous dog, or dangerous dog. This shall include any person hired or acting as custodian of the animal for its owner.
Pet means any member of a bird, mammal, or amphibian family that is under the control of a person or family of persons and which is fed, housed and/or cared for by a person or family within the city limits.
Potentially dangerous dog means any dog that without provocation bites a human being or domesticated animal on public or private property at any time.
Proper enclosure means an enclosure for keeping a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog while on the owner's property securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen, fence, or structure suitable to prevent the entry of young children and designed to prevent the dog from escaping. Any such pen or structure shall have secure sides and a secure top, and, if the dog is enclosed within a fence, all sides of the fence shall be of sufficient height and the bottom of the fence shall be constructed or secured in such a manner as to prevent the dog's escape either from over or from under the fence. Any such enclosure shall also provide protection from the elements for the dog.
Records of appropriate authority means records of any federal, state, county, or municipal law enforcement agency, animal control agency, board of health, court, or records of an animal control officer as provided by this chapter.
Severe injury means any physical injury to a human or domesticated animal that results in broken bones, disfiguring lacerations requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic injury, or a physical injury that results in death.
(Ord. of 12-16-2002, § 1)
Sec. 8-2. - Liability of county officers and employees.
The city, the animal control department, and its officers shall not be held responsible or liable for any accidents, diseases, injuries or deaths to any animal while being impounded or boarded in association with this chapter.
(Ord. of 12-16-2002, § 19)
Sec. 8-3. - Penalty for violations.
Except as provided for in section 8-30, any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not less than $25.00 for the first offense, or by confinement in the county jail for a period of one day, or by both fine and confinement. Applicable court costs shall be levied in addition to any such fine imposed. A second offense shall be punished by a fine of not less than $50.00, or by confinement in the county jail for a period of two days, or by both fine and confinement. Any subsequent offense may be punished by the maximum amount allowed for the violation of county ordinances by state law.
(Ord. of 12-16-2002, § 24)
Secs. 8-4—8-24. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ANIMAL CONTROL

Sec. 8-25. - Duty of owner to keep domesticated animals under control.
(a)
It shall be unlawful at any time for the owner of any domesticated animal, or anyone having a domesticated animal in his possession or control, to permit such domesticated animal to be an animal at large within the city limits. At no time shall any domesticated animal be permitted upon the property of another without the express permission of the property owner.
(b)
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as prohibiting a person from conducting hunting, training, or field trial competition activities with dogs in the legal manner provided for in state law.
(Ord. of 12-16-2002, § 2)
Sec. 8-26. - Abandonment.
It is unlawful for the owner of any domesticated animal to cause or permit the animal to become an abandoned animal within the city limits.
(Ord. of 12-16-2002, § 3)
Sec. 8-27. - Cruelty to animals.
(a)
The animal control department shall be authorized to remove or cause to have removed to a safe location any animal that appears to be abused or suffering undue pain from abuse or neglect, as may be necessary to prevent further suffering. The animal control officer shall be authorized to refer the matter to the appropriate law enforcement officer for charges to be brought under O.C.G.A. § 16-12-4.
(b)
The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed as prohibiting conduct which is otherwise permitted under the laws of the state or of the United States, including, but not limited to, agricultural, animal husbandry, butchering, food processing, marketing, scientific, research, medical, zoological, exhibition, competitive, hunting, trapping, fishing, wildlife management, or pest control practices or the authorized practice of veterinary medicine, nor to limit in any way the authority or duty of the department of agriculture, department of natural resources, any county board of health, any law enforcement officer, dog, animal, or rabies control officer, humane society, veterinarian, or private landowner protecting his property.
(c)
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as prohibiting a person from:
(1)
Defending his person or property, or the person or property of another, from injury or damage being caused by an animal; or
(2)
Injuring or killing an animal reasonably believed to constitute a threat for injury or damage to any property, livestock, or poultry. The method used to injure or kill such animal shall be designed to be as humane as is possible under the circumstances. A person who humanely injures or kills an animal under the circumstances indicated in this section shall incur no civil or criminal liability for such act.
(Ord. of 12-16-2002, § 16)
Sec. 8-28. - Nuisance animals.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of an animal to permit that animal to be a nuisance at any time within the city limits. An animal shall be deemed a nuisance if it is permitted to go upon the property of another person other than its owner or keeper without the express consent of such other property owner or occupant; or if the animal attacks, or acts so as to menace pedestrians or other persons using public ways; or if the animal damages the real property of anyone other than the owner of said animal; or if it is in heat and is not confined to the property of its owner or keeper.
(Ord. of 12-16-2002, § 17)
Sec. 8-29. - Violations.
Any person that violates the provisions of this chapter shall be issued a citation for that violation to appear before the municipal court and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in section 8-3. Such a citation may be issued by an animal control officer based upon his own personal knowledge or upon a sworn written statement of another person who witnessed the violation, in which case the witness shall be subpoenaed to testify for the county in the magistrate's court.
(Ord. of 12-16-2002, § 23)
Sec. 8-30. - Obstruction of officer.
It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, harass, interfere, or otherwise obstruct the performance of any animal control officer or official of the animal control department in the official performance of his duties as provided for in this chapter. Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be punished according to the penalties described in the general provisions chapter of this Code.
(Ord. of 12-16-2002, § 25)
Secs. 8-31—8-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - IMPOUNDMENT

Sec. 8-51. - Animal control department and animal control officer; department and position established.
There is hereby established for the city an animal control department with the animal control officer as the department head, and it shall be staffed with such personnel as may be from time to time authorized by the chief of police. Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 4-8-22(c), the duties of the animal control officer shall be vested in any person so designated by the chief of police. The duty of the department and the officer shall be to enforce this chapter and any other ordinances identified by the city administrator.
(Ord. of 12-16-2002, § 4)
Sec. 8-52. - Duties of the animal control officer.
(a)
It shall be the duty of the animal control department to make such investigations and inquiries as may be necessary to identify dangerous and potentially dangerous dogs, and the owners thereof, within the unincorporated areas of the county and to otherwise enforce the provisions of this chapter. The primary responsibility for enforcement of this chapter shall be vested in the animal control department. This department shall consist of the animal control officer, and such additional deputy animal control officers, referred to collectively as "animal control officers," as shall be designated by the chief of police. These officers shall be vested with the authority to issue citations for violations of this chapter, and the officers comprising this department may also call upon such other officers, constables and employees of the magistrate's office or the county sheriff's department or the city police department as may be necessary for the enforcement of this chapter.
(b)
Animal control officers shall be authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter upon receipt of a credible report of a violation of this chapter, in written or oral form, from a law enforcement officer, 9-1-1 dispatcher, board of health official, rabies control officer, or citizen. Appropriate records of complaints and the results of the ensuing investigation shall be kept in the offices of the animal control department.
(c)
Animal control officers may pursue animals in violation of this chapter onto private property to effect capture and impoundment of said animals. All impounded animals shall be housed and cared for at a facility designated for such purpose by the chief of police.
(d)
It shall also be the responsibility of the animal control department to enforce O.C.G.A. §§ 4-8-20 through 4-8-30 relating to dangerous dogs.
(Ord. of 12-16-2002, § 5)
Sec. 8-53. - Impoundment of animals.
A dog or cat that is an animal at large or otherwise in violation of this chapter shall be impounded by the animal control department in accordance with the published policies of the animal control department.
(Ord. of 12-16-2002, § 13)
Sec. 8-54. - Redemption of impounded animals.
It shall be the duty of the animal control department to notify the owner, if known or can be reasonably ascertained, of every animal impounded, by telephone or by mail, as quickly as possible after the impoundment. The owner of any impounded animal may claim and take custody of the animal within five days of such impoundment, and by paying an impoundment fee plus payment of a boarding fee for each day of impoundment, and the cost of a rabies inoculation, if the animal does not display a current rabies tag, or if the owner cannot provide proof of rabies inoculation. Fees shall be set by the city administrator.
(Ord. of 12-16-2002, § 14)
Sec. 8-55. - Disposition of animals.
(a)
The animal control department or its designee shall be authorized to dispose of any animal in as humane and painless a manner as possible, or to donate any animal to a public or nonprofit institution or agency (for purposes other than experimentation), if such an animal has remained unclaimed within the prescribed period of time, or if it has been injured and is suffering or in great pain and such animal does not display an identification tag and no determination of the owner can be made from a reasonable investigation. The disposal of any animal as provided herein does not relieve the owner of any liability for any violation of this chapter. If the owner of the animal is known or ascertainable, but for any valid reason cannot be reached within the prescribed period, the animal control department shall be authorized to hold the animal until such a time as the owner can be reached.
(b)
No unclaimed dog or cat shall be released for adoption without being sterilized or without written agreement from the adopter guaranteeing that such animal will be sterilized within 30 days of the specified date in the contract for puppies and kittens under two months of age. The city administrator shall develop the fees to be paid at the time of adoption for dogs and for cats. Adoption fees set by the city administrator will include the following: physical exam, rabies shot, and spaying or neutering at the appropriate age. The adoption fee shall be collected and disbursements shall be made to the participating veterinarian who actually performs the service.
(Ord. of 12-16-2002, § 15)
Sec. 8-56. - Records.
It shall be the duty of the animal control officer to keep and maintain current and accurate records of all activities and transactions of his position. Such records shall include, but not be limited to, incident reports; a description of each animal placed in custody; the date, time, and circumstances of impoundment or receipt of the animal; the date, time, and circumstances of the disposition of the animal; all fees of every kind that are collected; and any other such records that are deemed proper and necessary to provide an accurate accounting of the enforcement activities. Such records shall be retained for a period of not less than 12 months and shall be open for public inspection at any time during normal business hours.
(Ord. of 12-16-2002, § 18)
Secs. 8-57—8-85. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - RABIES CONTROL

Sec. 8-86. - Identification and inoculation.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess or maintain any dog or cat that does not have a current rabies inoculation and any such dog or cat shall wear a securely attached collar about its neck displaying such current rabies tag and owner identification and contact information. In the event that such tag is lost, the owner of the dog or cat shall be prepared to present documentation of current rabies inoculation. No person shall vaccinate dogs or cats against rabies unless permitted to do so under applicable state law.
(b)
It shall be the duty of any person bitten by any animal reasonably suspected of being rabid immediately to notify the county board of health. It shall be the duty of the owner, custodian, or person having possession and knowledge of any animal which has bitten any person or animal or of any animal which exhibits any signs of rabies to notify the county board of health and to confine such animal in accordance with rules and regulations of the county board of health.
(Ord. of 12-16-2002, § 6)
Sec. 8-87. - Confinement of biting animal.
Any animal that is known to have bitten a person shall be confined for the purpose of rabies observation to the animal control facility, to a veterinary facility, or to such other facility as may be directed by the city, for a period of not less than ten days, and all expenses incurred for such confinement and observation shall be paid by the owner of such animal.
(Code 1992, § 30-108; Ord. of 4-13-1998, § 30-108)
Secs. 8-88—8-117. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - DOGS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Authority to exercise animal control, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(3); Responsible Dog Ownership Law, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-1 et seq.

Sec. 8-118. - Confinement of certain dogs.
Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding sections, no dog, whether licensed or not, shall be allowed to run at large and upon the premises of one other than the owner.
(Code 1992, § 30-202)
State Law reference— Permitting female dog in heat to roam free, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-6.
Sec. 8-119. - Vaccination.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to keep, maintain, or allow such dog to run at large unless it shall have been vaccinated by a licensed veterinary surgeon with anti-rabies vaccine, within one year preceding the date on which such dog is kept, maintained, or allowed to run at large.
(Code 1992, § 30-203)
Sec. 8-120. - Dog bites.
Whenever any dog bites a person, the owner of such dog shall immediately notify the chief of police, who shall order the dog held on the owner's premises, or shall have it impounded at the owner's expense, for a period of two weeks. The dog shall be examined immediately after it has bitten anyone and again at the end of the two-week period. If at the end of two weeks a veterinarian is convinced that the dog is then free from rabies, the dog shall be released from quarantine. If the dog should die in the interim, its body shall be sent to the proper state authority for examination for rabies.
(Code 1992, § 30-205)
Sec. 8-121. - Muzzling.
Whenever it becomes necessary to safeguard the public from the dangers of hydrophobia, the mayor, if he deems it necessary, may issue a proclamation ordering every person owning or keeping a dog to confine it securely on his premises unless such dog shall have a muzzle of sufficient strength to prevent its biting any person. Any unmuzzled dog running at large during the time of the proclamation shall be seized and impounded, unless such dog shall be noticeably infected with rabies, in which case it shall be summarily disposed of.
(Code 1992, § 30-206)
Sec. 8-122. - Violations.
Any person that violates the provisions of this chapter shall be issued a citation for that violation to appear before the municipal court, and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in section 8-3. Such a citation may be issued by an animal control officer based upon his own personal knowledge or upon a sworn written statement of another person who witnessed the violation, in which case the witness shall be subpoenaed to testify for the county in the magistrate's court.
(Ord. of 12-16-2002, § 23)
Sec. 8-123. - Classification of dangerous dogs; notice to owner required.
(a)
When a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog is classified as such, or when a potentially dangerous dog is reclassified as a dangerous dog, the animal control department shall notify the owner of the dog of such classification. Such notice shall be in writing and mailed by certified mail to the owner's last known address. Such notice shall be complete upon mailing and shall contain, at a minimum, the following items:
(1)
A summary of the animal control department's findings that formed the basis for the dog's classification or reclassification;
(2)
The date of classification and a statement that the owner has 15 days to request a hearing on the animal control department's determination;
(3)
A statement that the hearing, if requested, shall be before the city council, or its designee, and shall specify the name of the agency which shall conduct the hearing;
(4)
A statement that, if a hearing is not requested, the animal control officer's determination will become effective for all purposes under this chapter on a date specified in the notice, which shall be after the last day on which the owner has a right to request a hearing; and
(5)
A form to request a hearing before the hearing board designated by the city council, and shall provide specific instructions on mailing or delivering such request to such hearing board.
(b)
A dog that inflicts an injury upon a person when the dog is being used by a law enforcement officer to carry out the law enforcement officer's official duties shall not be a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog within the meaning of this chapter. A dog shall not be a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog within the meaning of this chapter if the injury inflicted by the dog was sustained by a person who, at the time, was committing a willful trespass or other tort, or was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, or had in the past been observed or reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog, or was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
(Ord. of 12-16-2002, § 7)
Sec. 8-124. - Liability of owner of dangerous dogs.
The notice procedures provided for in this chapter are not essential conditions for the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. The owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog is held to know that such dog is dangerous or potentially dangerous if the dog has, at any time, displayed one or more of the behaviors described in the definitions of dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. of 12-16-2002, § 8)
Sec. 8-125. - Hearings; presiding body and procedure.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A §§ 4-8-22 and 4-8-24, the city council may conduct hearings relating to matters covered by this chapter, may designate a dangerous dog hearing board to conduct such hearings, or may designate the board of health to conduct such hearings. Under no circumstances shall the animal control department participate in a hearing other than to testify as to the determination that a dog is a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog.
(b)
When the city council or its designee receives a request for a hearing as provided in section 8-123 it shall schedule such hearing within 30 days after receiving the request. Notice shall be mailed to the owner at least ten days prior to the hearing. At the hearing, the owner of the dog shall be given the opportunity to testify and present evidence, and the city council or its designee shall receive such other evidence as they may find reasonable to make a determination either to sustain, modify, or overrule the animal control department's determination.
(c)
Within ten days of the hearing, the city council or its designee shall notify the dog owner in writing by certified mail of their determination on the matter.
(Ord. of 12-16-2002, § 9)
Sec. 8-126. - Certificate of registration required.
It shall be unlawful for a dog owner to possess within the corporate limits of the city a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog without a certificate of registration issued in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Such certificate shall be issued annually to the owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog by the animal control department if the owner presents to the animal control department sufficient evidence of:
(1)
A proper enclosure to confine the dangerous or potentially dangerous dog;
(2)
The proper posting of the premises where a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog is located with a clearly visible sign warning of such a dog on the property and containing a symbol designed to inform children of the presence of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog;
(3)
An insurance policy in the amount of at least $15,000.00 per occurrence issued by an insurer authorized to transact business in the state insuring the owner of the dangerous dog against liability for any personal or property damages inflicted by the dangerous dog;
(4)
A surety bond in the amount of $15,000.00 or more issued by a surety company authorized to transact business in the state payable to any person injured by the dangerous dog;
(5)
The owner of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog shall notify the animal control officer within 24 hours if the dog is on the loose, is unconfined, has attacked a human, has died, or has been sold or donated. If the dog has been sold or donated, the owner shall also provide the animal control officer with the name, address, and telephone number of the new owner of the dog; and
(6)
The owner of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog shall notify the animal control officer if the owner is moving from the animal control officer's jurisdiction. The owner of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog who is a new resident of the state shall register the dog as required in this section within 30 days after becoming a resident. The owner of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog who moves from one jurisdiction to another within the state shall register the dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog in the new jurisdiction within ten days after becoming a resident.
(Ord. of 12-16-2002, § 10)
Sec. 8-127. - Annual registration fee for dangerous dogs and potentially dangerous dogs.
An annual registration fee as established by the city council from time to time shall be charged by the city, in addition to any regular animal licensing fees, to defray the cost to register the dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog as required in this chapter.
(Ord. of 12-16-2002, § 11)
Sec. 8-128. - Guard dogs.
It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant, or custodian of any property on which a guard dog is kept for security purposes to post a notice in a conspicuous location on such property. Such notice shall consist of the words "Warning—Guard Dog" and shall be in clearly distinguishable block letters not less than five inches in height and one inch in width, and contain a symbol designed to inform children of the presence of a guard dog. If a guard dog is confined within a fenced area, such notice must be conspicuously posted at every entrance and exit of such fence.
(Ord. of 12-16-2002, § 12)
