Chapter 11 - HUMAN RIGHTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II; O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 11-1—11-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FAIR HOUSING[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Fair housing, O.C.G.A. § 8-3-200 et seq.; local fair housing ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 8-3-213.

Sec. 11-26. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Discriminatory housing practice shall mean an act that is unlawful under section 11-27, 11-28 or 11-29.
Dwelling shall mean any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one (1) or more families, and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
Family shall include a single individual.
To rent shall mean to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for a consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 8-3-201.
Sec. 11-27. - Unlawful practices in selling or renting dwelling; exceptions.
(a)
Except as exempted by subsection (b) of this section or section 11-30, it shall be unlawful:
(1)
To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.
(2)
To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.
(3)
To make, print, or publish or cause to be made, printed, or published any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a dwelling, that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination.
(4)
To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
(5)
For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.
(b)
Nothing in this section, other than paragraph (3) of subsection (a) of this section, shall apply to:
(1)
Any single-family dwelling sold or rented by an owner if:
a.
Such private individual owner does not own more than three (3) such single-family dwellings at any one (1) time;
b.
Such bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on his behalf, under any express or voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of, more than three (3) such single-family dwellings at any one (1) time;
c.
Such dwelling is sold or rented:
1.
Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesman, or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent, salesman, or person; and
2.
Without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice, of any advertisement or written notice in violation of subsection (c) of this section; but nothing in this paragraph shall prohibit the use of attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
(2)
Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or intended to be occupied by no more than four (4) families living independently of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one (1) of such living quarters as his residence.
(3)
In the case of the sale of any such single-family dwelling by a private individual owner not residing in such dwelling at the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of such dwelling prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this subsection shall apply only with respect to one (1) such sale within any twenty-four-month period.
(c)
For the purposes of subsection (b) of this section, a person shall be deemed to be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
(1)
He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as principal in three (3) or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein;
(2)
He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as agent, other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two (2) or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
(3)
He is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for occupancy by, or occupied by, five (5) or more families.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 8-3-202.
Sec. 11-28. - Unlawful discrimination in making loans or other financial assistance.
It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance company, or other corporation, association, firm, or enterprise whose business consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans to deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a dwelling, or to discriminate against him in the fixing of the amount, interest rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan or other financial assistance because of the race, color, religion, sex, or national origin of such person or of any person associated with him in connection with such loan or other financial assistance or the purposes of such loan or other financial assistance, or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants, or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or other financial assistance is to be made or given, provided that nothing contained in this section shall impair the scope or effectiveness of the exception contained in subsection (b) of section 11-27.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 8-3-203.
Sec. 11-29. - Unlawful denial of access to, or membership or participation in, service, organization, or facility relating to business of selling or renting dwelling.
It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to, or membership or participation in, any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers' organization, or other service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against such person in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation on account of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 8-3-204.
Sec. 11-30. - Permissible limitations in sale, rental, or occupancy of dwellings by religious organizations or private clubs.
Nothing in this article shall prohibit a religious organization, association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, sex, or national origin. Nothing in this article shall prohibit a private club not in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from giving preference to its members.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 8-3-205.
