Chapter 16 - NOISE[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Nuisances, ch. 17.
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II; O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.

Sec. 16-1. - Prohibited; enumeration.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or continued any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others, within the city.
(b)
The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises in violation of this section, but such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
(1)
Racing motors, etc. The emitting of loud noises by racing the motor of any motor vehicle. The use of a muffler on a motor vehicle that emits loud and harsh noises.
(2)
Horns, signaling devices, etc. The sounding of any horn or signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle, truck, tractor or other vehicle on any street or public place of the city, except as a danger or passing warning; the creation by means of any such signaling device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; the sounding of any such device for an unnecessary purpose; the use of any horn, whistle or other device operated by engine exhaust; and the use of any such signaling device when traffic for any reason is delayed or stopped.
(3)
Yelling, shouting, etc. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing on the public streets, particularly between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office, or in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence, or of any persons in the vicinity.
(4)
Animals, birds, etc. The keeping of any animal or bird, which by causing frequent or long-continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose of persons in the vicinity.
(5)
Steam whistles. The blowing of any locomotive steam whistle or steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler except to give notice of the time to begin or to stop work or as a warning of fire or danger, or upon the request of proper city authorities.
(6)
Exhausts. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal-combustion engine or motor vehicle, except tractors, except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.
(7)
Defect in vehicle or load. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or operated in such manner as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.
(8)
Loading, unloading, opening boxes. The creation of a loud and excessive noise in connection with loading or unloading any vehicle, or the opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates and containers.
(9)
In vicinity of schools, courts, churches, hospitals. The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning or church while the same is in use, or adjacent to any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the workings of such institutions, or which disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the hospital, provided conspicuous signs are displayed on such streets indicating that the same is a school or hospital street.
(10)
Hawkers, peddlers. The shouting and crying of peddlers, hawkers and vendors which disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood.
(11)
Drums, other instruments. The use of any drum or other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention by the creation of noise to any performance, show or sale.
(12)
Radios, phonographs, etc. The using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants. The operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine or device between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of one hundred (100) feet from the building, structure or vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
(13)
Loudspeakers, amplifiers, devices for advertising. The using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other similar machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of the public to any building or structure, except by special written permit issued by the chief of police or by the mayor upon application duly made. Such a permit shall be issued if the proposed activity will not endanger the public peace or safety.
(Code 1977, § 12-7)
Sec. 16-2. - Automobile repair shops.
It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to use automobile repair shop premises at any time on Sundays or between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. on weekdays in such a manner as will emit noises of a disagreeable or annoying nature.
(Code 1977, § 12-8)
Sec. 16-3. - Use of public places.
It shall be unlawful for any person to use the public sidewalks, streets or other public premises at any time on Sunday, or between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. on weekdays in such a manner as will emit noises of a disagreeable or annoying nature.
(Code 1977, § 12-9)
Sec. 16-4. - Blowing railroad whistles.
It shall be unlawful to blow a locomotive whistle within the city, except where it is necessary to prevent accidents, or where it is necessary to signal the engineers of opposing trains of the approach of any passenger train, or any section following the same, or when it is necessary to signal a brakeman to protect the rear of such train when the train has made an unscheduled stop and there is danger of a rear-end collision.
(Code 1977, § 12-10)
