ARTICLE VI. - PRIVATE DETECTIVES[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Cross reference— Commercial guard or security dogs, § 5-60.
State Law reference— Georgia Private Detective Business and Private Security Agencies Act, O.C.G.A. § 43-38-1 et seq.; local ordinances authorized, O.C.G.A. § 43-38-14(c).

Sec. 12-191. - Definition.
For the purposes of this article, the words "private detectives" or "private detective agencies" are defined as those following the business or vocation pursued by all persons or agencies making investigations for others when the investigations involve the conduct, life or affairs of the persons investigated. These terms shall not include lawyers and accountants in the course of their practice or incident thereto.
(Ord. No. 89-03, § 6-74, 2-6-89)
Sec. 12-192. - Annual licensing.
(a)
Any person wishing to engage in the business of private detective or private detective agency shall make the initial application, pay the license fee and be granted an initial license prior to beginning any detective work in the city. Initial licenses shall expire on December thirty-first of the year in which they are granted. Thereafter the person shall make application for continuance of the business in the city annually on or before January first for license for the coming year. The procedure on the application shall be followed as was followed on the original application. A separate license must be obtained for each person engaged in activities described herein even though that person is an employee of another person duly licensed under this section.
(b)
Any person who shall desire to engage in the business of a private detective or detective agency shall first make application to the chief of police and the application shall contain the following information:
(1)
The name of the applicant, his age and present address.
(2)
The places the applicant has resided in the past ten (10) years.
(3)
The places the applicant has been employed for the past ten (10) years.
(4)
The marital status of the applicant.
(5)
Information concerning the experience the applicant has had in detective work.
(6)
Information concerning the applicant's criminal record, if any.
(7)
The names and addresses of two (2) residents of the state for character purposes.
(8)
The names and addresses of two (2) credit references.
(9)
Any other information the chief of police deems pertinent.
The application shall be accompanied by a photograph not more than twelve (12) months old of the applicant.
The application shall be made under oath and the giving of false information shall result in the revocation of any license issued in reliance thereon.
(c)
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to accept each application presented to him as set out above. The chief shall then investigate the character, integrity and competence of the applicant. The chief shall then submit a written report to the city administrator together with recommendations for the issuance or denial of the license. The city administrator shall report to the governing body at the next regular meeting. The governing body shall determine the merits of the matter and either direct the issuance of the license or deny the same.
(d)
No person shall be granted a license as a private detective unless that person has attained twenty-one (21) years of age.
(e)
The annual regulatory fee for each person shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00).
(Ord. No. 89-03, §§ 6-75—6-80, 2-6-89; Ord. No. 94-05, § 8, 12-5-94)
State Law reference— State license as prerequisite, O.C.G.A. § 43-38-14.1.
Sec. 12-193. - Police supervision.
All private detectives shall be subject to supervision and direction by police officers of the city.
(Ord. No. 89-03, § 6-81, 2-6-89)
Sec. 12-194. - Regulations and prohibited activities.
Nothing contained in this article shall be construed to allow any person licensed hereunder to violate the laws of the United States, the state, or the city, nor shall any person licensed hereunder violate the civil or constitutional rights of any person nor shall any person licensed under this article use the license, credentials, or position to collect money or obtain property from any person. Should the city administrator receive a complaint from any person that a licensee has violated any provision of this section, he shall within thirty (30) days of receiving the complaint set up a hearing before the governing body and give the person against whom the complaint was made fifteen (15) days' notice of the hearing. At the hearing the mayor or, in his absence, the mayor pro tem shall preside. Both the complaining party and the person against whom the complaint is made shall be entitled to counsel of their choice; to subpoena and call witnesses; and be heard on the merits. Witnesses shall testify under oath and be subject to penalty for perjury if false testimony is given. The purpose of the hearing shall be to determine the fitness of the person against whom the complaint is made to continue to operate as a private detective in the city. After hearing evidence from both sides, the governing body shall vote "yes" or "no," to continue the license. If a majority of the governing body present and voting, vote "no," the license shall be thereupon revoked. No person whose license has been revoked shall be allowed to reapply for a license within twelve (12) months of the revocation.
(Ord. No. 89-03, § 6-82, 2-6-89)
Secs. 12-195—12-210. - Reserved.
