ARTICLE III. - MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM

Sec. 24-46. - Assessments.
(a)
Assessments shall be levied against affected property or its owners for water lines as provided in this section. Six-inch water mains shall be laid at the prorated rate per lot determined at the time of such construction.
(b)
All such assessments shall be due at the time of completing such construction. Any affected owner may at his option pay twenty-five (25) percent down and the balance in three (3) equal yearly payments of principal plus accrued interest at seven (7) percent provided such owner shall execute a proper lien agreement for same to the city in recordable form properly describing the affected property.
(c)
Such assessments as herein called for shall create a lien on the affected owner and his property and in case a person is delinquent in payment of same, the same shall be enforced by issuing execution against such delinquent person or his property directed to an officer authorized to execute same who shall levy on the property and conduct a sale in the manner prescribed for sheriffs' sales in this state.
(d)
The governing body shall have the right to compel citizens to tap on to such services when made available.
(e)
No new water main shall be laid unless fifty-one (51) percent of the affected owners petition for same, and then only after a public hearing is held with all affected owners being notified of such hearing at least ten (10) days prior to such hearing. Notice by the city administrator to each affected owner placed in the United States mail to the last known address of such owner with sufficient postage thereon shall be sufficient.
(f)
The city administrator shall be responsible for all things needful and necessary to administer and enforce this section, except the field work shall be the responsibility of the person in charge of the water and sewer department.
(g)
Nothing in this section shall affect any contract between the city and any person or institution.
(Code 1977, § 17-1(a)—(e), (g), (h))
Sec. 24-47. - Tap fees.
Water tap fees shall be set from time to time by the mayor and council and a schedule of such fees is on file in the office of the city administrator.
(Ord. No. 85-6, § 17-2, 9-3-85; Ord. No. 94-04, § 1, 9-6-94)
Sec. 24-48. - Rates and meter deposits.
The rates for water and the amount of meter deposits to be charged consumers shall be as prescribed by resolution of the governing body. A schedule is to be maintained in the office of the city administrator.
(Ord. No. 85-4, § 17-3.1, 7-2-85)
Sec. 24-49. - Unlawful restoration of service.
Whenever water service shall have been discontinued or cut off by the city, it shall be unlawful for any person, except an authorized agent or employee of the city, to restore the service.
(Code 1977, § 17-5)
State Law reference— Damaging, injuring or interfering with utilities, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25.
Sec. 24-50. - Damaging, tampering with equipment.
Whoever unlawfully and intentionally injures or destroys, or permits to be injured or destroyed, any meter, pipe, conduit or other apparatus belonging to the city and a part of its waterworks system, or unlawfully and intentionally prevents a water meter from duly registering the quantity of water supplied or in any way interferes with its proper or just registration, or, without the consent of the city, unlawfully and intentionally diverts water from any water main or pipe of the city, or otherwise unlawfully and intentionally uses or causes to be used, without the consent of the city, any water pumped or distributed by it, shall be guilty of an offense.
(Code 1977, § 17-4)
State Law reference— Damaging, injuring or interfering with utilities, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25.
Sec. 24-51. - Restrictions on outdoor watering.
modified
(a)
Persons may irrigate outdoors daily for purposes of planting, growing, managing, or maintaining ground cover, trees, shrubs, or other plants only between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m.
(b)
Subsection (a) of this section shall not create any limitation upon the following outdoor water uses:
(1)
Commercial agricultural operations as defined in O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3;
(2)
Capture and reuse of cooling system condensate or stormwater in compliance with applicable local ordinances and state guidelines;
(3)
Reuse of gray water in compliance with O.C.G.A. § 31-3-5.2 and applicable local board of health regulations adopted pursuant thereto;
(4)
Use of reclaimed waste water by a designated user from a system permitted by the environmental protection division of the department to provide reclaimed waste water;
(5)
Irrigation of personal food gardens;
(6)
Irrigation of new and replanted plant, seed, or turf in landscapes, golf courses, or sports turf fields during installation and for a period of thirty (30) days immediately following the date of installation;
(7)
Drip irrigation or irrigation using soaker hoses;
(8)
Handwatering with a hose with automatic cutoff or handheld container;
(9)
Use of water withdrawn from private water wells or surface water by an owner or operator of property if such well or surface well is on said property;
(10)
Irrigation of horticultural crops held for sale, resale, or installation;
(11)
Irrigation of athletic fields, golf courses, or public turf grass recreational areas;
(12)
Installation, maintenance, or calibration of irrigation systems; or
(13)
Hydroseeding.
(c)
In case of an emergency which immediately threatens the public health, safety, or welfare, the mayor and council may impose more stringent restrictions on outdoor water use than those contained above, however, such emergency restrictions shall be valid for a period not exceeding seven (7) days unless a variance is obtained from the director of the state Environmental Protection Division pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-7(a)(2).
(d)
As used in this Code section, the term rain sensor shut-off switch means an electric device that detects and measures rainfall amounts and overrides the cycle of an irrigation system so as to turn off such system when a predetermined amount of rain has fallen.
(1)
All residential and commercial automatic sprinkler systems installed for the purpose of landscape irrigation shall be equipped with a functioning rain sensor/shut-off device that ensures the automatic irrigation system will not operate during times of precipitation.
(e)
Waste of water. The City of Palmetto shall have the power to take whatever reasonable and lawful steps are necessary to prevent the unlawful use or waste of water. If it is found that there is a waste of water in or about any premises to which water is supplied from the system, either by willful waste or by means of a leak in any water pipe or fixture located in or upon the premises, the City of Palmetto may cause the water to be cut off from the premises upon twenty-four (24) hours' notice to the occupant, unless special circumstances require that such waste shall be immediately stopped. Where the water supply is cut off as herein provided, the water shall not again be turned on until all water bills an d the bill for the cost of cutting off and again turning on the water shall have been paid.
(Ord. No. 2010-03, § 1, 1-3-11; Ord. No. 2012-02, 3-5-12; Ord. No. 2020-04 , § 1, 5-4-2020)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2010-03, § 1, adopted Jan. 3, 2011, repealed the former section and enacted a new one as set out herein. The former section pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 90-06, 7-2-90; Ord. No. 90-07, 7-7-90; Ord. No. 95-03, 9-5-95.
Secs. 24-52—24-70. - Reserved.
