ARTICLE VII. - SOLID WASTE HANDLERS

Sec. 12-211. - Definition.
For the purposes of this article, the definition of solid waste shall be the same as defined within Article V of Chapter 24.
(Ord. No. 93-01, 1-4-93)
Sec. 12-212. - License required.
No person shall conduct business as a solid waste handler within the city without first obtaining a business license from the city administrator in the manner specified in this article.
(Ord. No. 93-01, 1-4-93)
Sec. 12-213. - Fee established.
The annual business license fee for each solid waste handler doing business within the city shall be set from time to time as deemed appropriate by the governing body. Current schedules of such license fees shall be kept on file in the city administrator's office.
(Ord. No. 93-01, 1-4-93)
Sec. 12-214. - Application.
All persons desiring to obtain a license under this article shall submit an initial written application, and a renewal application annually thereafter, to the city for such privilege upon forms to be approved by the governing body. Such applications shall state the name and address of the applicant, the location or proposed location of the business, the service area of the business, proof of compliance with state license laws and with city ordinances (particularly with Article V of Chapter 24 of the city code), proof of ownership of county license, if required, and such other information as may be required by the governing body.
(Ord. No. 93-01, 1-4-93)
Sec. 12-215. - Letters of assurance required.
(a)
In addition to the information required of an applicant for a solid waste handler's license, each initial and renewal application must also include a letter of solid waste disposal assurance from a state-permitted solid waste disposal facility. The letter must be on the letterhead of the entity owning the disposal facility and must contain the following information:
(1)
Name and address of the solid waste disposal facility to be utilized by the applicant.
(2)
Name, address and telephone number of the entity to whom the state permit is issued.
(3)
Name, title and telephone number of the authorized individual or company official signing the assurance letter on behalf of the disposal facility.
(4)
Estimated life of permitted capacity remaining at current and projected rates of waste disposal in tons or cubic yards.
(5)
A statement that sufficient disposal capacity exists to accommodate the solid waste handling applicant over the expected remaining life of the disposal facility based on the remaining capacity and the amount of waste received at the disposal facility.
(6)
A statement that appropriate arrangements are in place such that the disposal facility will reserve a portion of its capacity on behalf of the solid waste handler license applicant.
(b)
In the event the proposed disposal facility has a remaining life of less than ten (10) years, the license application must include additional letters of solid waste disposal assurance containing the above-described information such that a total of ten (10) years of disposal assurance is provided.
(Ord. No. 93-01, 1-4-93)
Sec. 12-216. - Compliance with article.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, control, manage or own any business which handles solid waste within the city without having complied with the provisions of this article. Noncompliance shall subject such a violator to the revocation of any business license which may have been issued pursuant to this article, and to a fine and/or imprisonment.
(Ord. No. 93-01, 1-4-93)
Secs. 12-217—12-220. - Reserved.
