ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - Downtown Entertainment District.
The provisions of this section are intended to set forth certain exceptions to the outdoor possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages in the area herein referred to as the "Downtown Entertainment District" and to benefit businesses that hold licenses to sell alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises which are located in the Downtown Entertainment District. Except as specifically set forth in this section to the contrary, all such licensees remain subject to all other provisions of the Code of Ordinances.
(1)
Downtown Entertainment District is defined as the area of public space, streets, sidewalks, open areas, and all parcels and tracts of real property in the area of the city shown on Exhibit "A" attached to Ord. No. 2019-3 and incorporated herein.
(2)
Outside consumption of alcoholic beverages shall be permitted within the Downtown Entertainment District under the following conditions:
a.
Any licensee who desires to sell alcoholic beverages for outside consumption within the Downtown Entertainment District must possess a validly issued and current alcoholic beverage licenses for on premises consumption in good standing with the City of Social Circle and the State of Georgia.
b.
Any establishment licensed to sell alcoholic beverages by the drink for consumption on the premises is authorized to dispense alcoholic beverages in a clear plastic cup bearing a special city sticker allowing the consumption of the alcohol outside of the premises ("specialty stickers"). Dispensing beer and/or wine in a can, bottle, or glass container for consumption outside in the designated area(s) is prohibited.
c.
Specialty stickers shall be available for purchase from the city at city hall during regular business hours only by licensed downtown business that qualify for to sell in the Downtown Entertainment District. Special stickers are not transferrable and shall not be distributed or sold by the licensed establishments except in compliance with this section. Violation of this provision is grounds for revocation of the alcohol license of the establishment.
d.
At the time of sale of an alcoholic beverage eligible for the benefits of this provision, the licensed establishment shall affix a specialty sticker to an approved cup and fill the establishment's name where the drink was purchased, the server initials, and the date of purchase.
e.
Alcoholic beverages served under this exception must be serve in a "specialty cup." a specialty cup shall be clear, plastic variety not exceeding a 16-ounce size which is disposable and shall be disposed of after one serving.
f.
Specialty cups can only be sold by participating licensed establishments between the hours of 5:30 p.m. and the establishment's close of business day. No alcoholic beverages shall be sold and/or consumed outside and within the Downtown Entertainment District except within the authorized hours of sale of the licensed establishment.
g.
No alcohol purchased outside of the Downtown Entertainment District is allowed to be consumed under this ordinance. Drinks must be purchased from the participating establishments that are permitted to serve alcohol by the drink in the Downtown Entertainment District.
h.
Consumption of alcohol by the drink in the Downtown Entertainment District is not allowed inside a truck, car or on a motorcycle, scooter, golf cart or any other type of motorized vehicle.
i.
Establishments within the Downtown Entertainment District are not required to allow specialty cups on their premises and may ban patrons from entering their establishment by posting a sign indicating their wishes. The exceptions of this section shall not apply inside any premises that are clearly marked that the owner is not participating.
j.
Nothing in this section shall relieve applicants from complying with all other provisions of this chapter and state law.
(Ord. No. 2019-3, § 1, 5-21-2019)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2019-3, § 1, adopted May 21, 2019, did not specify manner of inclusion; hence, inclusion as section 10-1 is at the discretion of the editor.
Secs. 10-2—10-25. - Reserved.
