ARTICLE II. - REGULATIONS FOR THE SALE, TAX AND CONTROL OF MALT BEVERAGES AND WINE

Sec. 10-26. - Purpose.
The purpose of this section is to establish and promulgate certain standards and regulations in regard to the sale, tax and control of malt beverages and wine in the city.
(Former § 10-001(1.))
Sec. 10-27. - Definitions.
Alcohol means the product of distillation of any liquid, whether rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and shall include synthetic ethyl alcohol.
Church means a building used primarily for public religious worship on a regular basis.
License means the authorization by the council for a person to engage in retail sales of malt beverages and wine by the package, not for consumption on the premises of the licensee.
Licensee means any person, firm or corporation engaged in selling malt beverages and/or wine in unbroken packages at retail, not for consumption on the premises of the licensee.
Malt beverage means any beer, ale or like beverage.
Minor means the age established by O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23 or by other state laws regulating the sale of alcoholic beverages.
Permit means the authorization by the council for a wholesaler or wholesale distributor to engage in the wholesale sales of malt beverages and/or wine to retail licensees.
Person means any individual, partnership, corporation or association.
Retailer or retail distributor means any person or entity selling, at retail, malt beverages and/or wine.
School means a building, publicly or privately owned, used for teaching or giving instruction in any subject to pupils.
Wholesalers or wholesale distributor means any person, firm or corporation engaged in distribution or selling to retailers for the purpose of resale of malt beverages and/or wine.
Wine means the fermented juice of any fruit or plant having an alcoholic strength of no more than 21 percent alcohol by volume.
(Former § 10-001(2.))
Sec. 10-28. - Eligibility requirements for malt beverage and wine license.
(a)
Minimum age and residency of applicants. No malt beverage and wine license shall be granted to any person unless such person is at least 25 years of age and has been a resident of the State of Georgia, for a minimum of one year prior to filing an application for such license. In the event a corporation should be an applicant and said corporation has not been incorporated and/or allowed to do business by the secretary of state in Georgia for said one-year period, then the incorporator of said corporation and the owners of at least 80 percent of the stock of said corporation shall all have been residents of Georgia for at least one year prior to filing an application for such license.
(b)
City employees not eligible for licenses; exception. No employee of the city, nor its mayor or members of its council, shall be eligible to receive a retail malt beverage and wine license; provided, however, that any non-profit corporation whose earnings are purely civic and for community purposes may be organized or owned by or operated by the mayor, members of council, and by employees of the city as the case may be.
(c)
Required distances from schools, etc. No retail malt beverage and wine license shall be granted to any person unless the entire business premises of the proposed location is situated beyond 100 yards from the property line of any school grounds or college campus, the same to be measured by way of the nearest traveled road, street or highway, as provided by law. The council may require each application for a retail malt beverage and wine license to include a scale drawing of the location of the proposed premises showing the distance to the nearest school, and a certificate of a registered surveyor that such location complies with this section.
(d)
Licenses required for each location. A separate retail malt beverage and wine license is required for each place of business.
(e)
Building to be completed prior to issuance of license. No retail malt beverage and wine license shall be issued to any person unless the building in which the business will located is completed and detailed plans of said building and outside premises are attached to the application, or unless proposed plans and specifications and a building permit of a proposed building to be built are attached to the application. The completed building or the proposed building shall comply with all requirements of this Code governing building construction, permitting and code enforcement, and the regulations of the state revenue commissioner and the laws of the state. The proposed building shall also be subject to final inspection and approval, when completed, by the building inspector, in accordance with this Code. Each applicant for a retail malt beverage and wine license shall attach to his application evidence of ownership of the building or proposed building or a copy of the lease, if the applicant is leasing the building.
(f)
Licenses not to be issued to felons; others. No applicant for a license who has a conviction or has pled nolo contendere to a felony or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude shall be granted a license.
(g)
Minimum percentage of non-beer and non-wine product sales required. No license shall be issued under this section to any public or private business or person unless such business or person derives at least 75 percent of its total annual gross sales income from the sale of products other than beer or wine.
(h)
Minimum amount of non-beer and non-wine product sales required. No license shall be issued under this section to any public or private business or person unless such business or person has total annual gross sales income from the sale of products other than beer or wine in an amount exceeding $100,000.00 per calendar year.
(i)
Council to consider other factors if necessary. The city manager, or his or her designee, in his or her discretion, may consider any and all relevant circumstances which may reflect favorably or unfavorably on the applicant, application or proposed location of the business. If in his or her sole judgment, circumstances are such that the granting, suspension or revocation of the license would or would not be in the best interest of the general public, such circumstances may be grounds for the decision of the city.
(Former § 10-001(3.); Ord. No. 2021-13, § 1, 12-2-2021)
Sec. 10-29. - License application and submission requirements.
(a)
Expiration of licenses; re-application. A retail malt beverage and wine license shall be valid only for the calendar year indicated thereon and such license may be renewed. A licensee who desires to continue in business during the next or subsequent calendar year must renew their application for such year on or before December 1 of the preceding year.
(b)
State requirements to be met. In addition to the completion and submission of the application form as required by the city, each applicant shall attach thereto a completed form with all attachments and requirements for a state license.
(c)
Performance bond to be posted. Before any malt beverage and wine license is granted, the applicant must post with the city, along with his application, a performance bond with an insurance company as surety. Said bond is to be conditioned requiring the faithful observance and performance by the licensee of the rules and regulations contained in this section. Upon violation of any section herein, the amount of the bond to be forfeited will be determined by the seriousness of the violations as determined by the council. Said bond is to be approved by the city and shall be properly executed. Said bond shall be in the amount of $2,500.00 for a wholesale license and $500.00 for a retail license.
(Former § 10-001(4.); Ord. No. 2021-13, § 1, 12-2-2021)
Sec. 10-30. - License fees and taxes on sales of malt beverage and wine.
(a)
License fees to be paid before processing application. The annual fee for a retail malt beverage and wine license shall be determined by the mayor and council and shall be paid prior to the issuance of any license, said fee to accompany the application and be either in the form of cash or a bank certified check. A fee schedule shall be available at the offices the city clerk and open for public inspection. All licenses shall expire on December 31 of the year granted. No license fee shall be prorated.
(b)
Excise taxes on malt beverage and wine sales levied. In addition to the annual malt beverage and wine liquor license fee required, there is hereby levied an excise tax computed as follows:
(1)
Wine sales. Wine shall be taxed at $0.22 a liter and a proportionate tax at like rates on all fractional parts of a liter.
(2)
Beer sales.
a.
Malt beverages, commonly known as tap or draft beer, sold in or from a barrel or bulk container, shall be at a rate of $6.00 on each container sold, containing not more than 15.5 gallons, and
b.
Where malt beverages are sold in bottles, cans or other containers, except barrel or bulk containers, a tax of $0.05 per 12 ounces and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of 12 ounces.
Each wholesale distributor shall furnish to the council a summary of all purchase invoices for malt beverages and wine sold to each retailer in the city on or before the tenth day of each month following such purchase. Said invoices shall show the amount of excise tax paid.
(Former § 10-001(5.); Ord. No. 2021-13, § 2, 12-2-2021)
Sec. 10-31. - Distribution permits for wholesalers.
(a)
Permit requirements. Any wholesale distributor in malt beverages and wine licensed by the state or the agent of such licensed wholesale distributor, may be granted a permit to distribute such malt beverages and wine in the city, upon application of such permit to the clerk, and upon presentation of evidence satisfactory to the council that the applicant understands and will fully comply with all terms and conditions of this section governing the sale of malt beverages and wine, including but not limited to those under which retail licenses are issued.
(b)
Permit fees and performance bonds required. Any wholesale distributor as described in subsection (a) above shall pay an annual fee of $500.00 prior to receiving a permit to distribute malt beverages and wine in the city. All wholesale distributors doing business in the city shall also be required to provide with the aforesaid application, a performance bond in the amount of $2,500.00 in cash or with security satisfactory and payable to the city.
(Former § 10-001(6.))
Sec. 10-32. - Operating requirements of retail licensees.
(a)
Telephone. A retail licensee shall maintain on the licensed premises at all times a telephone in good working order.
(b)
Beverages to be covered or locked away on Sundays. On all Sundays, except 12:30 p.m. to 11:00 p.m., all licensees shall fully cover with opaque material or put under lock and key all malt beverages and/or wine on the premises of the licensee.
(c)
Malt beverages to be transported to licensee in certain packages. All malt beverages transported or delivered to a retail licensee in the city shall be packaged in the following manner, to-wit: seven-, eight- or 12-ounce sealed containers packaged four, six or 12 per package; 16-ounce sealed containers packaged six per package; 24-ounce sealed containers packaged only by the full case; 32-ounce sealed containers packaged only by the case; and draft beer in sealed containers which contain one-half barrel, one-fourth barrel or any other size as draft beer is normally sold, transported and delivered in sealed containers within the state.
(d)
Wine to be transported to licensee in certain packages. All wine transported or delivered to a retail licensee in the city shall be packaged in containers specified in the Standards of Fill for Wine prescribed by the Department of the Treasury of the United States for wines shipped in interstate commerce. The federal regulations relating to Standards of Fill for Wine adopted and incorporated by reference in this subsection. Wine manufactured and produced in Georgia shall be exempt from the provisions of this subsection to the extent that they are exempted from the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 3-6-28.
(Former § 10-001(7.))
Sec. 10-33. - Sales and delivery of malt beverages and wine.
modified
(a)
General. No retailer shall sell or deliver malt beverages and/or wine except in said retailer's place of business.
(b)
Times allowed for malt beverage and wine sales. No retailer shall furnish, sell or offer for sale malt beverages or wine:
(1)
At any times except between 12:01 a.m. Mondays through and including 11:59 p.m. on Saturdays and on Sundays, from 12:30 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.; and
(2)
At any time in violation of state law, state rules or regulations, local ordinances or regulations of the council, or on Christmas.
(c)
Sales to certain persons prohibited. No person shall knowingly, directly or through another person offer for sale, sell, barter, exchange, give, provide or furnish malt beverages or wine to any person confined in any jail, penal institution, correctional facility, prison camp, penitentiary or other lawful place of confinement, or to any person who is a patient or inmate of the Central State Hospital, or to any person who is under the age of 21, or is noticeably intoxicated, or who is of unsound mind, or is a habitual drunkard whose intemperate habits are known to said license holder or employee. In addition, no person shall knowingly, directly or through another person offer for sale, sell, barter, exchange, give, provide or furnish malt beverages or wine to any individual unless said individual produces one or more pieces of picture identification which reasonably shows the individual customer to be the same person as in the subject picture and that the prospective buyer does not suffer from any of the aforesaid disqualifying conditions and/or statuses listed hereinbefore including, but not limited to, being under the age of 21.
(d)
Licensee required to post sign. The holder of a license to sell malt beverages and wine shall post in a conspicuous place in his establishment a sign in letters at least four inches high reading as follows: SALE OF MALT BEVERAGES AND WINE TO PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS STRICTLY PROHIBITED.
(e)
Licensed retailers cannot operate as wholesalers. No licensed retailer shall keep any malt beverages or wine stored in any bonded or other type warehouse in the city, nor shall he enter into any type of arrangement whereby malt beverages or wine ordered by him by any licensed wholesaler. A retailer shall keep no inventory or stock of malt beverages and wine at any place except his licensed place of business, and within his licensed place of business.
(f)
Licensee to retain regulations on premises; instruct employees about regulations. All holders of a license for the sale of malt beverages and wine shall keep a copy of this section pertaining to malt beverage and wine regulations, in his premises and shall instruct any person working there with respect to terms hereof and each licensee or his agents selling malt beverages and wine shall at all times be familiar with the terms hereof. The licensee shall be held responsible for any acts of his employees in any violations of this section or the laws of the state or the rules and regulations of the Georgia Revenue Commissioner.
(g)
Licensee to keep premises open to inspection. The business premises of the holder of a retail malt beverages and wine license shall be open to inspection at any times by officials authorized to conduct such inspections.
(h)
License shall be revoked for false information. The making of any statement on an application for license to sell malt beverages and wine later found to be false shall constitute grounds for revocation of said license.
(i)
Age requirements of licensee's employees. No person under 18 years of age shall be employed in any capacity in any place of business licensed under this section. However, nothing contained herein shall prohibit persons under 18 years of age who are employed in supermarkets, convenience stores, breweries and drug stores from selling or handling malt beverages and wine which are sold for consumption off the premises.
(j)
Games of chance prohibited on premises of licensee.
(1)
Except for officially licensed sales and redemptions of Georgia Lottery tickets as contemplated in O.C.G.A. tit. 50, ch. 27; and except for coin operated slot machines, pin-ball machines, video games, arcade games and similar devices defined in O.C.G.A. § 50-27-70(b)(2)(A) which (i) depend on the skill of the player, (ii) do not pay out cash, (iii) which are expressly defined as bona fide coin operated amusement machines by state law (Collectively "COAM's") and (iv) which are expressly regulated as COAM's by O.C.G.A. § 50-27-70 through 50-27-104 and (v) for which each COAM a current Georgia "location" license and permit has been (a) procured and paid for, and (b) is in good standing, there shall be no gambling, betting, games of chance, punch boards, vending machines, slot machines, pinball machines, lotteries or tickets of chances therein or the operation of any schemes for hazarding money or any other thing of value in any licensed retailer's place of business or any room adjoining the same, owned, leased, or controlled by licensee.
(2)
The General Assembly has found that the ability to operate a COAM business in this state constitutes a privilege and not a right. Nothing in this section shall be construed or have the effect to license, permit, authorize, or legalize any machine, device, table, or amusement machine the keeping, exhibition, operation, display, or maintenance of which is in violation of the laws or Constitution of this state. If a term is not defined below, the state law definition shall apply.
The city manager or designee ("city manager") shall provide for the proper administration of this section and act on behalf of the city for such purpose. The city manager may initiate investigations, hearings, and take other necessary measures to ensure compliance herewith or to determine whether violations exist. If the city manager finds evidence of any criminal violations, he/she shall notify the appropriate prosecuting attorney in the county in which such violation occurred. The city manager is authorized to provide for enforcement of this section and may delegate to an authorized representative any authority given to the city manager, including conduct of investigations, imposing of fees and fines, and holding of hearings.
As expressly authorized by state law, O.C.G.A. § 50-27-86, additional Requirements for COAM's, whether located on the premises of an Alcohol Licensee or not, follow:
(1)
No more than six Class B machines that reward the player exclusively with noncash merchandise, prizes, toys, gift certificates, or novelties may be at the same business location. The city may, after no less than 60 days' notice to all master licensees and location owners and location operators, and consistent with O.C.G.A. § 50-27-103, vote to remove Class B machines from the city.
Class B machine means a COAM that allows a successful player to accrue points on the machine and carry over points won on one play to a subsequent play or plays per O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(d)(2) and: (a) Rewards a successful player in compliance with O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(d)(1,2); and (b) Does not reward a successful player with any item prohibited as a reward in O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(i) or any reward redeemable as an item prohibited as a reward in O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(i). Further class B requirements follow:
No COAM, its parts, or software or hardware shall be placed or leased in any location owner's/operator's establishment except by a master licensee and only if the owner or agent of the location owner/operator has entered into a written agreement with a master licensee for placement of the COAM. No person with or applying for a location owner's/operator's license shall have an interest in any person or immediate family member of a person with a master license, or doing business as a distributor, or manufacturer in this state. A location owner/operator may sell a COAM to anyone except another location owner or location operator. Violation may result in a state fine up to $50,000.00 and loss of license for one to five years per incident and subject the location owner/operator to loss of any other licenses held.
Any written agreement entered after April 10, 2013, shall be exclusively between one COAM master licensee and one location owner/operator per location. No person shall receive any proceeds or revenue from operation of a COAM except the location owner/operator. No commission or fee shall be awarded for facilitation of a contract/agreement between a master licensee and a location owner/operator; provided, however, an employee of a master licensee may receive compensation, including a commission, for such agreements/contracts. A master licensee shall not pay commission or provide anything of value to an employee, independent contractor, or immediate family member of a location owner/operator;
(2)
The owner/operator of a business location which offers to the public any COAM that rewards the player exclusively as described in O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(d) must inform all employees of the prohibitions and penalties in O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(e)—(g);
(3)
The owner/possessor of any COAM that rewards the player exclusively as described in O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(d) shall inform each location owner/operator where such COAM is located of the prohibitions and penalties in O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(e)—(g);
(4)
A license to manufacture, distribute, or sell alcoholic beverages or any other license granted by the city shall be suspended or revoked as a penalty for conviction of the location owner/operator of a violation of O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(e)—(g). Due process shall be provided for refusal, suspension, or revocation of a license for manufacture, distribution, or sale of alcoholic beverages set out in O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2(b), including 30 days' written notice of the date and location of hearing and names of witnesses, notice of right to legal counsel, right to call and cross examine witnesses, and right to a public evidentiary hearing. The written notice may be served personally or by U.S. certified mail or statutory overnight delivery addressed to licensee at last known address. If notice cannot be effected by these methods after due diligence, the city may use any reasonable method of notice calculated to inform a person of average intelligence and prudence of the action, including publishing in a newspaper of general circulation in the area in which licensee conducts its business activities. The notice shall state with particularity the basis upon which the city is taking proposed actions;
(5)
Penalties for violation include fines up to $1,000.00 per violation and/or suspension or revocation of a license as provided in paragraph (4) of this subsection, or both. Written notice shall be as follows: Delivery may be by:
a.
Personal service on an individual licensee;
b.
Personal service on any officer, director, partner, trustee, or receiver, as the case may be;
c.
Personal service on the person in charge of the business premises, temporarily or otherwise, of licensee;
d.
U.S. certified mail or statutory overnight delivery addressed to the business premises of licensee; or
e.
Posting notice on the outside door of the business premises of licensee.
Appeal by an affected person shall be to the superior court by petition for certiorari. The review shall be confined to the record. The court shall not substitute its judgment for that of the city as to the weight of the evidence on questions of fact committed to the discretion of the city. The court may affirm the decision in whole or in part; or reverse or remand the case for further proceedings if substantial rights of the appellant have been prejudiced because the city's findings, inferences, conclusions, or decisions are: (a) in violation of constitutional or statutory provisions; (b) in excess of the statutory authority of the city; (c) made upon unlawful procedures; (d) affected by other error of law; (e) not reasonably supported by substantial evidence in view of the reliable and probative evidence in the record as a whole; or (f) arbitrary or capricious or characterized by abuse of discretion or clearly unwarranted exercise of discretion. Appeal from any final judgment of the superior court may be taken in the manner provided for in civil actions generally;
(6)
No location owner/operator shall derive more than 50 percent of monthly gross retail receipts for the business location in which Class B machine(s) is/are situated from Class B machines; however, revenues due to a master licensee or the corporation or noncash redemption earned by the player shall not be deemed revenue from Class B machines. Any location owner/operator subject to O.C.G.A. § 50-27-84(b)(1) must provide to the city a copy of each verified monthly report prepared per such Code.
Said monthly verified report shall set out separately by each location in Georgia: gross receipts from Class B machines; gross retail receipts for the business location; and net receipts of Class B machines. No location owner/operator shall offer more than nine Class B machines to the public for play in the same business location; provided, however, this limitation shall not apply to an amusement or recreational establishment. The city may in its discretion perform an annual audit of reports from the location owner/operator. Any penalties authorized by O.C.G.A. § 50-27-84(d) may be imposed for any violation hereof.
(7)
The location owner/operator which offers COAM's shall post prominently the following:
GEORGIA LAW PROHIBITS PAYMENT OR RECEIPT OF MONEY FOR WINNING A GAME OR GAMES ON THIS AMUSEMENT MACHINE; PAYMENT OR RECEIPT OF MONEY FOR FREE REPLAYS WON ON THIS AMUSEMENT MACHINE; PAYMENT OR RECEIPT OF MONEY FOR ANY MERCHANDISE, PRIZE, TOY, GIFT CERTIFICATE, OR NOVELTY WON ON THIS AMUSEMENT MACHINE; OR AWARDING ANY MERCHANDISE, PRIZE, TOY, GIFT CERTIFICATE, OR NOVELTY OF A VALUE EXCEEDING $5.00 FOR A SINGLE PLAY OF THIS MACHINE.
(8)
As a condition for doing business in the city, the location owner/operator must disclose in writing the name and address of the owner of the COAM's;
(9)
All COAM's shall be placed and kept in plain view and accessible to any person at the business;
(10)
Any business that offers COAM's must post its business license or occupation tax certificate. A copy of an owner's master license and the location owner's/operator's location license shall be prominently displayed at all locations where the owner and location owner/operator have COAM's available to evidence the payment of the fees levied under state law;
(11)
It is a state law violation for a location owner/operator asking, demanding, or accepting anything of value, including but not limited to a loan or financing arrangement, gift, procurement fee, lease payments, revenue sharing, or payment of license fees or permit fees from a manufacturer, distributor, or master licensee, as an incentive, inducement, or any other consideration to locate a COAM in that establishment. A location owner/operator that violates this subsection may have all of the location owner/operator 's state business licenses revoked for one to five years per incident and be fined up to $50,000.00 per incident and required to repay any incentive fees or other payments received.
(k)
Licenses to be kept on premises at all times. Licenses under this section of shall be displayed prominently at all times on the premises for which same was issued.
(l)
Local, state and federal regulations all apply to licensee. No person shall engage in the sale of malt beverages and wine in the city, without first complying with all the rules and regulations set out in this section. Any person violating the rules and regulations set out in this section shall be subject to revocation of his license and punishment as prescribed by the mayor and council. Each licensee doing business in the city under this section shall comply with all state laws, federal laws, and rules and regulations of the state revenue commissioner relating to the sale or distribution of malt beverages and wine in Georgia, and any violation of same shall subject the licensee to immediate suspension or revocation of his retail malt beverage and wine license and also shall subject said licensee to criminal prosecution as provided by law.
(m)
Process for making decisions on permits. The granting or refusal and the suspension or revocation of retail and wholesale and pouring permits and licenses under this section shall be in accordance with the following guidelines of due process:
(1)
The provisions of this section as same may be amended shall constitute ascertainable standards upon which all decisions pertaining to these permits or licenses shall be based;
(2)
All decisions approving, denying, suspending or revoking such permits or licenses shall be in writing with the reasons therefor stated, and mailed or delivered to the applicant; and
(3)
Upon timely application, any applicant aggrieved by the decision of the mayor and council regarding a permit or license shall be afforded a hearing with an opportunity to present evidence and cross-examine opposing witnesses.
(n)
Licenses not transferable. No retail malt beverage and wine license shall be transferable or assignable to any person or other location. In the event that a licensed business is sold or closed, it shall be the duty of the new owner or occupant to apply for a license which may or may not be granted.
(o)
Exceptions on prohibition of sales. The prohibition in this section to individuals under the age of 21 shall not apply with respect to malt beverages, wine and/or any other alcoholic beverage for consumption in the following instances:
(1)
For medical purposes per a prescription of a physician duly authorized to practice medicine in Georgia;
(2)
At a religious ceremony; or
(3)
In the individual's home with parental consent.
(Former § 10-001(8.); Ord. No. 2022-15, § 3, 12-20-2022)
Sec. 10-34. - Violations and penalties.
Any violation of this section shall subject the offender to a fine of not more than $1,000.00 for each violation in addition to such violation being a cause for revocation or suspension of the license of the offending licensee by the mayor and council and criminal prosecution as well as forfeiture of all stock of malt beverages and wine. A license holder who sells or does not prevent the sale at his establishment of beer or wine to an ineligible individual under this section (including but not limited to a person under the age of 21 and/or sells during hours and/or days on which sales of beer or wine are prohibited under this section who is found guilty after the aforesaid hearing under this section hereof shall generally receive a minimum of a 30-day suspension of his license and a fine of $500.00. A second offense of a similar nature which results in a finding of a guilty within five years of the first offense conviction shall generally result in a minimum of the revocation of the license for the balance of the year and a fine of $1,000.00. All of the punishments listed herein are those an individual who is found guilty of said offenses can expect to receive as a minimum although the mayor and council will make the final decision in each case and has the right to impose sentences and fines different from those previously specified. In addition to and without limiting the foregoing, the city shall be authorized to make appropriate application to subject the offender to criminal penalties provided for under any law of Georgia which may have been violated by the offender's conduct in violation of this section.
(Former § 10-001(9.))
Secs. 10-35—10-50. - Reserved.
