DIVISION 3. - ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS

Sec. 6-61. - Business hours of outlets.
Retail dealers and licensees for malt beverages, wine, or distilled spirits shall not engage in the sale of same except between the hours beginning 7:00 a.m. through 1:00 a.m. on Monday through Friday, and 7:00 a.m. until 12:00 a.m. midnight on Saturday, provided however, there shall be no sales permitted on Sundays, or Christmas Day, or any other day on which they are required to be closed by the laws of the State of Georgia.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-61; Ord. No. 2005-06, 4-11-2005)
Sec. 6-62. - Annual license fees.
(a)
The annual license fee for the privilege of engaging in the business of selling malt beverages at wholesale within the area of the city shall be $100.00.
(b)
The annual license fee for the privilege of engaging in the business of selling wine at wholesale within the area of the city shall be $100.00.
(c)
The annual license fee for the privilege of engaging in the business of selling distilled spirits at wholesale within the area of the city shall be $100.00.
(d)
The annual license fee for the privilege of engaging in the business of selling malt beverages and/or wine at retail within the area of the city shall be $500.00.
(e)
No license shall be issued for less than the calendar year as herein provided, and in case of revocation or surrender of any license before the expiration of such calendar year, the holder thereof shall not be entitled to receive any refund whatsoever.
(f)
The aforesaid license fees herein set shall not be pro-rated for any portion of a year and shall remain the full amount when said calendar year expires with regard to the time the application is made.
(g)
The mayor and council of the city shall have the authority to set the annual license fees contained in this section by resolution.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-62; Ord. No. 2005-06, 4-11-2005)
Sec. 6-63. - Visibility and lighting of outlets.
No license shall be granted to a retailer under any provision or section of this chapter unless the front entrance to the outlet is clearly visible from a public street, road or highway, and the front of said outlet shall have a minimum window at least three feet by four feet, and no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or things which shall prevent a clear view into the interior of the outlet shall be permitted in the window or upon the doors of any retail outlet. Each retail outlet shall be so lighted that the interior of the store or premises is visible day or night and all parking areas adjacent to or used in connection with said business shall be fully lighted and unobstructed.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-63)
Sec. 6-64. - No consumption on premises.
The retail license authorized hereunder are for retail sales in package only and there shall be no consumption on the premises of any outlet of any malt beverages or wine, except those outlets provided for in section 6-62(d).
(1986 Code, § 9-3-64)
Sec. 6-65. - Intoxicated persons.
No malt beverage nor wine shall be sold to any intoxicated person, nor shall any intoxicated person be allowed to remain upon the premises of any outlet.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-65)
Sec. 6-66. - Sale to and/or possession by minors.
No malt beverages nor wine shall be sold to a minor under any conditions whatsoever. A minor for the purposes of this chapter shall be considered to be any person under 21 years of age. Unless the officer has reasonable cause to believe such person is intoxicated, a law enforcement officer may arrest a person under 21 years of age who purchases or knowingly possesses alcoholic beverages by issuing a citation which shall enumerate the specific charges against the person and either the date upon which the person is to appear to answer the charges or notation that the person will be later notified of the date upon which the person is to appear and answer the charges. The law enforcement officer arresting a person by the issuance of a citation may require such person to deposit a driver's license with the arresting officer to assure the appearance of such person to answer the charges against him. (reference, section 5A-9901.1, (d) and (c) of State Alcoholic Beverage Code).
(1986 Code, § 9-3-66)
Sec. 6-67. - Employees, drinking on premises.
No employees of any outlet shall work in said outlet while intoxicated and no employee shall drink any malt beverages, wine, or alcoholic beverages whatsoever while working and employed in any outlet.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-67)
Sec. 6-68. - Minors on premises of retail store selling malt beverages or wine.
Minors shall not be allowed to congregate or loiter on the premises of any retail store outlet selling malt beverages or wine.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-68)
Sec. 6-69. - Advertising, commission approval required.
The commission shall have authority to establish uniform rules and regulations regarding advertising. All advertising must be approved by the commission prior to use. No other signs which will be visible from the exterior of the building shall be permitted.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-69)
Sec. 6-70. - Licenses, posting.
All licenses required under this chapter must be posted in a conspicuous place within the outlet, and if said license is not so posted the outlet shall not be authorized to continue in business until the same shall be so posted.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-70)
Sec. 6-71. - Posting of ordinance.
At all times the retail licensee under this chapter must post within the place of business a copy of this ordinance in a conspicuous place within the outlet.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-71)
Sec. 6-72. - Compliance with rules and regulations of health authorities.
All retail licensee's under this chapter are hereby required to comply with all rules and regulations and requirements of the county board of health, state board of health and any and all other state, federal and local authorized public health authorities.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-72)
Sec. 6-73. - Retail licenses, categories.
Retail licenses under this article shall be of three categories as follows:
(1)
Retail store licenses. A retail store license as defined herein shall be one issued to a business whose primary function is the sale of food, medicines and related merchandise and the sale of malt/wine beverages at retail is incidental to the operation thereof. All malt/wine beverages must be located within the interior of any such outlet, shall be sacked in containers at the check-out counter of such outlet at time of sale, and no such beverages shall be opened or consumed, either inside or outside the premises.
(2)
Private clubs which are affiliated with a nationally chartered organization, either service, athletic or charitable, with a minimum of 200 members, occupying no less than 5,000 square feet, and provided further that the sale of malt beverage or wine shall not be the major part of said business, but only incidental with it's operation.
(3)
Other retail commercial buildings which meet the specifications and rules of the commission.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-73)
Sec. 6-74. - License fees, time to pay.
All license fees required under this chapter shall be paid prior to the issuance of any license.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-74)
Sec. 6-75. - Wines authorized under this chapter.
For the purpose of this chapter wine which is authorized hereunder is that wine which is authorized to be legally sold and distributed in counties which have not authorized the legal sale of distilled spirits and spirituous liquors as defined by the laws of the state.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-75)
Sec. 6-76. - Possession for the purpose of sale or resale.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell or possess for the purpose of sale or resale of any malt/wine beverages where such does not have a license from the city to sell or possess for sale or resale such beverages. It shall be presumed, as a matter of law, that any person having located on his premises more than 1,440 fluid ounces of malt beverage or five gallons of wine shall have the same in his possession for the purpose of resale.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-76)
Sec. 6-77. - Receipt of any delivery to retail licensee.
Malt beverages and/or wine shall be received at or delivered to the premises of the retail licensee by no other means than by a conveyance owned and operated by a wholesale dealer with a permit from the city to make deliveries in said transportation of malt/wine beverages by any other means shall be grounds for a revocation of a wholesale permit or license. Receipt of malt/wine beverages by any other means by a retail licensee shall be grounds for revocation of a retail license.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-77)
Sec. 6-78. - Licenses, nontransferable.
No licenses granted under this chapter shall be transferable from one person to another, nor shall the same be transferable from one outlet (location) to another.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-78)
Sec. 6-79. - Manager of outlet; requirement for registration of manager.
If the person to whom any license under this chapter is issued does not personally manage the outlet, the name of the manager of the outlet must always be registered with the commission, and the manager of the outlet must meet all the requirements of a person to whom a license could be granted hereunder. If such licensed outlet is not managed directly by the holder of the license, or there is no manager registered as provided thereunder who meets all the requirements hereunder, then said license may be suspended or revoked. If such a manager is changed, the holder of the license must notify the city clerk no later than ten days from the date of the change of such manager and all information required hereunder with regard to managers shall also be furnished to said clerk at said time.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-79; Ord. No. 2011-23, 1-9-2012)
Secs. 6-80—6-90. - Reserved.
