DIVISION 4. - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE COMMISSION

Sec. 6-91. - Establishment of malt beverage and wine commission.
The council shall appoint a five-member "malt and wine beverage control commission," independent of the commission, each member of which shall serve until replaced by a majority vote of the council. The council, by majority vote, shall designate one of the five members of the malt and wine beverage control commission as the "presiding officer." The presiding officer shall moderate all meetings of the malt and wine beverage control commission during his term of office, but shall have no executive functions or powers greater than the other members of the malt and wine beverage control commission. The presiding officer may be removed at any time by majority vote of the city council. A quorum of three members of the commission shall be necessary for the transaction of any business.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-91; Ord. No. 95-03, § 1.5, 3-27-1995)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 95-03, § 1.5, adopted March 27, 1995, changed the title of § 6-91 from "Established; composition" to "Establishment of malt beverage and wine commission."
Sec. 6-92. - Powers and duties.
The alcoholic beverage commission shall have all the powers, duties and responsibilities as are granted to them by the terms and provisions of this entire chapter including but not limited to all other provisions of state law as may be applicable to the sale of alcoholic beverages. It is the intent of this chapter that all of the duties, responsibilities, and decisions pertaining to the granting of licenses, revoking the same, suspending same, and the like, and all other matters pertaining to the control of alcoholic beverages as provided under this chapter shall be vested in said commission as herein provided.
The alcoholic beverage commission shall furnish a copy of the issuance of any license, license renewal, suspension, revocation, appeals, minutes of alcoholic beverage commission meetings and such other documents as the alcoholic beverage commission may designate to the mayor and council, city clerk, city manager, city attorney, chief of police and code of enforcement department. It shall be the responsibility of the city manager to ensure the timely distribution of all documents and information herein above set forth.
The city manager shall upon the filing of any appeal, suspension or revocation of an alcoholic beverage license or any decision concerning same, document the date and time of the filing thereof and shall furnish a copy of same instanter to the alcoholic beverage commission, city attorney, chief of police and code enforcement department.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-92; Ord. No. 2005-06, 4-11-2005; Ord. No. 2006-23, 11-27-2006)
Secs. 6-93—6-100. - Reserved.
