Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal Home Rule Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; general authority of municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-1 et seq.; home rule powers of municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 2-1—2-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CITY COUNCIL

Sec. 2-19. - General authority of council.
The legislative authority of the city is vested by the city's Charter and general law in the city council, and the council is authorized to exercise those powers by duly established ordinance.
State Law reference— Powers of municipal corporations generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-1 et seq.; home rule powers of municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-20. - Authority to organize and reorganize city administrative structure.
The mayor and council may by ordinance establish, abolish, merge, or consolidate offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city, provided that the same person shall fill a number of offices and positions of employment, and transfer or change the functions and duties of various offices, positions of employment, and department and agencies of the city.
State Law reference— Municipal authority to establish municipal offices, agencies, and employments, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(1); authority to define, regulate, and alter the powers, duties, qualifications, compensation, and tenure of municipal officers, agents, and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(2).
Sec. 2-21. - Regular meetings.
All regular meetings of the council shall be held at the council chamber on the second Tuesday in each month, at such hour as each council may determine for itself to be most convenient; the hour of such meeting may be changed from time to time as the convenience of the council may indicate.
(Code 1906, § 31, ¶ 1; Code 1971, § 2-1; Ord. of 10-5-1923)
State Law reference— Open meetings, notice of meetings and agenda required, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1; meetings of governing bodies of counties and municipalities to be open, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-1; requirement to prescribe the time, place and dates of regular meetings of city council, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d); excluded proceedings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-3.
Sec. 2-22. - Special or called meetings.
Special or called meetings may be had at any time, upon the call of the mayor or any two councilmembers, and after 48 hours' notice as required by the city Charter. Any business may be transacted at a special or called meeting which can be transacted at a regular meeting, provided all members of council are present and such action is unanimous, but if any member of council is absent, then only such business as was stated in the call can be transacted.
(Code 1906, § 31, ¶ 2; Code 1971, § 2-2)
State Law reference— Due notice requirement for other than regular meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d)(2).
Sec. 2-23. - Rules of procedure.
(a)
The mayor, or in his absence, the mayor pro tem, shall call the council to order at the hour appointed, for meeting. The mayor, or mayor pro tem, and three councilmen shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of all business.
(b)
The presiding officer may require any motion to be put in writing.
(c)
On all questions before the council, except on suspension of rules and the adoption of ordinances, a majority shall decide. To pass an ordinance, it must receive the votes of at least three councilmembers. In case of a tie vote, the mayor shall decide. Upon call for the ayes and nays by the councilmembers the votes shall be recorded.
(d)
A motion to adjourn shall always be in order.
(e)
Members of the council shall always address the chair, and the chair shall decide who is entitled to the floor.
(f)
The presiding officer shall decide all points of order, but an appeal may be had from his decision to the council.
(g)
Any member of the council may move a reconsideration of any action when the minutes are read at a succeeding meeting.
(h)
The council may at any time suspend any of its rules by a two-thirds vote.
(i)
All elections by the council shall be by ballot.
(j)
The following order of business shall be observed:
(1)
Roll call.
(2)
Agenda approval.
(3)
Review minutes of previous meeting.
(4)
Reports of officers.
(5)
Old business.
(6)
Resolutions, orders and ordinances.
(7)
Any other new business.
(8)
Reports from councilmembers.
(9)
Mayor's report
(10)
Adjournment.
(Code 1906, §§ 32—39, 44; Code 1971, § 2-3)
Sec. 2-24. - Standing committees.
(a)
The mayor shall appoint, as soon as practicable after his election, such standing committees as may be deemed necessary by the council. Such committees shall all consist of two members of the council. The mayor shall be ex officio a member of all committees.
(b)
The standing committees shall give diligent attention to the department of the city government on which they are respectively appointed and see that the ordinances relating thereto are carried into effect. They shall recommend such action on the part of council as may be required, and the passage of such ordinances as may be necessary. They shall make reports at such times as the council may direct, and when any special matter is referred to a committee, it shall be reported on at the next regular meeting of council, unless further time is granted.
(Code 1906, §§ 47, 50; Code 1971, §§ 2-4, 2-5)
Sec. 2-25. - Special committees.
The mayor shall also appoint from time to time such special committees as the council may deem necessary or advisable in the transaction of such business as may come before them.
(Code 1906, § 48; Code 1971, § 2-6)
Secs. 2-26—2-53. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Authority to provide for, regulate, etc., officers and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2; liability of municipality for acts of officers, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-3; personal liability of municipal officers, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-4.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-54. - Disciplinary action or removal from office for certain acts.
If any officer elected by the council or appointed by the mayor become intoxicated or is guilty of any immoral conduct, or is guilty of any gross neglect of his duties, or refuses or fails to perform the same satisfactorily, or is guilty of any abuse of the powers of his office, or official malpractice of any kind, he may be removed from office, fined or reprimanded, or all, in the discretion of the council. The mayor, in his discretion, may suspend any officer elected by the council and appoint someone in his place until the decision of the council can be rendered.
(Code 1906, § 86; Code 1971, § 2-30)
Secs. 2-55—2-81. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - SPECIFIC OFFICERS

Sec. 2-82. - City administrator.
(a)
Office established. The city council has created the office of city administrator. The city administrator shall be the administrative head of the city government under the direction and supervision of the city council.
(b)
Appointment; term of office. The mayor shall appoint the person to serve as city administrator, subject to confirmation by the city council. The term of such appointment shall continue indefinitely at the will of the city council.
(c)
Notice of special meetings. The city administrator shall be notified of all special meetings of the council in the same manner as provided for notice to councilmembers.
(d)
Absence or disability of city administrator. During the absence or disability of the city administrator, the city council shall designate a properly qualified person to perform the duties of the office.
(e)
Compensation and bond. The city administrator shall receive such compensation as the city council shall fix from time to time by ordinance and shall furnish such surety bond as may be required by the city council. If a bond is required, the premium therefor shall be paid by the city.
(f)
Powers and duties. The city administrator shall be the administrative officer of the city who shall serve under the direction and supervision of the city council and shall be responsible to the city council for the proper administration of the affairs of the city. In carrying out his responsibilities, the city administrator shall:
(1)
Devote all of his working time and attention to the affairs of the city and be responsible to the council for the efficient administration of the city's affairs;
(2)
See that all laws and ordinances are enforced;
(3)
Maintain this Code and all resolutions and ordinances of the city, keep the city seal, and preserve and keep in order all books, records, papers, documents and files of the city;
(4)
Receive, account for, and deposit all monies belonging to the city in a timely manner;
(5)
Review all statements submitted to the city for payment and prepare checks for payment in a timely manner;
(6)
Maintain the payroll records and personnel files for all employees;
(7)
Receive all bid proposals on contract work to be done in the city, the bids to be opened on instruction from the council;
(8)
With advice and consent of the city council, appoint and remove all heads of departments;
(9)
Appoint or remove all subordinate employees;
(10)
Exercise supervision and control over all department heads and departments created by the council or that may hereafter be created;
(11)
Attend all meetings of the council with the right to take part in the discussion but having no vote;
(12)
See that all terms and conditions imposed in favor of the city or its citizens in any public utility franchise are faithfully kept and performed and, upon knowledge of any violation thereof, call the same to the attention of the council;
(13)
Act as budget officer and as such prepare and submit to the council, prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, a budget of proposed expenditures for the ensuing year, showing in as much detail as practicable the estimated amounts required for the efficient operation of each department of the city and the reasons for such estimated expenditures;
(14)
File the city budget as required by state law;
(15)
Make a full written report to the council as soon as possible after the close of each month's accounts showing the operation and expenditures of each department for the preceding month, with the monthly allowances made for such departments in the annual budget, and keep the council fully advised at all times as to the financial condition and needs of the city;
(16)
Act as purchasing agent for the city and purchase all needed merchandise, material, and supplies;
(17)
Establish, if needed, a suitable storage facility where such supplies may be kept and from which same shall be issued as needed; and
(18)
Establish such rules and regulations governing requisitions and transaction of business between his position as such purchasing agent and the department heads, officers, and employees of the city as the council may approve.
(Ord. of 6-11-2019(1))
Sec. 2-83. - Clerk duties; required books.
The city clerk shall issue all licenses, orders, summonses, notices or other instruments of writing required of him by the council. He shall attend all meetings and sessions of the council and shall keep fair and correct minutes of the proceedings of the council in a book kept for that purpose, and properly index the same, and perform all other duties pertaining to the office of city clerk, or which he may be required to perform by the council. He shall keep, in addition to any others which may be required by ordinance, the following books:
(1)
The book of minutes, properly indexed, which book shall also contain all ordinances.
(2)
A license book, showing to whom and for what licenses are issued, and the amount paid for same, properly indexed.
(3)
The book comprising the official Code of Ordinances.
(4)
A police court docket, indexed.
(5)
A book of warrants, with stubs, for drawing audited accounts on the treasury.
(6)
A book for making tax returns or recording same.
(7)
A bond record book, in which to keep a correct record of city bonds and coupons.
(Code 1906, §§ 52, 53; Code 1971, §§ 2-18, 2-19; Ord. of 5-5-1916)
Sec. 2-84. - Public works director.
(a)
Annual appointment; removal; salary; duties generally. The city council annually appoints a public works director, who may be removed at any time by the council. His salary and duties shall be fixed by the council at the time of his election.
(b)
Control, supervision, reports and recommendations. The public works director shall be the general executive officer of the water, sewer and gas systems and garbage disposal service of the city and shall be subject to the rules and regulations made by the city council. He shall have general supervision over all employees and operations of such systems and services and shall report to the appropriate committee as they may direct, as to the workings and condition of the systems and services and shall make such recommendations and suggestions as to improvements and extensions or changes as he may think proper, subject to the approval of the committees.
(Code 1906, §§ 68, 69, 85; Code 1971, §§ 2-26—2-28)
Secs. 2-85—2-111. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - BOARD, COMMISSIONS, AUTHORITIES AND SIMILAR BODIES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-112—2-135. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CITY PLANNING COMMISSION

Sec. 2-136. - Created; purpose.
The city council has created and established a planning commission to guide and accomplish a coordinated and harmonious development of the city which will, in accordance with existing and future needs, best promote the public health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity, and the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development.
(Code 1971, § 16-1; Ord. of 6-4-1957)
Sec. 2-137. - Membership.
The planning commission shall consist of five members, who shall be residents of the city, appointed by the council of the city. The terms of the members shall be for four years, except that in the appointment of the first planning commission under the terms of this section, the first member shall be appointed for a term of one year, the second member shall be appointed for a term of two years, the third member shall be appointed for a term of three years, and the remaining members shall be appointed for terms of four years each. Any vacancy in membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by the city council, which shall also have the authority to remove any member for cause, on written charges, after a public hearing. All members shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their official duties.
(Code 1971, § 16-2; Ord. of 6-4-1957, § 1)
Sec. 2-138. - Organization; rules; staff; finances.
The planning commission shall elect its chairperson from among its members. The term of the chairperson shall be one year with eligibility for re-election. The planning commission shall appoint a secretary, who may be an officer or employee of the city. The planning commission shall make its own rules of procedure and determine its time of meeting. All meetings of the planning commission at which official action is taken shall be open to the public and all records of the planning commission shall be a public record. The planning commission may appoint such employees and staff as it may deem necessary for its work and may contract with the state planning commission and city planners and other consultants for such services as it may require. The expenditures of the planning commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for the purpose by the city council.
(Code 1971, § 16-3; Ord. of 6-4-1957, § 2)
Sec. 2-139. - Powers and duties.
The planning commission shall have all the powers, duties and responsibilities provided by the city's Charter and state law.
(Code 1971, § 16-4; Ord. of 6-4-1957, § 3)
Secs. 2-140—2-161. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - FINANCE[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Municipal finance generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.; adoption of budget articles and resolutions, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-162. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the city shall commence on January 1 and end on December 31 of each year.
State Law reference— Fiscal year required to be established by ordinance, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-3.
Sec. 2-163. - Identity theft prevention program.
For purposes of compliance with 16 CFR 681.1 et seq., the city has adopted an identity theft prevention (red flag) program, a copy of which is available in the office of the city clerk.
Sec. 2-164. - Warrants drawn on treasury; required signatures.
All city warrants drawn on city treasury to be valid, shall bear the signature of the city clerk and the counter signature of the mayor. In the absence of one of these officers a designated city councilman may countersign warrants, but in no event shall a warrant be valid without the signature of either the city clerk or mayor.
(Code 1971, § 9-1; Order of 1-9-1968)
