Chapter 13 - HEALTH AND PUBLIC WELFARE
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 13-1—13-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CLEAN INDOOR AIR

Sec. 13-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them below except where the text clearly indicates a different meaning:
Bar means any business with an on-premises alcohol license from the city.
Business means any corporation, sole proprietorship, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability corporation, limited liability partnership, professional corporation, enterprise, franchise, association, trust, joint venture, or other entity, whether for profit or nonprofit.
Child care facility means any institution, society, agency, or facility, whether incorporated or not, which either primarily or incidentally provides full-time care for children under 17 years of age outside of their own homes, subject to such exceptions as may be provided in rules and regulations of the state board of human resources, as defined by O.C.G.A. § 49-5-3.
Common area means only those outdoor areas of apartments, condominiums, townhomes, residential subdivisions, roominghouses, retirement facilities, nursing homes, personal care homes, and other multi-unit residential property that are either commonly used or owned by its residents and intended for the common enjoyment of its residents, or accessible to residents of more than one dwelling located on the property. Common areas include, but are not limited to, outdoor recreational areas within a development, and common open space that is the central organizing feature of a development.
E-cigarette means any electronic oral device, such as one composed of a heating element, battery, and/or electronic circuit, that creates a vapor of nicotine and simulates smoking. This term includes any such device, whether manufactured, distributed, marketed, or sold as an e-cigarette, e-cigar, e-pipe, or under any other product name or descriptive name.
Employee means an individual who is employed by a business in consideration for direct or indirect monetary wages or profit.
Employer means an individual or a business which employs one or more individuals.
Enclosed means all space between a floor and ceiling that is enclosed on all sides by solid walls or windows, exclusive of doorways, which extend from the floor to the ceiling.
Establishment means any business, store, office or other place where goods or services are sold or provided as part of a commercial venture. The term "establishment" includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(1)
Major retail establishments;
(2)
General merchandise stores;
(3)
Convenience stores;
(4)
Special events facilities;
(5)
Major and minor automobile repair and maintenance shops;
(6)
Service stations, stores or shops for the repair or maintenance of appliances, shoes, motor vehicles or other items or products;
(7)
Establishments offering personal services to the general public;
(8)
Hotels, motels and other places that provide lodging or board and lodging to the public; and
(9)
Restaurants.
Health care facility means an office or institution providing care or treatment of diseases, whether physical, mental, or emotional, or other medical, physiological, or psychological conditions, including, but not limited to, hospitals, rehabilitation hospitals or other clinics, including weight control clinics, homes for the chronically ill, laboratories, and offices of surgeons, chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians, dentists, and all specialists within these professions. This definition shall include all waiting rooms, hallways, private rooms, semiprivate rooms, and wards within health care facilities. This definition shall not include long-term care facilities as defined under O.C.G.A. § 31-8-81.
Outdoor recreational public place means any outdoor area of a place to which the public is invited or in which the public is permitted that is used, or intended for use, as a recreational area, regardless of any fee or age requirement. The term "outdoor recreational public place" includes, but is not limited to, parks, picnic areas, playgrounds, athletic or sports fields, golf courses, walking paths, gardens, hiking trails, bike paths, horseback riding trails, swimming pool facilities, aquatic areas, water parks, skateboard parks, amusement parks, stadiums, amphitheaters, beaches, lakes, and outdoor areas of roller- and ice-skating rinks, concert venues, sports pavilions, gymnasiums, health spas, boxing arenas, bingo facilities, video arcades, pool halls, bowling facilities, amusement centers, and theaters.
Place of employment means any enclosed area under the control of a public or private employer which employees frequent during the course of employment including, but not limited to, work areas, restrooms, hallways, employee lounges, cafeterias and snack bars, conference and meeting rooms, lobbies and reception areas. A private residence is not a place of employment unless it is used as a childcare facility, an adult day care facility, or a health care facility.
Public place means any enclosed area to which the public is invited or in which the public is permitted, including, but not limited to, restaurants, stores, waiting rooms, lobbies, reception areas, hallways, concession areas, public transit, restrooms, shopping malls, elevators, service lines, service stations, offices providing professional services, banks and other financial institutions, educational, recreational and health care facilities, childcare facilities, auditoriums, enclosed facilities in outdoor recreational public places, theaters, arenas, meeting rooms, repair shops, automobile dealerships, convention halls, and polling places. Porches, courtyards or decks with a contiguous connection to a restaurant shall not be considered a public place. A private residence is not a public place unless it is used as a childcare facility, an adult daycare facility or a health care facility.
Restaurant means any establishment or area where food and drink are prepared, served, and consumed primarily within the principal building or which may be ordered and picked up from a service window.
Retail tobacco store means a retail store utilized primarily for the sale of tobacco products and accessories and in which the sale of other products is merely incidental.
Service line means any indoor or outdoor line at which one or more persons are waiting for or receiving service of any kind, whether or not the service involves the exchange of money, including, but not limited to, ATM lines, concert lines, food vendor lines, movie ticket lines, and sporting event lines.
Smoking means inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated cigar, cigarette, e-cigarette, oral smoking device, or pipe, or any other lighted or heated tobacco intended for inhalation, in any manner or in any form.
(Ord. No. 2014-11-07, § 1(13-21), 12-16-2014)
Sec. 13-20. - Regulation of smoking.
Except as allowed in this article, smoking is prohibited in all public places, outdoor recreational public places, common areas, and places of employment within the city.
(Ord. No. 2014-11-07, § 1(13-22), 12-16-2014)
Sec. 13-21. - Prohibition of smoking applicable to city property.
Smoking shall be prohibited in all common areas, public places, places of employment, outdoor recreational public places and vehicles owned, leased or operated by the city.
(Ord. No. 2014-11-07, § 1(13-23), 12-16-2014)
Sec. 13-22. - Reasonable distance.
(a)
Smoking shall be prohibited within:
(1)
Twenty feet of any outside entrance, operable window, or ventilation system of a common area, public place, place of employment, or outdoor recreational public place. This prohibition shall not apply to porches, courtyards or decks contiguous to a restaurant; or
(2)
Twenty feet of any service line.
(b)
Smoking shall be allowed in the parking lots of a common area, public place, place of employment, or outdoor recreational public place, except in the following situations:
(1)
Smoking in such parking lots is prohibited if it occurs in an area of the parking lot that is within 20 feet of any outside entrance, operable window or ventilation system of a common area, public place, place of employment, or outdoor recreational public place.
(2)
Smoking is prohibited in the parking lots of a common area, public place, place of employment, or outdoor recreational public place if the owner, operator, manager, employer, or other person who controls the common area, public place, place of employment or outdoor recreational public place has posted in the parking lots "No Smoking" signs that comply with the requirements of this article.
(Ord. No. 2014-11-07, § 1(13-24), 12-16-2014)
Sec. 13-23. - Exceptions.
(a)
The smoking prohibition shall not apply in the following areas:
(1)
Private residences, including private residences which may serve as an office workplace, except if used as a childcare, an adult daycare or a health care facility.
(2)
Designated smoking rooms in hotels and motels rented by guests, provided that such designated smoking rooms shall not comprise more than 25 percent of the total number of rooms available for rent.
(3)
Retail tobacco stores.
(4)
Outdoor areas of places of employment, except where an owner or employer declares that the outdoor area is a smoke-free environment, as provided in this article.
(5)
Restaurants and bars as follows:
a.
All restaurants and bars to which access is denied to any person under the age of 18 and that do not employ any individual under the age of 18 years; or
b.
Private rooms in restaurants and bars if such rooms are enclosed and have an air handling system independent from the main air handling system that serves all other areas of the building and all air within the private room is exhausted directly to the outside by an exhaust fan of sufficient size.
(b)
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, any owner, operator, manager or other person who controls any establishment described in this article may declare that the entire establishment is a non-smoking establishment.
(Ord. No. 2014-11-07, § 1(13-25), 12-16-2014)
Sec. 13-24. - Employers' responsibility.
(a)
It is the responsibility of employers to provide a smoke-free workplace for all employees of public places, and places of employment but employers are not required to make expenditures or structural changes to create a smoke-free work area.
(b)
Each employer having an enclosed place of employment located within the city is encouraged to adopt, implement, make known and maintain a written smoking policy that incorporates the smoking prohibitions of this article.
(c)
The written smoking policy should be provided to all employees.
(Ord. No. 2014-11-07, § 1(13-26), 12-16-2014)
Sec. 13-25. - Posting of signs and notification.
(a)
At every entrance to every place where smoking is prohibited by this article, "No Smoking" signs or the international "No Smoking" symbol (consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a red circle with a red bar across it) shall be clearly and conspicuously posted by the owner, operator, manager, employer or other person having control of such building or area.
(b)
In every area where smoking is prohibited by this article, all ashtrays shall be removed by the owner, operator, manager, employer or other person having control of the area.
(c)
A copy of this article shall be given to each applicant for a city business license.
(Ord. No. 2014-11-07, § 1(13-27), 12-16-2014)
Sec. 13-26. - Enforcement.
(a)
Any law enforcement or code enforcement officer or their designee may issue a citation for any violation of this article.
(b)
Any owner, operator or manager of any establishment regulated by this article shall inform persons whom they witness violate this article of the appropriate provisions, and request compliance.
(Ord. No. 2014-11-07, § 1(13-28), 12-16-2014)
Sec. 13-27. - Nonretaliation.
No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire or in any manner retaliate against any employee, applicant for employment, or customer because such employee, applicant, or customer exercises any right to a smoke-free environment as afforded by this article.
(Ord. No. 2014-11-07, § 1(13-29), 12-16-2014)
Sec. 13-28. - Violations and penalties.
(a)
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be subject to the following penalties:
(1)
A fine not exceeding $50.00 for a first violation;
(2)
A fine not exceeding $75.00 for a second violation of this article within one year; and
(3)
A fine not exceeding $100.00 for each additional violation of this article within one year.
(b)
In addition to the fines established by this section, the violation of any provision of this article by an owner, operator or manager of any establishment regulated by this article may result in the suspension or revocation of any permit or license issued by the city for the premises on which the violation occurred.
(c)
Each day on which a violation of this article occurs shall be considered a separate and distinct violation.
(d)
Any person who violates any provision of this article, in addition to the fines set forth above, may also be subject to the penalties set forth in section 1-11.
(Ord. No. 2014-11-07, § 1(13-30), 12-16-2014; Ord. No. 2019-02-08 , § 1(Attch.), 2-26-2019)
Sec. 13-29. - Other applicable laws and disclaimer.
This article shall not be interpreted or construed to permit smoking where it is otherwise restricted by other applicable laws. By regulating smoking, the city is assuming an undertaking only to promote the general health and welfare of its citizens. By this enactment, neither the city, its officers nor its employees are liable in money damages to any person who claims that any breach of this article caused injury.
(Ord. No. 2014-11-07, § 1(13-31), 12-16-2014)
