ARTICLE IV. - BUILDING OFFICIAL

Sec. 10-139. - Authority.
The building official is hereby authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of the technical codes. The building official is further authorized to render interpretations of the technical codes, which are consistent with its intent and purpose.
(Ord. of 9-21-2006(3), § 2.1)
Sec. 10-140. - Reports.
The building official shall submit annually a report to the county commissioner covering the work of the building department during the preceding year. He may incorporate in said report a summary of the decisions of the board of adjustments and appeals during said year.
(Ord. of 9-21-2006(3), § 1.4)
Sec. 10-141. - Right of entry.
(a)
Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the provisions of this chapter, or whenever the building official has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any building or upon any premises any condition or code violation which makes such building, structure, premises, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the building official may enter such building, structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed upon the building official by these technical codes, provided that if such building or premises is occupied, he shall first present proper credentials and request entry.
(b)
If such building, structure, or premises is unoccupied, he shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of such and request entry. If entry is refused, the building official shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
(c)
When the building official shall have first obtained an administrative warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any building, structure, or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the building official for the purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. of 9-21-2006(3), § 2.2)
Sec. 10-142. - Stop work orders.
Upon notice from the building official, work on any building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system that is being done contrary to the provisions of the technical codes or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
(Ord. of 9-21-2006(3), § 2.3)
Sec. 10-143. - Revocation of permits.
(a)
Misrepresentation of application. The building official may revoke a permit or approval, issued under the provisions of this Code, in case there has been any false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
(b)
Violation of Code provisions. The building official may revoke a permit upon determination by the building official that the construction erection, alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation or replacement of the building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of this Code.
(Ord. of 9-21-2006(3), § 2.4)
Secs. 10-144—10-169. - Reserved.
