ARTICLE II. - SOLE COMMISSIONER OF TOWNS COUNTY[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is an act of the general assembly as enacted by 1984 Ga. Laws (Act No. 762), p. 4130, that created the office of the sole commissioner of the county. This act amended, revised, superseded and consolidated former laws pertaining to the governing authority of the county.

Sec. 1. - [Office of commissioner created.]
There is created the office of commissioner of Towns County as the governing authority of said county. The commissioner shall exercise the powers and duties and be charged with the responsibilities imposed upon said officer by this Act.
Sec. 2. - [Commissioner to be elected.]
(a)
The first commissioner of Towns County provided for by this Act shall be elected at the general election of 1984 and shall take office on the first day of January, 1985, for a term of four years and until a successor is elected and qualified. Thereafter, successors shall be elected at the general election immediately preceding the expiration of the term of office and shall take office on the first day of January immediately following the election for a term of four years and until a successor is elected and qualified.
(b)
The commissioner shall be elected by a majority of the qualified voters of Towns County voting on a county-wide basis. The commissioner shall be nominated and elected in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A. known as the "Georgia Election Code." [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.]
Sec. 3. - [Vacancy to be filled by special election.]
(a)
In the event a vacancy occurs for any reason in the office of commissioner of Towns County, such vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term by special election. Such special election shall be called by the election superintendent of Towns County within ten days after the date of the vacancy and shall be held not less than 30 nor more than 45 days after the date of the issuance of the call. Such special election shall be held and conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A. known as the "Georgia Election Code" [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.].
(b)
From the date of the occurrence of a vacancy until such vacancy is filled by special election as provided for by subsection (a) of this section, the judge of the Probate Court of Towns County shall be vested with and exercise the powers and duties of the commissioner of Towns County.
Sec. 4. - [Commissioner to take oath.]
Before entering upon the discharge of the commissioner's duties, a person elected commissioner shall subscribe to an oath before the judge of the Probate Court of Towns County for the true and faithful performance of duties as commissioner and that the person is not the holder of any unaccounted for public funds.
Sec. 5. - [Commissioner to give surety bond.]
The commissioner shall give a satisfactory surety bond approved by the judge of the Probate Court of Towns County and payable to said officer and filed in the office of the judge of the probate court in the sum of $25,000.00, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of the commissioner's office. The cost of such bond shall be paid from the funds of Towns County.
Sec. 6. - [Compensation.]
(a)
The commissioner shall be compensated in the amount of $19,500.00 per annum, which shall be paid in equal monthly installments from the funds of Towns County.
(b)
The commissioner may be reimbursed from county funds for all actual and necessary expenses incurred by that officer in the performance of the official duties of the office of commissioner.
Editor's note— The compensation amount stated herein in no longer accurate. O.C.G.A. § 36-5-24 and O.C.G.A. § 36-5-25 provide minimum compensation for commissioners and provide authority and procedure for counties having a sole commissioner to establish the commissioner's compensation under home rule powers.
Sec. 7. - [Commissioner shall work full time.]
(a)
The commissioner shall devote full time to the business and interests of Towns County in the performance of the commissioner's duties.
(b)
The commissioner shall have and maintain an office for the transaction of county business at the courthouse of Towns County. The office of the commissioner shall remain open during regular hours of business on all days except Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays.
Sec. 8. - [Powers of commissioner.]
The commissioner shall have the power to fix and establish, policies, rules, and regulations governing all matters within the commissioner's jurisdiction as the governing authority of the county. The commissioner may exercise the powers and shall be subject to the duties and responsibilities now or hereafter provided by the Constitution and general laws of this state relative to county governing authorities. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the following specific powers are vested in the commissioner:
(1)
To levy taxes;
(2)
To make appropriations;
(3)
To fix rates and charges for services provided by the county;
(4)
To authorize the incurring of indebtedness;
(5)
To order work done where the cost is to be assessed against benefited property and to fix the basis for such assessment;
(6)
To authorize and enter into contracts;
(7)
To establish, alter, open, close, build, repair, or abolish public roads, private ways, bridges, and ferries, according to law;
(8)
To establish, abolish, or change election precincts and militia districts according to law;
(9)
To allow the insolvent lists for the county;
(10)
To accept for the county the provisions of any optional statute where the statute permits its acceptance by the governing authority of the county;
(11)
To create and change the boundaries of special taxing districts as authorized by law;
(12)
To fix the bonds of county officers where same are not fixed by statute;
(13)
To enact any ordinances, resolutions, or other legislation the county may be given authority to enact;
(14)
To determine the priority of capital improvements;
(15)
To call bond elections; and
(16)
To exercise all of the power and authority heretofore vested by law in the judge of the probate court when sitting for county purposes, together with all power and authority which may hereafter be delegated by law to the governing authority of Towns County or to the governing authorities of counties generally.
Sec. 9. - [Commissioner to require county officers to report on finances.]
The commissioner is authorized to require all county officers to report on the general or specific conduct of the financial affairs of their respective offices.
Sec. 10. - [Commissioner to have power over compensation of county employees.]
(a)
The commissioner shall have the exclusive power and authority to appoint, remove, and fix the compensation of all employees of the county.
(b)
The appointment and removal of, and the compensation to be paid to, persons filling offices and positions created by state statute, where not otherwise prescribed by such statute, shall be made and fixed by the commissioner.
Sec. 11. - [Commissioner to comply with state law regarding budgeting and auditing.]
The commissioner shall comply with the budgeting and auditing procedures and requirements set forth in Chapter 81 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.], relative to budgets and audits of local governments.
Sec. 12. - [County funds expended in accordance with county budget.]
The expenditure of county funds shall be made in accordance with the county budget or amendments thereto adopted by the commissioner. The commissioner shall enforce compliance with this requirement by all departments of county government, including the departments of the elected county officers, and to this end, the commissioner shall institute a system to control county purchasing and to account for the expenditure of all funds budgeted and appropriated by the commissioner.
Sec. 13. - [Effective date.]
The provisions of this Act necessary for the election in 1984 of the commissioner of Towns County created by this Act shall be effective upon the approval of this Act by the Governor or upon its otherwise becoming law. This Act shall become effective for all purposes on January 1, 1985.
