ARTICLE V. - FINANCE[6]
Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Charter reference— Finance, art. VI.
Cross reference— Licenses, taxation and miscellaneous business regulations, ch. 10; special assessments, ch. 22.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-111. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year for all departments shall begin on July 1 and expire June 30 each year.
(Code 1977, § 2-5004; Ord. No. 36-94, § 1, 8-15-94)
Sec. 2-112. - City clerk designated city treasurer; authority to sign checks; bond required; assistant treasurer; fi. fas.
(a)
The city clerk shall also serve as the city treasurer and shall have the right to:
(1)
Sign all payroll checks;
(2)
For investment purposes only, sign all checks to transfer funds from any city checking account to invest in saving accounts;
(3)
Transfer funds from the group health self-insurance fund and workers' compensation fund to the current administrator of these funds; or
(4)
Transfer funds for the remittance of state and federal taxes, natural gas invoices, and loan and lease payments; or
(5)
Make any other investments of city funds as authorized by law.
After a purchase order has been approved, the city treasurer shall also be authorized to sign all other checks of the city after written approval of the check register by two (2) members of the governing authority. The treasurer's signature may be original or by facsimile.
(b)
The city treasurer shall be bonded in the amount of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00).
(c)
An assistant treasurer may be named by the mayor and council who shall have like duties and be under a like bond, the assistant treasurer to serve in the absence of the city treasurer.
(d)
All fi. fas. shall be signed by the city clerk and may be issued whenever the monies sought to be collected are past due.
(Code 1977, § 2-5001; Ord. No. 17-90, § 1, 2-20-90; Ord. No. 51-90, § 1, 9-17-90; Ord. No. 45-92, §§ 1, 2, 12-3-92; Ord. No. 43-97, 6-16-97; Ord. No. 10-02, § 1, 1-7-02)
Sec. 2-113. - Budget hearings.
In addition to the public hearings mandated by state law, additional hearings on the budget shall be held in each of the four (4) council districts no later than ninety (90) days prior to the start of the fiscal year.
(Ord. No. 06-18, § 2, 2-5-18)
Sec. 2-114. - Reward for information concerning damage to city property.
The mayor is authorized to offer and pay rewards of up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for information leading to the arrest and conviction of persons responsible for damage to any city-owned property.
(Code 1977, § 10-1019)
Secs. 2-115—2-125. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PURCHASING[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 25-11, § 1, adopted July 18, 2011, amended Art. V, Div. 2, to read as herein set out. Former Art. V, Div. 2, §§ 2-126—2-148, pertained to similar subject matter, and derived from Ord. No. 18-93, § 1, adopted Feb. 16, 1993; Ord. No. 30-93, § 1, adopted Apr. 19, 1993; Ord. No. 32-94, §§ 1—5, adopted July 18, 1994; Ord. No. 64-07, § 1, adopted Dec. 17, 2007; Ord. No. 33-08, § 1, adopted Sept. 2, 2008; and Ord. No. 39-08, § 1, adopted Oct. 20, 2008.

Sec. 2-126. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Approved vendor means company, vendor or contractor who has registered with the purchasing department's online vendor registration program and has provided all necessary documents required. (i.e. Business License, W9 Form, Insurance, etc...)
Bidder (or offeror) means any person who makes a bid (offer) to provide the city or a using agency thereof with supplies, services, or construction.
Bidder qualification list means an approved list of suppliers which, prior to competitive solicitation the purchasing department has determined will meet the applicable specification requirements.
Business means any corporation, partnership, individual, sole proprietorship, joint stock company joint venture, or other private legal entity. Local business status requires a valid business license and applicable permits from the city.
Change order means a written order directing the contractors to make changes.
Contract means any type of city agreement (regardless of what it may be called) for the procurement of supplies, services, or construction.
Contractor means any person having a contract with the city.
Cooperative purchasing means procurement conducted by, or on behalf of, more than one public procurement unit.
Cost analysis means the evaluation of cost data for the purpose of arriving at costs actually incurred or estimates of the costs to be incurred, the prices to be paid, and the costs to be reimbursed.
Debarment means to preclude a person from having or entering into a contract with the city.
Designee means a duly authorized representative of a person holding a superior position.
Director means a person entrusted with the overall direction, management, and supervision of the purchasing division.
Life cycle costs mean a cost evaluation method determined by considering all costs over the useful life of the supplies, materials, and nonexpendable supplies.
Procurement means the buying, purchasing, renting, leasing, or otherwise acquiring of any supplies, services or construction. It also includes all functions that pertain to the obtaining of any supply, service or construction, including description of requirements, selection, and solicitation of sources, preparation and award of contract.
Professional services means those services provided by person defined by the laws of the state to be professionals (accountants, clergy, physicians, engineers, lawyers, dentists, etc.) or any other services (in that provision of these services involves extended analysis; exercising discretion and independent judgment in their performance; and an advanced and specialized type of knowledge, expertise, or training customarily acquired either by prolonged course of study or equivalent experience in the field or both).
Purchasing agent means the principal public purchasing official of the city responsible for the procurement of supplies, services, construction, and management and disposal of supplies in accordance with this article.
Response of bidder means a bidder (or offeror) who has the capability in all respects to fulfill the contract requirements, and the tenacity, perseverance, experience, integrity, reliability, capacity, facilities, equipment, trained manpower, financial resources, and credit to assure good faith performance.
Services means the furnishing of labor, time, or effort by a contractor, not involving the delivery of a specific end product other than reports which are merely incidental to the required performance.
Subdivision means the quantity separation of materials, supplies and/or labor to circumvent proper or competitive bidding.
Supplies means all property, including but not limited to equipment, materials, printing, insurance, and leases of real property, excluding land or a permanent interest in land.
Surplus supplies means any tangible city-owned supplies (other than expendable supplies) no longer of any use to the city. This includes obsolete supplies, scrap materials, unneeded real property, recovered property, and nonexpendable supplies that have completed their useful life cycle.
Useful life cycle means utilization of supplies, materials, or nonexpendable supplies over a period of time that is both practical and economical.
Using agency means any department, commission, board or public agency requiring supplies, service, or construction procured pursuant to this division.
(Ord. No. 25-11, § 1, 7-18-11)
Sec. 2-127. - Purchasing division of general fund.
A purchasing division is hereby established in and for the city. The division shall be composed of the purchasing agent and any other employees as may be necessary. The supervision and control of the division is vested in the purchasing agent and is subject to the direction of the city clerk.
(Ord. No. 25-11, § 1, 7-18-11)
Sec. 2-128. - Duties and general powers of the purchasing agent.
In accordance with this division, the purchasing agent shall:
Procure from the most responsible and responsive bidder supplies, materials, equipment, and contractual services as needed by the city;
Keep informed of current developments in the field of purchasing, prices, market conditions, new products, and secure for the city the benefits of the research done in the field of purchasing by other governmental jurisdictions, national technical societies, trade associations having national recognition, and by private business and organizations;
Endeavor to obtain as full and open competition as possible on purchases and sales;
Utilize the possibilities of bulk and seasonal buying;
Adopt as standards the minimum number of quantities, sizes, and varieties of supplies consistent with the successful operation of the city. Such standards shall be developed in cooperation with the directors of the using agency;
Prepare and adopt written specifications for supplies, materials, equipment and services, as may be required;
Assist and review all departments' cost analysis to ensure that proper budgeting procedures have been met; and
Obtain proof of insurance and bonds as required by the terms of the solicitation.
(Ord. No. 25-11, § 1, 7-18-11)
Sec. 2-129. - General purchasing procedures.
Purchases of goods and services and other expenditure shall be made in accordance with the following:
Category I — Expenditures — No approval needed.
Payroll, payroll taxes, retirement contributions, employee health insurance disbursements.
City utility payments for water, sewer, gas, electrical, telephone, cable.
City water, sewer and gas utilities customer billing-related payments for refunds/adjustments.
Contract-required payments, monthly installments, contract adjustments and equipment lease payments.
Payments for items/services under an annual basis "as needed" contract approved in advance by the mayor and council.
Category II — Purchases in amounts of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or less.
Budgeted expenditures in accordance with purchasing policies and procedure.
Category III — Purchases in the annual city budget—Amounts in excess of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00).
Purchases authorized after approval of goods or services by mayor and council. Installment payments under Category I authorized after purchase approval by mayor and council in accordance with purchasing policies and procedures.
Notwithstanding the provisions for purchase/payment approval contained herein, all purchases or payments by the city shall be made in full compliance with any and all other ordinances, resolutions, regulations, and policies and procedures currently in effect.
Whenever an item is purchased under a state contract, such purchase is exempt from the bid requirements of this section; that is acceptance is at the state price and terms from the vendor who has been awarded the contract for purchase by the State of Georgia as to the item being purchased for the year in which the item is being purchased.
All purchases of professional services shall be exempt from the bid requirements of this section unless otherwise directed by the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 25-11, § 1, 7-18-11; Ord. No. 37-20, § 1, 11-16-20)
Sec. 2-130. - Competitive bidding required; use of bid forms.
All contracts for the purchase of equipment, supplies or real property valued at ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or more shall be made only after three (3) or more sealed bids have been solicited by the purchasing division.
When issued, only bid forms of the city are valid. Any bids submitted on other than city bid forms shall be void and have no effect.
(Ord. No. 25-11, § 1, 7-18-11)
[Sec. 2-131. - Reserved.]
Sec. 2-132. - Determination of most responsible bidder.
In determining the most responsible bidder, in addition to price, the following shall be considered:
The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the contract;
Whether the bidder can perform the contract within the time specified, without delay or interference;
The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and efficiency of the bidder;
The quality of performance under previous contracts;
The previous compliance by the bidder with laws and ordinances relating to the contract;
Sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the bidder to perform the contract and provide the service;
The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or contractual services to the particular use required;
The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and service for the use of the contract under consideration;
The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid; and
Such other factors as appear to be pertinent to either the bid or the contract under all of the circumstances involved.
(Ord. No. 25-11, § 1, 7-18-11)
[Sec. 2-133. - Reserved.]
Sec. 2-134. - Sole source procurement.
Any sole source purchase of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or more must be approved by the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 25-11, § 1, 7-18-11; Ord. No. 38-20, § 1, 11-16-20)
Sec. 2-135. - Emergency procurement.
All emergency purchases of goods and services requiring the expenditure of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or more shall be made as outlined in section 2-129 after a written emergency request has been signed by the mayor, or in his absence, the mayor pro-tem, and three (3) council members. If necessary, the purchasing division may secure permission of the mayor, or mayor pro-tem, and three (3) council members by telephone.
(Ord. No. 25-11, § 1, 7-18-11; Ord. No. 39-20, § 1, 11-16-20)
Sec. 2-136. - Change order.
Upon authorization by the mayor, the purchasing agent may execute a change order on a contract to purchase items or services not in excess of the amount prescribed by section 2-129. Change orders on purchased items or services in an amount in excess of that prescribed by section 2-129 may be executed by the mayor as authorized by the mayor and council.
A change order is appropriate when the contractor's ability to meet the terms and conditions of the contract is materially affected by any of the following circumstances:
The discovery of actual conditions which differ materially from those stated in the specifications, invitation for bids, request for proposals, contract or purchase order;
The discovery of conditions which were unknown to both parties at the time of entering into the original contract;
Estimating errors not apparent to either party at the time of entering into the original contract, or indefinite stated quantities in the specifications, invitations for bids, request for proposals, contract or purchase order;
Depletion of the appropriate budget account; or
Errors in design or other errors not apparent to either party at the time of entering into the contract.
(Ord. No. 25-11, § 1, 7-18-11)
Sec. 2-137. - Change debarment.
After reasonable notice to the person involved under this division and reasonable opportunity for that person to be heard, and after consulting with the city attorney, the purchasing agent is authorized to debar a person from consideration for award of contracts for cause.
Cause for debarment is determined by the purchasing agent upon a showing of serious and compelling facts affecting the contractor's ability to meet the requirements of a responsible bidder.
The purchasing agent shall issue a written decision to debar. The decisions shall state the reasons for the action taken and inform the debarred person of appeal rights as set forth below.
The purchasing agent is authorized to debar a person for a period not to exceed six (6) months which decision shall have no appeal rights. A debarment of more than six (6) months may be appealed to the mayor and council for final decision.
(Ord. No. 25-11, § 1, 7-18-11)
Sec. 2-138. - Bulk fuels.
The purchase of bulk fuel, even if costs exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) shall be procured pursuant to the procedures outlined in section 2-129.
(Ord. No. 25-11, § 1, 7-18-11)
[Secs. 2-139, 2-140. - Reserved.]
Sec. 2-141. - Sale of surplus property.
Before any property of the city may be sold or otherwise disposed of, there shall first be a finding that such property is no longer needed for public use or has become unusable for the purpose intended and that it is in the best interest of the city that such property be sold. With regard to any such personal property with an estimated value of five hundred dollars ($500.00) or more, such a finding shall be established by a resolution of the mayor and council; the purchasing agent is authorize to so establish with regard to any such property with an estimated value of less than five hundred dollars ($500.00). The purchasing agent shall disclose the details to the mayor and council of all such personal property conveyances regardless of the value of the property. All conveyances of real property shall be approved by a resolution of the mayor and council.
If, in the discretion of the purchasing agent, surplus property has no or only nominal salvage value, such surplus property may be disposed of as unmarketable or "junk" after proper documentation. In general, if the cost of sale of such surplus property exceeds the projected return at public auction, then such property may be declared unmarketable. The purchasing division shall also maintain recovered property for surplus sale or for lawful city use.
(Ord. No. 25-11, § 1, 7-18-11)
[Secs. 2-142—2-144. - Reserved.]
Sec. 2-145. - Ethics in public contracting.
The purchase of bulk fuel, even if costs exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) shall be procured pursuant to the procedures outlined in section 2-129 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 25-11, § 1, 7-18-11)
Sec. 2-146. - Employee conflict of interest.
It shall be unethical and unlawful for any purchasing division employee to participate directly in a procurement contract when the purchasing division employee or an immediate family member has a financial interest pertaining to the procurement contract.
(Ord. No. 25-11, § 1, 7-18-11)
Sec. 2-147. - Gratuities and kickbacks.
(a)
Gratuities. It shall be unethical for any person to offer, give, or agree to give any city employee or former city employee (or for any city employee or former city employee to solicit, demand, accept, or agree to accept from another person) a gratuity or an offer of employment in connection with any decision, approval, recommendation, or preparation of any part of the program requirement or a purchase request, influencing the content of any specification or procurement standard, rendering of advice, or any other ruling determination, claim or controversy, or other particular matter, pertaining to any program requirement or a contract or subcontract, or to any solicitation of proposal therefore.
(b)
Kickbacks. It shall be unlawful for any payment, gratuity or offer of employment to be made by or on behalf of a subcontractor to another subcontractor or primary contractor or any person associated therewith (or for a prime contractor or subcontractor or any person associated therewith, to solicit, demand, accept or agree to accept such payment, gratuity or offer of employment from a subcontractor), as an inducement for the award of a subcontract or order.
(Ord. No. 25-11, § 1, 7-18-11)
Sec. 2-148. - Policy of nondiscrimination.
In the award of contracts for the sale or purchase of goods or services, the city shall not discriminate against minority-owned businesses, women-owned businesses or handicapped-owned businesses.
(Ord. No. 25-11, § 1, 7-18-11)
Secs. 2-149—2-175. - Reserved.
