Chapter 16.5 - OFFENSES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 16.5-1—16.5-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LOITERING

Sec. 16.5-21. - Loitering—Generally.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person after having been directed by an officer or member of the police department to move away therefrom, to remain or loiter in front of any church or other place of public worship during services therein, or in front of any theater, concert hall, ballroom, coffeehouse, tavern or other public place, or to loiter or idle away time around the hotels or on the sidewalks or public streets or roads of the city.
(b)
A person commits the offense of loitering when the person is in a place at a time or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under circumstances that warrant a justifiable and reasonable alarm or immediate concern for the safety of persons or property in the vicinity.
(c)
Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon the appearance of a law enforcement officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight by the person or other circumstances make it impracticable, a law enforcement officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm or immediate concern which would otherwise be warranted by requesting the person to identify himself and herself and explain his or her presence and conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this section if the law enforcement officer failed to comply with the foregoing procedure or if it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and would have dispelled the alarm or immediate concern.
(Ord. No. 45-96, § 1, 6-3-96)
Sec. 16.5-22. - Same—Minors.
It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian, or other person having the custody or control of any minor to permit, allow or encourage such minor to violate section 16.5-21.
(Ord. No. 45-96, § 2, 6-3-96)
Sec. 16.5-23. - Same—Responsibility of proprietors, managers, etc.
It shall be unlawful for the proprietor, manager or other person having charge or control of any public or other place to permit, allow or encourage any minor to violate section 16.5-21 in such place.
(Ord. No. 45-96, § 3, 6-3-96)
Sec. 16.5-24. - Same—For purpose of procuring others to engage in sexual acts for hire.
It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in public for the purpose of soliciting or procuring others to engage in any sexual acts for hire.
(Ord. No. 45-96, § 4, 6-3-96)
Sec. 16.5-25. - Same-For purpose of engaging in drug-related activity.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or near any thoroughfare, place open to the public, or near any public or private place in a manner and under circumstances manifesting the purpose to engage in drug-related activity contrary to any of the provisions of Title 16, Chapter 13, of the Official Code of Georgia.
(b)
Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such purpose is manifested are:
(1)
Such person is a known unlawful drug user, possessor, or seller. For purposes of this chapter, a "known unlawful drug user, possessor, or seller" is a person who has, within the knowledge of the arresting officer, been convicted in any court within this state of any violation involving the use, possession or sale of any controlled substance as defined in Title 16, Chapter 13, of the Official Code of Georgia, or such person has been convicted of any violation of any of the provisions of such title and chapter of the Official Code of Georgia or substantially similar laws or any political subdivision of this state or of any other state; or a person who displays physical characteristics of drug intoxication or usage, such as "needle tracks," burned or calloused thumb and index fingers, underweight, nervous and excited behavior;
(2)
Such person is currently subject to a court order prohibiting his or her presence in a high drug activity geographic area;
(3)
Such person behaves in such a manner as to raise a reasonable suspicion that he or she is about to engage in or is then engaged in an unlawful drug-related activity, including by way of example only, such person acting as a "lookout" or hailing or stopping cars;
(4)
Such person is physically identified by the officer as a member of a "gang," or association which has as its purpose illegal drug activity;
(5)
Such person transfers small objects to packages in a furtive fashion;
(6)
Such person takes flight or manifestly endeavors to conceal himself upon the appearance of a police officer;
(7)
Such person manifestly endeavors to conceal any object which reasonably could be involved in an unlawful drug-related activity;
(8)
Such person possesses any instrument, article, or thing whose customary or primary purpose is for the sale, administration or use of controlled substances such as, but not limited to, crack pipes, push wires, chore boys, hand scales, hypodermic needles, razor blades, or other cutting tools;
(9)
The area involved is by public repute known to be an area of unlawful drug trafficking;
(10)
Any vehicle involved is registered to a known unlawful drug user, possessor, or seller, or a person for whim there is an outstanding warrant for a crime involving drug-related activity.
(Ord. No. 45-96, § 5, 6-3-96)
Secs. 16.5-26—16.5-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - GRAFFITI[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 79-98, § 1, adopted Nov. 2, 1998, did not strictly amend the Code. Therefore, its inclusion as Art. III, §§ 16.5-51—16.5-53, was at the discretion of the editor.

Sec. 16.5-51. - Aerosol spray paint—Sale to minors.
No person shall sell or transfer possession of aerosol spray paint to another person under eighteen (18) years of age, nor shall any person under eighteen (18) years of age possess or buy any aerosol spray paint.
(Ord. No. 79-98, § 1, 11-2-98)
Sec. 16.5-52. - Same—Violations.
No person shall intentionally possess, buy, sell, transfer possession or receive possession of any aerosol spray paint for the purpose of violating or aiding another person to violate section 16.5-51.
(Ord. No. 79-98, § 1, 11-2-98)
Sec. 16.5-53. - Same—Exceptions.
Nothing contained in sections 16.5-51 and 16.5-52 shall prohibit the use of aerosol spray paint by a person under eighteen (18) years of age for any lawful purpose under the direct supervision of the child's parent or legal guardian or their designee.
(Ord. No. 79-98, § 1, 11-2-98)
Secs. 16.5-54—16.5-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - DRUGS

Sec. 16.5-71. - Marijuana possession.
(a)
Persons arrested for possession of up to one (1) ounce of marijuana within the city shall be tried in the municipal court as provided by O.C.G.A. § 36-32-6 and, if convicted, punished as provided for the violation of a city ordinance.
(b)
Marijuana means and includes all parts of the plant Cannabis Sativa L., whether growing or not, the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of the plant, and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of the plant, its seeds or resin, but shall not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant which is incapable of germination.
(Ord. No. 60-00, § 1, 10-2-00)
