Chapter 6.24 - INSTALLATION OF GAS, TELEVISION CABLE AND ELECTRICAL SERVICE LINES

6.24.010 - Installation of gas, television cable and electrical service lines.
Gas, television cable and electrical service lines that are constructed along roads or streets or on public or private property shall be fully installed on poles or underground within seventy-two (72) hours of laying the line for installation of the service line.
(Ord. 05-124 ยง 2 (part), 2005)
6.24.020 - Penalties.
A.
For the initial violation of the provisions of this chapter, the city may elect to provide a written notice of violation. If the violation is not cured within twenty-four (24) hours of receipt of a written notice, then a citation and summons will be issued to the project supervisor to appear in municipal court of the city.
B.
Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, the municipal court of the city shall impose the following penalties after it finds the cited person or persons guilty or the person or persons enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere for any violation of this chapter.
1.
For first-time violators of this chapter, the municipal court shall impose a fine not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation.
2.
For second-time violators of this chapter, the municipal court shall impose the same penalty for first-time violators and shall sentence the violator to no more than thirty (30) days incarceration.
C.
For the limited purpose of determining the amount of fines under this section and where not otherwise provided in this chapter, any of the violations described in the chapter shall constitute a separate and distinct violation of this chapter. Likewise, for the same limited purpose, each day of an ongoing violation shall constitute a single and separate violation of the ordinance codified in this chapter. The municipal court for the city shall not use the designation of violations under this paragraph as a basis for a determination that the violator is a repeat violator of this chapter.
D.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the city from other remedies such as seeking an injunction from the Superior Court of Henry County. If the city elects to seek an injunction, they shall have the right to attorneys fees and expenses.
(Ord. 05-124 ยง 2 (part), 2005
