DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 22-51. - Districts listed.
The City of Cairo is hereby divided into classes of zoning districts known as follows:
EXPAND
R-1AA Single-family estate district
R-1A Single-family residential district
R-1 Single-family residential district
R-2 Two-family residential district
R-3 Multiple-family residential district
R-PUD Residential planned unit development district
R-TH Townhouse development district
C1A Restricted office-institutional district
C-1 Neighborhood commercial district
CBD Central business district
C-2 Highway commercial district
C-PUD Commercial planned unit development district
I-1 Light industrial district
I-2 Heavy industrial district
AG Agricultural district
  (Ord. No. 548, § 4.01, 1-8-01)
Sec. 22-52. - Limited use (L.U.) provision.
The city establishes the "limited use" provision for the purpose of allowing an applicant to request that a certain property be classified as a limited use. In some areas of the city, a particular land use activity selected out of a general zoning classification may have less community impact than some of the other uses within that classification. For this reason, an applicant may request a rezoning petition to limit the use of a proposed property to a specified use only (i.e., C1-LU). To wit: Neighborhood commercial district limited to a "beauty shop". The limited use must be among the uses permitted in the zone district for which the limited use is taken. In the event that the conditions for which the limited use zoning was granted is violated, the property would revert to the prior zoning classification.
(Ord. No. 548, § 4.02, 1-8-01)
Sec. 22-53. - Official zoning map.
The boundaries of these districts are shown on the map which is designated as the Official Zoning Map of the City of Cairo. The official zoning map is on file in the office of the building official and all notations, references and other information shown thereon are a part of this chapter and have the same force and effects as if said zoning map and all such notations, references and other information shown there were fully set forth or described herein.
Except where reference on said zoning map to a street or other designated line is made by dimensions shown on said map, the district boundary lines follow lot lines of the center lines of the streets or alleys, or such lines extended and the corporate limits of the city as they existed at the time of adoption of this chapter.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any zoning district as shown on the zoning map, the mayor and city council shall rule on such boundaries.
(Ord. No. 548, § 4.03, 1-8-01)
Secs. 22-54—22-60. - Reserved.
