Chapter 11 - FIRE PREVENTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Fireworks, OCGA, § 25-10-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 11-1. - State safety rules and regulations—Adopted by reference.
(a)
The rules and regulations promulgated for the prevention of destruction of life and property by fire, explosion and related hazards in the state by the state safety fire commissioner, under authority of the powers vested in and duties imposed upon the safety fire commissioners by the laws of the state, are hereby adopted by reference.
(b)
All rules and regulations of this city, and all rules and regulations heretofore adopted in conflict with the rules and regulations adopted by subsection (a) are hereby repealed.
(Code 1965, § 12-19)
State Law reference— Promulgation of rules and regulations, OCGA, § 25-2-4.
Sec. 11-2. - Same—Cooperation with state official for enforcement.
The city fire marshal and all other city officials, department heads and employees shall co-operate with the state safety fire commissioner and state fire marshal and their deputies or assistants in the enforcement of the state safety fire law, and the rules and regulations promulgated pursuant thereto and adopted by section 11-1.
(Code 1965, § 12-20)
Sec. 11-3. - Gasoline trucks with trailers prohibited on certain streets.
No person shall operate or cause to be operated any transport truck with a semi-trailer, or a transport truck with a trailer, hauling gasoline or kerosene on certain streets and avenues in the city as follows:
(1)
Broad Street, from Third Avenue, North, to Third Avenue South.
(2)
First Avenue, N.E., from Fifth Street, N.E., to North Broad Street.
(Code 1965, § 12-1)
Sec. 11-4. - Registration of burning.
(a)
All citizens are required to advise the Cairo Fire Department of deliberate burns within the City of Cairo.
(b)
No person shall burn trash, paper, or other rubbish within the city. Natural vegetation consisting of a six-foot by six-foot area or less may be burned after having first obtained the necessary permission from the Cairo Fire Department. Requests for permission to burn areas of natural vegetation greater than six-foot by six-foot shall be directed to the office of the city fire chief.
(c)
Failure to register a burn that shall be deliberate shall result in punishment as provided in section 1-8 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 669, § 1, 8-27-07; Ord. No. 684, § 1, 4-28-08; Ord. No. 749, § 1, 10-14-13)
Sec. 11-5. - Open burning—Permits and fees.
(a)
Permits for open burning at or on development sites for the purpose of clearing land for new construction shall be obtained from the office of the city fire chief.
(b)
The applicant shall complete an application for an open burning permit issued by the fire department. The applicant shall submit a plat or site plan showing the proposed location of the pit and information relating to the proximity of any occupied or unoccupied structure.
(c)
No burning shall commence prior to an inspection of the site and the pit by a representative of the fire department. Upon approval of the pit, the permit shall be valid for a period of thirty (30) days; the permit can be cancelled at anytime during this period due to weather. Permits may be extended for increments of fifteen-day periods, maximum of two (2) extensions.
(Ord. No. 749, § 2, 10-14-13)
Sec. 11-6. - Fires requiring written permits.
(a)
The only type of fires permitted for the purpose of land clearing is pit fires. Nonpit fires are not permitted for land clearing within the city limits. All pit fires shall be conducted in strict accordance with the "Air Curtain Destructor Operating Guide and Procedures," as published by the Environmental Protection Division.
(b)
Pit fires shall comply with the following stipulations:
(1)
The pit shall be at least three hundred (300) feet from any occupied or habitable structure. This distance may be decreased upon determination by the fire department.
(2)
Where a site cannot be excavated to the recommended depth due to high water table and/or subsurface rock, the pit may be constructed above ground level, subject to the same state standards and procedures for a pit below ground level.
(3)
Only wood wastes consisting of trees, logs, large brush, stumps, leaves, and untreated lumber may be burned in the pit.
(4)
Leaves, sawdust or other densely packed wood wastes, paper (any type), chemically treated, coated or impregnated wood, or nonwood construction materials shall not be burned. The amount of dirt/soil mixture shall be kept to a minimum.
(5)
No more than one (1) air curtain destructor is allowed to be operated within a ten-acre permitted site at one (1) time. The air curtain destructor must be under the supervision of a trained operator at all times during operation. If there is a need for multiple burning pits, there shall be a minimum of one thousand (1,000) feet between each burning pit.
(6)
Air curtain destructors shall be able to pass an even, nonturbulent flow of air across the top of the pit. Air curtain destructors with an air duct or manifold that has been altered by bends, dents, holes, etc., and are incapable of providing an even and nonturbulent flow of air across the top of the pit shall not be approved for use.
(7)
The air curtain destructor shall be operated in a manner to prevent air, land or water pollution, safety/health hazards or nuisances.
(8)
Tires or other rubber products, plastics, heavy oils or asphaltic base or impregnated materials shall not be used to start or maintain air curtain destructor operations.
(9)
When the pit is cleared of ash, airborne particulate is to be minimized by wetting or mixing the ashes with dirt.
(10)
Diesel fuel or kerosene only may be used to start pit fires.
(Ord. No. 749, § 3, 10-14-13)
Sec. 11-7. - Burning restrictions.
The following rules govern all burning within the city limits, whether or not a written permit is required:
(1)
The fire chief's office may temporarily prohibit any and/or all outdoor fires when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such fires hazardous.
(2)
No burning of solid waste or household garbage is allowed.
(3)
No burning of any materials that emit a heavy dark smoke, such as rubber products, oils, roofing material, petroleum based products, etc., is allowed.
(4)
All fires shall be constantly attended by a competent person until extinguished.
(5)
There shall be a garden hose connected to a water supply or other fire extinguishing equipment readily available for use.
(Ord. No. 749, § 4, 10-14-13)
Sec. 11-8. - Summary abatement.
The staff of the fire chief's office and personnel of the fire department shall have the authority to summarily abate any conditions which are in violation of any of the provisions of this article, and which may constitute an immediate threat to life and property. In no event shall a pit fire or other open burning continue after the fire chief's office has revoked the permit.
(Ord. No. 749, § 5, 10-14-13)
Secs. 11-9—11-19. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FIRE PREVENTION CODE

Sec. 11-20. - Fire Prevention and Safety Code adopted by reference.
There is hereby adopted by reference as fully and to the same extent as if set out at length herein, subject to all amendments and conflicting provisions contained in the Code of Ordinances, those certain published codes known as the Fire Prevention Code for Buildings and NFPA Life Safety Code, editions most currently adopted by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs, one (1) copy of each being on file at the office of the building official which shall be the official copy of said code.
(Ord. No. 334, § 11, 9-26-88; Ord. No. 440, § 20, 12-12-94; Ord. No. 749, § 6, 10-14-13)
Editor's note— Section 11 of Ord. No. 334, adopted Sept. 26, 1988, added Art. XII, Fire Prevention, § 6-210, to Ch. 6. At the discretion of the editor, for purposes of classification, the provisions of said § 11 of Ord. No. 334 have been treated as superseding § 11-20 and have been codified as new § 11-20 herein. Former § 11-20 adopted the Fire Prevention Code, 1981 edition, by reference, and was derived from Code 1965, § 12-8; and Ord. No. 141, § 1, adopted Jan. 13, 1969.
Sec. 11-21. - Establishment of special districts.
The limits referred to in the fire prevention code restricting storage of flammable liquids and explosives are hereby established as follows: First and second fire zones of the city.
(Code 1965, § 12-10)
Note— See the editor's note to § 6-4 of Ch. 6 of this Code.
Sec. 11-22. - Responsibility for enforcement.
The fire prevention code shall be enforced by the building official or such official's designated agents.
(Code 1965, § 12-11)
Sec. 11-23. - Modifications.
(a)
The building official may modify any of the provisions of the fire prevention code upon application in writing by the owner or lessee, or such owner's or lessee's duly authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code, provided that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done.
(b)
The particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the building official thereon shall be entered upon the records of the department and a signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant.
(Code 1965, § 12-12)
Sec. 11-24. - Appeals.
Whenever the building official or fire chief shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the fire prevention code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of such code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision of the building official or fire chief to the governing body within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision appealed from.
(Code 1965, § 12-13; Ord. No. 749, § 7, 10-14-13)
