Chapter 3 - AIRPORTS AND AIRCRAFT

Sec. 3-1. - Use of airport by pedestrians and drivers of ground vehicles.
(a)
The municipal airport and all of its area, including access roads thereto, are hereby declared to be special city property for special use only.
(b)
No person, without a special written permit from the city manager, shall use the access roads or any part of the airport of any of the area thereof at any time, except to use the airport for the purpose for which it was established, as follows:
(1)
To meet an aircraft which is scheduled to land.
(2)
To enter upon an aircraft which is about to depart.
(3)
To be present and see off another person who is about to depart on an aircraft.
(c)
Subsection (b) shall not apply to the owner or operator of an aircraft located or stationed at the airport, not to one who, at the request of such owner or operator enters the airport area for the purpose of repairing or servicing an aircraft when located or stationed at the airport.
(d)
No person shall enter upon or travel over the access roads to the airport, or enter upon or use any part of the airport or the area thereof, at night, without a special written permit from the city manager, unless it be the owner or operator of an aircraft at that time located on the airport, or some person who, at the request of the owner or operator of an aircraft, enters the airport area for the purpose of repairing or servicing an aircraft then located or stationed in the airport area.
(e)
No person shall enter with an automobile or other ground motor vehicle upon or travel down, across or over, the paved or hard-surfaced runway of the airport, or of any unpaved extension thereof; at any time or for any purpose.
(f)
No person shall operate a ground motor vehicle on and along the access road running from the public road known as the Airport Road into the airport area of the municipal airport at anytime in the daytime at a rate of speed greater than thirty (30) miles per hour.
(g)
The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
(1)
The sheriff of this county or any deputy, nor to any member of the police force of the city.
(2)
The city manager, the mayor, or to any member of the council, nor to any other person accompanying any of them; provided, the exception set out in this subsection shall not constitute an exemption to subsection (e).
(3)
A watchman, guard or attendant employed by the city of or for the airport, whether on duty temporarily or permanently.
(Code 1965, §§ 2.5-17—2.5-21)
State Law reference— Authority to acquire, etc., fields by municipalities, OCGA § 6-3-20.
