DIVISION 3. - R-1A, SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 22-76. - Statement of purpose.
This single-family residential district is established as a district in which the principal use of land is for low density single-family dwelling units. For the R-1A single-family residential district, the specific intent is:
(a)
To encourage the construction of and the continued use of the land for low density single-family residential development within the city.
(b)
To discourage land uses which would generate traffic on minor or local streets, other than normal traffic to serve the residences on those streets.
(Ord. No. 548, § 6.01, 1-8-01)
Sec. 22-77. - Permitted uses.
(a)
Single-family detached dwellings, except manufactured and mobile homes.
(b)
Industrialized buildings (modular homes/units).
(c)
Accessory buildings or uses customarily incidental to any of the permitted uses, when located on the same lot and not involving any business, profession, trade or occupation.
(d)
Home swimming pool, provided the location is not in the front yard and/or closer than ten (10) feet to any property line and the pool is enclosed by a wall or fence at least four (4) feet in height.
(Ord. No. 548, § 6.02, 1-8-01)
Sec. 22-78. - Conditional uses, and their attendant educational and recreational facilities and public schools.
(a)
Churches and their attendant educational and recreational facilities, and public schools, provided that:
(1)
Adequate ingress and egress to a major street is assured.
(2)
They are provided with adequate, paved off-street parking areas.
(3)
The buildings are placed not less than thirty (30) feet from street lines and not less than twenty-five (25) feet from property lines and that the proposed site is not less than one (1) acre.
(4)
Adequate provisions are made for maintaining a planted buffer strip along adjoining property lines.
(b)
Cemeteries, provided that a complete site development sketch is submitted with the application.
(c)
Clubs and lodges not operating for profit provided that:
(1)
The buildings are not placed closer than fifty (50) feet to any property lines; and
(2)
There is a planted buffer strip at least ten (10) feet wide along the side and rear lot lines.
(d)
Public buildings, structures or other public land uses.
(e)
Hospitals and clinics.
(f)
Home occupations—Home occupations as limited and defined in section 22-5.
(g)
Family day care homes (family day care homes as limited and defined in section 22-5) provided that no play equipment be located in the front yard and that signage be compatible to the neighborhood and not larger than regulated for home occupations. All state licensing requirements and regulations shall also apply.
(h)
Reserved.
(i)
Bed and breakfasts—Bed and breakfasts as limited and defined in section 22-5.
(j)
All radio, cellular phone, or similar transmission/receiving antennas.
(k)
Other uses similar to the above and compatible with the particular neighborhood and environment as interpreted by the planning commission and approved by the mayor and city council.
(Ord. No. 548, § 6.03, 1-8-01; Ord. No. 715, § 2, 1-28-10)
Sec. 22-79. - Area, height and placement requirements.
(In accordance with the Schedule of Regulations, section 22-321.)
(Ord. No. 548, § 6.04, 1-8-01)
Secs. 22-80—22-90. - Reserved.
