DIVISION 8. - R-TH, TOWNHOUSE DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT

Sec. 22-151. - Statement of purpose.
A townhouse development contains elements that are characteristic of both single-family and multifamily communities. Allowable density is comparable to that of multifamily dwellings, while the subdivision of land permits the fee simple sale of individual structures and lots. In permitting construction of townhouses, the mayor and city council intends:
(a)
To encourage home ownership in the City of Cairo.
(b)
To increase the variety of dwelling types in the local housing market.
(c)
To encourage development or redevelopment of small parcels of property in suitable areas of the city.
(Ord. No. 548, § 11.01, 1-8-01)
Sec. 22-152. - Permitted uses.
(a)
Townhouses.
(b)
Condominiums.
(c)
Accessory buildings or uses customarily incidental to any of the permitted uses, when located on the same lot and not involving any business, profession, trade or occupation.
(Ord. No. 548, § 11.02, 1-8-01)
Sec. 22-153. - Conditional uses.
(a)
Public buildings, structures and other public land uses.
(b)
Home occupations—As limited and defined in section 22-5.
(Ord. No. 548, § 11.03, 1-8-01)
Sec. 22-154. - Area, placement and development requirements for townhouses.
All townhouse developments must comply with the following requirements:
(1)
A townhouse development shall be located on a site that measures a minimum of one-half (½) acre.
(2)
Each townhouse interior lot shall be at least twenty-four (24) feet in width. Each townhouse lot located on a corner shall be at least forty-nine (49) feet in width. Each interior lot that is intended to be at the end of a row of townhouses shall be at least thirty-four (34) feet wide. Each lot shall contain two thousand eight hundred eighty (2,880) square feet of area or more (fifteen (15) units per gross acre).
(3)
The setback from an interior side lot line shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet for the townhouse which is located at the end of a row of townhouses. A minimum setback of twenty-five (25) feet from any side street shall be maintained. Front yard setback will be no less than twenty (20) feet.
(4)
An accessory building may abut an accessory building located on an adjacent lot in the townhouse development.
(5)
Each townhouse dwelling unit shall contain at least eight hundred (800) square feet of floor area within outside walls exclusive of basements, unfinished attics, garages, porches, or other such areas not normally used for human habitation.
(6)
No more than four (4) townhouses shall be built in a row having the same building line. In setting forth this requirement, the city intends to discourage the creation of long unbroken lines of townhouses. In a townhouse complex having more than four (4) dwelling units, the required minimum offset in the building line shall be three (3) feet. A row or grouping of townhouses shall not exceed two hundred fifty (250) feet in length.
(7)
Every townhouse lot shall have the required frontage on a public street.
(8)
a.
A minimum of two (2) paved off-street parking spaces shall be provided for each townhouse.
b.
Each lot shall have its own parking spaces with direct access to a public alley or street. Parking spaces and driveways are permitted in the front yard of a lot if a setback of fifty (50) feet is maintained and the front yard is properly landscaped as determined by the planning commission.
c.
The off-street parking provided for a townhouse may have direct access to an alley only if the alley has a minimum right-of-way width of thirty (30) feet.
(9)
Fire wall construction for a townhouse shall extend from the foundation to and through the roof. The wall shall be a twenty-four-inch fire wall extending four (4) feet beyond walls and roofs. The fire wall extension requirement will be maintained for future enlargement of the townhouse unit.
(Ord. No. 548, § 11.04, 1-8-01)
Sec. 22-155. - Preliminary review.
Preliminary review is an aid to both the developer and the city. Under this procedure, a developer provides the information which is described in section 22-156 and the planning commission and mayor and city council then act on the information provided. This review is intended to serve as a guide for the immediate inspection of the city officials, subject to a thorough study and analysis. Changes and additions which may have to be made before a mutual agreement is reached, can be made at such time, without excessive costs to the developer.
(Ord. No. 548, § 11.05, 1-8-01)
Sec. 22-156. - Procedure for preliminary approval.
An application in writing shall be submitted to the planning commission by the owner or the authorized representative for approval of a preliminary plan of any proposed development anticipated under the townhouse district provision of this chapter. Appropriate copies of the preliminary plan at a scale not more than one hundred (100) feet to the inch, showing the following, shall be submitted by the applicant.
(a)
The title under which the proposed development is to be recorded and the name of the present owner.
(b)
Names of owners of adjacent property.
(c)
A topographic map showing the general location of existing property lines, streets, alleys, buildings, easements, watercourses, and other physical site features which relate to the development.
(d)
All proposed uses of the property to be developed shall be indicated on the plan including landscaping.
(e)
The location and layout of all proposed residential units.
(f)
Date, North point and graphic scale.
The developer shall furnish to the planning commission a description of the type of residential building and number of units contemplated. Upon receiving approval of the preliminary plan, the developer may proceed to develop the final plan. No building permit shall be issued until approval of the final plan is reviewed by the planning commission and approved by the mayor and city council.
(Ord. No. 548, § 11.06, 1-8-01)
Sec. 22-157. - Procedure for final plan approval.
An application in writing shall be submitted by the owner or the authorized representative for approval of the final plan for any proposed development anticipated under the townhouse district of this chapter. Appropriate copies of the final plan, at a scale of not less than one hundred (100) feet to the inch, showing the following information shall be submitted with the application:
(a)
The title under which the proposed development is to be recorded, the legal description of the land to be developed, the name of the present owner, and the name and address of the technical author of the plan.
(b)
Names of adjacent property owners.
(c)
A topographic area map showing the location of existing property lines, with existing and proposed elevations, the adjoining street, alleys, buildings, drains, easements, watercourses, and other physical site features which relate to the development.
(d)
The proposed method of water supply, sewage disposal and storm drainage, and other engineering data required by the city council to clearly indicate the general design of said utility services. It shall be mandatory that the development use the city water and sewer services and that all streets in the development be paved.
(e)
The location and dimensions of lots, building lines, alleys, easements, parks and other public properties on the property to be developed.
(f)
All proposed uses of the property to be developed shall be indicated on the plan including landscaping.
(g)
Date, north point and graphic scale.
(h)
Proposed development restrictions and/or protective covenants to be imposed upon the property after development.
(i)
Bearings and distances of all courses of the exterior boundary of the proposed development and its area in areas to the third decimal place.
(Ord. No. 548, § 11.07, 1-8-01)
Sec. 22-158. - Rezoning of any property for townhouse development will follow established rezoning policies and procedures.
Additionally, no rezoning of property for townhouses will be effected until preliminary development plans have been reviewed and approved for the proposed site.
(Ord. No. 548, § 11.08, 1-8-01)
Sec. 22-159—22-170. - Reserved.
