Chapter 36 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[1]

Sec. 36.01 - Adoption of National Incident Management System (NIMS).
The Clay County Board of Commissioners hereby adopts the National Incident Management System (NIMS) as established under HSPD 5 and the Unified Command System as established under O.C.G.A. ยง 38-3-57 as its system of preparing for and responding to disaster incidents, and directs all incident managers and response organizations in Clay County, Georgia, train and exercise and use these systems in their response operations.
(Ord. No. 06-003, 2-21-2006)
Sec. 36.02 - Lower Chattahoochee Regional E-911 Authority.
(A)
The authority shall consist of nine members who shall be residents of Clay, Quitman, Randolph and Stewart Counties. Two of the members shall be appointed by the governing authority of Clay County for terms of office of four years each. Two of the members shall be appointed by the governing authority of Quitman County for terms of office of four years each. Two of the members shall be appointed by the governing authority of Randolph County for terms of office of four years each. Two of the members shall be appointed by the governing authority of Stewart County for terms of office of four years each. The eight members so appointed shall appoint a ninth member, who may be a resident of either Clay, Quitman, Randolph or Stewart County for a term of office of four years. Members of the authority shall serve the terms specified and until their respective successors are appointed and qualified; provided, however, that any member of the authority may be removed at any time by the governing authority which appointed such member, with or without cause. Any member of the authority may be selected and appointed to succeed himself or herself. The initial appointments shall be effective as of July 1, 2006. After such appointment, the members of such authority shall enter upon their duties. Any vacancy on the authority shall be filled in the same manner as was the original appointment of the member whose term of membership resulted in such vacancy and the person so selected and appointed shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term. The members of the authority shall be reimbursed for all actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties out of funds of the authority. The authority shall make rules and regulations for its own government. It shall have perpetual existence.
(B)
To be eligible for appointment as a member of the authority, a person shall satisfy the requirements of O.C.G.A. ยง 45-2-1.
(C)
The members of the authority shall in July of each year elect one of their number as chairperson. Also, the members of the authority shall elect one of their number as vice chairperson, and may also elect one of their number as vice chairperson, shall also elect one of their number as secretary, and may also elect one of their number as treasurer. The secretary may also serve as treasurer. Each of such officers shall serve for a period of one year and until their successors are duly elected and qualified. The chairperson of the authority shall be entitled to vote upon any issue, motion, or resolution.
(D)
A majority of the members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all of the rights and perform all of the duties of the authority.
(E)
A vacancy on the authority shall exist in the office of any member of the authority who is convicted of a felony or who enters a plea of nolo contendere, thereto; who is convicted of a crime involving mortal turpitude or who enters a plea of nolo contendere thereto; who moves such person's residence from Clay, Quitman, Randolph or Stewart County, who is convicted of any act of misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance of such person's duties as a member of the authority; or who fails to attend any regular or special meeting of the authority for a period of three months without an excuse approved by a resolution of the authority.
(Res. No. 06-009, 7-18-2006)
Sec. 36.03 - Predistaster hazard mitigation plan.
The Clay County Commission formally adopts the predisaster hazard mitigation plan completed by Clay County and its municipal governments pursuant to the federal requirements of the Disaster Mitigation Act of 2000.
(Res. No. 06-014, 8-15-2006)
