ARTICLE V. - FINANCE

Sec. 2-291. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the city government shall begin on July 1 and shall end on June 30 each year.
(Comp. Ords. 2005, § 3-501)
Sec. 2-292. - Proposed budget.
(a)
The various department heads shall, on or before April 15 of each year, submit to the city manager a budget request for their respective departments for the following fiscal year.
(b)
On or before May 15 of each year, the city manager shall submit to the mayor and council a proposed operating budget for the next fiscal year, showing separately for the general funds, each utility, and each other fund for the following:
(1)
The revenue and expenditure during the preceding fiscal year;
(2)
Appropriations and estimated revenue and recommended expenditures for the next fiscal year;
(3)
A comparative statement of the assets, liabilities, reserves and surplus at the end of the current fiscal year; and
(4)
Such other information and data as may be considered necessary by the mayor and council.
(Comp. Ords. 2005, § 3-502)
Sec. 2-293. - Action on budget.
Before the beginning of the ensuing fiscal year, the mayor and council shall adopt a budget ordinance, based on the city manager's proposed budget, with such modifications, as the mayor and council consider necessary or desirable. Amounts need not be in more detail than a lump sum for each department, office, and agency unless otherwise directed by the mayor and council. The mayor and council shall not make any appropriations in excess of estimated revenue, except to provide for an actual emergency threatening the health, property, or lives, safety or general welfare of the inhabitants of the city. If the mayor and council fail to adopt a budget ordinance before the beginning of the new fiscal year, the appropriations for the last fiscal year shall continue as the appropriations for the new fiscal year until a budget ordinance can be adopted.
(Comp. Ords. 2005, § 3-503)
Sec. 2-294. - Capital improvements budget.
On or before May 15 of each year, the city manager shall submit to the mayor and council a proposed capital improvements budget with his recommendations as to the means of financing such improvements. The mayor and council shall accept with or without amendments or reject the proposed program and proposed means of financing. The mayor and council shall not authorize an expenditure for the construction of any building, structure, work or improvement, unless the appropriations for such projects are included in the capital improvements budget, except to meet a public emergency threatening the lives, health or property of inhabitants, and passed by at least five members of the mayor and council. Such capital improvements budget may be revised and extended each year with regard to the capital improvements still pending or in the process of construction or acquisition. Before the beginning of the ensuing fiscal year, the mayor and council shall adopt an appropriations ordinance based on the proposed capital improvements budget, with such modifications as the mayor and council consider necessary or desirable. No appropriation provided for in the capital improvements budget shall lapse until the purpose for which the appropriation was made shall have been accomplished or abandoned; provided the city manager may submit amendments to the capital improvements budget at any time during the fiscal year. Any such amendments to the capital improvements budget shall become effective only upon adoption by a majority vote of the mayor and council.
(Comp. Ords. 2005, § 3-504)
Sec. 2-295. - Annual audit.
The mayor and council shall employ a certified public accountant to make an annual audit of all financial books and records of the city. The accountant shall file his report with the mayor and council and shall prepare a summary of the report, which shall be furnished or made available to the mayor and every councilmember.
(Comp. Ords. 2005, § 3-505)
Sec. 2-296. - Financial statement.
The mayor and council shall cause to be published within six months after the close of each fiscal year, in accordance with state law, a general balance sheet and statement of revenues and expenditures showing all municipal accounts as of the close of such preceding fiscal year.
(Comp. Ords. 2005, § 3-506)
Sec. 2-297. - Compliance with state fiscal requirements.
The mayor, council, city manager, city clerk and city auditor shall ensure that the city is in compliance with all state and federal financial accounting requirements to the best of their knowledge.
(Comp. Ords. 2005, § 3-507)
Secs. 2-298—2-327. - Reserved.
