ARTICLE II. - CITY COUNCIL
CHAPTER 1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 2-101. - City council.
(a)
The governing authority of the City of Manchester shall consist of a city council to be composed of four (4) councilmembers and a mayor to be elected as provided in this act and henceforth, any reference in this Charter to a board of commissioners, its members, or chairman shall be deemed to refer to the city council and mayor.
(b)
For the purpose of electing members of the council, the City of Manchester shall be divided into two (2) districts to be known as the North Precinct and the South Precinct. The dividing line between the North and South Precincts shall be as follows: Begin at the intersection of the Wrightsville Road (the Old Woodbury Road) with the North line of the City Limits of Manchester and proceed in a Southeasterly direction along the Wrightsville Road (the Old Woodbury Road) to its intersection with Johnson Avenue; thence proceed West and South along Johnson Avenue to its intersection with Washington Street; thence proceed East along Washington Street to its intersection with Georgia Highway 190, also known as State Route Number 85; thence proceed South along Georgia Highway 190 to its intersection with the Southernmost track of the Seaboard Coastline Railroad, also known as CSX Railroad, thence proceed in a Westerly and Northerly direction along the right-of-way of the Seaboard Coastline Railroad to the intersection of said right-of-way with the Northwest corner of the city limits of the City of Manchester. All portions of the City lying South of the previously described line shall lie in the South Precinct and all portions lying North of said line shall lie in the North Precinct.
(c)
Two (2) members shall be elected from each district. Each district shall have two (2) election posts to be known as Post Number One and Post Number Two. To qualify as a candidate to be elected from a district the candidate must reside in the district from which the candidate offers and shall be in all other respects qualified to hold public office. Only the qualified electors of a district shall be entitled to vote for candidates seeking membership on the council from such district. Election of a member from a district shall be solely by the qualified members who reside in such district.
(d)
The fifth member of the city council shall be elected from the city at large and shall serve as the mayor.
(Ga. L. 1962, p. 2244, § 1; Ga. L. 1963, p. 2779, § 1; Ga. L. 1988, p. 4758, § 2; Ga. L. 1989)
Section 2-102. - Election required; residence required.
The said councilmen shall be elected by the qualified voters of said city, and shall be citizens of said city and shall have resided in said city for at least two (2) years next before taking office.
(Ga. L. 1923, p. 739, Sec. 4)
Section 2-103. - Terms of office; elections; vacancies.
(a)
(1)
Those members of the city council in office on the effective date of this section shall serve out the terms to which they were elected.
(2)
On the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November 2015, successors to the members of the city council shall be elected. The person elected as mayor and the councilmembers elected to fill Post 2 in each district shall serve for initial terms of four years and until their respective successors are elected. The councilmembers elected to fill Post 1 in each district shall serve initial terms of two years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. The persons so elected shall take office on January 1, 2016.
(3)
Successors to the mayor and councilmembers shall be elected on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November immediately preceding the end of their respective terms of office. Such successors shall take office on January 1 immediately following their election and shall serve terms of office of four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
(b)
In the event that a member moves his or her residence from the district the member represents, that position on the city council shall immediately become vacant. Vacancies on the council created by death, by resignation, or otherwise shall be filled in accordance with Section 16 [section 2-109] of the City Charter.
(c)
In the event that a member moves his residence from the district the member represents, that position on the city council shall immediately become vacant. Vacancies on the city council due to death, resignation, or otherwise shall be filled by a special election held in accordance with the requirements of chapter 3 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the Georgia Municipal Election Code.
(Ga. L. 1962, p. 2244, § 4; Ga. L. 1963, p. 2779, § 4; Ga. L. 1988, p. 4758, § 4; Ga. L. 1999, pg. 3668, § 1; Ga. L. (Act. No. 384) 2014, p. 3789; Ga. L. (Act No. 445) 2016, p. 3692)
Section 2-104. - Reserved.
Editorial note: This section, though not specifically repealed, has been superseded by sections 2-103 and 2-201 of the Charter as amended by Ga. Laws 1988, p. 4757.
Section 2-105. - Mayor; member's compensation.
Each of said councilmembers shall receive a salary of three hundred and twenty-three and 50/100 dollars ($323.50) per month. The mayor shall receive a salary of four hundred and four and 58/100 dollars ($404.58) per month.
(Ga. L. 1923, p. 739, Sec. 7; Ord. of 4-28-2003)
Editor's note— Pursuant to the city's instruction, the salary amounts were changed to read as hereinabove set out.
Section 2-106. - Mayor's duties; mayor pro tem.
(a)
The power and authority of the mayor, as such, shall be limited to routine presiding at all meetings of the city council for the City of Manchester at which he may be present, and to the preservation of order at the same, under such rules and regulations as the council shall by ordinance or resolution, from time to time, prescribe; and the said mayor shall perform such other duties and functions as the said council shall, from time to time, ordain or resolve.
(b)
The councilmen shall elect a mayor pro tem who, in the absence, sickness or disqualification of the mayor shall be clothed with the same power and authority, and perform the same duties and functions, as vested in and imposed upon the mayor as aforesaid.
(Ga. L. 1923, p. 739, Sec. 10 as amended by Ga. L. 1933, p. 1033; Ga. L. 1962, p. 2422)
Section 2-107. - Procedure for ordinances; quorum.
(a)
Whenever any legislation shall be proposed, it shall be reduced to writing and brought before the mayor and council in the form of an ordinance. Ordinances shall be duly adopted by reading the short title thereof, by motion, and affirmative vote by a majority of the council. In considering an ordinance, the council shall have the authority to approve or disapprove, or amend the same. Ordinances shall become effective immediately unless a different date is established therein.
(b)
The quorum of the city council for the City of Manchester shall consist of three (3) of the said councilmen. For the purposes of this section, the mayor shall count as a councilman.
(Ga. L. 1923, p. 739, Sec. 11 as amended by Ga. L. 1962, p. 2244, Sec. 2; Ga. L. 1963, p. 2779, Sec. 2; Ord. of 8-11-2003)
Editorial note: Subsection (a) above was originally Sec. 11 of Ga. L. 1923, p. 739. The last sentence thereof set the quorum at two (2) when there were three (3) councilmen. Ga. L. 1962, p. 2244, Sec. 2 and Ga. L. 1963, p. 2779, Sec. 2 impliedly repealed the last sentence of the original act and superseded it with subsection (b) above. Subsequently, the last sentence of subsection (b) was added at the city's instruction.
Section 2-108. - Meetings; minutes; votes; extra meetings.
The said council shall meet at least once each month at stated periods; shall keep minutes of their proceedings, and shall record all of their actions thereon. All votes shall be taken by "aye" and "nay" and shall appear in the minutes. The council shall be required to meet at such times and as often in extra meetings as any two (2) of councilmembers or the mayor may designate of call.
(Ga. L. 1923, p. 739, Sec. 16, Sentences 2, 3 and 4; Ord. of 6-9-2003)
Editorial note: See note following Sec. 2-109.
Section 2-109. - Vacancies; special elections.
Unless otherwise provided for by O.C.G.A. § 36-30-13, a vacancy in the office of the mayor or any member of the city council shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, as follows: (1) if the vacancy occurs and there are more than 18 months remaining in the term of office of the seat vacated, then such vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term of office at a special election held in accordance with Georgia law; (2) if the vacancy occurs and there are 18 or fewer months remaining in the term of office of the seat vacated, then the remaining members of the city council shall, by majority vote of those present and voting, select a qualified person to serve the remainder of the unexpired term.
(Ga. L. 1923, p. 739, Sec. 16, Sentences 6 and 7; Ga. L. (Act No. 445) 2016, p. 3692)
Editorial note: Secs. 2-108, 2-109, 3-103 and 4-201 were derived from Ga. L. 1923, p. 739, Sec. 16. Sentence number 5 in that original section established a mayor pro tem appointed by the mayor which was impliedly repealed and superseded by provisions codified at Sec. 2-106(b) establishing a mayor pro tem.
CHAPTER 2. - ELECTION AND REMOVAL

Section 2-201. - Election rules and regulations.
All general, primary, runoff and special elections of the City of Manchester shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 3 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Municipal Election Code."
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 6C as amended by Ga. L. 1965, p. 3065 and Ga. L. 1968, p. 2107; Ga. L. 1988, p. 4758, § 4)
Section 2-202. - Majority election required; runoff elections.
(a)
From and after the passage and approval of this act, no candidate for any office of the City of Manchester shall be declared elected and be eligible to serve unless such candidate shall receive a number of votes equal to or greater than a majority of the whole number of electors voting in such election, as determined by the voter's list of such election.
(b)
In the event that at any election or runoff one or more of the offices to be filled shall fail for want of such majority, a runoff election shall be held therefor as hereinafter provided; and in such runoff election only those unsuccessful candidates equal in number to twice the number of offices remaining to be polled, and who have received the highest plurality therefor, shall be eligible as candidates in such runoff election.
(c)
In the event runoff elections become necessary the governing authority of the City of Manchester then serving shall continue in office and shall call such runoff elections at two week intervals until all of their successors shall have been elected and qualified.
(Ga. L. 1923, p. 739, Secs. 6A, 6B, 6D as amended by Ga. L. 1965, p. 3065)
Section 2-203. - Campaign crimes.
(a)
No candidate for councilman shall, before going into office, solicit votes for himself or others, or promise any person to appoint him to office or promise to vote for such person or any other person to any office or agency or employment under the city. For a violation of this provision the candidate for councilman shall be liable to be punished under conviction as for a misdemeanor, the punishment to be defined by Criminal Code of Georgia, section 1065.
(b)
Any person by offering money or other things of value, or by use of intoxicating liquors or by promise of employment or office, or by any method now or hereafter declared criminal when such method is used to influence votes in elections of this State, undertake to influence or procure any person to sign the book calling for a recall election or initiative or referendum election, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished, upon conviction thereof, as provided for in the Criminal Code of Georgia for the punishment of misdemeanors under section 1065. Any person signing said book who is not entitled to sign the same, and any person who signs the name of, or impersonates any other person, shall be likewise punished upon conviction.
(Ga. L. 1923, p. 739, Secs. 19 and 20)
Section 2-204. - Oath.
(a)
The city council so elected shall go before some officer of Meriwether County who is authorized to administer oaths and take the oath heretofore prescribed for the mayor of said city, and then will be fully qualified to discharge the duties prescribed by this act, until their successors are elected and qualified.
(b)
On the Monday following the second Wednesday in each year the persons elected to the offices of mayor and councilmen, or to the office of councilman, shall appear at the council chamber in said city and take and subscribe before some judicial officer, or the mayor of said city, then in office, the following oath: "I do solemnly swear that I will well and truly perform the duties of mayor (or councilman, as the case may be), of the City of Manchester, to the best of my skill and ability, and as to me shall seem to the best interest and welfare of said city, without fear, favor or affection, so help me God." And they shall forthwith enter upon the discharge of the duties of their office. The mayor and councilmen herein named shall take said oath and enter upon their duties immediately upon the passage of this act.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 7 and Ga. L. 1923, p. 739, Sec. 23)
Editorial note: The oath described in (a) above is set out in (b) above.
Section 2-205. - Impeachment.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that in the event the mayor, councilman, or any other officer of said city shall, while in office, be guilty of malpractice, wilful neglect in office or abuse of the powers conferred upon him, or shall be guilty of any other conduct unbecoming his station, he shall be subject to be impeached by the council of said city and upon conviction shall be removed from office as provided for by ordinance.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 54 as amended by Ga. L. 1917, p. 747, Sec. 4)
CHAPTER 3. - POWERS, DUTIES AND LIMITATIONS

Section 2-301. - General grant of power.
In said council shall be vested all the powers heretofore vested in the Mayor or the Mayor and Council of the City of Manchester, Georgia, or in any commission of said city except the commission or board of tax assessors and the commission or board of "sinking funds." It shall have full authority to pass ordinances, levy taxes, make appropriations, fix licenses and do all other things and acts heretofore granted to the mayor and council of said city.
(Ga. L. 1923, p. 739, Sec. 8)
Section 2-302. - Other authority from prior miscellaneous commissions.
The said councilmen are hereby vested with all the powers, rights and authorities granted the city council of light, water, sewers or any other commission as provided in the act creating said City of Manchester, Georgia, approved on August 16th, 1909, and all acts amendatory thereto, except the commission or board of tax assessors and the commission or board of sinking funds.
(Ga. L. 1923, p. 739, Sec. 5)
Section 2-303. - Employee's insurance.
Said City of Manchester, through its governing authority, shall have full power and authority to provide group or other insurance for the benefit or protection of its employees, and shall have full power and authority to collect from its employees, for remittance to insurance companies, premiums for such insurance benefits or protection, and said city shall have full power and authority to contribute from the funds of said city any part of the premiums for such insurance benefits or protection. The word "employees" as used in this section may include all persons performing services for said city, whether or not they are receiving salaries or other compensation.
(Ga. L. 1923, p. 739, Sec. 26 as amended by Ga. L. 1962, p. 2396)
Section 2-304. - Official's liability for action.
Any officer of the City of Manchester who may be sued for any act or thing done or performed in his official capacity may be justified under the provisions of the charter of said city, amendments thereto and ordinances passed in pursuance thereof, and the same shall be a full defense to any action brought against such officer for any act or acts done or performed under and in accordance with the provisions of the said charter, amendments thereto and ordinances passed in pursuance thereof.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 53 as amended by Ga. L. 1917, p. 747, Sec. 4)
Section 2-305. - Health regulations.
The mayor and council of said city shall have the power and authority to enact ordinances for the purpose of preventing the spread of contagious and infectious diseases, to declare and maintain quarantine regulations against such diseases, and to punish violations of any of the quarantine regulations. The said city shall have the power and authority to build or establish a pesthouse within and beyond the corporate limits of said city and for this purpose may buy, hold, condemn, lease, or receive real estate within and beyond the corporate limits of said city. The said mayor and council shall have the power to compel the removal to the pesthouse of any person who has the smallpox or any contagious or infectious disease when in their judgment it is best for the welfare and health of the said city. They shall have power to compel all persons to be vaccinated, whether they be permanent residents or sojourners, and may provide vaccination points and employ physicians at the expense of the said city to vaccinate all persons who are unable to procure said vaccination, and may pass necessary ordinances to enforce the provisions of this section.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 51 as amended by Ga. L. 1917, p. 747, Sec. 4)
Section 2-306. - Investigation power.
The mayor and council of said city are hereby empowered and authorized, by themselves or through a committee, to examine into the working of the business of any office or employee of said city, and the said mayor and council may investigate the conduct of any officer or employee of said city, either by themselves or through a committee, and, to properly conduct said examination or investigation, shall have the power to send for the person or papers of such officer or employee and compel their attendance upon said examination or investigation; swear witnesses and compel the production of books and papers of all other persons as they may deem necessary in said examination or investigation.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 52 as amended by Ga. L. 1917, p. 747, Sec. 4)
Section 2-307. - Authority for municipally owned utilities; condemnation; extraterritorial power.
The said City of Manchester shall have the power and authority to contract for and purchase lands, easements, riparian rights, rights of way, water, water rights, watercourse or watercourses, or any part of such waters and all other rights in property, real and personal, to be used in the construction, erection, extension, use and maintenance of waterworks, lighting, gas, heating, power, sewerage systems and all other public utilities, which power shall extend to lands, easements, riparian rights, rights of way, water, water rights, watercourse, watercourses, or any part of such waters and all other rights in property, real and personal, either within or beyond the corporate limits of said city; and the said city for the same purposes shall have the power to condemn lands, easements, riparian rights, rights of way, water, water rights, watercourse, watercourses, or any part of such waters and all other rights in property, real and personal, for such distances and in such directions, either within or beyond the corporate limits of said city as the mayor and council may determine to properly construct, install, maintain, use and operate said waterworks, lighting, gas, heating, power, sewerage system and all other public utilities. And the said City of Manchester shall have the power and authority to rent, lease, assign, sell and convey any and all property, real and personal, within and beyond the limits of said city, which the said city may receive, own or acquire. The said City of Manchester shall have the power, right, easement and franchise of laying, constructing, erecting, extending and maintaining its mains, pipes, conduits, drains, poles, wires and all other equipment for waterworks, lighting, gas, heating, power, sewerage systems, and all other public utilities along, in, on, through, above, under, and across the highways of the Counties of Meriwether and Talbot without cost; and shall have full power and authority to enact and enforce such rules, regulations and ordinances as the mayor and council of said city may deem necessary to protect the water basin and watershed from contamination; and protect the said waterworks, lighting, gas, heating, power, sewerage system and all other public utilities, including the mains, pipes, conduits, drains, poles, wires and all other equipment, whether the same may be within or beyond the corporate limits of said city by ordinance, and punish violations of the same. The said City of Manchester shall have the power to operate waterworks, lighting, gas, heating, power, sewerage systems and all other public utilities within and beyond the corporate limits of said city, and to sell, furnish, and deliver water, lighting, gas, heating, power and any and all other substances, products, articles and commodities of what kind soever, owned, made, manufactured, produced, bought, handled, received, or acquired by the said City of Manchester, within and beyond the corporate limits of said city, collect for same, and make contracts therefor.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 38 as amended by Ga. L. 1917, p. 747, Sec. 3)
Section 2-308. - Use of water for municipal utilities.
The said City of Manchester shall have the power to use and employ for use in connection with its waterworks, lighting, gas, heating, power, sewerage system and all other public utilities any stream or streams of water, watercourse or watercourses or any part of such waters, within or beyond the corporate limits of said city which the mayor and council of said city may deem necessary; to use said waters by employing the same for power to run or move machinery, or for pumping through the water mains and distributing over the said city and for other purposes, making compensation therefor, and the said City of Manchester shall have the power to condemn any and all property, real and personal, as the mayor and council of said city may deem necessary for the purpose set forth herein.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 57 as amended by Ga. L. 1917, p. 747, Sec. 4)
Section 2-309. - Condemnation of unsafe buildings.
The mayor and council of said city are hereby authorized and empowered to condemn any building within the fire limits of said city when in their judgment it becomes necessary for the health and safety of the inhabitants of said city, and when such building has been condemned the owner thereof shall be given the privilege of destroying or removing same beyond the said fire limits, and if he fails or refuses to do so within a reasonable length of time, the mayor and council of said city shall have the same removed, destroyed, or disposed of at the expense of the owner thereof, for which execution may be issued against the said owner.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 56 as amended by Ga. L. 1917, p. 747, Sec. 4)
Section 2-310. - Motor vehicle regulation.
The mayor and council of said city shall have the power to control and regulate the running and operating of all street cars, vehicles and all power-driven machines and to prevent all noises emanating or arising from any source or cause whatsoever which may disturb the peace and comfort of any person within the corporate limits of said city, and to pass all ordinances necessary to carry out the provisions of this section, and punish violations of the same.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 55 as amended by Ga. L. 1917, p. 747, Sec. 4)
Section 2-311. - General condemnation power.
The said City of Manchester is hereby authorized and empowered to condemn land for the erection of public buildings for said city, for parks, schools, fire or police uses and needs, and any and all other public purposes, within and beyond the corporate limits of said city in the manner provided by law for the condemnation of land for public use.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 58 as amended by Ga. L. 1917, p. 747, Sec. 4)
Section 2-312. - Authority for municipal ice factory; limitations.
The said City of Manchester shall have the power to build, equip, construct, install, maintain, use and operate an ice factory and cold storage plant in connection with its waterworks and power plants for the purpose of supplying the demand for ice and cold-storage service within and beyond the corporate limits of said city; make contracts and collect for same; and make deliveries within and beyond the limits of said city; providing same has been ratified by a majority of all votes cast at an election for that purpose.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 60 as amended by Ga. L. 1917, p. 747, Sec. 4)
Section 2-313. - Authority to grant franchises; limitation.
The mayor and council of said city shall have the power and authority to grant franchises, easements and rights of way in, through, across, above, under, over, and on the public streets, lanes, alleys, sidewalks, parks and all other property of said city upon such terms and conditions as they may fix; provided, that franchises shall not be granted for a period longer than 30 years, nor without compensation to said city, to be provided for by ordinance.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 61 as amended by Ga. L. 1917, p. 747, Sec. 4)
Section 2-314. - Zoning power; authority outside city.
(a)
The councilmen of said City of Manchester, in the interest of the public health, safety, order, convenience, comfort, prosperity and general welfare of said city may, and they are hereby granted the power and authority, to adopt by ordinance and laws a plan or plans for the distributing or the zoning of the said city for the purpose of regulating the location of trades, industries, apartment houses, hotels, dwellings, or other uses of property, or for the purpose of regulating the height of buildings or other structures, or the area of [or] dimensions of the lots or of the yards used in connection with buildings or other structures, or for the purpose of regulating the alignment of buildings or other structures near street frontages. The zoning regulations may be based upon any one or more of all of the purposes above described. The city may be divided into such number of zones or districts and such districts may be of such shape and area as the councilmen shall deem best suited to accomplish the purpose of the zoning regulation.
(b)
The councilmen of said city shall have the further right and power, in any district proposed to be set aside for residence purposes, to further classify the use thereof and the class or classes of residence, and to provide therein such other and further regulations and restrictions as shall secure the peace and good order of the city and residents thereof.
(c)
The said councilmen shall, upon zoning said city, make a map or plat of said city showing distinctly and plainly the zones, which said map shall be kept of [on] file in the office of the clerk of said city and be subject to public inspection.
(d)
Said councilmen may from time to time amend or change the regulations or districts established by the zoning ordinance upon their own motion or upon petition.
(e)
The said councilmen shall have the right, power, and authority to appoint, if they see fit, a commission to lay off and zone said city; and shall have the right and power to pass all laws and ordinances necessary to the carrying into effect these zoning regulations.
(f)
Any person dissatisfied within a zone as laid off by said councilmen or its authority in which said person is interested may appear before said councilmen and file his objections stating clearly and fully to what zone or zones he objects to and his reasons therefor. Upon the filing of said objections said councilmen shall give said party or parties a hearing thereon, and in the event said party or parties are dissatisfied with the ruling and findings of said councilmen, then said party or parties shall have the right to certiorari said findings or rulings under the same rule and regulations as now required by law in other cases to the superior court.
(g)
In order to better promote the safety, good order, peace and comfort of said city, the police powers of said city are hereby extended two (2) miles in every direction beyond the present limits of said city.
(Ga. L. 1924, p. 663)
Section 2-315. - Definitions.
(a)
In this act [sections 2-315 to 2-330] the term "municipality" means the City of Manchester, Georgia.
(b)
"Governing body" means the city council of the City of Manchester.
(c)
The words "improve and improvement" include the grading, regarding [,] paving, repaving, macadamizing, and remacadamizing of streets, alleys, sidewalks, or other public places or ways and the construction, reconstruction and altering of curbing, guttering, storm sewers, sanitary sewers, turnouts, water mains and water [,] gas or sewer connections therein.
(d)
The word "streets" includes streets, avenues, alleys, sidewalks, and other public places or ways.
(e)
The word "pave" shall include storm and sanitary drainage, paving, macadamizing, and grading.
(f)
"Frontage" means that side or limit of the lot or parcel of land in question which abutts [abuts] on the improvement.
(Ga. L. 1927, p. 1360, Sec. 1)
Section 2-316. - Authority to improve streets.
The governing body of the City of Manchester, shall be and is hereby authorized and empowered to improve any street or streets in such municipality whenever in the judgment of its governing body the public welfare or convenience may require such improvement, subject only to the conditions and limitations herein prescribed.
(Ga. L. 1927, p. 1360, Sec. 2)
Editorial note: Sections 2-315 to 2-330 appear to apply to the city only if the city wishes to assess the cost of street improvements to the abutting landowners.
Section 2-317. - Public notice required; protests.
Whenever the said governing body shall deem it necessary to improve any street or any part thereof either in length or width, within the limits of said municipality, said governing body shall by resolution declare such improvement necessary to be done and publish such resolution once a week for four (4) weeks in a newspaper having a general circulation in said municipality; and if the owners of a majority of the lineal feet of frontage of the lands abutting on said improvement shall not within 15 days after the last day of publication of such resolution file with the clerk of said city their protest in writing against such improvement, then said governing body shall have power to cause said improvement to be made and to contract therefor and to make assessments and fix liens as provided for herein. Any number of streets or any part or parts thereof to be so improved may be included in one resolution, but any protest or objection shall be made as to each street separately; provided, however, that if the owners of a majority of the lineal feet of frontage of the land liable to assessment for any such improvement shall petition the governing body for such improvement, citing this act and designating by a general description the improvement to be undertaken and the street or streets or part thereof to be improved it shall thereupon be the duty of said governing body to proceed as hereinafter provided to cause the said improvements to be made in accordance with the prayers of said petition and their own best judgment; and in such cases the resolution hereinbefore mentioned shall not be required. The petition shall be lodged with the clerk of the municipality who shall investigate the sufficiency thereof; submit the petition to the governing body and certify the result of his investigation. The determination of the governing body upon the sufficiency of the petition shall be final and conclusive.
(Ga. L. 1927, p. 1360, Sec. 3)
Section 2-318. - Assessments.
Each lot or parcel of land abutting upon said improvement shall be charged on the basis of lineal foot frontage at an equal rate per foot of such frontage with its just pro rata of the entire cost of said improvement less any amounts paid by street or steam railways or others; provided, however, that the cost of sidewalks, curbs and gutters shall be charged entirely to the lots or parcels of land abutting on that side of the street upon which the same are constructed. The frontage of intersecting streets shall be assessed as real estate abutting upon the improvement and the municipality for all purposes of this act shall be deemed to be owner thereof; and the mayor shall have authority to sign the petition or file objections provided for herein; and the governing body of the municipality shall pay in cash from the city treasury its just pro rata of the entire cost of said improvement, unless the owners of a majority of the aforesaid frontage in the petition hereinbefore provided for shall agree to pay the entire cost of said improvement, or unless in the resolution hereinbefore provided for, it shall be stated that the entire cost of the improvements is to be paid by the abutting property owners.
(Ga. L. 1927, p. 1360, Sec. 4)
Section 2-319. - Railroad tracks.
Any railroad or street railway having tracks running along a street at the time of the proposed improvement as provided herein shall be required by the governing body to pave the width of its track and two (2) feet on each side thereof with the same materials and in the same manner as the rest of the street is to be paved, and such work shall be performed under the supervision and subject to the approval of the city's engineer, and if such railway shall not within a period of 30 days after the receipt by such railway of the notice to do such work agree in writing to comply with such order; or if the work is not completed to the satisfaction of the city's engineer within such time as may be determined by the governing body, said governing body may have such work done and charge the cost and expense thereof to such railway company, to be paid by it in cash; and the same until paid shall constitute a lien against all of the property of such railway company located in the municipality and the said lien shall have the same rank and priority and shall be enforced in the same manner as the liens provided for in section 9 [section 2-323]. The governing body may in its discretion require such paving to be of a different material and manner of construction.
(Ga. L. 1927, p. 1360, Sec. 5)
Section 2-320. - Regulations; pipes.
Whenever the petition provided for in section three (3) [section 2-317] of this act is presented; or when the said governing body shall have determined to improve any street, and shall have passed the resolution provided for in said section three (3) [section 2-317] of this act, the said governing body shall then have the power to enact all ordinances and to establish all such rules and regulations as may be necessary to require the owners of all property abutting on the improvement to pay the cost of such improvement; and to cause to be put in and constructed all water, gas, or sewer pipe connections; to connect with any existing water, gas or sewer pipes in and underneath the streets where such improvement is to be made; and all cost and expense of making such connections shall be taxed solely against such property but shall be included and made part of the general assessment to cover the cost of such improvement.
(Ga. L. 1927, p. 1360, Sec. 6)
Section 2-321. - Contracts; bond; bids required.
After the expiration of the time for objection or protest on the part of the property owners, if no sufficient protest be filed, or on receipt of a petition for such improvement signed by the owners of a majority of the frontage of the land to be assessed if such petition shall be found to be in proper form and properly executed, the governing body shall adopt a resolution reciting that no such protest has been filed, or the filing of such a petition, as the case may be, and expressing the determination of said governing body to proceed with the said improvement, stating the kind of improvement and defining the extent, character and width of the same, and other such matters as may be necessary; to instruct the engineer employed by said municipality in the performance of his duties in preparing for such improvement the necessary plans, plots, profiles, specifications and estimates. Said resolution shall set forth any and all such reasonable terms and conditions as said governing body shall deem proper to impose with reference to the letting of the contract and the provisions thereof; and said governing body shall be [sic] said resolution provide that the contractor shall execute to the city a good and sufficient bond as provided in an act entitled "Contractors of Public Work Bonded," approved August 19, 1916, and may require a bond in an amount to be stated in such resolution for the maintenance of good condition of such improvements for a period of not less than five (5) years from the time of its completion or both, in discretion of said governing body. Said resolution shall also direct the clerk of said municipality to advertise for sealed proposals for furnishing the materials and performing the work necessary in making such improvements. The notice of such proposals shall be published in six (6) consecutive issues of a daily paper or two (2) of a weekly paper, having a general circulation in said municipality; and shall state the street or streets to be improved; the kinds of improvement proposed; what, if any, bond or bonds will be required to be executed by the contractor aforesaid; and shall state the time when and the place where such sealed proposals shall be filed and when and where the same will be considered by said governing body. At the time and place specified in such notice the governing body shall examine all bids received and without unnecessary delay award the contract to the lowest and best bidder, who will perform the work and furnish the materials which may be selected and perform all the conditions imposed by said governing body as prescribed in such resolution and notice for proposals, and the said governing body shall have the right to reject any and all bids and readvertise for other bids when the bids submitted are not in its judgment satisfactory.
(Ga. L. 1927, p. 1360, Sec. 7)
Section 2-322. - Board of appraisers; report; hearings; assessment payment.
(a)
After the said contract is let and the cost of such improvement, which shall also include all other expenses incurred by the city incident to said improvement in addition to the contract price for the work and materials, is ascertained, the said governing body shall by resolution appoint a board of appraisers consisting of three (3) members to appraise and apportion the cost and expense of the same to the several tracts of land abutting on said improvements as hereinbefore provided. Within 30 days from the date of the resolution appointing said board it shall file with the clerk of the municipality a written report of the appraisal and the assessment and apportionment in the manner and on the basis herein provided for such expense and cost herein provided for such expense and cost upon the several lots and tracts of land abutting on said street or upon the property of any street or steam railway whose tracks run along such street where such railway has failed or refused to do the paving provided herein when and as required by the governing body. When said report shall have been returned and filed, the said governing body shall appoint a time for the holding of a session or shall designate a regular meeting of their body for the hearing of any complaints or objections that may be made concerning the said appraisement, apportionment and assessment as to any such lots or tracts of land abutting on said improvement; and notice of such session for the said hearing shall be published by the clerk of the governing body once a week for four (4) weeks in a newspaper having a general circulation in said municipality, and said notice shall provide for an inspection of such return by any property owner or other party interested in such return. The time fixed for said hearing shall not be less than five (5) nor more than 10 days from the date of the last publication. The said governing body at said session shall have power, and it shall be its duty, to review and correct said appraisement, apportionment and assessment and to hear objections to the same, and to confirm the same either as made by said board or as corrected by said governing body.
(b)
The said governing body shall by ordinance fix the assessments in accordance with said appraisement and apportionment as to [sic] confirmed against the several tracts of land liable therefor; provided, however, that the rate of interest to be taxed shall not exceed one percent (1%) per annum over and above the rate of interest stipulated in the bonds herein provided for.
(c)
Assessment in conformity to said appraisement and apportionment as confirmed by said governing body shall be payable to the treasurer of said municipality in cash, and if paid within thirty (30) days from the date of the passage of said ordinance without interest; provided, however, that in the event the owner of the land or of any street railway so assessed shall within thirty (30) days from the passage of the ordinance making the assessment final, file with the clerk of said municipality his or its written request asking that the assessment be payable in installments in accordance with the provisions hereof the same shall thereupon be and become payable in 10 equal annual installments and shall bear interest at the rate of not exceeding seven percent (7%) per annum until paid, and each installment, together with the interest on the entire amount remaining unpaid shall be payable in each year at such time and place as shall be provided by resolution of the governing body.
(Ga. L. 1927, p. 1360, Sec. 8)
Section 2-323. - Lien of assessment.
Such special assessment and each installment thereof, and the interest thereon, and the expense of collection are hereby declared to be a lien against the lots and tracts of land so assessed from the date of the ordinance levying the same co-equal with the line [sic] of other taxes and prior to and superior to all other liens against such lots or tracts, and such lien shall continue until such assessment and interest thereon shall be fully paid and shall be enforced in the same manner as are the liens for city taxes.
(Ga. L. 1927, p. 1360, Sec. 9)
Section 2-324. - Street improvement bonds.
(a)
The said governing body after the expiration of 30 days from the passage of said ordinance confirming and levying said assessment, shall by resolution provide for the issuance of bonds in the aggregate amount of such assessments remaining unpaid, bearing date not more than 15 days after the passage of the ordinance fixing the said assessment and of such denominations as the said governing body shall determine, which bond or bonds shall in no event become a liability of the municipality or of the governing body of the municipality issuing same. One-tenth ( 1/10 ) in amount of any such series of bonds with the interest upon the whole series to date shall be payable on such day and at such place as may be determined by the governing body, and one-tenth ( 1/10 ) thereof with the yearly interest upon the whole amount remaining unpaid shall be payable on the same day in each succeeding year until all shall be paid. Such bonds shall bear interest at a rate not exceeding six (6) percent per annum from their date until maturity payable annually, and shall be designated as "street improvement bonds" and shall on the face thereof recite the street or streets, part of street or streets or other public places for the improvement of which they have been issued and that they are payable solely from assessments which have been fixed upon the lots or tracts of land benefited by said improvement under authority of this act. Said bonds shall be signed by the mayor and attested by the clerk of the governing body and shall have the impression of the corporate seal of such municipality thereon and shall have interest coupons attached and all bonds issued by authority of this act shall be payable at such place either within or without the State of Georgia, as shall be designated by said governing body.
(b)
Said bonds shall be sold by said governing body at not less than par, and the proceeds thereof applied to the payment of the contract price and other expenses incurred pursuant to the provisions of this act; or such bonds in the amount that shall be necessary for that purpose may be turned over and delivered to the contractor at par value in payment of the amount due him on his contract, and the portion thereof which shall be necessary to pay other expenses incident to and incurred in providing for said improvements, shall be sold or otherwise disposed of as the said governing body shall direct. Any proceeds from the sale of said bonds remaining in the hands of the treasurer after the payments hereinbefore provided for shall go into the treasury of the municipality as compensation for the services to be rendered by it as contemplated herein.
(c)
Said bonds shall be registered by the clerk of the municipality in a book provided for that purpose and certificates of registration by said clerk shall be endorsed upon each of said bonds.
(Ga. L. 1927, p. 1360, Sec. 10)
Section 2-325. - Collection of assessments.
(a)
The assessment provided for and levied under the provisions of this act [sections 2-315 to 2-330] shall be payable as the several installments become due, together with interest thereon to the treasurer of the municipality, who shall keep an accurate account of all such collections by him made and such collections shall be kept in a special fund to be used and applied for the payment of such bonds and the interest thereon and expenses incurred incident thereto, and for no other purpose until all of said bonds are paid in full, and said treasurer shall give bond in amount to be fixed by the governing body, conditioned upon the faithful performance by him of the duties imposed herein.
(b)
It shall be the duty of said treasurer not less than thirty (30) days and not more than fifty (50) days before the maturity of any installment of such assessments, to publish at least one (1) time in a newspaper having a general circulation in said municipality, a notice advising the owner of the property affected by such assessment of the date when such installment and interest will be due, and designating the street or streets or other public places for the improvement of which such assessments have been levied, and that unless the same shall be promptly paid, proceedings will be taken to collect said installment and interest.
(Ga. L. 1927, p. 1360, Sec. 11)
Section 2-326. - Time limit for suit.
No suit shall be sustained to set aside any such assessment or to enjoin the said governing body from making or fixing or collecting the same or issuing or levying executions therefor, or issuing such bonds or providing for their payment as herein authorized or contesting the validity thereof on any ground or for any reason, other than for the failure of the governing body to adopt and publish the preliminary resolution provided for in section three (3) [section 2-317] of this act in cases requiring such resolution and its publication, or to give the notice of the hearing of the return of the appraisers as herein provided for unless such suit shall be commenced within thirty (30) days after the passage of the ordinance making such assessment final; provided that in the event any special assessment shall be found to be invalid or insufficient in whole or in part for any reason whatsoever, the said governing body may at any time in the manner provided for the making of an original assessment proceed to cause a new assessment to be made and fixed which shall have like force and effect as an original assessment.
(Ga. L. 1927, p. 1360, Sec. 12)
Section 2-327. - Assessment from county.
Whenever the abutting land owners of any street of said municipality petition the said governing body as herein set out, or said governing body pass the resolution provided for in section three (3) [section 2-317] of this act for the improvement of any street where the county is the owner of property on said street, and the governing body of such county has assented to the proposed improvement and has provided funds to pay in cash its proportionate part of the cost of said improvement, the frontage so owned is to be counted as if owned by an individual for all the purposes of this act and the chairman of the board of commissioners of such county is authorized to sign the aforesaid petition or file objections in behalf of the county.
(Ga. L. 1927, p. 1360, Sec. 13)
Section 2-328. - Interpretation of act.
This act [sections 2-315 to 2-330] shall not be construed to repeal any special or local law or affect any proceedings under such for the making of improvements hereby authorized or for the raising of funds therefor, but shall be deemed to be additional and independent legislation for such purposes and to provide an alternative method of procedure for such purposes and to be a complete act not subject to any limitation or restriction contained in any other public or private law or laws except as herein otherwise provided.
(Ga. L. 1927, p. 1360, Sec. 14)
Section 2-329. - Partial cost assessment authorized.
Where the municipality desires to pay any portion of the cost of the improvements contemplated herein, in addition to the amounts hereinbefore provided for, the balance may be assessed against the abutting property or the owners thereof, or the owners of any street or steam railway therein as hereinbefore provided for.
(Ga. L. 1927, p. 1360, Sec. 15)
Section 2-330. - Court validation authorized.
(a)
Any time within sixty (60) days after the assessments are finally determined and fixed as hereinbefore provided for, it shall be lawful for the municipality to file a petition in the superior court of the county in which the said municipality is situated, wherein shall be alleged the fact of the passage and approval of the ordinance, and a copy thereof; the street or part of a street affected thereby; the character of paving or other improvement intended, and the approximate estimate of the cost; said petition shall allege that the ordinance is authorized by law, and that it will create a lien on all real property abutting on such street or part of a street for the payment by the owner of each lot or parcel of land so abutting of the pro rata share of expense assessed to each said lot or parcel, as well as on any street or other railroad thereon, if any such there be, and shall pray for a judgment by the court declaring such ordinance valid, legal and binding and that the liens be set up as alleged.
(b)
It shall not be necessary in such petition to allege the names of the owners of the abutting property of railroads to be affected, but shall be sufficient to describe the street or portion thereof to be improved, and to indicate, as hereinbefore provided, that the property on said street is to be charged with the expense.
(c)
At or before the filing of such petition, the same shall be presented to the judge of said court, who shall thereupon pass an order calling upon all persons owning or interested in the real estate abutting on said street, or on the designated part thereof; or in lieu thereof to mail such notice within the time limits aforesaid to the owners of record of the property affected at their last known address. And it shall be the duty of said treasurer promptly within fifteen (15) days after the date of the maturity of any such installment or assessment or interest upon default or payment of such installment or assessment or interest, to issue an execution against the lot or tract of land assessed for such improvement or against the party or person owning the same for the amount of such assessment or interest and shall turn over the same to the marshal or chief of police of the municipality or his deputy, who shall levy the same upon the abutting real estate liable for such assessment and previously assessed for such improvements; and after the advertisement and other proceedings as in case of sales for city taxes, the same shall be sold at public outcry to the highest bidder, and such sales shall vest an absolute title in the purchaser subject to the lien of the remaining unpaid installments with interest, and also subject to the right of redemption as provided in Sections 880, 1169, 1170, 1171 and 1172 of the Code of Georgia of 1910; provided that the defendant shall have the right to file an affidavit denying that the whole or any part of the amount for which said execution is due; and stating what amount he admits to be due, which amount so admitted to be due shall be paid and collected before the affidavit is received, and the affidavit received for the balance. All affidavits (and the foregoing and following provisions shall apply to the railroads or street railways against whom execution shall be issued for the cost and expense of paving) shall set out in detail the reasons why the affidavit claims the amount is not due, and when received by the city marshal or chief of police shall be returned to the superior court of the county wherein the municipality is located and there be tried and the issue determined as in cases of illegality, subject to all the pains and penalties provided for in cases of illegality for delay under the Code of Georgia.
(d)
The failure of said treasurer or clerk to publish or mail said notice of maturity of any installment of said assessment and interest shall in no wise affect the validity of the assessment and interest [on] the execution issued therefor. [sic] to show cause at a time and place to be in said order named why the prayer of the petition should not be granted and the ordinance and assessment declared valid and the liens fixed as legal and binding, which time shall be not less than ten (10) nor more than thirty (30) days later, and either in term time or vacation, and either in open court or at chambers.
(e)
It shall thereupon be the duty of the clerk to publish once a week for four (4) weeks in the official organ of the county a statement of the case and a copy of said order.
(f)
At the time and place named, or at such other time and place as the hearing may be adjourned to, any person interested shall be heard to show cause in writing, which writing shall be filed with the clerk, why the prayer should not be granted.
(g)
The court shall hear all questions of law or fact, and all competent evidence may be offered as in other causes, and the court shall thereupon pass an appropriate order finding and adjudging that said ordinance is lawful and valid and said liens legal, and binding, or otherwise, as the law and facts may warrant.
(h)
The municipality or any person appearing, and who may be dissatisfied with said judgment, may within ten (10) days file a bill of exceptions and carry the matter up to the supreme court or the court of appeals, as the case may be, for review as in cases of interlocutory injunction.
(i)
If the final judgment of the superior court shall be in favor of the validity of the ordinance and of the liens claimed, the same shall be forever conclusive and said matters, so determined shall never be thereafter drawn in question in any court. Bonds issued under the provisions of this act after such judgment shall have written or stamped thereon the words "Validated and Confirmed by Judgment of the Superior Court" specifying also the date when such judgment was rendered, the court wherein it was rendered, which shall be signed by the clerk of said superior court, and said entry shall be original evidence of the fact of such judgment and receivable as such in any court of this state.
(Ga. L. 1927, p. 1360, Sec. 16)
Section 2-331. - Business licensing and taxation.
Said mayor and council shall have full power and authority to require any person, firm, company or corporation, whether a resident or nonresident of said city, engaged in or carrying on, or who may engage in, prosecute, or carry on any trade, business, calling, vocation or profession within the corporate limits of said city, by themselves or their agent or agents, to register their names and business, callings, vocation or profession annually, and to require such person, company or corporation to pay for such registration and for license to prosecute, carry on or engage in such business, calling or profession, such amount as the said mayor and council may by ordinance prescribe. Said mayor and council may provide by ordinance for the punishment of all persons, firms, companies or corporations required by ordinance to pay such occupation tax, or take out license for same, who engage in, or offer, or attempt to engage in, such business profession or occupation before paying such tax or taking out such license, or who fail to comply in full with all the requirements of the city and council made in reference thereto. Said mayor and council are hereby given authority to pass such ordinances as may be necessary or proper to carry the foregoing section [section 2-331] into effect; also to classify business and to arrange the various businesses, trades and professions carried on in said city, that may be taxable, into such classes of subjects for taxation as may be just and proper.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Secs. 22 and 23)
Section 2-332. - General business regulation authorized.
Said mayor and council shall have authority to regulate the opening and closing of all occupations, business and employments within said city, so as to provide at what hour each shall close and open, for the better preservation of the health, peace and good order of said city. Said mayor and council may classify the said businesses, occupations and employments, and make such regulations for each class as they deem best.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 24)
Section 2-333. - License for gaming places.
Said mayor and council shall have full power and authority to license billiard tables, pool tables and ten-pin alleys, and all billiard tables kept or used for the purpose of playing, gaming or renting, and all ten-pin alleys, nine-pin alleys of any kind, which are kept or used for the purpose of playing on with pins or balls, or either for the purpose of renting the same and to charge for said license such sum as they may by ordinance prescribe.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 25)
Section 2-334. - Amusement regulations.
Said mayor and council have power and authority to pass such ordinances as they may think proper in regard to granting or not granting license to theatrical companies or performances, or for shows or other exhibitions, and to fix the amount of such licenses by ordinance.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 26)
Section 2-335. - Pawnbrokers.
Said mayor and council shall have full power and authority to assess a tax on all persons carrying on a brokerage business, in addition to all other tax they may have to pay. They shall have power to license pawnbrokers in said city: define by ordinance their powers and privileges; and to revoke their license, impose taxes on them, and generally exercise such superintendence over pawnbrokers as will insure fair dealing between them and their customers.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 27)
Section 2-336. - Miscellaneous licensing.
The mayor and council of said city shall have full power and authority to license, regulate and control all markets in said city, all opera houses, livery stables, hacks, drays used for hauling of any kind and other vehicles used for hire, vender masters, auctioneers, itinerant traders, itinerant lightning rod dealers, emigrant agents, and agents of fire, accident or life insurance companies doing business in said city; clock and stove peddlers, peddlers of all kinds, itinerant dealers in jewelry, and all other travelling or itinerant venders of articles, wares or merchandise, except such as are excepted by the laws of this state. Also any person running a flying-jenny, flying horses, merry-go-round, bicycle or velocipede or skating rink; all solicitors or canvassers, selling goods, wares or merchandise by sample, at retail or to consumers; and all other establishments, businesses, callings or vocations which under the constitution and laws of this state are subject to license.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 28)
Section 2-337. - License penalties.
Said mayor and council may by ordinances provide for enforcing the provisions of sections 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27 and 28 [sections 2-331 to 2-336] of this act by prescribing penalties for those who may engage in, or attempt or offer to engage in, any of the callings, professions or businesses therein mentioned without first having taken out the license required by the law or without having registered, if that be required. Also to provide for the collections therefor, as executions are issued, levied and collected for ad valorem taxes. Said mayor and council shall have power and authority to revoke any license granted under the provisions of this charter, for any violation of the laws or ordinances regulating the granting or issuing of said licenses.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 29)
Section 2-338. - General police power.
The mayor and council of said city shall have full power and authority to pass all bylaws and ordinances respecting public buildings and grounds, workhouses, public houses, carriages, wagons, carts, drays, bicycles, pumps, wells, springs, fire engines, care of the poor, the supervision of disorderly houses, houses of ill fame, for the prevention and punishment of disorderly conduct and conduct liable to disturb the peace and tranquility of any citizen or citizens thereof; and any other bylaw, regulation and ordinance that they may deem proper for the security of the peace, health, order and good government of said city.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 30)
Section 2-339. - Sewerage regulation.
The mayor and council of said city shall have full power and authority to establish, construct and maintain, or to permit any person, company or corporation to construct and maintain, one or more systems of sewerage and drainage, or parts of such systems in said city, and around said city, for the health, cleanliness and comfort of its inhabitants; and the said mayor and council shall have entire and absolute control and jurisdiction over all said pipes, private drains and sewers, water closets, privies and the like in said city, with full power to prescribe the location, structure, uses and preservation, and to make such regulations concerning them in all particulars as may seem best for the preservation of the health of the inhabitants of said city; and with power also to require changes in, or the total discontinuance of, any such contrivances or structures in existence, or that may be hereafter allowed. When any system of sewerage or drainage shall be constructed by the said mayor and council, assessments may be made and executions may issue for the expense thereof under the same rules and governed by the same provisions as assessments and executions for paving, grading or improving streets under this charter, and said assessments shall be a lien on the property so assessed, as provided in this act for paving streets. And all the provisions in this charter in reference to making and enforcing assessments in paving streets and the amount thereof, shall apply insofar as they are applicable to constructing and maintaining sewers, and may be enforced by the mayor and council by appropriate ordinances.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 34)
Section 2-340. - Sewer connection regulation.
Said mayor and council shall have entire control of said sewers, and generally of all matters in connection therewith; they shall control connections with said sewers, and may compel connections therewith when in their judgment the good of said city demands it; they may cause said connections to be made, when the owners fail or refuse; and issue executions for the amount so expended, which executions shall be special liens on the property connected with said sewerage systems from the date of the order of connection.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 36)
Section 2-341. - General sewer, drainage and sanitation authority.
Said mayor and council may provide by ordinance for the execution of the provisions of these sections regarding sewers, drainage and sanitation, except as to the taking of private property for the construction of sewers by such boards, committees or officers, as they deem best.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 37)
Section 2-342. - Sanitary tax; limitations.
The mayor and council shall have full power and authority to make an assessment on the various lots of land and lot owners in said city for sanitary purposes, not to exceed two dollars ($2.00) per annum on each lot so assessed; and said mayor and council are hereby empowered to collect the same by execution against the lots so assessed and the owners thereof; the amount so assessed shall be a lien on the lot from the date of the assessment. The execution shall be issued and enforced in the same manner that tax executions are issued and enforced in said city. The amount so collected shall be used for sanitary purposes only. The said mayor and council shall have power and authority to prescribe what shall constitute a lot for sanitary purposes and assessment; provided, no residence lot shall be less than twenty-five (25) feet front, and no business lot less than ten (10) feet front: provided further, the assessments made under this section shall not be made on vacant lots, and residence lots shall not be subdivided for assessment.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 39)
Section 2-343. - Privies may be required.
Said mayor and council shall have full power and authority to require the owner of any improved property in said city to provide suitable privy or watercloset accommodations upon such improved premises, whenever in their judgment and in the opinion of the city physician such improvements are necessary to preserve the health or to protect the sanitary interests of citizens of any neighborhood within said city. The mayor and council are authorized to enforce the provisions of this section by appropriate ordinances.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 40)
Section 2-344. - Fire regulations; fire districts.
Said mayor and council may enact any and all ordinances, rules and regulations necessary to lay out a fire district in said city, and enlarge, change or modify its limits from time to time; to prescribe when, how and of what material buildings in said limits may be erected or covered; how thick the walls must be; and how chimneys, stove pipes and flues are to be constructed, and generally to do all such things as they may deem necessary to protect said city, so far as possible, from danger from fire, and prevent the spread of fire from one (1) building to another. They shall also have authority to order any changes in the construction or arrangement of chimneys, stove pipes or flues, or the removal thereof; when, in their judgment, the same are dangerous, or likely to become so, and make the owner of the premises pay expenses of such changes, which may be collected as taxes are now collected. And if any person, firm or corporation shall erect any building which is not in accordance with the laws and ordinances of said city, said mayor and council may order such building removed; and if such person, firm or corporation shall not remove such building after notice to do so, then said mayor and council shall have authority and power to remove the same at the expense of the owner, which expense may be collected by execution.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 41)
Section 2-345. - Nuisances.
Said mayor and council may by ordinance declare what shall be nuisances in said city, and provide for the abatement of the same. The mayor's court of said City of Manchester shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the mayor and council of said city in respect to the trial and abatement of all nuisances in said City of Manchester.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 42)
Editorial note: The last sentence in the section above has been superseded by general state law, Ga. Code Ann., Sec. 72-401.
Section 2-346. - Miscellaneous police powers.
Said mayor and council shall have full power and authority to prevent injury or annoyance to the public or individuals from anything dangerous, offensive or unwholesome; to protect places of divine worship, in and the premises where held; to regulate the keeping of gun powder, dynamite and other combustibles; to provide in or near said city places for burial of the dead, and regulate the interment therein; to provide for the drainage of lots in said city by proper drains, sewers and ditches; to make regulations guarding against danger or damage by fire; to protect the person or property of the citizens of said city; to regulate and control public meetings and public speaking in the streets of Manchester; and to prevent the obstruction of the streets of said city, or the gathering of disorderly crowds in said streets; and to enforce the provisions of this section by appropriate ordinances.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 43)
Section 2-347. - Alcoholic beverages.
Mayor and council shall, in the exercise of their police powers, have full power and authority to pass such ordinances as they may think proper to more effectually prohibit the illegal sale of spirituous, vinous, malt or intoxicating liquors within the corporate limits of the City of Manchester; and to that end may provide ordinances punishing any person or persons keeping in said city spirituous, vinous malt or intoxicating liquors for illegal sale; or ordinances punishing any person or persons who may purchase in said city any such liquors from any person or persons illegally selling, by himself or his agents, any of such liquors within the corporate limits of Manchester. The marshal or any policeman of said city shall have full power and authority to enter, and, if necessary, to break open and enter, any place in said city which the mayor and council may have reasonable cause to believe, or may suspect to be, a "blind tiger," or a place where spirituous, vinous, malt or intoxicating liquors are sold, and to seize the stock of such liquors and apparatus for selling the same. And said mayor and council, or the mayor of said city, shall have full power and authority to abate as a nuisance any place in said city which said mayor and council, or the said mayor, shall have reasonable cause to believe to be a "blind tiger," or place where spirituous, vinous, malt or intoxicating liquors are sold, and to arrest the offender or offenders; and upon conviction of any person for maintaining a nuisance, as above stated, and as a penalty for the same, said mayor and council, or said mayor, shall have full power and authority to cause the marshal or policemen of said city to seize and destroy the stock of liquors of such persons, and apparatus for selling the same; and to otherwise punish the offender or offenders as may be prescribed by ordinances. The said mayor and council shall have the right to prohibit or to license and regulate the sale of liquors commonly called "near beer." Said mayor and council shall have full power and authority, by appropriate ordinances, to carry into effect and enforce the provisions of this section.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 44)
