ARTICLE IV. - CITY ADMINISTRATION

Section 4-101. - City officers; appointment; oaths and duties; compensation; city expenditures.
(a)
At the first regular meeting of the mayor and council of said city after their election and qualification, they shall elect a city clerk, who shall be ex-officio treasurer, tax receiver, tax collector and clerk of the mayor's court of said City of Manchester; a marshal, chief of police, if they deem it necessary, and as many policemen as in the judgment of said mayor and council may be necessary; and such other officers as the mayor and council may deem necessary in the government of said city.
(b)
Each of said officers shall take such oaths, perform such duties and give such bonds as the mayor and council may by ordinance prescribe; provided, that all bonds of officers shall be made payable to the City of Manchester.
(c)
Said mayor and council shall have power and authority, and it shall be their duty, to fix salaries or compensation of said mayor and council, and all other officers, agents and employees of said city, which when once fixed shall not be diminished or increased during the term of office for which determined.
(d)
All officers of said city shall hold their offices at the pleasure of the mayor and council.
(e)
All expenditures of the mayor and council, and the compensation of the city officers, shall be paid out of the city funds by an order drawn by the city clerk and countersigned by the mayor, or in his absence, by the mayor pro tem.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 8)
Editorial note: The section above was amended by Ga. L. 1911, p. 1378 by adding a sentence at the end on the compensation for the mayor and council. This sentence was not codified here since it has been impliedly repealed and superseded by Section 2-105 of this code.
Section 4-102. - Secretary of council as city clerk.
The secretary of said council shall be the officer whose duties correspond now to the clerk of the city; the said officer may also be secretary of the city manager.
(Ga. L. 1923, p. 739, Sec. 16, Sentence 8)
Editorial note: See note after Section 2-109.
Section 4-103. - Secretary's duties in certain elections.
The secretary of the said council shall prepare a registration book for the purpose of receiving the signatures of the voters of said city to call a recall election. He shall in like manner keep books for the purpose of calling referendum and initiative elections. Said book or books shall be open at any time upon petition in writing signed by 100 citizens of the said city who are entitled to vote, which plainly and distinctly set forth the purpose and reason for such proposed election, together with the legislation proposed or opposed in due form, or the name of the officer to be recalled. In case a petition for recall election shall be filed and the books open, the said election shall be called by the mayor whenever forty (40) percent of the registered voters of said city shall in person go to the office where said book is kept, and within thirty (30) days from the opening of said book personally sign their names calling such election, but no recall election shall be held within four (4) months of the date when the officer whose recall is proposed began his term of office.
(Ga. L. 1923, p. 739, Sec. 17)
Editorial note: The section above contains language on recall elections which was originally provided in Ga. L. 1923, p. 739, Secs. 9 and 18. These last two provisions on recall were repealed by Ga. L. 1937-38, extra sess., p. 1204, Sec. 8 but the language codified above was not repealed.
Section 4-104. - City marshal; executions.
The marshal of said City of Manchester shall be empowered to levy all executions in favor of said city, and all executions issued by authority of said mayor and council, whether for ad valorem, business tax, assessment, or any other taxes, or for fines, or any other claims or demands of said city, shall be directed as hereinafter described; and the marshal shall have authority to levy and collect the said executions; advertise and sell property, real or personal, levied on thereunder; and to make all deeds where sales are made under executions. The marshal of said city shall have the same authority to place purchasers at marshal's sales in possession as sheriffs of this state have, and deeds to the real estate sold by the marshal under execution shall have the same force and effect, and shall be admitted in evidence, as are sheriff's deeds in this state. The marshal of said city shall have such other and further powers and duties as may be conferred or imposed upon him by ordinance by the mayor and council of the City of Manchester.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 11)
Section 4-105. - Arrests; limitation; authorization.
It shall be lawful for the marshal or any policeman of said city, lawfully appointed, to arrest without warrant any and all persons, within the corporate limits of said city, who are, at the time of said arrest, or who, before that time, have been guilty within said limits, of the violation of any of the ordinances of said city; and to hold said persons so arrested until a hearing of the matter before the proper officer can be had; and to this end said arresting officers are authorized to imprison and to confine any person arrested by them in the city prison or the jail of Meriwether County for a reasonable length of time. The marshal and policemen of said city are authorized to the same extent as sheriffs of this state to execute warrants placed in their hands charging any person or persons with violating the criminal laws of this state.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 14)
Section 4-106. - Fire department; duties.
The mayor and council of said city may, in their discretion, elect a chief of the fire department, and as many firemen as they may deem necessary for proper protection against fires in said city; and may purchase and provide hooks, ladders, hose, carts, and all other paraphernalia and equipment that may be necessary for the proper conduct of the said fire department. Said chief and firemen shall take and subscribe an oath that they will faithfully discharge such duties as chief and firemen to the best of their ability. The chief shall examine all flues and chimneys in said city and discharge such other duties connected with his office when, and as required by the mayor and council of said city. The firemen shall perform such duties as may be required of them by the said mayor and council. The duties of the chief and firemen and their compensation shall be fixed by ordinance.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 50 as amended by Ga. L. 1917, p. 747, Sec. 4)
Section 4-107. - Sinking fund board.
The mayor and council of said city shall create a board consisting of three (3) citizens of said city who shall have power, control and custody over the funds known as the "sinking fund" of said city to handle and control same, according to law, and the term of office of said board shall be for the space of six (6) years from the time of their appointment, and any vacancy on said board shall be filled by said mayor and council. The mayor and council of said city shall have the power to remove any member of said board for good and sufficient cause. The clerk and treasurer of the city council of said city shall act as clerk and treasurer for said board and shall be required to give such bond as said mayor and council may order or require. The members of said board shall receive no compensation for their services; neither shall said clerk receive any extra compensation for the service that he renders to said board.
(Ga. L. 1914, p. 1044, Sec. 2)
