ARTICLE V. - SUSPENSION, REVOCATION AND PROBATION OF LICENSES; DUE PROCESS; HEARING

Sec. 6-131. - Grounds for suspension or revocation; notice; hearing; bond for reinstatement.
(a)
Any license which has been issued or which may hereafter be issued by the city may be suspended or revoked for due cause as hereinafter defined. "Due cause," for purposes of this section shall include, but not be limited to:
(1)
Arrest or conviction (to include a plea of nolo contendere) by local, state or federal authorities of the licensee, license representative or any employees of the licensee for any felony, or any misdemeanor, or any law, regulation or ordinance involving beverage alcohol, drugs, gambling, or tax law violations;
(2)
Citations issued by local, state or federal authorities to the licensee, license representative or any employees of the licensee for violations of any part of this chapter or any regulation pertaining to state or federal licensing of the possession, sale or distribution of beverage alcohol;
(3)
Suspension or revocation of any state license required as condition for the possession, sale or distribution of beverage alcohol;
(4)
Material falsification of any fact given in application for a license issued under this article or bearing upon the licensee's qualification therefore; any act which may be construed as a subterfuge in an effort to circumvent any of the qualifications for a license under this article shall be deemed a violation of the requirement attempted to be circumvented;
(5)
The licensed business fails to properly account for, file, report and maintain any records or remit of pay any renewal license fee imposed, sales taxes, or excise taxes required under the city ordinances;
(6)
Any other factors known to the licensing authority whereby it is objectively shown the licensee, by reason of business experience, financial standing, trade association, personal association, record of arrests, or reputation in any community in which he has resided, is not likely to maintain the operation for which he is licensed in conformity with federal, state or local laws.
With respect to this section, it shall be rebuttably presumed that the violative act was done with the knowledge or consent of the licensee; provided, however, that such presumption may be rebutted only by evidence which precludes every other reasonable hypothesis save that such licensee did not know, assist or aide in such occurrence, or in the exercise of full diligence could not have discovered or prevented such activity.
(b)
Action to suspend or revoke a license shall be commenced by the city manager by giving written notice to the licensee, either by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service upon licensee or his agent at the licensed location, stating the grounds therefore, and the date, time and place such matter will be heard by the city manager. Notice shall be served at least 48 hours prior to the date of the hearing. Included in the notice shall be an advisement of the licensee's right to be heard before the director. Any licensee requiring subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses or documents at the hearing shall file a written request with the city manager prior to the hearing. Hearings may be continued for good cause only.
(c)
All final decisions to suspend or revoke a license shall be made by the city manager, in writing with the reasons therefore stated. Notice of a final decision shall be given the licensee within three business days.
(d)
Hearings shall only be as formal as necessary to preserve order and shall be compatible with the principles of justice. The city attorney or his designee may present the city's case and bear the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that due cause exists to suspend or revoke the license. The licensee may be represented by legal counsel, may confront and cross-examine witnesses, and shall have the right to call witnesses and present evidence in his behalf. A hearing record shall be maintained by the city manager, however, either party may arrange for transcription by a court reporter at his sole expense. Hearings shall be presided over by the city manager who shall preserve order and rule upon all matter of evidence. Irrelevant, immaterial and unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded.
(e)
After hearing any evidence presented to the city manager, the city manager shall either take no action, probate, suspend, and/or probate, or revoke the license. Except that no license shall be placed on probation, suspended or revoked unless there is due cause as hereinafter defined.
(f)
The city manager shall not be required to strictly adhere to the progressive penalties in the penalty schedule and is authorized to invoke a more or less severe penalty based on the circumstances of the violation to include the forwarding of the violation directly to the city council for an administrative hearing.
Penalty Schedule—State Violations
EXPAND
(1) First Violation: 30 days suspension
(2) Second Violation: 60 days suspension
(3) Third Violation: Revoke license
  Penalty Schedule — City Ordinance Violations
That are not also Violations of State Law
EXPAND
(1) First Violation: Six months probation
(2) Second Violation: Seven-day suspension of license and one year probation
(3) Third Violation: Revoke license
  (g)
Upon the second suspension or revocation of a license within any five-year period, as a prerequisite or reinstatement or reissuance of the license, the licensee, in addition to the requisite fees assessed under this article, shall post a surety bond, payable to the city, in the amount of $5,000.00, conditioned upon the licensee maintaining the operation for which he is licensed in conformity with all federal, state and local laws, ordinances, rules and regulations. Upon any subsequent act giving due cause for suspension or revocation of the license, the bond shall be forfeited and license revoked.
(Ord. of 11-16-2010)
Sec. 6-132. - Appeals.
A licensee may appeal within five days the action by the city manager to the city council and request a public hearing on the violation. The cost of said appeal shall be $500.00. If a hearing is requested, such hearing shall be held by the city council at its first regularly scheduled meeting at which the appeal can be timely placed on the agenda but no more than 30 days following receipt of a written request form the licensee. The filing of an appeal shall not stay the penalties imposed by the city manager. Only one appeal may be filed by a licensee within the five-day appeal period. Once filed, an appeal cannot be withdrawn without the consent of the city council.
(Ord. of 11-16-2010)
Sec. 6-133. - Hearing to be conducted by city council.
(a)
The city council is authorized to conduct all hearings relating to violations of city and state laws regulating the sale or use of alcoholic beverages and any regulations issued pursuant thereto. The licensee should be prepared to prove or show evidence of all business practices and procedures instituted to ensure compliance with this chapter and state law. The commission inquiry shall include but not be limited to:
(1)
Employment standards of the licensee.
(2)
Employee direction/supervision.
(3)
Enforcement check reports.
(4)
Previous violations.
(b)
The board is authorized to affirm, reduce, increase or reverse the penalty applied by the business tax director.
(Ord. of 11-16-2010)
Secs. 6-134—6-150. - Reserved.
