Chapter 30 - SOLID WASTE[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal authority to provide for garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. 1983, art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(2); Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40 et seq.; transporting garbage or waste across state or county boundaries without permission, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-16; littering highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-249.

Sec. 30-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Approved container means a receptacle or roll-top garbage or recycling container approved by the city or provided by the city's contractor.
Bags means plastic or paper sacks designed to store and enclose yard trimmings, with sufficient wall strength to maintain physical integrity when lifted by the top. The total weight of a bag with contents shall not exceed 40 pounds.
Bulky waste means stoves, refrigerators, water heaters, automobile parts, washing machines, furniture and other waste materials other than construction debris, dead animals or hazardous waste, with the weights or volumes greater than those allowed for approved containers.
Construction debris means waste building materials resulting from construction, remodeling, repair or demolition operations.
Dead animals means animals or portions thereof equal to or greater than ten pounds in weight that have died from any cause, except those slaughtered or killed for human consumption.
Garbage means waste paper and plastics, normal household disposable items, any or all dead animals of less than ten pounds in weight except for those slaughtered for human consumption; every accumulation of waste (animal, vegetable and/or other matter) that results from the preparation, processing, consumption, dealing in, handling, packing, canning, storage, transportation, decay or decomposition of meats, fish, fowl, birds, fruits, grains or other animal or vegetable matter, including, but by no way limited to, used tin cans and other food containers, and all putrescible or easily decomposable waste animal or vegetable matter.
Hazardous waste means any chemical, compound, mixture, substance or article which is designated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency or an appropriate agency of the state to be hazardous, as that term is defined by federal or state law or regulations.
Producer means an occupant of a residential unit who generates waste.
Recycling materials means materials which would otherwise become solid waste which, if collected, separated, or processed are capable of being reused or returned to use in the form of raw materials or products. Recycling materials shall include, but are not limited to, HDPE and PET plastics; clear, green and brown glass; old newsprint; and aluminum and bi-metal cans.
Refuse means all ashes, bulky waste, construction debris, dead animals, garbage, recycling materials, trash, and yard trimmings.
Residential unit means a single-family or two-family dwelling within the city occupied by a person or group of persons. A residential unit shall be deemed occupied when water services, either public or private, are being supplied thereto. Each unit of an apartment or condominium dwelling, whether a single-level or multilevel construction, shall be treated as a residential unit; provided that any multifamily complex provided with dumpster service in lieu of approved containers for each housing unit shall be excluded from this definition.
Trash means all waste wood, wood products, combustible waste pulp and other products such as are used for packaging or wrapping crockery and glass, ashes, cinders, and any or all other waste materials not included in the definitions of "bulky waste," "construction debris," "dead animals," "garbage," or "hazardous waste."
Yard trimmings means leaves, brush, grass clippings, shrub and tree limbs and prunings, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals, and vegetative matter resulting from landscape development and maintenance other than mining, agricultural, and silvicultural operations; provided, however, that the term "yard trimmings" shall not include limbs or other materials generated by commercial gardeners, tree services, and the like.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1(86-1), 2-12-1996)
Sec. 30-2. - Collection by city required; exceptions.
(a)
All garbage, recycling materials, and yard trimmings accumulated in the city shall be collected, conveyed and disposed of by the city or by the city's contractor except as otherwise expressly authorized in this chapter. Use of the city collection and disposal system shall be required of all residential units in the city.
(b)
No person shall collect, convey over any of the streets or alleys of the city or dispose of any refuse accumulated in the city, except as expressly authorized in this chapter or as allowed by pertinent and appropriate actions of the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1(86-2), 2-12-1996)
Sec. 30-3. - City garbage collection; container requirements.
(a)
All garbage shall be deposited in approved containers.
(b)
The owner or occupant of the premises where garbage is located shall utilize the receptacle or roll-top garbage container provided by the city's contractor or shall be responsible for providing approved containers as set forth in this chapter and a refusal to do so shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(c)
Where more than one residential unit is located in a building, the container shall be marked so as to indicate the dwelling unit using the particular container. The container may be identified by placing the apartment number thereon or the name of the person having control of the disposal of the garbage in the unit. When containers are so identified, such containers may only be used by the person whose name or other identification is shown thereon.
(d)
When, in the opinion of the city clerk or his designee, the amount of garbage generated by a multifamily building makes individual garbage collection impractical, the city clerk or his designee may require the owner of the building to install one or more dumpsters of such capacity as to be determined to be necessary to adequately containerize waste generated in the building and may discontinue individual collection services.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1(86-3), 2-12-1996)
Sec. 30-4. - Accessibility of containers.
(a)
Producers having authority to control the disposal of garbage, recycling material, or yard trimmings in any residential unit shall cause all such materials collected therein to be placed in an approved container and placed at the curb on scheduled collection days. Unless an exemption is granted from this requirement, approved containers shall be moved by producers to curbside no earlier than 4:00 p.m. on the day preceding collection and shall be returned to their storage location on the side or rear yard of the property no later than 9:00 a.m. on the day following collection.
(b)
Exemptions from the requirement for placement of approved containers at curbside may be granted by the city clerk for a producer with physical limitations which prevent placement of the approved container at the curb, provided that such person submits a written request for an exemption and the exemption is approved in writing by the city clerk.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1(86-4), 2-12-1996)
Sec. 30-5. - Deposit in containers.
All garbage shall be daily deposited in the approved containers. Approved containers shall be kept tightly covered at all times except when it is necessary to lift the cover in order to deposit garbage in the approved container.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1(86-5), 2-12-1996)
Sec. 30-6. - Maintenance of containers.
It shall be the responsibility of the occupant of each residential unit to maintain the approved container serving his unit in a clean and sanitary manner, free of obnoxious odors, maggots, insects and rodents, or any other condition which may render the container unhealthy to the occupants of the premises or the neighborhood.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1(86-6), 2-12-1996)
Sec. 30-7. - Disposal.
All approved containers shall be emptied and disposition made of the contents thereof according to the city's collection schedule, but in no event less than one time per week.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1(86-7), 2-12-1996)
Sec. 30-8. - Collection of bulky waste, construction debris, and other materials.
(a)
Construction debris and similar materials resulting from the construction, alteration, repair or demolition of buildings or structures must be removed by the owner of the property or the person performing such work.
(b)
Bulky waste must be removed by the owner or occupant of the property or shall be subject to special collections at terms and conditions specified by the city or the city's contractor.
(c)
Waste products of industrial plants and spent oils or greases accumulated at garages, filling stations, or similar establishments must be removed by the owner of the property or occupant of the premises.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1(86-8), 2-12-1996)
Sec. 30-9. - Recycling materials and yard trimmings.
(a)
All recycling materials shall be placed in approved recycling containers and shall be emptied and disposition made of the contents thereof according to the city's collection schedule, but in no event less than one time per week.
(b)
All yard trimmings shall be placed in bags and disposition made of the contents thereof according to the city's collection schedule, but in no event less than one time per week; provided, however, that limbs shall not be in excess of four feet in length and three inches in diameter, and that all limbs shall be secured in bundles and shall not exceed 40 pounds in total weight per collection day.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1(86-9), 2-12-1996)
Sec. 30-10. - Items not collectible.
The following items are not collectible by the city:
(1)
Construction debris;
(2)
Dirt or rocks;
(3)
Heavy car parts;
(4)
Tires;
(5)
Hazardous waste, including, but not limited to, HTH, paint, oil, car batteries;
(6)
Metal drums, 35-gallon size or larger;
(7)
Dead animals;
(8)
Items weighing in excess of 75 pounds; and
(9)
Bulky waste.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1(86-10), 2-12-1996)
Sec. 30-11. - Unlawful disposal.
No person shall place any refuse in any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place, or upon any private property, whether owned by such person or not, within the city, unless it is placed in approved containers for collection as authorized in this chapter or under express written approval by the city clerk.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1(86-11), 2-12-1996)
Sec. 30-12. - Unauthorized accumulations.
Any unauthorized accumulation of refuse on any premises is hereby declared to be a violation of this chapter. Failure to remove any existing accumulation of refuse within 48 hours after being directed to do so by the city clerk shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1(86-12), 2-12-1996)
Sec. 30-13. - Scavenging.
No person, other than the owner thereof, or an agent of the city clerk, or any employee of an entity which has a franchise from the city for the collection of refuse, shall interfere with any container placed for the purpose of storing refuse pending collection, or remove or take any of the contents thereof, or remove any such container from the location where the container has been placed by the owner thereof.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1(86-13), 2-12-1996)
Sec. 30-14. - Commercial collection.
(a)
All owners and occupants of commercial and industrial property, as well as owners of multifamily property not served by city collection crews, shall contract with a private refuse collector which has obtained a franchise from the city for the regular collection and disposal of refuse generated at their facility.
(b)
All persons who collect, transport or dispose of refuse from commercial, industrial or multifamily property in the city shall obtain a franchise from the city to provide such service and shall conduct their activities in full compliance with state laws and regulations and city ordinances regulating the collection, transportation or disposal of such waste, and, upon failure to do so, shall be subject to prosecution for such violations.
(c)
The city shall determine the size, capacity and location of both containers or dumpsters used for the storage of refuse on commercial, industrial or multifamily property pending collection. Where the volume of refuse generated on the premises exceeds the capacity of the bulk container or dumpster provided, the city may require a larger container to be installed.
(d)
Owners and occupants of commercial, industrial and multifamily property serviced by bulk containers or dumpsters shall maintain the area immediately surrounding the container free of unsightly refuse at all times. Such owner or manager shall be responsible for instructing all employees in the proper method for the use of the container and shall ensure that all refuse is placed completely within the container, with all doors and lids to be closed at all times the container is not being loaded or emptied.
(e)
All commercial, industrial and multifamily property utilizing bulk containers or dumpsters shall provide upon the premises an accessible hard-surfaced space of sufficient size to accommodate the container. The hard-surfaced area shall have sufficient driving area to permit reasonable ingress and egress by collection vehicles. No building permit shall be issued by the building inspector for new construction unless appropriate plans and specifications are submitted setting forth and meeting the requirements of this section.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1(86-14), 2-12-1996)
Sec. 30-15. - Penalties.
Failure to perform any act required by this chapter, or the performing of any act prohibited by this chapter, shall constitute an offense and shall subject the offender to prosecution in the municipal court.
(Ord. No. 96-01, § 1(86-16), 2-12-1996)
Sec. 30-16. - Debris carried or dropped onto public streets by vehicles.
(a)
No person shall operate or cause to be operated upon any public street in the city any truck, wagon, or other vehicle, in and upon which sand, dirt, rocks, cement, garbage, trash, waste materials, or other debris or materials, is transported unless such vehicle shall be equipped with a cover or other device that will prevent such sand, dirt, rocks, cement, garbage, trash, waste materials, or other debris or materials, from falling from the vehicle onto the streets of the city.
(b)
Any person performing work on private property which requires movement of vehicles from the public streets onto such private property shall be responsible for the cleanup of all dirt, mud, gravel or other debris tracked from the private property onto the public street by such vehicles. Cleanup of streets shall be completed no later than 5:00 p.m. of each day.
(c)
No person conducting a business adjacent to a public street shall maintain a yard or lot, pavement or covering of gravel, or other substances in such a manner that the gravel or other substances are movable upon being walked upon or driven over by vehicles going to and from the place of business unless such materials are so placed and maintained that the gravel or other substances will not get into or upon the adjacent public street.
(Ord. No. 90-54, § 1, 8-12-1991)
Sec. 30-17. - Regulations adopted.
(a)
The city hereby adopts and incorporates by reference as if set out at length herein the model litter control ordinance (hereinafter referred to as the "regulations").
(b)
At least one copy of the regulations shall be kept on file in the office of the city clerk.
(c)
Where reference is made in the regulations to the duties of certain officials named therein, the designated official of the city who has duties corresponding to those of the named official in the regulations shall be deemed to be the responsible official insofar as enforcing the provisions of the regulations is concerned, and the term "jurisdiction" shall mean the city.
(d)
Incorporation by reference. A copy of the regulations described in subsection (a) of this section is attached to the ordinance from which this section is derived as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. No. 05-03, §§ 1(86-10), 2, 6-13-2005)
Sec. 30-18. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 86-10 pertaining to the sanitation tax as enacted by § 2 of Ord. No. 11-01, adopted Oct. 10, 2011, has been moved to appear under chapter 36, Taxation, as per the instructions of the city during the 2014 recodification of the city Code. Section 1 of Ord. No. 11-01, adopted Oct. 10, 2011, amended the entirety of section 8 of chapter 86 of the Code of Ordinances by removing all substantive text under the section and reserving the section.
