Chapter 28 - PARKS AND RECREATION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Power to provide parks, recreation areas, programs and facilities, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(5); authority of municipality to construct and operate parks, swimming pools, golf courses, recreation grounds and buildings used for sports, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3; establishment of recreation systems authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-1 et seq.

Sec. 28-1. - Establishment and maintenance of parks and recreational facilities.
The mayor and council is authorized to establish and maintain parks and recreational facilities in the corporate limits. The mayor and council may contract with persons, firms or other political subdivisions for the furnishing of such facilities and services to the citizens of the city. The mayor and council shall have all of the powers in this regard as are granted to municipalities in the state, including but not limited to those powers granted by O.C.G.A. § 36-64-1 et seq.
(Code 1972, § 9-1; Code 1994, § 70-1)
Sec. 28-2. - Use of grounds, etc.
(a)
Use of grounds and facilities in general. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, association, or corporation using the city parks, ball fields, facilities and grounds to fail to clean up debris, extinguish all fires when fires are permitted and leave the premises in as good an order and the facilities in as neat and sanitary condition as when they began use of facilities.
(b)
Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, association, or corporation using the city parks, ball fields, facilities or grounds to either perform or permit to be performed any of the following acts:
(1)
Willfully mar, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with, displace or remove any buildings, tables, benches, signs, notices, placards, permanent monuments, statues, boundary markers, structures, fixtures, equipment, facilities, park property or appurtenances thereof whatsoever, either real or personal;
(2)
Damage, cut, carve, transplant, or remove any tree or plant or any part thereof;
(3)
Bring in, dump, deposit or leave any bottles, broken glass, ashes, paper boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage, refuse, or other trash. No such refuse or trash shall be placed in storm sewers, drains, waters or contiguous to any park, or left anywhere on the grounds thereof, but shall be placed in the proper receptacles where these are provided, and where not provided all rubbish or waste shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for the presence of such rubbish or waste, and properly disposed of elsewhere;
(4)
Disturb the peace, or use any profane or obscene language;
(5)
Endanger the safety of any person by any conduct or act;
(6)
Take part in or abet the playing of any game involving thrown or otherwise propelled objects, such as balls, stones, arrows, javelins, or model airplanes, except in areas set apart for such forms of recreation. The playing of rough or potentially dangerous games such as football, basketball, handball, and soccer is prohibited, except on fields, courts, or areas provided therefor;
(7)
Vend, sell, peddle, or offer for sale any commodity or article within any park area or facility, unless authorized in writing by the city;
(8)
Bring any dangerous animal or any dog into any park area except as provided by special permit when such activity is part of an approved special event;
(9)
Ride or cause to be ridden any horse, mule, or pony on any property in the park areas except as provided by special permit when such activity is part of an approved special event;
(10)
Drive or park any automobile or off-road vehicle, except on a street, driveway, or parking lot in any park; or to park or leave any such vehicle on any place other than one established for public parking;
(11)
Set up tents, shacks, or other temporary shelter for the purpose of overnight camping, nor shall any person leave any movable structure or special vehicle to be used, or that could be used for such purposes, such as a house trailer, camp trailer, wagon, or the like in the park area after closing hours, unless authorized by the city;
(12)
To tamper with, break into or enter any facility or park area that is secured by locks or padlocks;
(13)
To have any motorized vehicle or bicycle on any jogging track or ball field;
(14)
To carry or use firearms in any park;
(15)
Throw, discharge or otherwise place or caused to be placed in the waters of any fountain, pond, lake, stream, or other body of water in or adjacent to any park or any tributary, stream, storm sewer or drain flowing into such waters, any substance, matter, or thing, liquid or solid, which will or may result in the pollution of such waters;
(16)
Build or attempt to build a fire, except in such areas and under such regulations as may be designated by the city. No person shall drop, throw, or otherwise scatter lighted matches, burning cigarettes or cigars, tobacco paper or other inflammable material within any park area or on any highway, road, or street abutting or contiguous thereto;
(17)
Have in his possession, custody or control, or consume any alcoholic beverage, drug or any illegal substance, unless as otherwise allowed by resolution of the mayor and council;
(18)
Barbecue anywhere other than in barbecue pits provided by the city or in areas designated for the use of portable above-ground grills;
(19)
Paste, glue, tack or otherwise post any sign, placard, advertisement or inscription whatsoever, erect or cause to be erected any sign whatsoever on any public lands, highways, or roads adjacent to a park; and
(20)
Perform any act which is prohibited by this Code.
(Code 1994, § 70-2; Ord. No. 96-4, § 1, 8-22-1996; Ord. No. 96-05, § 1, 8-22-1996)
