ARTICLE VIII. - CABLE AND VIDEO FRANCHISES[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
State Law reference— Consumer Choice for Television Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-76-1 et seq.

Sec. 12-222. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Cable service means the one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or other programming service and subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection or use of such video programming or other programming service. The term "cable service" shall not include any video programming provided by a provider of commercial mobile service as defined in 47 USC 332(d) or video programming provided as part of and via a service that enables users to access content, information, e-mail, or other services offered over the public Internet.
Cable service provider means any person or group of persons:
(1)
Who provides cable service over a cable system and directly or through one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in such cable system; or
(2)
Who otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any arrangement, the management and operation of such a cable system.
Cable system means a facility consisting of a set of closed transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control equipment that is designed to provide cable service which includes video programming and which is provided to multiple subscribers within a community, but the term "cable system" shall not include:
(1)
A facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals of one or more television broadcast stations;
(2)
A facility that serves subscribers without using any public right-of-way as defined in this section;
(3)
A facility of a common carrier which is subject, in whole or in part, to the provisions of 47 USC 201 through 276, except that such facility shall be considered a cable system, other than for purposes of 47 USC 541(c), to the extent such facility is used in the transmission of video programming directly to subscribers, unless the extent of such use is solely to provide interactive on-demand services as that term is defined in 47 USC 522(12);
(4)
An open video system that complies with 47 USC 573; or
(5)
Any facility of any electric utility used solely for operating such electric utility system.
Franchise means an initial authorization or renewal of an authorization issued by a franchise authority, regardless of whether the authorization is designated as a franchise, permit, license, resolution, contract, ordinance, certificate, agreement, or otherwise, that authorizes the construction or operation of a cable service provider or video service provider's network in the public rights-of-way.
Franchise authority means any governmental entity empowered by federal, state, or local law to grant a franchise. With regard to the holder of a state franchise within the service areas covered by such state franchise, the secretary of state shall be the sole franchising authority. With respect to a franchise agreement with a municipal or county governing authority, that municipality or county shall be the sole franchising authority within the service areas covered by that local franchise.
Gross revenues means all revenues received from subscribers for the provision of cable service or video service, including franchise fees for cable service providers and video service providers, and advertising and home shopping services revenues and shall be determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The term "gross revenues" shall not include:
(1)
Amounts billed and collected as a line item on the subscriber's bill to recover any taxes, surcharges, or governmental fees that are imposed on or with respect to the services provided or measured by the charges, receipts, or payments therefor; provided, however, that for purposes of this section, such tax, surcharge, or governmental fee shall not include any ad valorem taxes, net income taxes, or generally applicable business or occupation taxes not measured exclusively as a percentage of the charges, receipts, or payments for services;
(2)
Any revenue, such as bad debt, not actually received, even if billed;
(3)
Any revenue received by any affiliate or any other person in exchange for supplying goods or services used by the provider to provide cable service or video programming;
(4)
Any amounts attributable to refunds, rebates, or discounts;
(5)
Any revenue from services provided over the network that are associated with or classified as noncable or nonvideo services under federal law, including, without limitation, revenues received from telecommunications services, information services other than cable service or video service, Internet access services, or directory or Internet advertising revenue, including, without limitation, yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisements, and electronic publishing advertising. Where the sale of any such noncable or nonvideo service is bundled with the sale of one or more cable services or video services and sold for a single nonitemized price, the term "gross revenues" shall include only those revenues that are attributable to cable service or video service based on the provider's books and records; such revenues shall be allocated in a manner consistent with generally accepted accounting principles;
(6)
Any revenue from late fees not initially booked as revenues, returned check fees, or interest;
(7)
Any revenue from sales or rental of property, except such property as the subscriber shall be required to buy or rent exclusively from the cable service provider or video service provider to receive cable service or video service;
(8)
Any revenue received from providing or maintaining inside wiring;
(9)
Any revenue from sales for resale with respect to which the purchaser shall be required to pay a franchise fee, provided the purchaser certifies in writing that it shall resell the service and pay a franchise fee with respect thereto; or
(10)
Any amounts attributable to a reimbursement of costs, including, but not limited to, the reimbursements by programmers of marketing costs incurred for the promotion or introduction of video programming.
Public right-of-way means the area in, on, along, over, or under the public roads that are part of the municipal or county road system or the state highway system.
Service area means the geographic territory within the city where a cable service provider or video service provider provides or has proposed to offer cable service or video service pursuant to a franchise.
Subscriber means any person or entity lawfully receiving video service from a video service provider or cable service from a cable service provider.
Video programming means programming provided by, or generally considered comparable to programming provided by, a television broadcast station, as set forth in 47 USC 522(20).
Video service means the provision of video programming through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public rights-of-way without regard to delivery technology, including Internet protocol technology. The term "video service" shall not include any video programming provided by a provider of commercial mobile service as defined in 47 USC 332(d) or video programming provided as part of and via a service that enables users to access content, information, e-mail, or other services offered over the public Internet.
Video service provider means an entity providing video service as defined in this section. The term "video service provider" shall not include a cable service provider.
(Ord. No. 08-01, § 1(22-130), 3-10-2008)
Sec. 12-223. - Franchise fee.
(a)
For all cable and/or video service provided in the service area by cable and/or video service providers, a franchise fee shall be imposed in the amount equal to five percent of the gross revenues the cable and/or video service provider receives from providing cable and/or video service to subscribers in the service area.
(b)
The franchise fee shall be payable to the city within 30 days after the last day of each calendar quarter. Such payment will be considered complete if accompanied by a statement showing, for the quarter covered by the payment:
(1)
The aggregate amount of the state franchise holder's gross revenues, specifically identifying subscriber and advertising and home shopping services revenues under this article insofar as the franchise holder's existing billing systems include such capability, attributable to such municipality or unincorporated areas of the county; and
(2)
The amount of the franchise fee payment due to such municipality or county.
(c)
In the event that franchise fees are not paid on or before the dates specified in subsection (b) of this section, then the city shall provide written notice to the franchise holder giving the cable service provider or video service provider 15 days from the date of the franchise holder's receipt of such notice to cure any such nonpayment. In the event franchise fees are not remitted to the city postmarked on or before the expiration of the 15 day cure period, then the holder of the state franchise shall pay interest thereon at a rate of one percent per month to the city. If the 15 day cure period expires on Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, the due date shall be the next business day. Moreover, the franchise holder shall not be assessed interest on late payments if franchise payments were submitted in error to a neighboring local governing authority.
(Ord. No. 08-01, § 1(22-131), 3-10-2008)
Secs. 12-224—12-254. - Reserved.
