CHAPTER 2.24 - RECREATION COMMISSION

Sections:
2.24.010 - Intent.
A.
In support and furtherance of the city's findings, it has been determined that the provision of adequate recreational space is essential to the promotion of the health, prosperity and general welfare of the city's residents and the community at-large; and
B.
In order to develop and strengthen the physical and mental well-being of the youths and adults of McDonough and Henry County by supervising athletic events and other events at facilities which are owned and operated by the city;
C.
The mayor and council of McDonough, Georgia, declare it to be the purpose and intent of the ordinance codified in this chapter to establish uniform procedures for usage of the city's park facilities.
(Ord. of 10-18-1993, § 1)
2.24.020 - Creation and establishment of a city recreation commission.
There is created and established a recreation commission for the city, whose title shall be "McDonough Recreation Commission" (hereinafter called the "commission").
(Ord. of 10-18-1993, § 2)
2.24.030 - Number, appointment and terms of commission members.
A.
The commission shall consist of seven members, five of whom shall be a resident of the city. The remaining two members shall be residents of Henry County. Appointments to the commission shall be made by the mayor and approved by the city council. Each commission member shall serve a one year term. Any vacancy in membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by the mayor and council, which shall also have the authority to remove an appointee for cause on written charges, after a public hearing. An appointee may also be removed if they fail to attend two consecutive meetings or a total of three meetings in one year if just cause is found.
Ord. No. 98-02-16D)
B.
In addition to the members outlined in subsection A of this section, the Henry County recreation director shall serve as a nonvoting, ex officio member of the commission.
(Ord. of 10-18-1993, § 3)
2.24.040 - Compensation.
Each member of the commission shall be compensated in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) during each full calendar year in order to cover any and all expenses associated with service on the commission.
(Ord. of 10-18-1993, § 4)
2.24.050 - Duties and responsibilities of the commission.
The duties and responsibilities of the commission shall be as follows:
A.
To oversee the operation of all organized athletic events which take place on facilities owned by the city, with said athletic events including, but not being limited to, the following: youth baseball, youth football, youth soccer, youth softball, youth tennis and adult tennis;
B.
To oversee the operation of all concessions and special events which take place on facilities owned by the city;
C.
To adopt rules for governing organized league play and nonleague play ("free play");
D.
To adopt rules and standards for the transaction of its business. The commission shall have the authority to adopt rules and standards without amendment to this chapter. The commission shall provide for the time and place of regular meetings and a method for the calling of special meetings. The commission shall appoint from among themselves a chairman, a vice-chairman, a secretary, and other such officers as deemed necessary for the conduct of business. A quorum shall consist of a majority of the commission's members;
E.
To establish rules of conduct for patrons of the city's parks, including ethical standards and rules of good sportsmanship for team coaches, managers, players umpires and fans;
F.
To establish rules governing the usage of concession facilities at the city's parks;
G.
To establish park maintenance rules and regulations;
H.
To establish penalties for violations of park rules;
I.
To review applications for the issuance of annual league sports licenses, concessionaire licenses, and special event licenses, and to grant or deny same in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and any bylaws that the commission may promulgate;
J.
To hear and resolve disputes arising from the activities at the city's parks;
K.
To submit a written report of the commission's activities to the city council at least once per year;
L.
To collect and to promptly submit to the city all license fees and application fees collected each year;
M.
To seek and receive donations, grants and other funds on behalf of the city council for improvements to the city's parks; provided, however, that the commission shall not obligate the city without the prior consent of the city council.
(Ord. of 10-18-1993, § 5)
2.24.060 - Applications for licenses.
A.
Each individual or organization which seeks to reserve the use of the city's park facilities for organized league athletic competition, for use of the city's concession facilities, and for special events at the city's parks shall submit a written application to the commission for review and approval. Each application, which shall be submitted on forms provided by the commission, must be submitted in accordance with submittal deadlines established by the commission, and shall include the following information: mailing address of the organization; the names and addresses of the organization's current officers; the organization's federal tax identification number; a copy of the organization's rules and bylaws; the proposed beginning and ending dates of the league's seasons; the facilities requested for the organization's use; the number of anticipated participants; any applicable application fees; and other relevant information which may be promulgated by the commission.
B.
Each individual or organization which seeks to reserve the use of the city's park facilities must agree, in writing, to abide by the bylaws, rules and regulations of the commission.
C.
The commission shall give preference to organizations which have utilized the city's park facilities in previous years; provided, however, that said organizations are in good standing with the commission and have completed all application requirements.
(Ord. of 10-18-1993, § 6)
2.24.070 - Commission action on applications for licenses.
A.
The commission shall approve or reject an application for a league sports license, a concessionaire license, or a special event license within thirty (30) days after the filing of a completed application and submittal of all required fees. A league sports license and a concessionaire license shall expire on December 31st of each calendar year. A special event license shall be valid only for the duration expressed on the license. A license fee which shall be established by the city council shall be collected at the time a license is issued. No refund of application fees shall be given in the event of a denied or withdrawn application.
B.
The commission shall have the authority to suspend, rescind or revoke any license which it issues when violations of this chapter or the commission's bylaws occur and conditions warrant such action.
(Ord. of 10-18-1993, § 7)
2.24.080 - Appeals.
Any person or organization affected by an official action of the commission may appeal to the commission for a reconsideration hearing. Such appeal must be filed within thirty (30) days of the commission's action.
(Ord. of 10-18-1993, § 8)
2.24.090 - Record of commission proceedings.
The commission shall keep a public record of all meetings, including applications for licenses and all of the commission's proceedings in connection with said applications.
(Ord. of 10-18-1993, § 9)
2.24.100 - Technical assistance.
The commission shall seek the advice and technical assistance of the city's administrative, public safety, legal and other staff as needed to carry out their responsibilities.
(Ord. of 10-18-1993, § 10)
2.24.110 - City council and agents exempt from license requirements.
The city council or its agents shall be exempt from the license provisions of this chapter; provided, however, that activities at city parks which are planned by the city council or its agents shall be reported to the commission in order to avoid scheduling conflicts.
(Ord. of 10-18-1993, § 11)
