CHAPTER 16.20 - PUBLIC DEDICATION AND RESERVATION

Sections:
16.20.010 - Public sites—Generally.
Where a site within a tract of land proposed for subdivision is determined to be necessary for a public park, school, fire station, water or sewage treatment plant, water reservoir, public works, yard, or other public facility, the necessary land area shall be reserved or dedicated to the appropriate City authority (or Board of Education) having jurisdiction over the operation and maintenance of the proposed facility. The preliminary and final plats for the subdivision shall show these sites as being reserved or dedicated.
(Ord. No. 04-12-06-A, § I, 12-6-2004)
16.20.020 - Dedication.
A.
When a site is dedicated by a Developer for public purposes to the Board of Education or appropriate City authority, the land shall be transferred by a deed and dedication plat and recorded by the Clerk of Superior Court, following acceptance.
B.
Park and recreation sites shall be first recommended by the planning and zoning board and recreation board prior to action for acceptance of dedication of the site by the City Council.
C.
The Board of Education shall review the location and need for the school sites, and decide whether or not to accept dedication of a site within ninety (90) days of receipt of a preliminary plan, or preliminary plat and site plans. The Board of Education shall consult with the Planning Commission for recommendation on school sites. If the Board of Education decides to accept dedication of the site for a school, it shall notify the City Council. The City Council shall then direct the Community Development Department through the City Administrator, to have the deed and dedication plat recorded by the Clerk of Superior Court.
D.
Land dedication for fire or police stations, public buildings, rights-of-way, and other public works shall be transferred by the developer to the City by a deed and dedication plat and recorded by the Clerk of Superior Court, following acceptance by the City Council.
E.
Land dedicated for water and sewage treatment facilities and other facilities under jurisdiction of the Water and Sewer Department shall be recorded following approval of the City Council.
F.
Developers dedicating land for public purposes to the City shall be eligible for credits toward any development impact fees adopted by the City.
(Ord. No. 04-12-06-A, § I, 12-6-2004)
16.20.030 - Reservation.
A.
When a site is determined necessary for public purposes by the appropriate City authorities, and the developer elects to reserve rather than dedicate the site, then it shall be reserved for public purposes. The developer shall allow a period of one (1) year from the date of preliminary plat and site plan approval, during which time the appropriate City authorities may authorize and complete the purchase of the site.
B.
During the one-year period for which the appropriate City authorities have to acquire the reserved site for public purposes, the developer may proceed with the necessary approvals, for subdivision of the remainder of the development of the reserved tract.
(Ord. No. 04-12-06-A, § I, 12-6-2004)
