CHAPTER 15.04 - CONSTRUCTION CODES AND BUILDING REGULATIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 14-05-01 , § 1, adopted May 1, 2014, repealed the former Ch. 15.04, §§ 15.04.010—15.04.030, and enacted a new Ch. 15.04 as set out herein. The former chapter pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 11-12-12(B), § 1, 12-12-2011. See also the Code Comparative Table.

Sections:
15.04.010 - Georgia State Minimum Standard Codes.
A.
The latest addition of the following codes, as adopted and amended by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs, are adopted by the City and shall comprise the minimum standard construction codes for the City:
1.
International Building Code (ICC);
2.
National Electrical Code (NFPA);
3.
International Fuel Gas Code (ICC);
4.
International Mechanical Code (ICC);
5.
International Plumbing Code (ICC);
6.
International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings (ICC);
7.
International Energy Conservation Code (ICC);
8.
International Fire Code (ICC);
9.
International Property Maintenance Code (ICC);
10.
International Existing Building Code (IEBC);
11.
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code (ISPSC).
B.
When used in this Title, the phrase "Georgia State Minimum Standard Codes" may be substituted for the phrase "Standard Building Code, " and vice versa, and shall mean those codes identified in section 15.04.010(A)(1)—(11), above, collectively.
C.
In the event of conflicting codes or ordinances, the most stringent provisions shall apply.
D.
When there is a change in the use or occupancy classification of an existing building as determined in accordance with the current Standard Building Codes, the building shall be brought up to code and shall be subject to the provisions of the McDonough Codes and Ordinances. Any building left vacant for 6 (six) months or more shall be brought up to code and shall be subject to the provisions of the McDonough Codes and Ordinances.
( Ord. No. 14-05-01 , § 1, 5-1-2014)
15.04.020 - Sprinklers required.
A.
All buildings 10,000 square feet or more under a common roof, and buildings over one story in height, or any building with an occupant load of 300 or more persons shall be sprinkled with an approved N.F.P.A. 13 system with the exception of the following:
1.
Multi-family dwellings up to and including three stories in height shall be sprinkled with an approved sprinkler system modified to include full sprinkler coverage in all attics and breezeways;
2.
Single-family dwellings.
B.
All buildings 6,000 square feet or more in an area under a common roof where vehicles are pulled inside for the purpose of maintenance, repair, storage, or installation of all accessories shall be fully sprinkled with an approved sprinkler system except where vehicle bay areas in a building are less than or equal to 600 square feet, it shall be permissible to place up to six sprinkler heads off of the domestic water supply in lieu of sprinkling the entire building. In so doing, calculations must be performed by an approved sprinkler contractor certified by the State of Georgia and such calculations must be shown on the plans submitted for approval by the fire marshal's office.
C.
All day care and preschool occupancies must install a sprinkler system in accordance with N.F.P.A. 13 R.
D.
All home day care occupancies with seven or more children must install a sprinkler system in accordance with N.F.P.A. 13 R.
E.
All group home care occupancies must install a sprinkler system in accordance with N.F.P.A. 13 R.
F.
All structures installing a 13 R sprinkler system must also install a sprinkler system in the attic area.
G.
A "fire wall" shall not be considered to be a separate building so as to avoid the required automatic fire extinguishing system. A building shall have a minimum distance of five feet from any point of the building to any point of another building to be considered a separate building.
( Ord. No. 14-05-01 , § 1, 5-1-2014)
15.04.030 - Administration and enforcement.
The following provisions, adapted from Chapter 1 of the International Building Code, shall govern the administration and enforcement of all construction codes and building regulations in the City:
101 GENERAL
101.1 Scope.
The provisions of this chapter shall govern the administration and enforcement of the Georgia State Minimum Standard Codes per section 15.04.010, hereinafter referred to as the "Standard Building Code," as adopted by the City of McDonough.
101.2 Code Remedial.
101.2.1 General - This code is hereby declared to be remedial and shall be construed to secure the beneficial interest and purposes thereof, which are public safety, health, and general welfare through structural strength, stability, sanitation, adequate light and ventilation, and safety to life and property from fire and other hazards attributed to the built environment including alteration, repair, removal, demolition, use and occupancy of buildings, structures, or premises, and by regulating the installation and maintenance of all electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing, structural and non-structural systems.
101.2.2 Quality Control - Quality control of materials and workmanship is not within the purview of the Standard Building Code except as it relates to the purposes stated herein.
101.2.3 Permitting and Inspection - The inspection and permitting of any building, system or plan by the City of McDonough, under the requirements of this code, shall not be construed in any way as a warranty of the physical condition of such building, system, or plan or their adequacy. The City of McDonough nor any employee thereof shall be liable in tort for any damages from any defect or hazardous or illegal condition or inadequacy in such building, system or plan, nor for any failure of any component of such, which may occur subsequent to permitting and inspection.
101.3 Applicability.
101.3.1 General - Where, in any specific case, different sections of the Standard Building Code specifies different materials, methods of construction, or other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall govern.
101.3.2 Federal and State Authority - The provisions of this code shall not be held to deprive any Federal or State agency, or any applicable governing authority having jurisdiction, of any power it had on the effective date of the adoption of these technical codes or of any remedy then existing for the enforcement of its orders, nor shall it deprive any individual or corporation of its legal rights as provided by law.
101.3.3 Referenced Standards - Standards referenced in the Standard Building Code shall be considered an integral part of the codes without separate adoption. If specific portions of a standard are denoted by code text, only those portions of the standard shall be enforced. Where code provisions conflict with a referenced standard, the code provisions shall be enforced. Permissive and advisory provisions shall not be construed as being mandatory.
102 EMPLOYEES
102.1 Establishment.
There is hereby established a person in charge of administering the Standard Building Code who shall be known as the Building Official.
102.2 Employee Qualifications.
102.2.1 Building Official - The Building Official shall have at least 5 years experience or equivalent, as an architect, engineer, inspector, contractor, or superintendent of construction, or any combination thereof. The Building Official shall be certified through a recognized certification program or be capable of obtaining certification within one year of employment. The Building Official, with the approval of the Mayor and Council, may hire such number of inspectors, assistants and other employees as may be approved.
102.2.2 Fire Official - The Director of Public Safety or his designee shall act as the Fire Official. The Fire Official shall have at least 5 years experience or equivalent, as a firefighter, inspector, contractor, superintendent of construction, or any combination thereof acceptable to the hiring authority. The Fire Official shall be certified through a recognized certification program or be capable of obtaining certification within one year of employment.
102.2.3 Inspector - The inspector shall have at least 5 years experience as an inspector, engineer, architect, contractor, or superintendent of construction, or any combination thereof acceptable to the hiring authority. The inspector shall be certified through a recognized certification program or be capable of obtaining certification within one year of employment.
102.3 Liability.
Any City employee or member of the Construction Board of Appeals, charged with the enforcement of this code and acting for the City of McDonough in the discharge of his duties, shall not render himself personally liable, and is hereby relieved from all personal liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of the discharge of his duties. Any suit brought against any City employee or board member shall be defended by the City's legal counsel until final termination of the proceedings.
103 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BUILDING OFFICIAL
103.1 General.
The Building Official is hereby authorized to and directed to enforce the provisions of the Standard Building Code. He is further authorized to render interpretations of the codes, which are consistent with the spirit and purpose of said codes.
103.2 Right of Entry.
103.2.1 - Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of the codes, or whenever the Building Official has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any building or on any premises any condition or code violation which makes such building, structure, or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the Building Official may enter such building, structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed upon him by this code. If such building or premises are occupied, the Building Official shall show proper credentials and request entry. If entry is refused, he shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
103.2.2 - When the Building Official shall have first obtained proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or occupant or other persons having charge, care or control of any building, structure or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the Building Official for the purpose of inspection an examination pursuant to the Standard Building Code.
103.3 Stop Work Orders.
Upon notice from the Building Official, or his designated representative, work on any building, structure, electrical, mechanical, gas or plumbing system that is being done contrary to the provisions of the Standard Building Code or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, his agent, or the person in charge of the work, and shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed. Where an emergency exists, the Building Official shall not be required to give written notice prior to stopping work.
103.4 Revocation of Permits.
103.4.1 Misrepresentation of Application - The Building Official may revoke a permit or approval, issued under the provisions of the Standard Building Code, in case there has been any false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
103.4.2 Violation of Code Provisions - The Building Official may revoke a permit upon his determination that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the building, structure, or any system for which a permit was issued is in violation of the Standard Building Code.
103.5 Unsafe Structures and Equipment.
103.5.1 Conditions - Structures or existing equipment that are or hereafter become unsafe, unsanitary or deficient because of inadequate means of egress facilities, inadequate light and ventilation, or which constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous to human life or public welfare, or that involve illegal or improper occupancy or inadequate maintenance, shall be deemed an unsafe condition. Unsafe structures shall be taken down or removed or made safe, as the building official deems necessary and as provided for in this section. A vacant structure that is not secured against entry shall be deemed unsafe.
103.5.2 Record - The building official shall cause a report to be filed on an unsafe condition. The report shall state the unsafe condition. The report shall state the occupancy of the structure and the nature of the unsafe condition.
103.5.3 Notice - If an unsafe condition is found, the building official shall serve on the owner, agent or person in control of the structure a written notice that describes the condition deemed unsafe and specifies the required repairs or improvements to be made to abate the unsafe condition, or that requires the unsafe structure to be demolished within a stipulated time. Such notice shall require the person thus notified to declare immediately to the building official acceptance or rejection of the terms of the order.
103.5.4 Method of Service - Such notice shall be deemed properly served if a copy thereof is (a) delivered to the owner personally; (b) sent by certified or registered mail addressed to the owner at the last known address with the return receipt requested; or (c) delivered in any other manner as prescribed by local law. If the certified or registered letter is returned showing that the letter was not delivered, a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by such notice. Service of such notice in the forgoing manner upon the owner's agent or upon the person responsible for the structure shall constitute service of notice upon the owner.
103.5.5 Restoration - The Structure or equipment determined to be unsafe by the building official is permitted to be restored to a safe condition. To the extent that repairs, alterations or additions are made or a change of occupancy occurs during the restoration of the structure, such repairs, alterations, additions or change of occupancy shall comply with the requirements of the Standard Building Code.
103.6 Requirements Not Covered by Code.
Any requirements necessary for the strength, stability or proper operation of an existing or proposed building, structure, electrical, mechanical, gas, plumbing, of life safety system, not specifically covered by the Standard Building Code, shall be determined by the Building Official.
103.7 Alternate Materials and Methods.
The provisions of the Standard Building Code are not intended to prevent the use of any material or method of construction not specifically covered by them, provided that such alternate has been reviewed and approved by the Building Official. The Building Official shall approve alternate methods and materials when he finds that such alternate provides at least the equivalent prescribed by the Standard Building Code for, strength, quality, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability and safety. The Building Official may require sufficient proof to be submitted to substantiate any claim regarding alternates.
103.8 Remedies for outstanding violations.
The building official is authorized to withhold the issuance of building permits, refuse inspections, or issue any certificates of occupancy to any permittee, and any business or person which is legally or organizationally related to the permittee, until such time as such permittee has resolved satisfactorily all outstanding violations from previously issued permits with the building department.
103.9 Withholding certificates of occupancy.
No certificate of occupancy or certificate of completion shall be issued pursuant to any provision of this chapter to any applicant, business or to any legally or organizationally related entity, if within 12 months immediately preceding the filing of any application under this chapter the same applicant, business or any legally or organizationally related entity, requesting a certificate has been denied a certificate or had a certificate revoked for any location based in whole or in part upon having furnished fraudulent or untruthful information in any application or having omitted any material facts in any application.
104 PERMITS
104.1 Permit Application
104.1.1 Any owner, authorized agent, or contractor who desires to construct, enlarge, repair, alter, move, demolish, or change the occupancy of any building or structure, or to erect, install, alter, repair, enlarge, remove, convert or replace any system, the installation of which is regulated by the technical codes, shall first make application to the Building Official and obtain a permit for the work.
104.1.2 Minor Repairs - Ordinary minor repairs, where material costs do not exceed a value of $100.00, may be made with the approval of the Building Official without a permit, provided that such repairs do not violate the provisions of the Standard Building Code.
104.1.3 Information Required - Each application for a permit, with the required fee, shall be filed with the Building Official on a form furnished for that purpose and shall contain a general description of the work and its location. The application shall be signed by the owner, or his authorized agent. The building permit application shall contain such information as may be required by the Building Official.
104.1.4 Time Limitations - Any application for a permit shall be considered abandoned and fees shall be forfeited if authorized work is not commenced within six (6) months of the filing date or if work is suspended or abandoned for a period of three (3) months. One or more extension of time, not to exceed three (3) months each, may be allowed by the Building Official, provided the extension is requested in writing and just cause is demonstrated.
104.2 Drawings and Specifications.
104.2.1 Requirements - The Building Official may require two or more copies of specifications and drawings drawn to scale with sufficient clarity and detail to indicate the nature and character of the work. All required information, drawings and specifications shall bear the name and signature of the person responsible for the design.
104.2.2 Additional Data - The Building Official may require details, computations, stress diagrams, and other data necessary to describe the construction or installation and the basis of calculations. All drawings, specifications and accompanying data required by the Building Official to be prepared by an Architect, or Engineer shall be affixed with their official seal.
104.2.2 Design Professional - The design professional shall be an Architect or Engineer legally registered in the State of Georgia and he shall affix his official seal to the drawings, specifications and accompanying data, for the following:
104.2.2.1 All Group A, E, and I occupancies.
104.2.2.2 Buildings and structures three stories or more in height.
104.2.2.3 Buildings or structures, 5,000 square feet or more in the area.
104.2.2.4 For all other buildings or structures, the submittal shall bear the certification of the applicant that some specific state law exception permits its preparation by a person not so registered.
EXCEPTION: Group R-3 buildings, regardless of size, shall require neither a registered Architect or Engineer, nor a certification of exemption.
104.2.3 Site Drawings - Drawings shall show the location of the proposed building or structure on the site or lot, setbacks, easements and other pertinent information as required. The Building Official may require a boundary line survey prepared by a qualified surveyor.
104.3 Examination of Documents.
104.3.1 Plan Review
104.3.1.1 Zoning and Land Use Verification.
104.3.1.1.1 The community development department director or his/her designee shall review the permit application to determine conformity with the applicable zoning regulations. This review shall include, but is not limited to a facade review consisting of a review of the facades of all such buildings facing or viewable from a public street, building materials, landscaping, and architectural and building design compatibility.
104.3.1.2 The Building Official shall examine or cause to be examined each permit application and the accompanying documents and shall ascertain by such examination whether the work described by the application is in conformance with the Standard Building Code and other pertinent laws and ordinances.
104.3.2 Action on Permits - The Building Official shall act upon an application for a permit without unreasonable or unnecessary delay, however, he/she shall not approve a permit without there first being issued a zoning and land use verification approval by the community development director or his/her designee.
104.3.3 Special Foundation Permit - The Building Official may, at his discretion, issue a permit for foundation work only. The holder of such permit will proceed at his own risk and without assurance that a permit will be issued for the remainder of the work nor that corrections will not be required in order to meet the provisions of the Standard Building Code.
104.4 Contractors Responsibility.
It shall be the duty of every contractor who shall make contract for work under which a permit is required, to comply with state and local rules and regulations concerning licensing and permitting.
105 INSPECTIONS
105.1 Required Inspections
The Building Official, upon notification from the permit holder or his agent, shall make the following inspections and such other inspections as he deems necessary:
105.1.1 Building:
105.1.1.1 Foundation Inspection: To be made after trenches are excavated and forms set.
105.1.1.2 Frame Inspection: To be made after the roof, all framing, fireblocking, and bracing is in place, all concealed wiring, all pipes, chimneys, ducts and vents are in place.
105.1.1.3 Final Inspection: To be made after the building is completed and ready for occupancy.
105.1.2 Electrical:
105.1.2.1 Underground Inspection: To be made after trenches or ditches are excavated, conduit or cable installed, and before any backfill is put in place.
105.1.2.2 Rough-In Inspection: To be made after the roof, framing, fireblocking, and bracing is in place and prior to the installation of insulation, wall or ceiling membranes.
105.1.3 Plumbing:
105.1.3.1 Underground Inspection: To be made after trenches or ditches are excavated, piping installed and before backfill is out in place.
105.1.3.2 Rough-In Inspection: To be made after the roof, framing, fireblocking, and bracing is in place and prior to the installation of insulation, wall or ceiling membranes.
105.1.4 Mechanical:
105.1.4.1 Underground Inspection: To be made after trenches or ditches are excavated, underground duct and fuel piping installed, and before backfill is put in place.
105.1.4.2 Rough-In Inspection: To be made after the roof, framing, fireblocking, and bracing is in place and prior to the installation of insulation, wall or ceiling membranes.
105.1.5 Gas:
105.1.5.1 Rough Piping Inspection: To be made after all new piping has been installed and before any such piping is covered or concealed.
105.1.5.2 Final Piping Inspection: To be made after all new piping has been installed and after all portions have been covered or concealed. This inspection shall include a pressure test.
105.2 Release.
Work shall not be done on any part of a building, structure or system beyond the point of each successive inspection without first obtaining permission and written release from the Building Official. The Building Official shall establish a means of recording such inspection results and releases.
106 CERTIFICATES
106.1 Certificate of Occupancy.
A building or structure shall not be occupied or a change made in the occupancy, nature or use of the building or part of a building until after the Building Official has issued a Certificate of Occupancy. Said Certificate shall not be issued until all required systems have been inspected for compliance with the Standard Building Code and other applicable City ordinances.
106.2 Certificate of Completion.
Upon satisfactory completion of a building or structure and all systems, a Certificate of Completion may be issued. This Certificate is proof that a building or structure, or any system is completed to a point where it may be connected to a utility system. This Certificate does not grant the authority to occupy the building or structure.
106.2.1 Revocation of Certificates - The Building Official shall have the authority to revoke a certificate when it is determined that any owner, agent, or contractor has made or caused a change to a building, structure or system that is contrary to the requirements of the Standard Building Code or when a building, structure or system is not properly maintained in accordance with the codes.
106.3 Utilities.
No person shall make connections to any utility, source of energy, fuel or power to any building, structure or system which is regulated by the Standard Building Code and for which a permit is required, until same is released by the Building Official.
106.3.1 Temporary Connection - The Building Official may authorize the temporary connection of the building, structure or system to the utility source.
106.3.2 Authority to Disconnect - The Building Official shall have the authority to authorize disconnection of any utility service to any building, structure or system when necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property. Whenever possible, the owner or occupant of the building, structure or system shall be notified prior to taking such action.
107 TESTS
The Building Official may require test reports as proof of compliance with the requirements of the Standard Building Code. Required tests are to be made at the expense of the owner, or his agent, by an approved testing agency or laboratory.
108 CONSTRUCTION BOARD OF APPEALS
108.1 Appointment.
The Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby vested with the authority to act as the Construction Board of Appeals.
108.2 Quorum and Voting.
A simple majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum. In varying the provisions of the Standard Building Code, a majority vote of the members present with not less than three affirmative votes shall be required.
108.3 Secretary of Board.
The Building Official shall act as the Secretary of the Board and shall keep records of its proceedings.
108.4 Powers.
The Construction Board of Appeals shall have the power to hear appeals of decisions and interpretations of the Building Official and consider variances to the Standard Building Code.
108.5 Appeals.
108.5.1 Decisions of the Building Official - The owner of a building, structure or system, or his authorized agent, may appeal a decision of the Building Official to the Construction Board of Appeals whenever any one of the following conditions are claimed to exist:
108.5.1.1 The Building Official rejected or refused to approve the mode or manner of construction proposed to be followed or materials to be used in the installation or alteration of a building, structure or system.
108.5.1.2 The provisions of this code do not apply to this specific case.
108.5.1.3 That an equally good or more desirable form of installation can be employed in any specific case.
108.5.1.4 The true intent of the Standard Building Code or any regulation thereunder has been misconstrued or incorrectly interpreted.
108.5.2 Variances - The Construction Board of Appeals may vary the application of any provisions of the Standard Building Code to any specific case when, in its opinion, the enforcement thereof would do manifest injustice and would be contrary to the spirit and purpose of the Standard Building Code or public interest, and also finds the following:
108.5.2.1 Special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to the building, structure or system.
108.5.2.2 Special conditions to not result from the action or inaction of the applicant.
108.5.2.3 Granting the variance will not confer on the applicant any special privilege that is denied by this code to other owners.
108.5.2.4 The variance is the minimum variance that will make possible the reasonable use of the building, structure or system.
108.5.2.5 Granting of the variance will be in conformance with the general purpose and intent of the codes and will not be detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare.
108.5.3 Notice of Appeal - Notice of Appeal shall be in writing and shall be filed within thirty (30) calendar days of the decision of the Building Official. Appeals shall be in a form acceptable to the Building Official.
108.5.4 Unsafe or Dangerous Building - In the case of a building, structure or system that, in the opinion of the Building Official, is unsafe, unsanitary or dangerous, the Building Official may limit the time for such appeal to a shorter period.
108.5.6 Decisions - The Construction Board of Appeals shall, in every case, reach a decision without unreasonable or unnecessary delay. If a decision reverses or modified a refusal or order of the Building Official, he shall take immediate action in accordance with such decision. Every decision of the Board shall be final, subject to any remedy an aggrieved party might have at law or equity.
109 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES
Any person, firm, corporation or agent who shall violate the provisions of the Standard Building Code, or fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each such person shall be considered guilty of a separate offense for each and every day during which a violation is committed or continued, and upon conviction of any such violation such person shall punished within the limits as provided by State law.
( Ord. No. 14-05-01 , § 1, 5-1-2014)
