ARTICLE IV. - HIRING AND CLASSIFICATION ISSUES

Sec. 54-51. - Job postings.
In general, notices of job openings are posted in a designated location, although the county reserves its discretionary right to not post a particular opening. Posting notices will typically include job title, department, location, job summary, essential duties, qualifications (required skills and abilities), and procedure to apply for the position. To be eligible to apply for a posted position, employees must have performed competently in their current position. Every reasonable effort will be made to attract qualified applicants for available jobs, to include posting announcements in public places as well as publishing announcements in local newspapers or other media as needed.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § D-1)
Sec. 54-52. - Application and hiring procedures.
Applicants for positions with Stephens County will be subject to a variety of processes associated with the hiring process. These will include an accurate, thorough completion of the county's employment application form, with applicant's signature. Employment screening activities such as interviews, job skills testing, personality assessments, background investigations, character references, or other methods may be utilized to assist in determining an applicant's qualifications for the position.
Stephens County relies upon accuracy of information contained in the employment application, as well as accuracy of other data provided throughout the hiring process and employment. Any misrepresentations, falsifications, or material omissions in any of this information or data may result in the county's exclusion of the individual from further consideration for employment or, if the person has been hired, termination of employment.
All applicants for employment will be required to undergo a physical examination and drug screening test. These tests are paid for by Stephens County. Any offer of employment is contingent upon the applicant successfully completing both the physical exam and drug screening test. The county will not hire any applicant tentatively selected for employment who refuses to submit to a physical exam or drug test, or who tests positive for use of illegal or unauthorized substances (as described in section 54-33). No individual will be permitted to begin work until test results have been obtained.
Should any employee voluntarily leave employment with the county before the end of their probation period, the county reserves the right to deduct the expenses for the physical exam and drug screen test from the employee's final paycheck.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § D-2)
Sec. 54-53. - Appointments.
The county recognizes two types of appointments that apply to both original appointments and promotions: Competitive appointments and noncompetitive appointments.
(1)
Competitive appointments. Competitive appointments are the normal practice of the county. When a vacancy occurs, all applicants certified as eligible are considered for the position and, in general, the best qualified applicant will be employed.
(2)
Noncompetitive appointments. It shall be the policy of the county to promote employees from positions in lower classes whenever possible. These noncompetitive promotions shall be consistent with fair employment practices. If no eligible applicants are available at such time as a vacancy occurs, or if a new position is created within an operating division, the county commissioners or other elected official may make a temporary or emergency appointment of an individual to fill the position until such time as they become eligible for regular appointment or until a suitable, fully-qualified applicant becomes available. Noncompetitive appointments may also be made to fill temporary or part-time positions not covered by these policies and procedures.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § D-3)
Sec. 54-54. - Position classification and pay plan.
The Board of Commissioners of Stephens County has adopted an employee position classification and pay plan for all positions under the county's personnel system. The nature and content of such plan will be at the discretion of the board of commissioners, and is subject to change or discontinuation at any time without prior notice to employees.
The position classification section has been developed so that positions which are substantially similar with respect to difficulty, level of responsibility, degree of supervision required and exercised and required training and experience will be allocated to the same grade. The pay plan provides a schedule of salary ranges for all positions, with the salary consistent with the functions outlined in the pay plan. In establishing such salary ranges, consideration is given to rates of pay for comparable services in other public and private employment, living costs, other benefits received by employees, the county's financial condition and policies, and other relevant facts. Upon adoption:
• The pay plan shall constitute the official compensation schedule for positions under the county's personnel system. Salary adjustments shall not be automatic, but shall be based on current cost of living, work performance, length of service, availability of funds, and other appropriate considerations.
• The county may revise the position and pay plan, revise any job description, add new job descriptions, or eliminate job descriptions in order to reflect new or changed conditions of work requirements.
The board of commissioners may, at least once each year, request that the county administrator and department heads review the pay plan and recommend necessary changes. Consideration shall be given to such factors as rises in costs of living, the competitive wage situation in government and industry, and such other factors as may be considered relevant.
Entrance salary. The entry salary of any employee will normally be at the minimum of the salary range for the position to which they are appointed. An employee may be hired at a salary above the minimum of the range, as authorized by the County, under the following circumstances:
• It is not possible to recruit qualified employees at the entry level;
• An employee is being considered for employment who possesses qualifications in excess of the minimum required for appointment to the position, and when those advanced qualifications will serve to make them a more valuable and productive employee, or
• Such other circumstances exist that, in the opinion of County management, warrant payment of a salary in excess of the minimum for the position.
Salary adjustments. Salary adjustments may be made in the following situations:
• Adoption of new salary scale. When a new or different scale of salaries is made applicable to a class of positions, employees in position of that class at the effective date of the adjustment may be placed at the salary level of the new scale corresponding to the level the employee had reached under the former salary scale.
• Reclassification of employee. Upon position reclassification, an employee's salary will be adjusted to the pay grade assigned to the new position.
• Demotion. The salary of an employee who is demoted to a position in a lower classification will be reduced to the level of the new range which corresponds to the level attained by the employee in the previous class. The county administrator or department head may request approval from the board for an employee to retain the same salary after a demotion, provided the amount is not in excess of the maximum salary for positions in the new class.
• Transfer. The salary of an employee transferring to a new position may be placed at any level of the range applicable to the new position, provided it is not a higher level than the level at which they were paid at the time of the transfer.
• Reappointment. The salary of a reappointed employee may be placed at any level of the range applicable to the position to which they are reappointed, provided it is not a higher level than the level at which the employee was paid at the time or his/her termination.
• Special circumstances. In special or unusual circumstances, the county administrator or department head may request the board to authorize adjustment of an employee's salary up to one level higher than the employee could have earned under the provision of the "Salary increases" section (below), subject to the availability of funds.
Salary increases. Salary increases may be made in the following situations:
• Cost-of-living increases. The county commissioners may approve a percentage cost-of-living increase for each employee. Such increases would be effective on the first day of the county's fiscal year and contingent on funds available to be budgeted for such increases.
• Other increases. All other increases will be based upon quality and quantity of work and upon other performance measures. Due consideration will be given to length of service, will correspond with the salary range, and will be limited to employees holding regular status in the position which currently employed.
• Increase following probation period. An employee successfully completing a probation period may be given a salary increase.
• Limit on increases. No employee may have his/her salary increased to a point above the maximum of the salary range applicable to the employee's position class.
Salary reductions. All salary reductions shall correspond with the levels of the approved salary range, and no employee will have his/her salary reduced to a point below the minimum of the salary range applicable to the employee's position class.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § D-4)
Sec. 54-55. - Job descriptions.
Job descriptions may be included in the county's position classification and pay plan. Such job descriptions are descriptive and not restrictive. They are intended to indicate the general kinds of duties, responsibilities, and job requirements normally associated with the position, but are not intended to be exhaustive. The job descriptions include "minimum qualifications" (statements of the minimum background determined to be required as evidence of ability to properly perform the work"). Employees may be assigned other duties not included in the descriptions, and may also be required to work across departmental lines.
Each employee will be provided with a copy of his/her job description, and each department head and other supervisors will be provided with job descriptions for all positions under their supervision. An employee affected by a revision in a job description, and the employee's immediate supervisor and department head, will be provided copies of the revised job description.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § D-5)
Sec. 54-56. - Employment categories.
It is Stephens County's intent to clarify the categories and classifications of employment so employees may understand their employment status and eligibility for benefits.
(1)
FLSA categories. Each position is designated as either non-exempt or exempt from federal and state wage and hour laws. These designations are determined based upon the position's responsibilities and according to guidelines of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). A change in the exempt or non-exempt status of a position may only occur as a result of changes in position responsibilities, and only upon written notification by County management. Employees in non-exempt positions are entitled to overtime pay under the specific provisions of federal and state laws. Employees in exempt positions are excluded from specific provisions of federal and state wage and hour laws.
(2)
Position classifications. In addition to the above categories, each position in the county's position classification and pay plan will be designated to one of the classes listed below:
• Regular full-time employees are those who:
a.
Have completed the probation period of employment;
b.
Are regularly scheduled to work the county's full-time schedule, usually a minimum of 40 hours per week; and,
c.
Are not assigned to a temporary status.
Regular full-time employees are eligible for the county's benefit package, subject to the terms, conditions, and limitations of each benefit program.
• Regular part-time employees are those who:
a.
Have completed the probation period of employment;
b.
Are regularly scheduled to work less than the full-time work schedule, usually between 20 and 40 hours per week; and,
c.
Are not assigned to a temporary status.
A regular, part-time employee who regularly works a minimum of 32 [hours] per week will be considered full-time for purposes of eligibility for the county's benefit package. While regular part-time employees working less than 32 hours per week receive all legally-managed benefits (such as workers' compensation insurance and Social Security), they are ineligible for the county's other benefit programs. Part-time employees will be expected to sign a contract agreement with the county.
• Employees in the probation period are those:
a.
Who have not completed their probation period of employment (usually six months in the position); and
b.
Whose performance is being evaluated to determine whether further employment in a specific position or with the county is appropriate.
Upon completion of the probation period, and after a successful performance review and recommendation by the department head, this employee will typically attain regular status. Eligibility for benefits during the probation period will generally depend on the full-time or part-time nature of the position, and will be subject to the terms, conditions, and limitations of each benefit program.
• Temporary employees are those who:
a.
Are hired for assignments of limited duration (usually no more than six months);
b.
Are hired as interim replacements; or,
c.
Are hired to temporarily supplement the work force or assist in completion of a specific project.
Employment beyond any initially stated period does not in any way imply a change in employment status. Temporary employees retain the temporary status unless and until notified of a change. While temporary employees receive all legally-mandated benefits (such as workers' compensation insurance and Social Security), they are ineligible for the county's other benefit programs.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § D-6)
Sec. 54-57. - Probation period.
Am employee's first six months of employment in a position of original appointment, promotion, or transfer to a position with different qualifications will generally be considered a "probation" period. This probation period is for training, evaluation, and observation to obtain the most effective adjustment of the new or promoted employee and to monitor the employee's performance.
At no time during the probation period should the employee have expectation of continued employment. The county is an at-will employer. An employee may be discharged from their position at any time during the probation period with or without reason and without the right of appeal or hearing.
During the probation period, the department head will typically discuss the employee's performance at least once per month with the employee. At the end of the probation period, the department head will prepare a performance evaluation indicating satisfactory or unsatisfactory performance, and will recommend that employment be continued or terminated. The employee will be notified no later than the last day of the probation period whether their employment will be terminated or continued. Upon successful completion of the probation period, the employee will be considered capable of performing satisfactorily in that position and will be offered continued employment.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § D-7)
Secs. 54-58—54-70. - Reserved.
