Chapter 70 - TAXATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county or any evidence of the county's indebtedness saved from repeal, § 1-10(2); any ordinance relating to specific public improvements or assessments for such improvements saved from repeal, § 1-10(5); any ordinance, consistent with this Code, providing for the levy or collection of taxes or for an annual budget or appropriations saved from repeal, § 1-10(6); administration, ch. 2; finance, § 2-121 et seq.; businesses, ch. 22.
State Law reference— Issuance of notes, etc., in anticipation of taxes, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-2; revenue and taxation, O.C.G.A. title 48; county taxation, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-220 et seq.; excise tax on rooms, lodgings and accommodations, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 70-1. - Board of tax assessors.
Pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 48-5-290(b), the number of members to serve on the county board of tax assessors shall be three.
(Res. of 2-7-1989)
Cross reference— Other boards and commissions, § 2-61 et seq.
Sec. 70-2. - Payments to tax commissioner.
The tax commissioner of the county shall be authorized to receive in payment of taxes, license fees, interest or like payment due that office, personal, company, certified, treasurer's or cashier's checks, or bank, postal, or express money orders or credit cards or debit cards or internet payment systems. The tax commissioner shall not be personally liable for any unpaid instruments received by such officer provided that:
(1)
The tax commissioner or designee thereof shall require adequate proof of the taxpayer's identity and address.
(2)
The instrument presented for payment of taxes or license fees is not a two party instrument, that is the person whom the instrument is initially payable is someone other than the county, the tax commissioner of the county, or some other similar designation.
(3)
The tax commissioner takes reasonable steps to determine there is nothing irregular on the face of the instrument or irregular about its use in payment of the taxes or license fees under the circumstances; and
(4)
If the instrument is returned unpaid, the tax commissioner shall take all actions authorized under O.C.G.A. § 48-5-146 to collect the unpaid instrument.
(Res. of 12-16-1980; Ord. of 3-24-2009)
Sec. 70-3. - Exemption of certain tangible personal property.
One hundred percent of the value of the tangible personal property as is more fully defined in Ga. Const. art. VII, § II, ¶ III, shall be exempt from ad valorem taxation, including all such taxes levied for educational purposes and for state purposes.
(Res. of 5-1-1979)
Secs. 70-4—70-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EXCISE TAX ON ROOMS, LODGINGS AND ACCOMMODATIONS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 22.

Sec. 70-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
County means the area contained within the boundaries of Stephens County excluding only those areas within the corporate limits of any municipality which also levies a hotel-motel excise tax as provided by state law.
Due date means from the 20th day after the close of the monthly period for which the tax is to be computed.
Guest room means a room occupied, or intended, arranged, or designed for occupancy, by one or more occupants for the purpose of living quarters or residential use.
Hotel means any structure or any portion of a structure including any lodginghouse, roominghouse, dormitory, Turkish bath, bachelor hotel, studio, hotel, motel, motor hotel, auto court, inn, public club, or private club containing guest rooms and which is occupied, or is intended or designed for occupancy, by guests, whether rent is paid in money, goods, labor, or otherwise. Such term does not include any jail, hospital, asylum, sanitarium, orphanage, prison, detention center, or other buildings in which human beings are housed and detained under legal restraint.
Occupancy means the use or possession of, or the right to use or possess, any room or apartment in a hotel, or the right to use or possess the furnishings or the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the room.
Occupant means any person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has the right to use or possess any room in a hotel under any lease, concession, permit, right of access, license, or use, or other agreement, or otherwise.
Operator means any person operating a hotel in the county including, but not limited to, the owner or proprietor of such premises, the lessee, sublessee, lender in possession, licensee, or any other person otherwise operating such hotel.
Permanent resident means any occupant as of a given date who has or shall have occupied or has or shall have the right of occupancy of any guest room in a hotel for a period of more than ten consecutive days.
Person means an individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, nonprofit membership, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit, excepting the United States of America, the state, and any political subdivision of either thereof upon which the county is without power to impose the tax provided in this article.
Rent means the consideration received for occupancy valued in money whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
Return means any return filed or required to be filed as provided in this article.
(Ord. No. 95-2, § 1, 8-15-1995)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 70-32. - Violation.
Any person who shall do anything prohibited by this article as the same exists or as it may hereafter be amended or who shall fail to do anything required by this article as the same exists or as it may hereafter be amended shall be guilty of a violation of a county ordinance, amenable to the process of the magistrate court of the county, and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in section 1-9.
(Ord. No. 95-2, § 14, 8-15-1995)
Sec. 70-33. - Levied.
There is set and levied on each occupant of a guest room of any hotel located within the county a tax in the amount of five percent of the rent for such occupancy.
(Ord. No. 95-2, § 2, 8-15-1995)
Sec. 70-34. - Collection of tax.
It shall be the duty of every operator of a hotel located within the county to collect the tax imposed on occupants pursuant to this article.
(Ord. No. 95-2, § 3, 8-15-1995)
Sec. 70-35. - Exemptions.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, no tax shall be imposed on accommodations furnished to a permanent resident, furnished for use as meeting rooms, furnished for a period of one or more days for use by the state or local government officials or employees traveling on official business, or for any other purpose exempted by law.
(Ord. No. 95-2, § 4, 8-15-1995)
Sec. 70-36. - Registration of business.
Every person engaging in or about to engage in business as an operator of a hotel in the county shall immediately register such business with the county administrator, on a form provided by the administrator for such purpose. Persons engaged in such business must so register not later than 30 days after the date this section becomes effective; but such grace period for registration after the effective date of the tax shall not relieve any person from the obligation of payment or collection of such tax on and after the date of imposition thereof. The required registration under this section shall set forth the name under which the operator transacts business or intends to transact business, the location of his place or places of business, and such other information as would facilitate the collection of the tax by the county administrator. The registration shall be signed by the owner if a natural person; by a member or partner in case of ownership by an association or partnership; or by an officer in the case of ownership by a corporation. A separate registration shall be required for each place of business of an operator.
(Ord. No. 95-2, § 5, 8-15-1995)
Sec. 70-37. - Certificate of authority.
Upon the registration of an operator as provided in this article, the administrator shall issue to such operator without charge a certificate of authority to collect the tax on occupants. Each certificate shall state the name and location of the business to which it relates.
(Ord. No. 95-2, § 6, 8-15-1995)
Sec. 70-38. - Due and payable monthly.
All taxes levied by this article shall be due and payable to the administrator monthly on or before the 20th day of every month next succeeding each respective month in which such taxes are collected, and payment shall be accompanied by a return for the preceding monthly period showing the gross rent, rent from permanent residents, taxable rent, amount of tax collected or otherwise due for the period, and such other information as may be required by the administrator.
(Ord. No. 95-2, § 7, 8-15-1995)
Sec. 70-39. - Reimbursement.
Operators collecting the tax levied under this article shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting, and payment of the amount due, if such amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of the deduction shall be the same rate authorized for deductions from state tax under the state sales and use tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-52.
(Ord. No. 95-2, § 8, 8-15-1995)
Sec. 70-40. - Estimate of gross rentals.
If any operator fails to file a return as required under the provisions of this article, the administrator shall make an estimate of the amount of gross rentals of such operator which are subject to the tax. The estimate shall be made for the period or periods in which the operator failed to file the return and shall be based upon any information which is or may come to the possession of the administrator.
(1)
Notice of determination. The administrator or his designated representative shall give to the operator written notice of his determination. The notice may be served personally or by mail; if by mail, such service shall be addressed to the operator at his address as it appears in the records of the administrator. Service by mail is complete when delivered by certified mail with a receipt signed by the addressee.
(2)
Interest on amount found due. The amount of the determination made under this section shall bear interest at the rate of three-fourths of one percent per month following the monthly period for which the amount or any portion thereof should have been returned, until the date of payment.
(Ord. No. 95-2, § 9, 8-15-1995)
Sec. 70-41. - Record retention.
Each operator collecting a tax under the provisions of this article shall keep for a period of at least three years all records, receipts, invoices and other pertinent papers setting forth the rent charged for each occupancy, the date or dates of occupancy, and such other information as the administrator may require.
(Ord. No. 95-2, § 10, 8-15-1995)
Sec. 70-42. - Powers of administrator.
The administrator shall administer and enforce the provisions of this article for the collection of the tax imposed in this article, and in so doing shall have the following powers:
(1)
To examine, or authorize the examination of, the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of any operator renting guest rooms to persons subject to the tax, in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made by the operator, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid.
(2)
To require the filing of reports by any person or person having in his or their possession or custody information relating to rentals of guest rooms which are subject to the tax levied in this article.
(Ord. No. 95-2, § 11, 8-15-1995)
Sec. 70-43. - Collection through court action.
At any time within three years after any tax or any portion of such tax required to be collected pursuant to this article becomes due and payable, the county attorney may bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction in the name of the county to collect such amount due together with interest, court fees, filing fees, attorney's fees and other legal fees incident thereto.
(Ord. No. 95-2, § 12, 8-15-1995)
Sec. 70-44. - Purchaser liable for tax.
If any operator becomes liable for any amount required to be paid by this article and subsequently thereto sells out his business or quits the business, the successors or assignees of such operator shall withhold a sufficient amount of the purchase price to cover such amount due. If the purchaser of the business fails to withhold the required amount, he shall become personally liable therefor to the extent of the purchase price.
(Ord. No. 95-2, § 13, 8-15-1995)
