ARTICLE III. - ESTABLISHMENTS OF DISTRICTS AND PROVISIONS FOR OFFICIAL ZONING MAP

Sec. 59-300. - Land use districts.
modified
For the purpose of these regulations, Stephens County is divided into the land use districts below:
EXPAND
District Group Districts District Description
AGRICULTURE AG/AR Agriculture general/residential district
AI Agriculture intensive district
AB Agriculture business district
RESIDENTIAL RS Residential single-family district
RM Residential multi-family district
COMMERCIAL CC Commercial community district
CG Commercial general business district
CI Commercial industrial district
PUD PUD Planned unit development
ENVIRONMENTAL EC Environmental conservation district
  Sec. 59-301. - Official zoning map.
The location and boundaries of the above listed districts are hereby established as shown on a map entitled "Official Zoning Map of Stephens County". Said map, with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations.
The official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the county commission chairman, attested by the county clerk and bear the following words: "This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map referred to in Article III of the Land Use Regulations, Stephens County Georgia," together with the date of the adoption of these regulations.
If in accordance with the provisions of these regulations and the applicable laws of the State of Georgia, changes are made in boundaries or other matters portrayed on the official zoning map, such changes shall be entered on the official zoning map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the board of commissioners with appropriate entry or indication of such amendment on the official zoning map. No amendment to these regulations that involves matters portrayed on the official zoning map shall become effective until after such change and entry has been made.
No changes of any nature shall be made on the official zoning map or matters shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures set forth in these regulations. Any unauthorized change of whatever kind by any person shall be considered a violation of these regulations.
Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official zoning map, which may from time to time be made or published, the official zoning map shall be located in the office of the county clerk and shall be the final authority as to the current zoning status of land and water areas, buildings and other structures in the county.
Sec. 59-302. - Interpretation of district boundaries.
(a)
All boundary lines shall be determined by the official zoning map.
(b)
In the case where exact location of a boundary cannot be determined by the foregoing methods, the planning director, shall upon application, determine the location of the boundary.
Sec. 59-303. - Designation after street abandonment.
Where a public street, alley or other right-of-way is officially vacated or abandoned, the regulations applicable to the property to which it reverted shall apply to such vacated or abandoned public street, alley or right-of-way.
Sec. 59-304. - Reserved.
