ARTICLE X. - CC—COMMERCIAL COMMUNITY BUSINESS DISTRICT

Sec. 59-1000. - Purpose and intent.
The community commercial district is intended to provide neighborhoods with limited, small-scale commercial business of a convenience nature that serves nearby residential communities.
Sec. 59-1001. - Permitted uses.
(a)
Small retail trade establishments.
(b)
Restaurants, but not including drive-in or drive-through facilities. Unenclosed seating areas are permitted.
(c)
Finance, insurance and real estate establishments.
(d)
Dry cleaning, shoe repair and other similar service establishments.
(e)
Professional offices.
(f)
Museums, galleries and instructional studios.
(g)
Small food catering establishments.
(h)
Day care and personal care facilities.
(i)
Business supply and copying centers, not exceeding 2,500 square feet.
(j)
Accessory uses and structures incidental to permitted principal uses and structures.
(k)
Convenience stores without gasoline, diesel or kerosene pumps.
(l)
Small retail, service and office establishments that do not exceed 20,000 square feet in size.
Sec. 59-1002. - Conditional uses.
(a)
Repair shops (excluding automotive, mechanical, etc.).
(b)
Convenience stores with gasoline, diesel or kerosene pumps.
(c)
Outdoor storage facilities.
Sec. 59-1003. - Prohibited uses.
(a)
Outdoor sales facilities.
(b)
Automotive and mechanical.
(c)
Compost production facilities.
(d)
Waste reclamation or recycling.
(e)
Any facility that would produce noxious odors.
Sec. 59-1004. - Building requirements.
modified
The minimum area, yard, height and building requirements for the community commercial district shall be as follows:
(1)
Minimum lot size: 1.5 acre (65,340 square feet) or greater as may be required by the health department, regarding water supply and sewage disposal.
(2)
Building setbacks—Minimum:
EXPAND
Front yard - 80 feet on state highways;
- 60 feet on all other collector streets;
Side yard - 25 feet;
Rear yard - 25 feet.
  Where the commercial community business district abuts a residential district, an additional 30-foot setback for a landscaped evergreen vegetative buffer shall be required.
(3)
Building height—Maximum: No structure shall be higher than 40 feet.
(4)
Corner lot ingress/egress: 75 feet from intersection of the right-of-way lines.
Sec. 59-1005. - Full disclosure.
Commercial or industrial businesses shall, as part of their building permit or license application process, provide the planning director with full disclosure of all hazardous or dangerous products used in their commercial or industrial processes together with an explanation of safety measures, disposal measures and emergency medical and evacuation procedures. The planning director shall then forward this information to the emergency management director, the fire department and the sheriff's department.
Sec. 59-1006. - Reserved.
