Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The provisions embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of the City of Hinesville, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1978, § 1-1)
State Law reference— Codification required, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
Words, terms and phrases used in this Code shall have the following meanings, unless otherwise specified:
Advice and consent. Whenever the term "advice and consent" of the City Council is used in this Code, it shall be construed to mean an affirmative vote of the majority of the entire City Council.
Charter. The term "Charter" means the Charter of the City of Hinesville, Georgia, as printed in Part I of this volume.
City. The words "the City" or "this City" or "Municipality" mean the City of Hinesville, Georgia.
City Council, Council. The words "City Council" or "the Council" mean the City Council of the City of Hinesville, Georgia.
Code. Wherever the term "Code" or "this Code" is referred to without further qualification, it means "The Code of the City of Hinesville, Georgia," as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted, but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the person having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as referred to in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the person having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
County. The words "the County" or "this County" mean the County of Liberty, Georgia.
Court. The word "court" means the municipal court of the City.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires the head of a department or other officer of the City to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
Governing authority, governing body. The terms "Governing Authority" or "Governing Body" mean the Mayor and City Council of the City of Hinesville, Georgia.
Gender. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter.
General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
Health Department. The term "Health Department" means the County Health Department.
Joint authority. All words purporting to give a joint authority to three or more City officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such officers or other persons unless it shall be otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority.
Mayor. The word "Mayor" means the Mayor of the City of Hinesville, Georgia.
Mayor and City Council. The term "Mayor and City Council" means the Mayor and City Council of the City of Hinesville, Georgia.
Number. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural includes the singular number.
Oath. Includes affirmation.
O.C.G.A. the abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Overlapping provisions. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provisions imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
Officers, agencies. Wherever the title of an officer, employee, department, board, commission or other agency is given, it shall be construed as though the words "of the City of Hinesville" follow it.
Ordinance. The word "ordinance" means a legislative act of the municipal governing body of a general and permanent nature.
Owner. The word "owner," when applied to a building or to land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a part of such building or land.
Person. The word "person" shall include a corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization or other entity and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
Personal property. The term "personal property" shall include every species of property except real property, as hereinafter defined.
Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The term "property" means and includes real and personal property.
Real property. The words "real property" mean and shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Reasonable time or notice. The term "reasonable time or notice" means only such time as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the act required.
Resolution. The word "resolution" means a legislative act of the Mayor and City Council of a special or temporary character.
Schedule of fees and charges. The phrase "schedule of fees and charges" means the official consolidated list maintained in the office of the City Clerk which contains rates for utility or other public enterprises, fees of any nature, deposit amounts and various charges as determined from time to time by the Mayor and City Council.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, but shall not include any unimproved areas between the curblines and improved walkways.
Shall, may. The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is permissive.
Signature, subscription. The word "signature" or "subscription" shall include the mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State. The words "state" or "this State" mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" means the entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
Tenant oroccupant. The word "tenant" or "occupant," when applied to a building or to land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Week. The word "week" means seven days.
Writing or written. The word "writing" or "written" shall include printing and any other mode of representing words, letters and numerals.
Year. The word "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1978, § 1-2)
State Law reference— Computation of time, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1; construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes and references.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. No provision of this Code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any such catchline or in any heading or title to any chapter, article or division.
(b)
The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
(Code 1978, § 1-3)
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Amending Code.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code that amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code shall be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In any case of repealed chapters, sections, and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. Any and all additions and amendments to this Code, when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the City Council to make them a part hereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated herein, so that a reference to the Code shall be understood and intended to include such additions and amendments.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _______ of The Code of the City of Hinesville, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows…" The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "The Code of the City of Hinesville, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or subsection or chapter) to be numbered _______, which section reads as follows …" The new provision shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, chapters, or provisions sought to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, chapter or provision number, as the case may be.
(Code 1978, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - Effect of repeal or expiration of Code section.
(a)
The repeal of a Code section or ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued or any offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding commenced before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
(b)
When any ordinance repealing a former Code section, ordinance, clause or provision, shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former Code section, ordinance, clause or provision, unless it shall be expressly so provided.
(Code 1978, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-6. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances adopted prior to this Code and included in such Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(Code 1978, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-7. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the City or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the City or any evidence of the City's indebtedness;
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the City;
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any City officer or employee;
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the City;
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the City;
(7)
Any appropriation ordinance;
(8)
Any ordinance that, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term;
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
(10)
Any zoning or rezoning ordinance or any ordinance amending a zoning map;
(11)
Any ordinance regulating subdivisions or dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
(12)
Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the City;
(13)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the City not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code; or
(14)
Any special ordinance.
(Code 1978, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-8. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code or their application to any persons or circumstances shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code or its application since the same would have been enacted by the Council without the incorporation in this Code or their application of any such unconstitutional or invalid phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 1978, § 1-8)
State Law reference— Severability, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-9. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by City personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized and directed by the City Council. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the City Council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code that have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _______ to _______" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Code 1978, § 1-9)
Sec. 1-10. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever, except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the Mayor and City Council.
(Code 1978, § 1-10)
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-11. - Liability for violations by corporations and other associations.
(a)
Any violation of this Code by any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization, while acting within the scope of his office or employment, shall in every case also be deemed to be a violation by such corporation, association or organization.
(b)
Any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and liable to punishment as well as such corporation or unincorporated association or organization for the violation by it of any provisions of this Code, where such violation was the act or omission, or the result of the act, omission or order, of any such person.
(Code 1978, § 1-11)
Sec. 1-12. - General penalty.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the City any act is prohibited or is declared to be unlawful, or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of any act is declared to be unlawful and no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision of this Code or any ordinance shall subject the person committing the violation to a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 and costs or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or to both such fine and imprisonment, any or all of such penalties to be imposed at the discretion of the municipal court judge.
(b)
The infliction of a penalty under the provisions of this section shall not prevent the revocation of any permit or license or the taking of other punitive or remedial action where called for or permitted under the provisions of the City's Charter or Code.
(c)
Each such person shall be considered guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any violation of the provisions of the Code is committed or continued.
(d)
All violations of this Code are hereby declared to be public nuisances.
(Code 1978, § 1-12)
State Law reference— Penalty to be imposed in certain criminal and traffic cases and upon violation of bond, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; authority to confine persons convicted of violating ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-8; punishments authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1(c); limitations on home rule powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6; revenues collected from fines and fees, O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 et seq.
