Chapter 8 - BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Standards and requirements for construction, alteration, etc., of buildings and other structures, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 8-1. - Fire district designated.
The fire district shall be comprised of the entire area within the city limits and an area outside the city limits approved from time to time by the fire chief and the city administrator as shown on a district map on file in the office of the city clerk.
(Code 1971, § 5-1; Ord. of 8-5-1938, § 1)
Sec. 8-2. - Building official office established; duties as inspector.
The city council may appoint a local building official who shall also act as gas, electrical, housing and plumbing inspector, unless otherwise provided by the council. The city may also appoint the county inspector as the local city building official through an intergovernmental agreement.
(Code 1971, § 5-2)
Sec. 8-3. - Construction codes adopted.
(a)
The following codes, as set forth in O.C.G.A. §§ 8-2-20 and 8-2-21, are adopted by the city as though fully set forth herein, as supplemented and amended by the state department of community affairs, and as may be amended by provisions of this chapter or of this Code generally to the extent permitted by state law:
(1)
International Building Code, 2012 Edition, with 2014, 2015, 2017 and 2018 state amendments.
(2)
International Residential Code, 2012 Edition, with 2014, 2015 and 2018 state amendments.
(3)
International Fire Code, 2012 Edition, with 2014 state amendment.
(4)
International Plumbing Code, 2012 Edition, with 2014 and 2015 state amendments.
(5)
International Mechanical Code, 2012 Edition, with 2014 and 2015 state amendments.
(6)
International Fuel Gas Code, 2012 Edition, with 2014 and 2015 state amendments.
(7)
National Electrical Code, 2017 Edition.
(8)
International Energy Conservation Code, 2009 Edition, with 2011 and 2012 state amendments.
(9)
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2012 Edition, with 2014 state amendment.
(10)
International Property Maintenance Code, 2012 Edition, with 2015 state amendment.
(11)
International Existing Building Code, 2012 Edition, with 2015 state amendment.
(b)
Subsequent editions or amendments to the adopted publications and state amendments and errata shall become effective 30 days after the city council receives notice that copies of such publications have been obtained, unless the council within such 30-day period disapproves the subsequent edition or amendment.
(c)
A copy of each adopted code shall be authenticated and recorded by the clerk and kept on file in the office of the clerk available for public inspection.
State Law reference— Minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25; enforcement of minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26.
Sec. 8-4. - Building permit required; procedure.
(a)
It is unlawful to start any work for the purpose of construction, alteration or removal of any building unless a building permit has been issued in conformity with this chapter.
(b)
The applicant for a building permit shall submit a site plan at a suitable scale showing the shape, size and location of the lot to be built upon and the shape, size, height, use and location of the buildings to be erected, altered or moved and of any buildings already on the lot, the number of dwelling units the building is designed to accommodate, the setback line of buildings on adjoining lots and any other information needed to determine whether the provisions of this chapter are being observed.
(c)
If the application conforms to the provisions of this chapter, the city construction codes, city zoning regulations and all other ordinances of the city, the permit shall be issued upon payment of the required fee. If not, the building permit shall be refused by the building inspector stating such refusal in writing with the cause.
(d)
If no substantial progress on construction has been made within six months beginning with the date the permit is issued, the permit becomes invalid. The building inspector may renew the permit. A renewal fee is required to be paid by the applicant before the permit is renewed.
(Ord. of 11-24-1965, §§ 102, 103)
Sec. 8-5. - Certificate of occupancy required; records to be maintained.
A certificate of occupancy issued by the building inspector is required in advance of the use or occupancy of any lot or a change in the use thereof and for any building erected or a change in the use of an existing building. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued unless the lot or building or structure complies with all the provisions of this chapter, city construction and zoning regulations, all other applicable city ordinances, and state law. A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file in the office of the building inspector and a copy shall be furnished, on request, to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building or land involved.
(Ord. of 11-24-1965, § 104)
Sec. 8-6. - Codes remedial in nature.
The construction codes adopted herein are remedial in nature, and shall be construed to secure the beneficial interests and purposes thereof, which are public safety, health, and general welfare through structural strength, stability, sanitation, adequate light and ventilation, and safety to life and property from fire and other hazards attributed to the built environment, including alteration, repair, removal, demolition, use and occupancy of buildings, structures, or premises, and by regulating the installation and maintenance of all electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems.
Sec. 8-7. - Requirements not covered by codes.
Any requirements necessary for the strength, stability or proper operation of an existing or proposed building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, or for the public safety, health and general welfare, not specifically covered by this chapter or the other construction codes, shall be determined by the building inspector.
Sec. 8-8. - Alternate materials and methods.
The provisions of the construction codes are not intended to prevent the use of any material or method of construction not specifically prescribed by them, provided any such alternate has been reviewed by the building inspector. The building inspector shall approve any such alternate, provided the building inspector finds that the alternate for the purpose intended is at least the equivalent of that prescribed in the construction codes, in quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability and safety. The building inspector shall require that sufficient evidence or proof be submitted to substantiate any claim made regarding the alternate.
Sec. 8-9. - Liability of city.
The inspection or permitting of any building, system or plan, under the requirements of this Code, shall not be construed in any court as a warranty of the physical condition of such building, system or plan or their adequacy. Neither the city nor any employee thereof shall be liable in tort for damages for any defect or hazardous or illegal condition or inadequacy in such building, system or plan, nor for any failure of any component of such, that may occur subsequent to such inspection or permitting.
Secs. 8-10—8-36. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - STRUCTURE NUMBERING

Sec. 8-37. - Building numbers required; composition, size and location.
(a)
Each owner or tenant of property located in this city shall install and maintain a building number for each building located upon such property. Building numbers shall be posted at a minimum of two locations:
(1)
One set of numbers shall be placed on the structure itself, on the side visible to the driveway or street, so that the numbers can be clearly visible from the driveway or street.
(2)
A second set of numbers shall be placed on each side of the mailbox of the premises (if the mailbox is located at the curb of the street). If the mailbox is not located at the curb or at a location near the driveway of the premises, then the numbers shall be attached to a post or other fixed object on or above ground level at the driveway or curb cut, so that the numbers are clearly visible from the street.
(b)
Building numbers shall be made of a durable, reflective material, and shall be a color which contrasts with the color of the background upon which the numbers are placed. Numbers shall be at least three inches high.
(Ord. No. 2008-02, §§ 1.1—1.3, 2-13-2008)
Sec. 8-38. - Costs to be borne by owner or tenant.
The costs of installing and maintaining the required building numbers shall be borne by the property owner or tenant.
(Ord. No. 2008-02, § 1.4, 2-13-2008)
Sec. 8-39. - City to furnish correct number; owner or tenant to remove incorrect numbers.
It is the duty of the city administrator, upon application by any property owner or tenant of property in the city, to furnish the property owner or tenant with the correct enhanced 911 number for each building located on the premises. It is the duty of the property owner or tenant of the premises to remove any incorrect numbers that might cause confusion in identifying the correct building number.
(Ord. No. 2008-02, §§ 1.5, 1.6, 2-13-2008)
Sec. 8-40. - Notice of violation; failure to comply; installation of number by city at owner's expense.
(a)
The property owner or tenant in violation of this article shall be given one written warning by the city administrator permitting seven days to comply with this article. If the property owner or tenant fails or refuses to comply after having received a written warning from the city administrator, the city may furnish and install the required number at the expense of the property owner.
(b)
The city shall send a bill for the cost of installing numbers to the property owner by regular U. S. Mail addressed to the address shown for the owner of the premises on the most recent city. If the bill is not paid within 60 days of mailing, the city administrator shall issue an execution for the amount owed against the property owner and against the property, which execution shall issue and proceed as executions for taxes due to the city.
(Ord. No. 2008-02, § 1.7, 2-13-2008)
Sec. 8-41. - Penalties.
If the property owner or tenant fails or refuses to comply with this article after having received a written warning from the city administrator, he shall be guilty of a violation and subject to penalties as provided in section 1-14.
(Ord. No. 2008-02, § 1.8, 2-13-2008)
