Chapter 4 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.; regulation of alcoholic beverages generally, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-1 et seq.; authority of local authorities to license and regulate alcoholic beverage sales, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2; local regulation of sales on Sundays, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-7; prohibited acts on licensed premises, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-40 et seq.; malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-1 et seq.; wine, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-1 et seq.; local licensing requirements for sale of malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-40 et seq.; requirements for sale of wine, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-40.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 4-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcohol means ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
Alcoholic beverage means and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverage, wine or fortified wine.
Beer means malt beverage, as that term is defined in this section.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than 14 percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer and strong beer. The term does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Package means a bottle, can, keg, barrel or other original consumer container.
Retailer or retail dealer means, except as to distilled spirits, any person who sells alcoholic beverages, either in unbroken packages or for consumption on the premises, at retail only to consumers and not for resale. With respect to distilled spirits, the term means any person who sells distilled spirits in unbroken packages at retail only to consumers and not for resale.
Wholesaler or wholesale dealer means any person who sells alcoholic beverages to other wholesale dealers, to retail dealers, or to retail consumption dealers.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term "wine" includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines and champagnes or combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines and like products. The term "wine" does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at that point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to the definition of wine contained in this section.
(Code 1996, § 6-26)
State Law reference— Similar definitions, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2.
Sec. 4-2. - Waiver of provisions.
All notices and other procedural rights and provisions provided for in this chapter may be waived, and shall be deemed to have been waived unless timely objection has been made thereto. No defect in any notice, statement of grounds, or of the proper mailing or service thereof shall be valid unless written objection pointing out the grounds thereof are filed with the office of the board of commissioners at least two days prior to any scheduled hearing or action thereon.
(Code 1996, § 6-52; Ord. of 5-15-1981(1), § 25)
Secs. 4-3—4-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MALT BEVERAGES AND WINE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 4-23—4-47. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSES

Sec. 4-48. - Sales license required.
No beer or wine shall be sold in the unincorporated area of the county except at an established place of business which has been issued a license as provided in this division.
(Code 1996, § 6-27(a); Ord. of 5-15-1981(1), § 1)
State Law reference— Local license requirements for malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-40 et seq.; county license for dealing in malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-41; local license requirements for wine, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-40.
Sec. 4-49. - Qualifications for licensure.
A license shall be granted only to a natural person who is an owner, officer or manager of the proposed business, for the one establishment at the address stated in the license. No license shall be granted to any person who is not at least 21 years of age, of good moral character, financially responsible, who meets all requirements of state and federal laws and regulations governing the sale of such beverages, and who has submitted a proper application and complied with all provisions of this article.
(Code 1996, § 6-27(b); Ord. of 5-15-1981(1), § 1)
State Law reference— Discretion and due process as to granting or suspension of permits by local governing authorities, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2.
Sec. 4-50. - Classes; license fees.
(a)
Class A license—Consumption on and off premises. Class A licenses shall authorize the retail sale of beer and of wine for consumption both on and off the premises. Class A licenses shall be issued only for restaurants and clubs. As used in this section, the term "restaurant" shall mean a business which serves hot food prepared on the premises, and the term "club" shall mean a bona fide membership club having definitely established membership requirements and admission procedures. Such restaurants and clubs shall have a seating capacity of at least 20 people. The annual fee for such license shall be as established by the board of commissioners from time to time for a class A wine license and as established by the board of commissioners from time to time for a class A beer license.
(b)
Class B license—Off premises consumption only. Class B licenses shall authorize the retail sale of beer and of wine only in the unbroken package for takeout and consumption off the premises. The annual fee for such licenses shall be as established by the board of commissioners from time to time for a class B wine license and as established by the board of commissioners from time to time for a class B beer license.
(c)
Wholesale license. A fee as established by the board of commissioners from time to time per year shall be charged to wholesale beer and wine dealers operating in the county.
(Code 1996, §§ 6-29, 6-30; Ord. of 5-15-1981(1), § 3; Ord. of 8-11-1981)
State Law reference— Limitation on wholesale dealer license fees by county other than that in which business is located, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-43.
Sec. 4-51. - Separate license required for each establishment.
A separate license under this article shall be required for each separate establishment regardless of ownership.
(Code 1996, § 6-31; Ord. of 5-15-1981(1), § 3(c))
Sec. 4-52. - License applications; advertisements; fee.
All applications for licenses under this article shall be made in writing on forms to be furnished by the board of commissioners. The application shall disclose that the applicant has furnished the county sheriff's department with the fingerprints of the applicant as required by state law. Each such application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee as established by the board of commissioners from time to time in the form of a certified check, cashier's check or money order. Upon receipt thereof in proper form, the board of commissioners shall cause a notice of the application to be published once a week for three weeks in the newspaper in which sheriff's advertisements for the county are published.
(Code 1996, § 6-32; Ord. of 5-15-1981(1), § 4)
Sec. 4-53. - Contents of license application.
All applications for licenses under this article shall be verified by the applicant, and shall disclose, in addition to such other information as may be required, the following:
(1)
The name, residence, location and mailing address of the applicant.
(2)
Whether the license is for a business which is an individual proprietorship, partnership, corporation or trade name. If a corporation, the application shall include the names and addresses of all shareholders, directors, officers and real parties in interest. If a partnership, the application shall state the names and addresses of all partners therein. If a trade name or individual, the application shall also state the names and addresses of all owners or parties having an interest therein. In any event, the application shall state the names of all persons, firms or corporations holding any security or other interest in the business or any part thereof.
(3)
The location at which the establishment is to be conducted, and a description of the building in which the business is to be conducted, indicating the size and type of construction.
(4)
Whether the applicant or any partner, shareholder, director, officer, owner or real party in interest in the business has been convicted during the last ten years of any crime (other than minor traffic offenses) in any state, county, municipal or federal court, and the particulars of the conviction.
(5)
The prior addresses of the applicant for the past ten years.
(6)
Names and addresses of three persons who have known the applicant for the past five years.
(7)
Whether the applicant or any shareholder, officer, director or other person connected therewith holds or has held any beer, wine or liquor license in the state at any time prior to the application, and the particulars thereof.
(8)
The name and address of the person who will manage the establishment or be responsible for its operation.
(9)
Such other information as the board of commissioners or the sheriff of the county may require, either initially, at any time during consideration of the application, or at any time thereafter.
(10)
The application shall affirmatively state that the granting of the license will create no violation of section 4-61.
(Code 1996, § 6-33; Ord. of 5-15-1981(1), § 5)
Sec. 4-54. - Notice to sheriff; filing of recommendation.
The board of commissioners shall furnish a copy of each application for a license under this article to the sheriff, who shall file his recommendation with the board within 15 days thereafter.
(Code 1996, § 6-34; Ord. of 5-15-1981(1), § 6)
Sec. 4-55. - Objections to issuance of license.
Any citizen or person residing or doing business in the county may file objections in writing to any application for license under this article. Such objections shall be filed not later than three days after publication of the last advertisement required under this division. Such objections shall state the name and address of the objector, the interest of the objector and how objector would be affected by grant of the license, the distance in miles from the objector's residence or place of business to the establishment of the proposed license, the nature of the objection and the grounds thereof, and, when the objection is filed on behalf of a group of persons, the name and address of a representative of the group authorized to receive notices relating to the application and all hearings thereon. It shall not be a valid objection to the issuance of a license that the objector is opposed generally to the sale of alcoholic or malt beverages.
(Code 1996, § 6-35; Ord. of 5-15-1981(1), § 7)
Sec. 4-56. - Notice to applicant of objections filed; notice of hearing.
A copy of all objections filed as provided in this division shall be mailed to the applicant at the address stated in the application by certified mail, return receipt requested. Both the objectors and the applicant shall be given notice of the time and place of a hearing on the application by certified mail, return receipt requested, deposited in the U.S. mail at least five days prior to the hearing.
(Code 1996, § 6-36; Ord. of 5-15-1981(1), § 8)
Sec. 4-57. - Uncontested applications.
If the license application under this article is in proper form and no valid objections have been filed thereto, if the sheriff has not recommended against grant of the license, and if no valid reason appears why the license should not be granted, the license may be issued, without hearing, upon receipt of the applicable fee therefor in the form of a certified check, cashier's check or money order.
(Code 1996, § 6-37; Ord. of 5-15-1981(1), § 9)
Sec. 4-58. - Contested or denied applications; hearings.
No license under this article shall be denied except after opportunity for a hearing has been given as provided in this article. If valid objections have been filed to the application, or if the sheriff has recommended against the application, or if the board of commissioners has reason to believe that grounds may exist for denying the license, the board chairperson shall schedule the matter for hearing before the board of commissioners and give notice of the time and place of the hearing as provided in this division.
(Code 1996, § 6-38; Ord. of 5-15-1981(1), § 10)
Sec. 4-59. - Hearing procedure.
At the hearing before the board of commissioners or a majority of the board, the strict rules of evidence and procedure prevailing in courts of law shall not apply. The county attorney is designated as hearing officer to conduct the hearing. No objections filed by any person shall be considered unless such person or a representative is present at the hearing and presents evidence in support thereof. If the applicant fails to appear at any hearing on the application, the application shall be denied forthwith without hearing, and if the applicant fails to furnish any information or to produce any records reasonably required by county authorities, the application may be denied without consideration of the merits thereof. Except when prevented by providential cause or due to the fault of the applicant, all applications shall be finally determined within 90 days of the filing thereof.
(Code 1996, § 6-39; Ord. of 5-15-1981(1), § 11)
Sec. 4-60. - Standards for consideration.
In considering applications for licenses under this article, the board of commissioners shall be guided by the following:
(1)
The moral character, reputation and prior record of the applicant and of any shareholder, director, officer, agent or employee or any person having any interest in the proposed establishment.
(2)
The credit standing of the applicant and his reputation for payment of bills, debts and obligations.
(3)
Whether the location of the proposed establishment would present a hazard to pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
(4)
The number of existing licenses within the immediate vicinity of the location of the proposed establishment.
(5)
The character of the community or neighborhood in which the establishment is to be located—whether residential, commercial or industrial.
(6)
Any valid objections made in writing by any person as provided in this division.
(7)
Whether the applicant has furnished false information in connection with the application.
(8)
Whether the proposed establishment has complied with all other state, federal and local laws or regulations, including but not limited to, those promulgated by the state and local boards of health, and the state fire marshal.
(9)
The number of such establishments or licenses already owned or held by the applicant or any other person connected therewith.
(10)
If the applicant is a previous holder of a license to sell beer and wine, whether or not he has violated any law, regulation or ordinance relating to such business.
(11)
If applicant is a previous holder of a license to sell beer or wine, the manner in which he conducted the business thereunder as to the necessity for unusual police observation and inspection in order to prevent the violation of any law, regulation or ordinance relating to the business.
(12)
Whether the applicant or anyone connected therewith has previously had a beer or wine license suspended or revoked.
(Code 1996, § 6-41; Ord. of 5-15-1981(1), § 13)
Sec. 4-61. - Proximity to schools, churches, or playgrounds.
(a)
No license shall be issued under this article when the place of business of the licensee is located within 200 yards of any church, school, park or playground. As used in this section, the term "park or playground" shall include or refer to parks or playgrounds owned or operated by the county or any municipality therein.
(b)
All distances set forth in this section shall be measured by way of the nearest traveled road, street or highway. Measurement shall be from the property line of school, church, park or playground to the entrance of the building or proposed building where such beverages are proposed to be sold.
(Code 1996, § 6-40; Ord. of 5-15-1981(1), § 12)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-21.
Sec. 4-62. - Timely commencement of business.
All licensees under this article must, within 90 days after the approval of the license, open for business the establishment referred to in the application and license and begin the sale of the products authorized by the license. Failure to open the establishment and begin the sale as referred to above within the 90-day period shall serve as automatic forfeiture and cancellation of the unused license and no refund of license fee shall be made to the license holder. Extensions of time under this section may be granted by the board of commissioners.
(Code 1996, § 6-47; Ord. of 5-15-1981(1), § 20)
Sec. 4-63. - Ceasing operation of business; forfeiture of license.
Any holder of a license under this article who shall begin the operation of the business and sale of the products as authorized in any license, but who shall for a period of 90 consecutive days thereafter cease to operate the business and sale of the products authorized in the license, shall automatically forfeit his license.
(Code 1996, § 6-48; Ord. of 5-15-1981(1), § 21)
Sec. 4-64. - Display of license.
The county license issued under this article shall at all times be kept plainly exposed to view at the place of business of the licensee.
(Code 1996, § 6-49; Ord. of 5-15-1981(1), § 22)
State Law reference— Display of state license required, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-3.
Sec. 4-65. - Duration of license.
All licenses under this article shall be issued for a period of one year, effective from January 1 through December 31 of each year.
(Code 1996, § 6-28; Ord. of 5-15-1981(1), § 2)
Sec. 4-66. - License transfers.
No license granted under this article shall be transferred.
(Code 1996, § 6-42; Ord. of 5-15-1981(1), § 14)
Sec. 4-67. - Renewal.
Licenses are granted for one year at a time, and no person acquires any property interest or expectancy of continuation by reason of the grant of any license hereunder. All applications for renewal of an existing license must provide proof to the commissioners upon renewal of an existing license that the applicant has complied with the Georgia Department of Revenue regulations and has a license from the State of Georgia Department of Revenue to sell beer and wine for the previous license period. Failure to provide proof that the applicant complied with state law during the previous license period will automatically deny the applicant the right to have his or her beer and wine license renewed in his or her name or any other person's name at the location of the establishment. All applications for renewal of an existing license shall be filed in writing between November 1 and December 1 of each year and shall furnish such information as the commissioners may require and shall be accompanied by the license fee [as] set forth in section 4-50 hereof. The renewal license shall be granted unless the commission has reason to believe that good cause exists for denying the renewal, in which event the applicant shall be given notice in writing setting forth the grounds upon which the license renewal may be denied. Such notice shall be mailed to the applicant by certified mail at least five days prior to the hearing to be held thereon, and shall give notice of the time and place of the hearing. In all other respects, the same procedures and requirements shall govern the granting or denial of the renewal license as set forth in sections 4-58, 4-59, and 4-60 [of this article].
(Code 1996, § 6-43; Ord. of 5-15-1981(1), § 15; Ord. of 9-13-2011, § 15)
Sec. 4-68. - Inspection of establishments.
All establishments operating under a license granted under this article shall be subject to inspection by the sheriff and other state and county authorities at any time without prior notice, warrant or authority.
(Code 1996, § 6-45; Ord. of 5-15-1981(1), § 17)
Sec. 4-69. - Immediate suspension authorized.
If visible evidence is discovered that there is taking place in the establishment any type of gambling, prostitution, narcotics or anything offensive to the general public, the license under this article will be suspended immediately and will be subject to revocation as set forth in this article.
(Code 1996, § 6-53; Ord. of 5-15-1981(1), § 29)
Sec. 4-70. - Revocation of license.
(a)
Any license granted under this article may be revoked, after notice and opportunity for hearing, for:
(1)
Conviction of a violation of any law or regulation of any state or the federal government (other than minor traffic and other minor offenses having no relationship to the applicant's fitness to sell beer or wine).
(2)
Violation of any provision of this article or of any other state or county regulations.
(3)
Furnishing false information in connection with any license application or renewal application.
(b)
The applicant shall be given notice in writing, stating the grounds for such revocation, and the time and place of the hearing thereon. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee by certified mail, return receipt requested, at least five days prior to the hearing or shall be served in person on the licensee at least three days prior to the hearing. In all other respects, the same administrative procedures and provisions set forth in this division shall govern such revocation proceedings.
(Code 1996, § 6-46; Ord. of 5-15-1981(12), § 18)
Secs. 4-71—4-98. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - SINGLE DAY SPECIAL EVENT PERMITS

Sec. 4-99. - State permit required.
Persons or organizations desiring to sell, provide, or allow alcoholic beverages at a special event within the unincorporated areas of the county shall apply to the state department of revenue for a temporary special event permit authorizing the organization to sell, distribute, or allow beer and wine for consumption only on the premises for a period not to exceed one day, which cannot include any Sunday of the year or Christmas Day, and subject to the rules and regulations of the state department of revenue.
Sec. 4-100. - County permit.
Upon proof of issuance of the state permit, the organization may apply to the county for a single-day special event permit. If the provisions of this division are met, the permit shall be issued at no charge, subject to the following:
(1)
The event must comply with the times and days allowed for selling alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises.
(2)
No more than six permits for a maximum of one day at a time shall be issued to an applicant in any one calendar year.
(3)
The special event must receive approval from the county sheriff's office on crowd control, parking and security measures.
(4)
The location at which the event is to take place must be approved in writing by the owner of the property.
Sec. 4-101. - Revocation.
The temporary permit may be immediately revoked if it is determined by law enforcement that underage persons are being provided alcohol or if there is a disturbance of the peace or any other danger to the health, safety or welfare of the public.
Sec. 4-102. - Indemnification of county required.
As a condition of the issuance of a temporary special event permit, the permittee shall indemnify and hold the county harmless from any claims, demands or causes of action which may arise from activities associated with the special event.
Sec. 4-103. - Eating establishment rules not applicable.
The requirements of an eating establishment, number of seats, and percentage of sales shall not apply to a temporary special event permit.
Secs. 4-104—4-134. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - OPERATIONS

Sec. 4-135. - Copy of article to be kept on premises; employees to receive instruction.
It shall be the duty of the management of the premises licensed under this article to maintain a copy of this article on the premises and to instruct each employee on the terms of this article.
(Code 1996, § 6-50; Ord. of 5-15-1981(1), § 23)
Sec. 4-136. - Hours and days of sale.
(a)
Licensees under this article shall not engage in the sale of beer or wine between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m.
(b)
No beer or wine shall be sold, bartered or given away:
(1)
On Sunday;
(2)
To any person who is obviously already under the influence thereof, or of any drugs;
(3)
To any minor;
(4)
To any person who is mentally incompetent;
(5)
On the day of any state, national or county election, including any primary or runoff election, during the hours the polls are open;
(6)
On Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.
(Code 1996, § 6-44; Ord. of 5-15-1981(1), § 16)
State Law reference— Sale of alcoholic beverages on Sundays, election days, and Christmas Day generally, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20; local regulation of Sunday sales, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-7; sale of alcoholic beverage to intoxicated person, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-22; furnishing to, possession of, or purchase of alcoholic beverages by persons under 21 years of age, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23.
Sec. 4-137. - Building requirements.
No beer or wine shall be sold under any license granted pursuant to this article in any temporary structure, in any dilapidated structure or in any building or other structure which is not safe for human habitation.
(Code 1996, § 6-51; Ord. of 5-15-1981(1), § 24)
