Subpart B - RELATED LAWS
ARTICLE I. - ELLIJAY-GILMER COUNTY WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this part is 1987 Georgia Laws, Act No. 483, page 5424, as adopted by the Georgia General Assembly. Amendments to this act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Section 1. - Short title.
This act shall be known and may be cited as the "Ellijay-Gilmer County Water and Sewerage Authority Act."
Section 2. - Ellijay-Gilmer County Water and Sewerage Authority.
(a)
There is created a body corporate and politic, to be known as the "Ellijay-Gilmer County Water and Sewerage Authority," which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation and by that name, style, and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and bring and defend actions in all courts. The authority shall have perpetual existence.
(b)
Effective May 1, 1998, the authority shall be composed of seven members as follows: three members shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Gilmer County; one member shall be appointed by the governing authority of the City of East Ellijay; and three members shall be appointed by the governing authority of the City of Ellijay. The terms of the five initial members of the authority are staggered as follows: the initial member appointed by the commissioner of Gilmer County had an initial term ending on April 1, 1992; the initial member appointed by the governing authority of the City of East Ellijay had an initial term ending on April 1, 1991; the three members appointed by the governing authority of the City of Ellijay had initial terms ending on April 1, 1990, April 1, 1989, and April 1, 1988, respectively. Effective May 1, 1998, two additional members shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Gilmer County, thereby increasing the number of members to seven. One such additional member shall have an initial term of office ending on April 1, 2001, and one such additional member shall have an initial term of office ending on April 1, 2003. The initial members of the authority shall take office immediately upon their appointment and qualification and shall serve until their respective successors are duly appointed and qualified. Successors shall be appointed in the same manner as the initial members in the month of March immediately preceding the expiration of a member's term of office, and each such successor shall take office on the first day of April for a term of five years and until his or her respective successor is duly appointed and qualified. Any member of the authority may be selected and appointed to succeed himself or herself. Immediately after such appointments, the members of such authority shall enter upon their duties. The members of the authority shall be entitled to reimbursement for their actual expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties. The authority shall have the power to establish bylaws and to promulgate and adopt rules and regulations necessary or desirable for the management and operation of the authority.
(c)
Four members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all of the rights and perform all of the duties of the authority.
(d)
The members of the authority shall in April of each year elect one of their number as chairman. Also, the members of the authority shall elect one of their number as vice-chairman, shall also elect one of their number as secretary, and may also elect one of their number as treasurer. The secretary may also serve as treasurer. Each of such officers shall serve for a period of one year and until their successors are duly elected and qualified. The chairman of the authority shall be entitled to vote upon any issue, motion, or resolution.
(e)
Three members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all of the rights and perform all of the duties of the authority.
(f)
In the event of a vacancy by reason of death, disqualification, resignation, or other reason, the commissioner or the governing authority originally appointing the member whose position is vacant shall select and appoint a qualified person to fill the unexpired term of the member whose position has been vacated. A vacancy shall exist in the office of any member of the authority who is convicted of a felony or who enters a plea of nolo contendere thereto; who is convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude or who enters a plea of nolo contendere thereto; who moves his residence from the county; who is convicted of any act of misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance of his duties as a member of the authority; or who fails to attend any regular or special meeting of the authority for a period of three months without an excuse approved by a resolution of the authority.
(g)
All meetings of the authority, regular or special, shall be open to the public. The authority may hold public hearings on its own initiative or at the request of residents of Gilmer County or residents of any area affected by the actions of the authority.
(h)
No member or employee of the authority shall have directly or indirectly any financial interest, profit, or benefit in any contract, work, or business of the authority nor in the sale, lease, or purchase of any property to or from the authority.
(i)
Each member of the authority shall be compensated in the amount of $100.00 per month out of funds available to the authority.
(1994 Ga. Laws, Act No. 275, page 4025, § 1; 1998 Ga. Laws, Act No. 946, page 4574, § 1)
Section 3. - Definitions.
(a)
As used in this act, the term:
(1)
Authority means the Ellijay-Gilmer County Water and Sewerage Authority created by this act.
(2)
Cost of the project means and embraces the cost of construction; the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements, and franchises acquired; the cost of all machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction and for one year after completion of construction; the cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal agents; and legal expenses, and of plans and specifications, and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized; the cost of the acquisition or construction of any project; the cost of placing any project in operation; and the cost of condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act for such project.
(3)
Project shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition, construction, and equipping of water facilities for obtaining one or more sources of water supply, the treatment of water, and the distribution and sale of water to users and consumers, including, but not limited to, the State of Georgia and counties and municipalities for the purpose of resale, inside and outside the territorial boundaries of Gilmer County, and the operation, maintenance, additions, improvements, and extensions of such facilities so as to assure an adequate water utility system deemed by the authority necessary or convenient for the efficient operation of such type of undertaking. The word "project" shall also mean and include the acquisition, construction, and equipping of all necessary and usual facilities useful and necessary for the gathering of waste matter of every type, including both individual and industrial, and the treatment of sewage of any and every type, including, but not limited to, the acquisition and construction of treatment plants, ponds, and lagoons, inside and outside the territorial boundaries of Gilmer County, and the operation, maintenance, additions, improvements, and extensions of such facilities so as to assure an adequate sewerage system deemed by the authority necessary for the efficient operation of a sanitary and storm sewer system. Said water facilities and said sewerage facilities, at the discretion of the authority, may be combined at any time into a water and sewerage system as one revenue-producing undertaking and operated and maintained as such.
(4)
Revenue bonds and bonds means revenue bonds as defined and provided for in O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 82, art. 3 (O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.), known as the "Revenue Bond Law," and such type of obligations may be issued by the authority as authorized under said Revenue Bond Law and any amendments thereto and, in addition, shall also mean obligations of the authority, the issuance of which are hereinafter specifically provided for in this act.
(b)
Any project shall be deemed "self-liquidating" if, in the judgment of the authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom and all facilities used in connection therewith will be sufficient to pay the costs of operating, maintaining, repairing, improving, and extending the project and to pay the principal of and interest on the revenue bonds which may be issued to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of such project or projects.
Section 4. - Powers.
The authority shall have the power:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at its pleasure;
(2)
To acquire by purchase, lease, or otherwise and to hold, lease, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(3)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real property, or rights or easements therein, or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue, and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of, or dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority, the authority being under no obligation to accept and pay for any property condemned under this act except from the funds provided under the authority of this act, and, in any proceedings to condemn, such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the suit, action, or proceedings as may be just to the authority and to the owners of the property to be condemned, and no property shall be acquired under the provisions of this act upon which any lien or other encumbrance exists unless at the time such property is so acquired a sufficient sum of money be deposited in trust to pay and redeem the fair value of such lien or encumbrance;
(4)
To appoint, select, and employ officers, agents, and employees, including engineering, architectural, and construction experts, fiscal agents, and attorneys and fix their respective compensations;
(5)
To make contracts and leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be constructed, erected, or acquired. Any and all persons, firms, and corporations and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions, or agencies of the state are authorized to enter into contracts, leases, or agreements with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable; and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, authority is specifically granted to municipal corporations, counties, and other political subdivisions and to the authority to enter into contracts, lease agreements, or other undertakings relating to the furnishing of water and related services and facilities by the authority to such municipal corporations, counties, and political subdivisions or for the purchase of water by the authority therefrom for a term not exceeding 50 years, and also to enter into contracts, lease agreements, or other undertakings relative to the gathering of waste matter and the treatment of waste matter and sewage by the authority for such municipal corporations, counties, and political subdivisions or by such municipal corporations, counties, or political subdivisions for the authority. Likewise, without limiting the generality of the above and foregoing, the same authority above granted to municipal corporations, counties, political subdivisions, and to the authority relative to entering into contracts, lease agreements, or other undertakings is authorized between the authority and private corporations, both inside and outside the State of Georgia, and between the authority and public bodies, including counties and cities outside the State of Georgia;
(6)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate, and manage projects, as hereinabove defined, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the authority or from such proceeds and any grant or contribution from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof or from the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(7)
To accept loans and grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may require;
(8)
To accept loans and grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or such agency or instrumentality or political subdivision may require;
(9)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(10)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, including the power to make short-term loans and approve, execute, and deliver appropriate evidence of such indebtedness, provided no such power is in conflict with the constitution or general laws of this state; and
(11)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this act.
Section 5. - Revenue bonds.
The authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties, and liabilities vested in the authority created by this act is authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds of the authority for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as herein defined of any one or more projects. The principal of and interest on such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund provided in this act for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates per annum, payable at such time or times, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 40 years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority, and may be redeemable before maturity, at the option of the authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution for the issuance of bonds.
Section 6. - Same; form, denomination; registration; place of payment.
The authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereon, which may be at any bank or trust company inside or outside the state. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the authority may determine, and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both principal and interest.
Section 7. - Same; signatures; seal.
In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if such officer had remained in office until such delivery. All such bonds shall be signed by the chairman of the authority and the official seal of the authority shall be affixed thereto and attested by the secretary of the authority and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the facsimile signatures of the chairman and the secretary of the authority. Any coupon may bear the facsimile signatures of such persons and any bond may be signed, sealed, and attested on behalf of the authority by such persons as at the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of such bonds such person may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office.
Section 8. - Same; negotiability; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act shall have and are declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the laws of this state. Such bonds, their transfer, and the income therefrom shall be exempt from all taxation within the state.
Section 9. - Same; sale; price; proceeds.
The authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interest of the authority. The proceeds derived from the sale of such bonds shall be used solely for the purpose or purposes provided in the resolutions and proceedings authorizing the issuance of such bonds.
Section 10. - Same; interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of any definitive bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim certificates, or temporary bonds, with or without coupons, exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
Section 11. - Same; replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The authority may provide for the replacement of any bonds or coupons which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
Section 12. - Same; conditions precedent to issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things other than those proceedings, conditions, and things which are specified or required by this act. In the discretion of the authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special meeting of the authority by a majority of its members.
Section 13. - Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of the City of Ellijay, the City of East Ellijay, or Gilmer County nor a pledge of the faith and credit of said cities or county; but such bonds shall be payable solely from the fund hereinafter provided for and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently obligate said cities or county to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for their payment. All such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section.
Section 14. - Trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the authority, any issuance of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company inside or outside the state. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues, and earnings to be received by the authority. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for the protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair, and insuring of the project, and the custody, safeguarding, and application of all moneys, and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the authority, and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefor, and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depository of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other moneys be satisfactory to such purchasers, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depository and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation, and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
Section 15. - To whom proceeds of bonds shall be paid.
In the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, the authority shall provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who, or any agency, bank, or trust company which, shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes hereof, subject to such regulations as this act and such resolution or trust indenture may provide.
Section 16. - Sinking fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls, and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings, and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the authority to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or the trust instrument may provide. Such funds so pledged from whatever source received, including funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture into a sinking fund which shall be pledged to and charged with the payment of:
(1)
The interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due;
(2)
The principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due;
(3)
The necessary charges of paying agents for paying principal and interest and other investment charges; and
(4)
Any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as hereinabove provided.
The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be maintained as a trust account for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or the trust indenture, any surplus moneys in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds, and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be canceled and shall not again be issued.
Section 17. - Remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act or any of the coupons appertaining thereto and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights given in this act may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia or granted under this act or under such resolution or trust indenture and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this act or by such resolution or trust indenture to be performed by the authority or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
Section 18. - Refunding bonds.
The authority is authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of bonds of the authority for the purpose of funding or refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and premium, if any. The issuance of such funding or refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the authority in respect to the same shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this act insofar as the same may be applicable.
Section 19. - Validation.
Bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 83, art. 3 (O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.), known as the "Revenue Bond Law." The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action the State of Georgia or any municipality, county, authority, political subdivision, or instrumentality of the State of Georgia which has contracted with the authority for the services and facilities of the project for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated and the state or such municipality, county, authority, political subdivision, or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any exists, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the contract or contracts adjudicated as a part of the basis for the security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The bonds when validated and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds and the security for the payment thereof and interest thereon and against the authority issuing the same and the state and any municipality, county, authority, political subdivision, or instrumentality, if a party to the validation proceedings, contracting with the said Ellijay-Gilmer County Water and Sewerage Authority.
Section 20. - Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act or any suit or action against such authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Gilmer County, Georgia; and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this act shall likewise be brought in said court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
Section 21. - Interest of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence of said authority or its officers, employees, or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds. No other entity, department, agency, or authority will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, nor will the state itself so compete with the authority. The provisions of this act shall be for the benefit of the authority and the holders of any such bonds, and, upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions hereof, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
Section 22. - Moneys received considered trust funds.
All moneys received pursuant to the authority of this act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as grants or other contributions, or as revenue, income, fees, and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this act.
Section 23. - Purpose of the authority.
Without limiting the generality of any provision of this act, the general purpose of the authority is declared to be that of acquiring an adequate source or sources of water supply, treatment of such water, and thereafter the distribution of the same to the various municipalities and citizens in Gilmer County and environs, including adjoining counties and municipalities located therein, and further for the general purpose of gathering and treatment of waste, both individual and industrial; but such general purpose shall not restrict the authority from selling and delivering water directly to consumers in those areas where there does not now exist water distribution systems or furnishing sewer facilities to such customers and areas where neither any county nor municipality deems it desirable or feasible to furnish water in such locality.
The authority shall also have the authority, where it deems it feasible, to sell its products and services to customers, governmental agencies, or governmental instrumentalities of adjoining states, providing the laws of the adjoining states do not prohibit or tax said activity.
The authority shall not have the authority to construct water lines for the distribution of water directly to customers within any municipality without first obtaining the express written consent of the appropriate governing body of said municipality and, likewise, the authority shall not have the authority to construct sewer lines for the collection of waste and sewage directly to customers within any municipality without first obtaining the express written consent of the appropriate governing body of said municipality.
Section 24. - Rates, charges, and revenues; use.
The authority is authorized to prescribe and fix rates and to revise the same from time to time and to collect fees, tolls, and charges for the services, facilities, and commodities furnished and, in anticipation of the collection of the revenues of such undertaking or project, to issue revenue bonds as herein provided to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, betterment, or extension of a water system, a sewerage system, or a combined water and sewerage system, and to pledge to the punctual payment of said bonds and interest thereon, all or any part of the revenues of such undertaking or project, including the revenues of improvements, betterments, or extensions thereto thereafter made.
Section 25. - Rules and regulations for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed or acquired under the provisions of this act, including the basis upon which water service and facilities, sewerage service and facilities, or both, shall be furnished.
Section 26. - Tort immunity.
The authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as Gilmer County; and the officers, agents, and employees of the authority when in the performance of the work of the authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents, and employees of Gilmer County when in the performance of their public duties or work of the county.
Section 27. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The foregoing sections of this act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized thereby, shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing.
Section 28. - Effect on other governments.
This act shall not and does not in any way take from Gilmer County or any municipality located therein or any adjoining county the authority to own, operate, and maintain a water system, a sewerage system, or a combined water and sewerage system or to issue revenue bonds as is provided by O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 82, art. 3 (O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.), known as the "Revenue Bond Law."
Section 29. - Liberal construction of act.
This act being for the welfare of various political subdivisions of the state and its inhabitants shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
ARTICLE II. - ELLIJAY HOUSING AUTHORITY[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is the resolution adopting the by-laws of the housing authority of the City of Ellijay, Georgia, as adopted on Aug. 16, 1952 . Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

DIVISION 1. - THE AUTHORITY

Section 1. - Name of authority.
The name of the authority shall be the "Housing Authority of the City of Ellijay, Georgia".
Section 2. - Seal of authority.
The seal of the authority shall be in the form of a circle and shall bear the name of the authority and the year of its organization.
Section 3. - Office of authority.
The office of the authority shall be at such place in the City of Ellijay, Georgia, as the authority may from time to time designate by resolution.
DIVISION 2. - OFFICERS

Section 1. - Officers.
The officers of the authority shall be a chairman, a vice chairman, and a secretary who shall be executive director.
Section 2. - Chairman.
The chairman shall preside at all meetings of the authority. Except as otherwise authorized by resolution of the authority, the chairman shall sign all contracts, deeds and other instruments made by the authority. At each meeting, the chairman shall submit such recommendations and information as he may consider proper concerning the business, affairs and policies of the authority.
Section 3. - Vice chairman.
The vice chairman shall perform the duties of the chairman in the absence or incapacity of the chairman; and in case of the resignation or death of the chairman the vice chairman shall perform such duties as are imposed on the chairman until such time as the authority shall appoint a new chairman.
Section 4. - Secretary.
The secretary shall keep the records of the authority, shall act as secretary of the meetings of the authority and record all votes, and shall keep a record of the proceedings of the authority in a journal of proceedings to be kept for such purpose, and shall perform all duties incident to his office. He shall keep in safe custody the seal of the authority and shall have power to affix such seal to all contracts and instruments authorized to be executed by the authority.
He shall have the care and custody of all funds of the authority and shall deposit the same in the name of the authority in such bank or banks as the authority may select. The secretary shall sign all orders and checks for the payment of money and shall pay out and disburse such moneys under the direction of the authority. Except as otherwise authorized by resolution of the authority, all such orders and checks shall be countersigned by the chairman. He shall keep regular books of accounts showing receipts and expenditures and shall render to the authority, at each regular meeting (or oftener when requested), and account of his transactions and also of the financial condition of the authority. He shall give such bond for the faithful performance of his duties as the authority may determine.
The compensation of the secretary shall be determined by the authority, provided that a temporary appointee selected from among the commissioners of the authority shall serve without compensation (other than the payment of necessary expenses).
Section 5. - Executive director.
The secretary shall be the executive director of the authority and shall have general supervision over the administration of the business and affairs of the authority, subject to the direction of the authority. He shall be charged with the management of the housing projects of the authority.
Section 6. - Additional duties.
The officers of the authority shall perform such other duties and functions as may from time to time be required by the authority or the by-laws or rules and regulations of the authority.
Section 7. - Election or appointment.
The chairman and vice chairman shall be elected at the annual meeting of the authority from among the commissioners of the authority, and shall hold office for one year or until their successors are elected and qualified.
The secretary shall be appointed by the authority. Any person appointed to fill the office of secretary, or any vacancy therein, shall have such term as the authority fixes, but no commissioner of the authority shall be eligible to this office except as a temporary appointee.
Section 8. - Vacancies.
Should the office of chairman or vice chairman become vacant, the authority shall elect a successor from its membership at the next regular meeting, and such election shall be for the unexpired term of said office. When the office of secretary becomes vacant, the authority shall appoint a successor, as provided in section 7 of this [division].
Section 9. - Additional personnel.
The authority may from time to time employ such personnel as it deems necessary to exercise its powers, duties and functions as prescribed by the Housing Authorities Law of Georgia, as amended, and all other laws of the State of Georgia applicable thereto. The selection and compensation of such personnel (including the secretary), shall be determined by the authority subject to the laws of the State of Georgia.
DIVISION 3. - MEETINGS

Section 1. - Annual meeting.
The annual meeting of the authority shall be held on the 2nd Monday of the month of August at 10:00 o'clock a.m. at the regular meeting place of the authority. In the event such day shall be a legal holiday, the annual meeting shall be held on the next succeeding secular day.
Section 2. - Regular meetings.
Regular meetings may be held without notice at such times and places as may from time to time be determined by resolution of the authority. In the event a day of regular meeting shall be a legal holiday, said meeting shall be held on the next succeeding secular day.
Section 3. - Special meetings.
The chairman of the authority, may, when he deems it expedient, and shall, upon the written request of two members of the authority, call a special meeting of the authority for the purpose of transacting any business designated in the call. The call for a special meeting may be delivered to each member of the authority or may be mailed to the business or home address of each member of the authority at least two days prior to the date of such special meeting. At such special meeting no business shall be considered other than as designated in the call, but if all the members of the authority are present at a special meeting any and all business may be transacted at such special meeting.
Section 4. - Quorum.
The powers of the authority shall be vested in the commissioners thereof in office from time to time. Three commissioners shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of conducting its business and exercising its powers and all other purposes, but a smaller number may adjour from time to time until a quorum is obtained. When a quorum is in attendance, action may be taken by the authority upon a vote of a majority of the commissioners present.
Section 5. - Order of business.
At the regular meetings of the authority the following shall be the order of business:
1.
Roll call.
2.
Reading and approval of the minutes of the previous meeting.
3.
Bills and communications.
4.
Report of the secretary.
5.
Reports of committees.
6.
Unfinished business.
7.
New business.
8.
Adjournment.
All resolutions shall be in writing and shall be copied in a journal of the proceedings of the authority.
Section 6. - Manner of voting.
The voting on all questions coming before the authority shall be by roll call, and the "Ayes" and "Nays" shall be entered upon the minutes of such meeting, except in the case of elections when the vote may be by ballot.
DIVISION 4. - AMENDMENTS

Section 1. - Amendments to by-laws.
The by-laws of the authority shall be amended only with the approval of at least three of the commissioners of the authority at a regular or a special meeting.
