ARTICLE II. - COMMISSIONER DISTRICTS AND ELECTIONS[3]
An Act to provide for the election of members of the Board of Commissioners of Bryan County; to provide for commissioner districts and posts; to provide for initial and regular terms of office; to provide for filling vacancies; to provide for practices and procedures; to provide for other matters relative to the foregoing; to provide for a referendum; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Georgia:

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1982 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1056), page 4270. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended sections. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines, numbering and capitalization has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets, except that catchlines have been editorially supplied.

Sec. 1. - Board of Commissioners reconstituted.
(a)
The five-member Board of Commissioners of Bryan County which existed on December 31, 2001, is continued in existence but shall be constituted as provided in this Act. Those members of the Board of Commissioners of Bryan County who were serving as such on December 31, 2001, and any person selected to fill a vacancy in any such office shall continue to serve as such members until the expiration of the respective terms to which they were elected and until the election and qualification of their respective successors, unless otherwise removed from office as provided by the Constitution or laws of this state. The Board of Commissioners of Bryan County so continued and constituted, sometimes referred to in this Act as the "board," shall continue to have the powers, duties, rights, obligations, and liabilities of that board as they existed immediately prior to January 1, 2002. On and after January 1, 2003, the Board of Commissioners of Bryan County shall consist of six members who shall be elected in the manner described in this section.
(b)
For purposes of electing members of the Board of Commissioners, other than the chairperson, Bryan County is divided into five commissioner districts. One member of the board shall be elected from each such district. The five commissioner districts shall be and correspond to those five numbered districts described in and attached to and made a part of this Act and further identified as "Plan: bryanccsb-2011rel Plan Type: Local User: bak."
(c)
(1)
When used in such attachment, the term "VTD" shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(2)
The separate numeric designations in a district description which are underneath a VTD heading shall mean and describe individual Blocks within a VTD as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Bryan County which is not included in any such district described in that attachment shall be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(3)
Any part of Bryan County which is described in that attachment as being in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(4)
Except as otherwise provided in the description of any district, whenever the description of such district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census map for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(d)
In order to be elected as a member of the board from a commissioner district, a person must receive the number of votes cast as required by general law for that office in that district only. Only electors who are residents of that commissioner district may vote for a member of the board for that district. At the time of qualifying for election as a member of the board from a commissioner district, each candidate for such office shall specify the commissioner district for which that person is a candidate. A person elected or appointed as a member of the board from a commissioner district must continue to reside in that district during that person's term of office or that office shall become vacant.
(e)
In addition to the commissioner districts as specified in this section, there shall be one commissioner post on the board, to be designated as Commissioner Post 1. The member elected to Commissioner Post 1 shall be the chairperson of the board, may reside anywhere within Bryan County, and, if elected, must receive the number of votes cast for that office as required by general law in the entire county. The chairperson must continue to reside within the county during that person's term of office or that office shall become vacant.
(f)
Commissioner Districts 1, 2, 3, and 4, as they exist on December 31, 2001, shall continue to be designated as Commissioner Districts 1, 2, 3, and 4, respectively, but as newly described under this Act, and on and after January 1, 2003, such members of the board serving from those former commissioner districts shall be deemed to be serving from and representing their respective districts as newly described under this section. The members serving from Commissioner Districts 2 and 4 on December 31, 2001, shall serve the remainder of their respective terms which shall expire December 31, 2002, and until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified. The members serving from Commissioner Post 1 and Commissioner Districts 1 and 3 on December 31, 2001, shall serve the remainder of their respective terms which shall expire December 31, 2004, and until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified. The new sixth member to be elected from Commissioner District 5 shall be elected at the November general election of 2002 for a term of four years and until such member's successor is duly elected and qualified. Thereafter, all members shall be elected in the November general election immediately preceding the expiration of their respective terms of office and shall take office on the first day of January following their election for a term of office of four years each and until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified. All members of the board who are elected thereto shall be nominated and elected in accordance with Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the Georgia Election Code [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.].
(g)
Vacancies which occur on the board during the first year and nine months of a term of office shall be filled by the remaining members of the board electing a successor to serve until the next general election. In any such event, a successor shall be elected in a special election to be held at the same time as such general election and the person so elected shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term of office. Vacancies occurring during the last two years and three months of a term of office shall be filled by the remaining members of the board electing a successor to serve out the unexpired term of office.
(h)
The Board of Commissioners of Bryan County provided for by this Act shall be the governing authority of Bryan County and shall exercise all powers vested in the Board of Commissioners of Bryan County by local or general law or by the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(i)
At a regular January meeting of the board in each year, the board shall name a vice chairperson from among the members of the board. The vice chairperson shall carry out the duties of said vice chairperson as provided by law from the date of his or her appointment until the next January or until his or her successor is appointed.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 612), page 4592, § 1; 2001 (ex sess.) Ga. Laws (Act No. 1EX1), page 298; 2012 Ga. Laws (Act No. 371), page 4199, § 1)
Sec. 2. - Election.
After the date of the approval of this Act by the Governor, or after it otherwise becomes law, it shall be the duty of the election superintendent of Bryan County to issue the call for an election for the purpose of submitting this Act to the electors of Bryan County for approval or rejection. The superintendent shall set the date of such election for a day not less than 40 nor more than 30 days from the date of the scheduled general election for the county during the year in which this Act becomes law. The superintendent shall set the date of such election for a day to coincide with the date of the general election in the county during 1982. The election superintendent shall cause the date and purpose of the election to be published once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the date thereof in the official organ of Bryan County. The ballot shall have written or printed thereon the words:
"( ) YES
( ) NO"
Shall the Act providing for the election of a five-member Board of Commissioners for Bryan County be approved?"
All persons desiring to vote for approval of the Act shall vote "Yes," and those persons desiring to vote for rejection of the Act shall vote "No." If more than one-half of the votes cast on such question are for approval of the Act, it shall become of full force and effect as provided in Section 3 of this Act, but otherwise it shall be void and of no force and effect.
The expense of such election shall be borne by Bryan County. It shall be the duty of the superintendent to hold and conduct such election. It shall be his further duty to certify the result thereof to the Secretary of State.
Sec. 3. - Effective date.
If this Act is approved by the voters of Bryan County as provided in Section 2 of this Act, then the provisions of this Act relating to and necessary for the election of the members of the Board of Commissioners of Bryan County at the 1984 general election shall be effective only for such purposes upon the certification of the results of the election provided for in Section 2 of this Act; and this Act shall be effective for all purposes on January 1, 1985.
Sec. 4. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
