ARTICLE VIII. - BOARD OF ELECTIONS AND REGISTRATION[9]
AN ACT To create a board of elections and registration for Bryan County; to provide for definitions; to provide for the board's powers and duties; to provide for the composition of the board and the selection and appointment of members; to provide for the qualifications, terms, and removal of members; to provide for oaths and privileges; to provide for meetings, procedures, and vacancies; to relieve certain officers of powers and duties and to provide for the transfer of functions to the newly created board; to provide for expenditures of public funds; to provide for compensation of members of the board; to provide for the board's performance of certain functions and duties for certain municipalities; to provide for related matters; to provide effective dates; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Georgia:

Footnotes:
--- (9) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 2014 Ga. Laws (Act No. 438), page 4075. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended sections. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines, numbering and capitalization has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets, except that catchlines have been editorially supplied.

Sec. 1. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the term:
(1)
"Board" means the Board of Elections and Registration of Bryan County.
(2)
"Commissioners" means the Board of Commissioners of Bryan County.
(3)
"County" means Bryan County.
(4)
"Election," "elector," "political party," "primary," and "public office" shall have the same meanings as set forth in Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.], the "Georgia Election Code," unless otherwise clearly apparent from the text of this Act.
Sec. 2. - Created.
Pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 21-2-40 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-40(b)], there is created the Board of Elections and Registration of Bryan County. The board shall have the powers and duties of the former superintendent of elections of Bryan County under Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," relating to the conduct of primaries and elections, and the former board of registrars of Bryan County under Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," relating to the registration of electors and absentee voting.
Sec. 3. - Composition.
(a)
The board shall be composed of three members, each of whom shall meet the applicable eligibility requirements under Article 1 of Chapter 2 of Title 45 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 45-2-1 et seq.], Code Section 21-2-75 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-65], and other general law.
(b)
Members of the board shall be qualified and selected in the following manner:
(1)
All members of the board shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Bryan County;
(2)
The initial terms of office of two members, as designated by their appointment, shall begin on the first day of the month in which this Act is approved by the Governor or in which it becomes law without such approval and shall expire on December 31, 2018, and upon the appointment and qualification of their respective successors. The initial term of the remaining member of the board shall begin on the first day of the month following the month in which this Act is approved by the Governor or in which it becomes law without such approval and shall expire on December 31, 2016, and upon appointment and qualification of his or her successor, provided that:
(A)
The initial appointments to the board shall be made no later than July 1, 2014; and
(B)
At the first meeting of each calendar year the members of the board shall select one of their members to serve as chairperson and one of their members to serve as secretary;
(3)
Successors to the members of the board whose terms expire shall be appointed to take office on the first day of January immediately following the expiration of such terms of office and shall serve for terms of four years each and until their successors are duly appointed and qualified. The board shall take no official action until all members have been certified to the clerk of the Superior Court of Bryan County;
(4)
Each member of the board shall serve for a term of four years and until a successor is appointed and qualified, except that initial terms of office shall be as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection; and
(5)
No person who holds elective public office shall be eligible to serve as a member of the board during the term of such elective public office, and the position of membership of any member shall be deemed vacant upon such member qualifying as a candidate for an elective public office.
Sec. 4. - Certification of appointment, effect of failure to certify.
The commissioners shall certify the appointment of each member of the board by filing an affidavit with the clerk of Superior Court of Bryan County no later than 15 days preceding the date upon which such members are to take office, stating the name and residential address of the person appointed and certifying such member has been duly appointed as provided by this Act. The clerk shall record each of such certifications in the minutes of the court and shall certify the name of each such appointed member to the Secretary of State and provide for the issuance of appropriate commissions to the members within the same time and in the same manner as provided by law for registrars. If any appointing authority does not, in conformity with this Act, certify an appointment to the board within 30 days after the beginning of a term of office or within 30 days after the creation of a vacancy in that office, a vacancy shall be deemed to have been thereby created and the judge of the probate court of Bryan County shall fill that vacancy by making the appointment thereto and shall certify it as provided in this section. Any person appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve out the unexpired term of office.
Sec. 5. - Members; eligibility for multiple terms of office, resignation or removal.
Each member of the board shall be eligible to serve successive terms without limitation and shall have the right to resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the commissioners and to the clerk of the Superior Court of Bryan County. Each member shall be subject to removal from the board at any time, for cause, after notice and hearing, by the Chief Judge of the Superior Court of the Atlantic Judicial Circuit in the same manner and by the same authority as provided for the removal of registrars.
Sec. 6. - Members; filling of vacancies.
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of any board member before the expiration of his or her term, by removal, death, resignation, or otherwise, the vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term by the commissioners for that position on the board. The clerk of the Superior Court of Bryan County shall be notified of such interim appointment and record and certify such appointment in the same manner as the regular appointment of members.
Sec. 7. - Members; oath and privileges from arrest.
Before entering the member's duties each member shall take substantially the same oath as required by law for registrars and shall have the same privileges from arrest.
Sec. 8. - Organization and meetings.
(a)
The board shall be authorized to organize itself, determine its procedural rules and regulations, adopt bylaws, specify the functions and duties of its employees, and otherwise take such action as is appropriate to the management of the affairs committed to its supervision; provided, however, that no such action shall conflict with state law. Action and decision by the board shall be by a majority of members of the board. The board shall be responsible for the selection, appointment, and training of poll workers in primaries and elections and such workers shall be appointed, insofar as practicable, from lists provided to the board by the county executive committee of each political party.
(b)
The board shall fix and establish by appropriate resolution entered in its minutes, directives governing the execution of matters within its jurisdiction. The board shall hold regular meetings each month and more often if needed in the opinion of the members. The time of such meetings shall be set by the board. Any specially called meeting shall be called by the chairperson or any three members of the board. The board shall maintain a written record of policy decisions amended to include additions or deletions. Such written records shall be made available for the public to review.
Sec. 9. - Members; compensation.
Members of the board shall receive $60.00 per day for each day of service on the board. On primary and election days and during the period of advance voting pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 21-2-380 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-380(b)], the chairperson and members of the board shall be compensated at the rate of $10.00 per hour. The hours of service shall be certified to the commissioners by the chairperson of the board.
Sec. 10. - Contracts with municipalities.
The board shall have the authority to contract with any municipality located within Bryan County for holding by the board of any primary or election to be conducted within such municipality.
Sec. 11. - Elections supervisor.
(a)
An elections supervisor shall be employed by the governing authority of Bryan County who shall generally supervise, direct, and control the administration of the affairs of the board pursuant to law and duly adopted resolutions of the board. The elections supervisor shall not be a member of the board. The elections supervisor shall be considered an employee of Bryan County and shall be entitled to the same benefits as other employees of Bryan County. The elections supervisor shall be subject to all personnel and policy procedures of Bryan County. The elections supervisor shall maintain regular office hours as directed by the governing authority of Bryan County.
(b)
The elections supervisor shall not be an active member of any political party or body.
(c)
Upon indictment of any felony involving election fraud or moral turpitude, the elections supervisor shall be terminated from the position as a matter of law. Such vacancy shall be filled within ten business days following the occurrence of such vacancy.
(d)
The board is authorized, with approval of the commissioners, to employ additional assistants as needed to carry out the duties and functions of the board. All such clerical assistants shall be considered employees of Bryan County and shall be entitled to the same benefits as other employees of Bryan County. Any clerical assistants shall be subject to all personnel and policy procedures of Bryan County. Upon indictment of any felony involving election fraud or moral turpitude, a clerical assistant shall resign or be terminated from his or her position.
Sec. 12. - Fixing of compensation for members, election supervisor, clerical assistants and other employees.
Compensation for the members of the board, the elections supervisor, clerical assistants, and other employees shall be fixed by the commissioners in accordance with the provisions of this Act. Such compensation shall be paid wholly from county funds.
Sec. 13. - Offices and supplies; audits.
(a)
The Board of Commissioners of Bryan County shall provide the board with such proper and suitable offices, equipment, materials, and supplies and with such clerical assistance and other employees as the Board of Commissioners of Bryan County deems appropriate.
(b)
The commissioners shall also cause periodic audits to be made of the board and its offices.
Sec. 14. - Effective date.
This Act shall become effective upon its approval by the Governor or upon its becoming law without such approval for purposes of making initial appointments to the board only. This Act shall become fully effective July 1, 2014. Upon this Act becoming fully effective, the superintendent of elections of Bryan County and the board of registrars of Bryan County shall be relieved of all powers and duties to which the board succeeds by the provisions of this Act and shall deliver to the board all equipment, supplies, materials, books, papers, records, and facilities pertaining to such powers and duties.
Sec. 15. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
