Chapter 107 - MANUFACTURED HOMES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Factory built buildings and dwelling units, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-110 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 107-1—107-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MANUFACTURED HOME STANDARDS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Factory built buildings and dwelling units, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-110 et seq.

Sec. 107-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Applicant means any person seeking to install a pre-owned manufactured home in the unincorporated area of the county.
Building inspector means the person appointed, employed, or otherwise designated as the director of planning, permits and inspections, the county building official or any of his assistants.
Certificate of occupancy means a document issued by the building inspector certifying that a pre-owned manufactured home is in compliance with applicable requirements set forth by this article, and indicating it to be in a condition suitable for residential occupancy.
Guarantee of condition bond means a surety bond to guarantee that the affidavit and photographs required by section 107-21(1)a and b reasonably portray or represent the existing condition of the pre-owned manufactured home proposed for relocation. In lieu of the bond, a cash deposit may be deposited with the county.
Install means to construct a foundation system and to place or erect a manufactured home on such foundation system. The term "install" includes, without limitation, supporting, blocking, leveling, securing, or anchoring such manufactured home and connecting multiple or expandable sections of such manufactured home.
Jurisdiction means the unincorporated areas of the county.
Manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this definition except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 USC 5401 et seq.
Pre-owned manufactured home means any manufactured home that has been previously used as a residential dwelling and has been titled.
(Code 1996, § 11-401; Ord. of 8-2-2005; Ord. of 10-5-2010)
Sec. 107-20. - Conditions.
All pre-owned manufactured homes located in the jurisdiction shall bear a label certifying there were constructed in compliance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 USC 5401 et seq. (the HUD code), and shall be installed in accordance with applicable state standards.
Code 1996, § 11-402; Ord. of 8-2-2005; Ord. of 10-5-2010)
Sec. 107-21. - Permitting, inspection, certificate of occupancy and fees.
A permit shall be required to locate a pre-owned manufactured home in the jurisdiction.
(1)
Permit. To obtain a permit, applicants shall provide to the building inspector:
a.
An affidavit signed by the applicant that the pre-owned manufactured home meets health and safety standards required by law;
b.
Photographs of the interior and exterior of the pre-owned manufactured home providing evidence that the home meets the minimum health and safety standards of section 107-22;
c.
A $150.00 refundable guarantee of condition bond or $150.00 refundable cash deposit; and
d.
The permit and inspection fee required by subsection (4) of this section.
(2)
Inspection. Upon receipt of a permit, applicants may relocate the manufactured home on a residential site for the purposes of inspection. The applicant shall arrange for an inspection to be held once the installation of the manufactured home is complete.
(3)
Certificate of occupancy. A certificate of occupancy shall be issued to the applicant at such time that the building inspector certifies that the requirements of this article have been met.
(4)
Fee. A permit and inspection fee as established by the board shall be charged to the applicant to cover the cost to the county to process the permit application and inspect the pre-owned manufactured home. Such fee shall cover the initial inspection and one follow-up inspection. The applicant shall be charged a fee as established by the board for each additional follow-up inspection that may be necessary.
(5)
Alternative inspection. At the request of the applicant, the building inspector may, at his discretion, inspect a pre-owned manufactured home prior to its being relocated if the home is then located at another site within the county.
Code 1996, § 11-403; Ord. of 8-2-2005; Ord. of 10-5-2010)
Sec. 107-22. - Minimum health and safety standards.
All pre-owned manufactured homes shall comply with the following before being issued a certificate of occupancy by the building inspector:
(1)
HUD code. Every pre-owned manufactured home located in the jurisdiction shall be in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act, 42 USC 5401-5445 (the HUD code) and shall not have been altered in such a way that the home no longer meets the HUD code.
(2)
Installation. Manufactured homes shall be installed by a competent licensed professional installer and shall be installed according to the manufacturer's installation instructions. Manufactured homes shall comply with the International Building Code.
(3)
Interior condition. Every floor, interior wall, and ceiling of a pre-owned manufactured home shall be in sound condition. The floor system shall be in sound condition and free of warping, holes, water damage, or deterioration.
(4)
Exterior condition. The exterior of all pre-owned manufactured homes shall be free of loose or rotting boards or timbers and any other conditions that might admit rain or moisture to the interior portions of the walls or to occupied spaces. The exterior siding shall be free of rot and rust. Roofs shall be structurally sound and have no obvious defects that might admit rain or cause moisture to collect on the interior portion of the home.
(5)
Skirting. Manufactured homes being erected for occupancy shall be fitted with approved commercial skirting. Approved commercial skirting includes any skirting material which is manufactured for that purpose, and any masonry.
(6)
Wind speeds. All manufactured homes must be designed to withstand wind speeds of 100 miles an hour (Wind Zone II) in accordance with HUD regulations 24 CFR 3280 and 3282. Wind Zone I homes are not permitted in any area of the county. Existing and registered manufactured homes that are designed to withstand wind speeds of 100 miles an hour may be moved within the county.
(7)
Sanitary facilities. Every plumbing fixture, water, and waste pipe of a pre-owned manufactured home shall be in a sanitary working condition when properly connected, and shall be free from leaks and obstructions. Each home shall contain a kitchen sink. Each bathroom shall contain a lavatory and water closet. At least one bathroom shall contain a tub and/or shower facilities. Each of these fixtures shall be checked upon being connected to ensure they are in good working condition.
(8)
Heating systems. Heating shall be safe and in working condition. Un-vented heaters shall be prohibited.
(9)
Electrical systems. Electrical systems (switches, receptacles, fixtures, etc.) shall be properly installed and wired and shall be in working condition. Distribution panels shall be in compliance with the approved listing, complete with required breakers, with all unused openings covered with solid covers approved and listed for that purpose. The home shall be subject to an electrical continuity test to ensure that all metallic parts are properly bonded. Each pre-owned manufactured home shall contain a water heater in safe and working order.
(10)
Hot water supply. Each home shall contain a water heater in safe and working condition.
(11)
Egress windows. Each bedroom of a manufactured home shall have at least one operable window of sufficient size to allow egress if necessary.
(12)
Ventilation. The kitchen in the home shall have at least one operating window or other ventilation device.
(13)
Smoke detectors. Each pre-owned manufactured home shall contain one operable battery-powered smoke detector in each bedroom and in the kitchen, which must be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations.
Code 1996, § 11-404; Ord. of 8-2-2005; Ord. of 10-5-2010)
Sec. 107-23. - Conversion of structure.
No DCA-regulated manufactured home may be converted from residential to commercial or other nonresidential uses.
Code 1996, § 11-405; Ord. of 8-2-2005; Ord. of 10-5-2010)
Sec. 107-24. - Enforcement.
(a)
Permanent connection to utilities shall not be approved until the building inspector has issued a certificate of occupancy.
(b)
Owners of pre-owned manufactured homes that are not in compliance upon a third inspection shall have their permit revoked and shall be required to remove the home from the jurisdiction at their own expense.
(c)
The guarantee of condition bond or cash deposit will be forfeited after 90 days from the date of inspection, unless all conditions and standards are met prior to the end of the 90 days or an extension has been issued in writing by the building inspector.
Code 1996, § 11-406; Ord. of 8-2-2005; Ord. of 10-5-2010)
