Chapter 9.20 - BILLIARD ROOMS AND POOLHALLS

9.20.010 - Definitions.
As used herein, the following terms shall have the respective meaning ascribed to them:
A.
"Billiard room/poolhall" means a commercial establishment licensed by the city for the p1aying of "billiards" or "pool" and containing a minimum of four (4) pool or billiard tables, kitchen facilities for the preparation of food for patrons and guests, and seating for no less than twenty (20) patrons and guests, in an area designated for food consumption.
B.
"Billiards" means any of the several games played on a table surrounded by an elastic ledge of cushions with balls which are impelled by a cue and shall include all forms of games known as "pool," "carom billiards," "pocket billiards," and "English billiards."
(Ord. 03-58 § 1, 2003; § 1 of Ord. dated 10/8/90)
9.20.020 - License—Compliance with state law.
Every applicant for a license for operation of a billiard table or billiard room must first show proof of compliance with state requirements precedent to granting of such license by the city.
(§ 2 of Ord. dated 10/8/90)
9.20.030 - License—Required.
No person shall operate, maintain or keep a billiard or pool table, or any other table of like character within the city for use by the public without first having obtained a license therefor as herein required.
(§ 3 of Ord. dated 10/8/90)
9.20.040 - Application for license—Contents—Execution.
A.
Every applicant shall attach a copy of the licenses issued by the county to the application.
B.
Every applicant for license under the provisions hereof shall file written application with the city clerk, giving the full name and address, and the full names and addresses of all parties interested shall be given if more than one (1). If the applicant is a corporation, the application shall contain the names and addresses of all officers as well as the state where organized, besides designation of manager or managers. The application shall further state the exact address where the room is to be conducted; the number of tables; the age of the applicant, or manager if a corporation; whether a citizen of the United States; when, where and how long the applicant previously operated a billiard room; and the name and address of the owner of the property where the room is to be opened. The application must be signed by the applicant, or if a corporation by the manager.
C.
Every application for a license shall be accompanied by the affidavit of the applicant, sworn to before an officer authorized by law to administer oaths, stating that the applicant is a citizen of the United States; that he has not been convicted of a felony; that he will not permit vagrants or persons under the influence of intoxicating liquors to enter or play in his place; that the applicant will have personal charge and management of the business; that he will not permit gambling nor permit the billiard tables to be used in any manner other than as provided by law.
(§ 4 of Ord. dated 10/8/90)
9.20.050 - Application for license—Investigation—Issuance conditions.
The clerk shall provide a copy of the application and all pertinent information to the city manager who shall cause a complete investigation to be made into all of the above particulars, and make a report to the mayor and council. After review of the information presented, the mayor and council shall determine whether or not the license shall be issued.
(§ 5 of Ord. dated 10/8/90)
9.20.060 - Application for license—Rejection conditions.
Every application for a license to operate a billiard room shall be rejected where the applicant is not of good character or has suffered a revocation of a previous license, or if any other regulations have been violated.
(§ 6 of Ord. dated 10/8/90)
9.20.070 - License—Fee schedule.
A.
An application fee of two hundred ten dollars ($210.00) shall be paid to the city at the time of filing of each application. The application fee is to reimburse the city the anticipated cost incurred in performing the investigations required for the issuance of such license. The application fee shall be a one (1) time fee.
B.
Each billiard room/poolhall shall pay an annual regulatory fee of three hundred and fifty dollars ($350.00). If the license is purchased after July first, the license fee and regulatory fee will be prorated and reduced to an amount equal to one-half (½) of the normal annual fee.
(Ord. 03-58 § 2, 2003: § 7 of Ord. dated 10/8/90)
9.20.080 - Opening and closing hours.
It is unlawful to operate any billiard room from twelve (12:00) midnight to six (6:00) a.m. on any day of the week, during which hours only regular employees performing necessary work shall be therein.
q during 1991 codification; § 8 of Ord. dated 10/8/90)
9.20.090 - Location of billiard room.
Billiard rooms shall be located in the properly zoned area. No billiard room or pool room may be opened in the city on any level other than the ground floor or first floor of a building.
(§ 9 of Ord. dated 10/8/90)
9.20.100 - Premises—Sanitation requirements.
All public billiard rooms shall be kept in a clean, sanitary condition and shall comply with all sanitary rules and regulations.
(§ 10 of Ord. dated 10/8/90)
9.20.110 - Admission restrictions for persons under eighteen (18) years of age.
A.
It is unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to play billiards in, or for any other purpose to enter or remain in, a billiard room in which beer, wine or alcoholic beverages are offered for sale. This subsection shall not apply to persons under eighteen (18) years of age who are accompanied by a parent or guardian or who possess a written permit from a parent or guardian, which permit is witnessed by a notary public with seal affixed to the permit.
B.
In the event that the proprietor of a billiard room is of the opinion that any person desiring admission thereto is under the age of eighteen (18) years, he shall require such person to certify his age in writing or to produce a legal permit.
(§ 11 of Ord. dated 10/8/90)
9.20.120 - Premises—Clear view of interior required.
No person who operates a billiard room shall permit any screens, curtains, blinds, partitions or other obstructions to be used to prevent a clear view of the interior, which clear view must be maintained at all times. No partitions forming rooms, stalls or other enclosures shall be permitted. However, this provision shall not be construed to prohibit the maintenance of washrooms and toilet rooms for proper purposes, nor the maintenance of closets for storage purposes exclusively.
(§ 12 of Ord. dated 10/8/90)
9.20.130 - Gambling and posting of sporting results prohibited.
No dice, cards, dominoes, or other games of chance shall be permitted, nor any form of gambling allowed, in any billiard room or in any other business place operated in connection therewith; and such games as Kelly pool, keno, pigeon pool, Parker pool, star pool, scrub, and similar gambling devices are prohibited. No racing or other betting pool shall be exhibited or sold in such places of business. The use of baseball tickers and the posting of results of sporting events is expressly prohibited in billiard rooms or in any place operated in connection therewith.
(§ 13 of Ord. dated 10/8/90)
9.20.140 - Alcoholic beverage sale and use prohibited—Exception.
No alcoholic beverages shall be sold, served, or allowed to be used in or on the premises of billiard rooms or any place operated in connection therewith, except that this prohibition shall not apply if such premises or establishment is an establishment which is authorized to sell alcoholic beverages and derives at least fifty percent (50%) of its total annual gross revenues from the sale of products or services other than alcoholic beverages.
(§ 14 of Ord. dated 10/8/90)
9.20.150 - Violation—Penalty.
A.
Every person, firm, or corporation operating a billiard room within a municipality without having applied for a license shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than fifty dollars ($50.00); and each day that the billiard room is operated without a license shall be a separate offense.
B.
Any person who has not reached the age of eighteen (18) who remains in a billiard room without a permit or without being accompanied by a parent or guardian, or who makes a false certificate as to his age, or who uses a forged permit shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than ten dollars ($10.00), nor more than twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
C.
Any licensee who shall knowingly violate this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each violation thereof shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
(§ 15 of Ord. dated 10/8/90)
