Chapter 34 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal street systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-90 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 34-1. - Streets and sidewalks not to be damaged.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drag or run, or cause to be dragged or run, any implement, engine, machine or tool upon any asphalt, or other type of permanently paved street or sidewalk of the town that would in any way injure or cut the surface thereof. It shall also be unlawful to damage any dirt street in the same manner.
(Code 1984, § 4-1-7)
Sec. 34-2. - Film permits.
(a)
Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to provide guidelines for the issuance, approval, and fees associated with the granting of permits for filming by television companies, movie companies, or other media in the town.
(b)
Permit required. A film permit shall be obtained by any person working on behalf of television companies, movie companies, or other media, company or agency filming on town-owned property. For purposes of this ordinance, "town-owned property" includes, but is not limited to, town right-of-way. There shall be a consistent and uniform process for the issuance of film permits in the town. Any person planning a filming shoot which could impact public safety and/or disrupt town business is required to obtain a film permit. Failure to obtain a film permit shall be a violation of this section. Each day a film permit is not obtained shall be a separate violation.
(c)
Procedure for issuance of permits.
(1)
Application.
a.
Any person desiring to obtain a film permit shall make application to the town clerk on a form prescribed by said official and shall meet the conditions set out in this ordinance.
b.
An application for a film permit shall be accompanied by a copy of a certificate of liability insurance for the person, company or agency filming, with at least $1,000,000 of coverage. The certificate of liability shall list the "Town of Tyrone" as an additional insured.
c.
In the event that special provisions are made to secure locations, including parking areas, for traffic enforcement, or other items/issues of an exclusive nature, supporting documentation shall be attached to the film permit application.
d.
Upon request by the town manager, a copy of the portion of the script of the scene that will be filmed on town-owned property shall be included with the film permit application.
(2)
Application review.
a.
The town clerk or his/her designee will coordinate with all necessary department heads in a joint effort to determine if a film permit should be approved or denied.
b.
The town reserves the right to deny a film permit based on the expected disruption to the town's business/operations and in cases deemed to be detrimental to the town's best interests. The town further reserves the right to deny a film permit based on the script of the scene to be filmed on town-owned property.
c.
Every effort will be made by the town to expedite the processing of a film permit application. However, if the timeframe for which the film permit is needed is not deemed reasonable by the town for processing, the town reserves the right to reject an application for a film permit immediately upon receipt.
d.
The town manager shall determine whether a film permit should be approved or denied.
e.
The town clerk or his/her designee will contact the requesting party or their agent to communicate the decision of the town manager.
(3)
Fees. A fee shall be charged for filming on town-owned property in the following amounts:
a.
One hundred dollars per day for filming at passive locations that do not produce disruption to routine town business/operations or to the general public.
b.
Five hundred dollars per day for filming at active locations that may produce disruption to routine town business/operations or to the general public.
c.
The town manager or his/her designee shall have discretion to determine whether a particular application requires filming at a passive or active location, as those terms are used in paragraphs a. and b. above.
(4)
Records retention. At the conclusion of the application process and granting of a film permit, two copies of the film permit shall be signed by the town manager and by the authorized representative of the company or agency applying for the permit. One copy of the approved permit, along with any supporting documentation, shall be kept on file in the town's office of administration for one year. The second copy shall be kept on the site of the filming and is the property of the person listed on the permit application. Electronic copies of these documents may also be kept in the same manner as described.
(Ord. No. 2020-03, § 1, 7-16-2020)
Secs. 34-3—34-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EXCAVATIONS

Sec. 34-21. - Permit to dig in streets.
No person shall make any excavations or openings or dig any ditch, trench, tunnel or hole in, along, across or under any street, sidewalk or other public place for the purpose of laying or placing therein any pipe, wires, poles or for any other purposes, unless a written permit therefor has been issued by the town manager or his designee. A permit shall not be required where the work is performed under a contract with the town but in the event that work requires a sidewalk or street to be wholly or partially obstructed, the person shall notify the town manager or his designee and the police department at least two hours before obstructing the sidewalk or street, unless prevented by sudden emergency.
(Code 1984, § 4-1-1)
Sec. 34-22. - Application for permit.
All persons desiring a permit in order to make an opening in any street or sidewalk, as set forth in section 34-21, shall make written application therefor, which application shall show the location of the proposed opening, the purpose therefor, the approximate date and the approximate number of square yards of surface to be cut.
(Code 1984, § 4-1-2)
Sec. 34-23. - Town indemnified.
Any person obtaining a permit as provided for in sections 34-21 and 34-22 agrees, as a condition of the issuance of the permit, to indemnify and hold harmless the town against any claims or expenses, including attorney's fees for bodily injury or property damage for accidents or occurrences arising out of the person's operations.
(Code 1984, § 4-1-3)
Sec. 34-24. - Street repair.
When any part of any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place of the town shall be torn or dug up for any purpose, the person making that excavation or opening shall have the duty of refilling the excavation or opening so as to restore it to essentially the same condition that existed prior to the excavation or opening. Any person neglecting, refusing or failing to comply with any provisions of this section shall be guilty of a violation thereof; and where any neglect, refusal or failure is continued, after notice from the town, every day's continuance thereafter shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Code 1984, § 4-1-4)
Sec. 34-25. - Excavations; leaving unprotected.
It shall be unlawful for any person who obtains a permit under this article to commence work without proper protection surrounding the work site. Warnings sufficient to warn the public of any excavation or work are required to be placed and/or posted to alert all persons, using reasonable care, from injuries due to the work. Excavations of any kind which may create or cause a dangerous condition in or near any street, alley, sidewalk or public place of the town will require the placing and maintaining proper guard rails and signal lights or other warnings at, in, or around the work.
(Code 1984, § 4-1-5)
Secs. 34-26—34-53. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - UTILITY RIGHT-OF-WAY USE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 34-54. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Construct means, but shall not be limited to, dig, bore, tunnel, trench, excavate, obstruct, install or remove signs or facilities, other than landscaping or ornamental plantings in, on, above, within, over, below, under, or through any part of the rights-of-way. The term "construct" also includes the act of opening and/or cutting into the surface of any paved or improved surface that is any part of the rights-of-way.
Construction means, but shall not be limited to, the act or process of digging, boring, tunneling, trenching, excavating, obstructing, installing or removing signs or facilities, other than landscaping or ornamental plantings, in, on, above, within, over, below, under, or through any part of the rights-of-way. The term "construction" also includes the act of opening, boring and/or cutting into the surface of any part of the rights-of-way.
Emergency means a condition that poses a clear and immediate danger to life, health, or safety of a person, or of significant damage or loss of real or personal property.
Facilities representative means the specifically identified agent/employee of a utility who is authorized to direct field activities of that utility and serve as official notice agent for facilities-related information. A utility shall be required to make sure at least one of its facilities representatives will be available at all times to receive notice of, and immediately direct response to, facilities-related emergencies or situations.
Facility or facilities means any tangible thing, including but not limited to pipes, mains, conduits, cables, wires, poles, towers, traffic and other signals, and other equipment, appurtenances, appliances and future technology of any utility in, on, along, over, or under any part of the rights-of-way within the town.
FCC means the Federal Communications Commission or any successor thereto.
Permit means an authorization which grants permission to conduct specific regulated activities on, in, over, under or within any public rights-of-way, and which may be subject to conditions specified in a written agreement with the town or in a related provision of this Code.
Right-of-way means the surface and space in, on, above, within, over, below, under or through any real property in which the town has an interest in law or equity, whether held in fee, or other estate or interest, or as a trustee for the public, including, but not limited to, any public street, boulevard, road, highway, freeway, lane, alley, court, sidewalk, parkway, or any other place, area, or real property owned by or under the legal or equitable control of the town, now or hereafter, that consistent with the purposes for which it was dedicated, may be used for the purposes of constructing, operating, repairing or replacing facilities.
Service means the offering of any service by a utility for a fee directly to the public, or to such classes of users as to be effectively available directly to the public, or alternatively, the provision of any service by a utility between two or more points for a proprietary purpose to a class of users other than the general public.
Service agreement means a valid license agreement, service agreement, franchise agreement, or operating agreement issued by the town or the state pursuant to law and accepted by a utility or entered into by and between the town and a utility, which allows such utility to operate or provide service within the geographic limits of the town.
Street or streets means the surface of, as well as the spaces above and below, any and all the streets, alleys, avenues, roads, bridges, tunnels and public places of the town within the corporate limits of the town, as the same now exist or may be hereafter extended or altered, and any location thereon, thereover or thereunder, and any portion thereof.
Transfer means the disposal by the utility, directly or indirectly, by gift, assignment, sale, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of more than 50 percent at one time of the ownership or controlling interest in the facilities, or of more than 50 percent cumulatively over the term of a written approval of registration of such interests to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership, trust, or association, or person or group of persons acting in concert.
Unused facilities means facilities located in the rights-of-way which have remained unused for 12 months and for which the utility is unable to provide the town with a plan detailing the procedure by which the utility intends to begin actively using such facilities within the next 12 months, or that it has a potential purchaser or user of the facilities who will be actively using the facilities within the next 12 months, or that the availability of such facilities is required by the utility to adequately and efficiently operate its facilities.
Utility or utilities means all privately, publicly, or cooperatively owned systems for producing, transmitting, or distributing communication, data, information, telecommunication, cable television, video services, power, electricity, light, heat, gas, oil, crude products, water/sewer, steam, fire and police signals, traffic control devices, and street lighting systems, and housing or conduit for any of the foregoing, which directly or indirectly serve the public or any part thereof. The term "utility" may also be used to refer to the owner, operator, utility, service, contractor or subcontractor, or any agent thereof, of any above-described utility or utility facility.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-3), 6-18-2009)
Sec. 34-55. - Fine for violation.
Every utility convicted of a violation of any provision of this article shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 per violation. Each act of violation and each day upon which any such violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to the penalty prescribed above, the town may pursue other remedies such as abatement of nuisances, injunctive relief and revocation of licenses or permits.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-28), 6-18-2009)
Sec. 34-56. - Intent and purpose.
The town is vitally concerned with the use, construction within, and occupancy of all rights-of-way in the town as such rights-of-way are a valuable and limited resource which must be utilized to promote the public health, safety, welfare, and economic development of the town and to protect public work infrastructure. Therefore, the town, under the authority of the laws and Constitution of the state, including, but not limited to, article 9, section 1, paragraphs 2 and 3 of the state Constitution and O.C.G.A. §§ 36-35-3 and 32-4-92(10), has adopted the ordinance from which this article is derived for the purpose of regulating public and private entities which use the town rights-of-way.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-1), 6-18-2009)
Sec. 34-57. - Scope.
The provisions of this article shall apply to all utilities and facilities occupying the rights-of-way as provided herein.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-2), 6-18-2009)
Sec. 34-58. - Appeal of administrative decisions; notices.
All appeals provided for by this article and any notification to the town required by this article shall be in writing and sent via certified mail to the town manager as specified in this article.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-32), 6-18-2009)
Sec. 34-59. - Failure to enforce compliance.
No person shall be relieved of its obligation to comply with any of the provisions of this article by reason of any failure of the town to enforce compliance.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-31), 6-18-2009)
Sec. 34-60. - Additional permits required.
The utility shall obtain all construction, building or other permits or approvals as according to town ordinance, state or federal law. In addition, a permittee shall comply with all requirements of laws, shall complete work in a way as to not cause any unnecessary or unauthorized obstructions of sidewalks, streets, waterways or railways, and is responsible for all work done in the rights-of-way regardless of who performs the work. No rights-of-way obstruction or excavation may be performed when seasonally prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for such work, except in the case of an emergency as outlined in section 34-114.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-27), 6-18-2009)
Secs. 34-61—34-78. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - REGISTRATION

Sec. 34-79. - Registration required.
Each utility which occupies, uses or has facilities in the rights-of-way at the time of passage of the ordinance from which this article is derived, including by lease, sublease or assignment, to operate facilities located in the rights-of-way, unless specifically exempted by state or federal law or this Code, shall file a registration statement with the department within 90 days of the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-4), 6-18-2009)
Sec. 34-80. - Registration procedure.
The registration information provided to the town shall be on a form approved by the town and include, but not be limited to:
(1)
The name, legal status (i.e., partnership, corporation, etc.), street address, email address, and telephone and facsimile numbers of the utility filing the registration statement (the "registrant"). If the registrant is now the owner of the facility in the rights-of-way, the registration shall include the name, street address, email address if applicable, and telephone number and facsimile numbers of the owner;
(2)
The name, street address, email address if applicable and telephone and facsimile numbers of one or more facilities representatives. Current information regarding how to contact the facilities representatives in an emergency shall be provided at the time of filing a registration and shall be updated as necessary to assure accurate contact information is available to the town at all times;
(3)
A copy, if requested, of the utility's certificate of authority (or other acceptable evidence of authority to operate) from the Georgia Public Service Commission and/or the FCC and any other similar approvals, permits, or agreements; and
(4)
A copy, if requested, of the service agreement, if applicable, or other legal instrument that authorizes the utility to use or occupy the rights-of-way for the purpose described in the registration.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-5), 6-18-2009)
Sec. 34-81. - Incomplete registration.
If a registration is incomplete, the town manager shall notify the registrant and shall provide a reasonable period of time in which to complete the registration. If a registration is complete, the town manager shall so notify the utility in writing.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-6), 6-18-2009)
Sec. 34-82. - Registration acceptance.
Acceptance of the registration shall not convey title in the rights-of-way. Acceptance of the registration is only the nonexclusive, limited right to occupy the rights-of-way in the town for the limited purposes stated in the acceptance. Acceptance of the registration does not excuse a utility from obtaining permits required by town ordinances nor from obtaining appropriate access or pole attachment agreements before using the facilities of others, including the town. Acceptance of the registration does not excuse a utility from notifying the town of construction as required herein.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-7), 6-18-2009)
Sec. 34-83. - Facilities in place without registration.
Beginning one year after the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived, any facilities or part of a facility found in a right-of-way for which registration is required but has not been obtained, unless specifically exempted by law, and for which no valid service agreement exists with the town, may be deemed to be a nuisance and an unauthorized use of the rights-of-way. The town may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in equity, including, but not limited to:
(1)
Abating the nuisance;
(2)
Taking possession of the facilities, evicting the utility from the rights-of-way;
(3)
Prosecuting the violator; and/or
(4)
Any other remedy provided by town ordinance or otherwise allowed in law or in equity.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-8), 6-18-2009)
Secs. 34-84—34-109. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CONSTRUCTION PERMITS

Sec. 34-110. - Permit required.
It shall be unlawful for any utility to excavate or to construct, install, maintain, renew, remove or relocate facilities in, on, along, over or under the public roads of the town without a utility permit from the public works department in accordance with the terms of this article.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-9), 6-18-2009)
Sec. 34-111. - Permit procedure.
Utility permits shall be obtained from the town manager upon application made on forms prescribed by the public works department. The written application shall include the following:
(1)
The name and address of the utility;
(2)
The nature, extent, and location of any work proposed to be done, along with satisfactory plans as attachments showing in detail the location of the proposed facility or operations as described in the permit application. The plans shall show the size or capacity of facilities to be installed; their relationship to street features such as right-of-way lines, pavement edge, structures, etc., horizontal and vertical clearance to critical elements of the roadway and any other information necessary to evaluate the impact on the street and its operation;
(3)
The name and address of the person or firm who is to do such work;
(4)
The name, street address, email address if applicable and telephone and facsimile numbers of one or more facilities representatives;
(5)
The projected dates for the work to be started and finished;
(6)
An indemnity bond or other acceptable security in an amount to be set by the town to pay any damages to any part of the town road system or other town property or to any town employee or member of the public caused by activity or work of the utility performed under authority of the permit issued;
(7)
A copy, if requested, of the registrant's certificate of authority (or other acceptable evidence of authority to operate) from the Georgia Public Service Commission and/or the FCC and any other similar approvals, permits, or agreements; and
(8)
A copy, if requested, of the service agreement, if applicable or other legal instrument that authorizes the utility to use or occupy the rights-of-way for the purpose described in the application.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-10), 6-18-2009)
Sec. 34-112. - Permit fees.
Fees shall be determined by the town manager, subject to the approval by resolution of the town council. A fee schedule shall be available at the offices of the town clerk and open for public inspection.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-11), 6-18-2009)
Sec. 34-113. - Issuance of permit.
If the town manager determines the applicant has satisfied the following requirements, the town manager may issue a permit:
(1)
Whether issuing of the approval will be consistent with this chapter;
(2)
Whether the applicant has submitted a complete application and has secured all certificates and other authorizations required by law, if applicable, in order to construct facilities in the manner proposed by the applicant; and
(3)
The impact on safety, visual quality of the streets, traffic flow, and other users of the rights-of-way and the difficulty and length of time of the project, construction or maintenance.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-12), 6-18-2009)
Sec. 34-114. - Emergency situations.
(a)
Each utility shall, as soon as reasonably practicable, notify the town manager of any event regarding its facilities which it considers to be an emergency. The utility may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary in order to respond to the emergency. A utility which engages in an emergency excavation shall take all reasonable precautions to avoid or minimize damage to any existing facilities.
(b)
In the event that the town becomes aware of an emergency regarding utility facilities, the town may attempt to contact the affected utility or facilities representative. The town may take whatever action it deems necessary in order to respond to the emergency, including cutting or moving any of the wires, cables, amplifiers, appliances, or other parts of the facilities. The town shall not incur any liability to the utility for such emergency actions, and the cost of such shall be paid by each utility affected by the emergency.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-13), 6-18-2009)
Sec. 34-115. - Effective period of permit.
(a)
Each permit shall have a set commencement and expiration date based upon information provided in the permit application.
(b)
The permit shall remain in place until construction is completed or until its expiration date unless the utility is in default. The town manager may give written notice of default to a utility if it is determined that a utility has:
(1)
Violated a provision or requirement of the issuance or acceptance of a permit application or any law of the town, state or federal government;
(2)
Attempted to evade any provision or requirement of this article;
(3)
Practiced any fraud or deceit upon the town; or
(4)
Made a material misrepresentation or omission of fact in its permit application.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-14), 6-18-2009)
Sec. 34-116. - Cancellation for cause.
If a utility fails to cure a default within 20 working days after such notice is provided to the utility by the town, then such default shall be a material breach and the town may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in equity to terminate the permit. If the town manager decides there is cause or reason to terminate, the following procedure shall be followed:
(1)
The town shall serve the utility with a written notice of the reason or cause for proposed termination and shall allow the utility a minimum of 15 calendar days to cure its breach.
(2)
If the utility fails to cure the breach within 15 calendar days, the town may declare the permit terminated.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-15), 6-18-2009)
Sec. 34-117. - Expiration of permit.
If work is not begun within six months of the date of issuance, the permit will automatically expire.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-16), 6-18-2009)
Sec. 34-118. - Reservation of regulatory and police powers.
The town, by issuing a written approval of registration under this article, does not surrender or to any extent lose, waive, impair, or lessen the lawful powers and rights, which it has not or may be hereafter vested in the town under the Constitution and laws of the United States, the state and the town Charter, and under the provisions of this Code to regulate the use of the rights-of-way. The utility by applying for and being issued a written permit, is deemed to acknowledge that all lawful powers and rights, regulatory power, or police power, or otherwise as are or the same may be from time to time vested in or reserved to the town, shall be in full force and effect and subject to the exercise thereof by the town at any time. A utility is deemed to acknowledge that its interests are subject to the regulatory and police powers of the town to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to the safety and welfare of the public and is deemed to agree to comply with all applicable general laws enacted by the town pursuant to such powers. In particular, all utilities shall comply with the town's zoning and other land use requirements pertaining to the placement and specifications of facilities.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-30), 6-18-2009)
Secs. 34-119—34-149. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - MINIMUM REQUIRED STANDARDS

Sec. 34-150. - Utility accommodation manual adopted.
The 1988 Utility Accommodation Policy and Standards Manual, including all references contained therein to codes, rules, regulations, schedules, forms and appendix items, except appendix B (permit forms and supporting documents), promulgated by the state department of transportation, as may be amended from time to time, is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated in this division as if fully set forth herein, subject to the amendments and modifications contained in this chapter. A copy of the manual shall be maintained at the offices of the town clerk and open for public inspection. Any conflicts between the provisions of this article and the manual shall be resolved in favor of the manual. References to state personnel, agencies, and fees shall be interpreted, where required, as meaning the town municipal equivalents.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-17), 6-18-2009)
Sec. 34-151. - Protection of traffic and roadway.
Unless specifically in the permit, no utility may occupy the town rights-of-way unless sufficient space is available so that the free flow and safety of traffic and other capacity considerations are not unduly impaired and the installation does not prevent the town from reasonably maintaining the streets, structures, traffic control devices and other appurtenant facilities, and further provided that maintenance and operations of the facilities do not jeopardize the traffic, street structure, other users of the rights-of-way or the right-of-way itself.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-18), 6-18-2009)
Sec. 34-152. - Grading.
If the grades or lines of any street within the town rights-of-way are changed at any time by the town during the term of the permit and this change involves an area in which the utility's facilities are located, then the utility shall, at its own cost and expense and upon the request of the town upon reasonable notice, protect or promptly alter or relocate the facilities, or any part thereof, so as to conform with such new grades or lines. In the event the utility refuses or neglects to so protect, alter, or relocate all or part of the facilities, the town shall have the right to break through, remove, alter, or relocate all or any part of the facilities without any liability to the utility and the utility shall pay to the town the costs incurred in connection with such breaking through, removal, alteration, or relocation.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-19), 6-18-2009)
Sec. 34-153. - Installation of poles and other wireholding structures and relocation.
Unless otherwise provided in a valid service agreement, no placement of any pole or wireholding structure of the utility is to be considered a vested interest in the right-of-way, and such poles or structures are to be removed, relocated underground, or modified by the utility at its own expense whenever the town determines that the public convenience would be enhanced thereby. The facilities shall be so located and installed as to cause minimum interference with the rights and convenience of property owners.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-20), 6-18-2009)
Sec. 34-154. - Blasting and excavating.
As provided in O.C.G.A. § 25-9-6 (the Georgia Utility Facility Protection Act) and other applicable state law currently in place or as amended, no utility shall commence, perform, or engage in blasting or in excavating with mechanized excavating facilities unless and until the utility planning the blasting or excavating has given 48 hours' notice by submitting a locate request to the Utilities Protection Center, beginning the next working day after such notice is provided, excluding hours during days other than working days.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-21), 6-18-2009)
Secs. 34-155—34-176. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - RESTORATION OF PROPERTY

Sec. 34-177. - Repair of facilities.
Each utility shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any facilities in the rights-of-way and adjoining property or other facilities which it or its facilities damage.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-22), 6-18-2009)
Sec. 34-178. - Responsibility for damages.
A utility shall be liable, at its own cost and expense, to replace, restore or repair, any street, facilities or property or structure thereon, thereunder, thereover or adjacent thereto that may become disturbed or damaged as a result of the construction or installation, operation, upgrade, repair or removal of facilities, to a condition as good as or better than its condition before the work performed by the utility that caused such disturbance or damage. If the utility does not commence such replacement or repair after 20 working days following written notice from the town, the town or the owner of the affected structure may make such replacement or repair and the utility shall pay the reasonable and actual cost of the same.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-23), 6-18-2009)
Secs. 34-179—34-209. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - INSPECTIONS, STOP WORK ORDERS AND NOTICE OF CONSTRUCTION COMPLETION

Sec. 34-210. - Reasonable access.
The utility shall make the construction site available to the town manager and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all reasonable times during the execution and upon completion of the construction.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-24), 6-18-2009)
Sec. 34-211. - Stop work order.
At any time, including the time of inspection, the town manager may order the immediate cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the health, safety, or welfare of the public, violates any law, or which violates the terms and conditions of the permit and/or this chapter, or issue an order to correct work which does not conform to the permit and/or applicable standards, conditions or codes.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-25), 6-18-2009)
Sec. 34-212. - Notification of completion of construction.
When the construction under any permit is completed, the utility shall notify the public works department.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, § 1(8-2-26), 6-18-2009)
