ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 22-1. - Booth, stall, similar structure obstructing street, highway or sidewalk.
No person shall be authorized to engage in any business or engage in any business in the town that is conducted wholly or in part from a stand, stall, booth, box or other structure located, situated or placed in or on, or that in any way encroaches upon or extends into any street, highway or sidewalk of the town, or whose business, as conducted or carried on, obstructs in whole or in part any street, highway or sidewalk of the town.
(Ord. No. 467, § 1(7-8-1), 11-18-2004)
Sec. 22-2. - Closing-out and similar sales.
(a)
Advertising. It shall be unlawful for any person in the town to advertise by newspaper, radio, poster signs, or otherwise, and thereby represent that he is operating, offering or maintaining in the town fire sales, wreck sales, bankrupt sales, closing-out or going-out-of-business sales, whereby the public or the customers of any such person are led to believe that they are being offered merchandise at reduced rates on account of fire, wreck, bankruptcy, receivership, closing-out or going-out-of-business, when in fact the sales are not bona fide fire sales, wreck sales, bankrupt sales, receivership sales, closing-out or going-out-of-business sales. It shall be unlawful for any person now or hereafter engaged in business in the town to falsely represent by advertisement, or otherwise, that the goods, wares or merchandise which the person offers for sale are being sold at a certain percentage of their cost price or value and then to sell goods, wares or merchandise of a brand or quality inferior to that or those represented or advertised, or to sell such goods, wares or merchandise at a higher percent of their cost value than represented or advertised.
(b)
Sales. It shall be unlawful for any person represented by advertisement or otherwise that he is conducting in the town a sale of any goods, wares or merchandise, which are or have been, or which are claimed to be or have been, in or damaged by fire, or sold or purchased on account of fire, or which is property of any bankrupt or person who has failed in business, or has made a general assignment, or is or has been in voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy, or which are being sold or offered for sale in any other way than through the usual channels of sales, to sell or offer for sale in the town any goods, wares or merchandise not so circumstanced or affected or damaged, or to add to or replenish any such goods, wares of merchandise with goods, wares or merchandise not so circumstanced or affected.
(Ord. No. 467, § 1(7-8-2), 11-18-2004)
Sec. 22-3. - Trimming trees and shrubs, landscaping, agreement to remove debris prerequisite to certificate.
(a)
Agreement required. No person shall be issued a permit from the town clerk to trim trees or shrubs or to perform landscaping in the town unless said person agrees that he will remove the cut limbs and trash from the premises upon which the trees or shrubs are trimmed.
(b)
Applicability. This section shall not apply to persons who trim trees or shrubs or perform landscaping on such person's own property.
(c)
Violations. Any person who is issued a permit to trim trees or shrubs within the town, conditioned upon his agreement to remove the debris and trash, and who fails or refuses to remove such debris or trash shall be deemed as violating the terms of this section.
(Ord. No. 467, § 1(7-8-3), 11-18-2004)
Sec. 22-4. - Restaurants, fast food establishments.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate a restaurant, fast food establishment, or other food service establishment in the town without first having obtained a certificate from the county health department, which certificate shall be conspicuously displayed on the premises.
(Ord. No. 467, § 1(7-8-4), 11-18-2004)
Sec. 22-5. - Revocation or suspension of licenses or permits.
(a)
Whenever the state shall revoke any permit or license, the town permit or license to deal in that service or product shall, thereupon, be automatically revoked without any action by the mayor and council or any municipal officer.
(b)
Whenever a holder of a permit or license granted in this article by the mayor and council shall fail to open for business the establishment referred to in the permit or license and begin providing the service or the sale of products authorized by the permit or license within six months from the date of issuance of the permit or license, or whenever a holder of a permit or license shall begin the operation of a business and the service or sale of the products authorized in the permit or license but shall fail to operate the business for a period of six consecutive months, the holder shall automatically forfeit the holder's permit or license. The holder shall receive notice, a hearing and all other due process as required in subsection (c) of this section.
(c)
No permit or license which has been issued or which may hereafter be issued by the town to any person under this article shall be revoked, except for due cause as defined in this section and after a hearing and upon the prior seven-day written notice to the holder of the permit or license of the time, place and purpose of the hearing and a statement of the charge upon which the hearing shall be held.
(d)
When circumstances warrant the immediate cessation of any business activity, the town manager shall have the authority to summarily and immediately suspend the activity upon written notice to the holder of the permit or license for the activity. A suspension shall be valid, until a revocation proceeding may be held, up to a maximum of 30 days.
(e)
Due cause for the revocation of a permit or license shall consist of the violation of any laws or ordinances regulating the businesses, or violation of regulations made pursuant to authority granted for the purpose of regulating the businesses, or for the violation of any state or federal law, or for the violation of or conflict with any town ordinance other than traffic ordinances.
(f)
The hearing shall be conducted before the mayor and council by the town manager or the town attorney.
(g)
The mayor and council may, if it finds this Code to have been violated by the permittee or licensee, the permittee's or licensee's agent, or employee, or a permit or license to have been issued in conflict with state law or this Code, revoke the permit or license in its entirety, suspend the same for a specified period of time, place the permittee/licensee on probation, or place other conditions thereon as the mayor and council may deem necessary.
Sec. 22-6. - [Franchise fee to be collected.]
new
The town hereby requires a franchise fee of five percent of gross revenues generated within the town for any cable or video state franchise issued in its corporate boundaries by the State of Georgia
The town hereby authorizes the town manager, upon receipt of notice to the town of its right to designate a franchise fee for an applicant for or holder of an existing state franchise, to provide written notice to the secretary of state and each applicant for or holder of a state franchise within a service area that is wholly or partially located within the town limits of the five percent franchise fee rate applicable to such applicant or holder of a state franchise.
( Ord. No. 2008-509, §§ 1, 2, 2-21-2008)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2008-509 , §§ 1, 2, adopted February 21, 2008, added provisions that were not specifically amendatory. At the editor's discretion said provisions have been added here as § 22-6.
Secs. 22-7—22-26. - Reserved.
new
