ARTICLE XV. - SISTER CITIES PROGRAM

Sec. 2-1811. - Findings and statement of purpose.
(a)
The people-to-people program was inaugurated by the President of the United States in 1956 to establish greater friendship and understanding between the people of the United States and the peoples of other nations through the medium of direct contact.
(b)
All succeeding U.S. Presidents have endorsed the program to be conducted for the broad purposes of the exchange of ideas and people between the citizens of the United States and the peoples of other nations.
(c)
To implement this program, the city and other communities in the United States have been requested by the Town Affiliation Association of the U.S., Inc., to affiliate with cities in other nations of similar characteristics and mutual interest.
(d)
The city, through its mayor and city council, does recognize and endorse this program.
(e)
There is an abundance of requests by cities wishing to affiliate with the city as a sister city.
(f)
The city wishes to maximize the diversity of cultures represented in its sister city relationships as well as to control the number of cities chosen for this program in order to heighten the significance of its purpose.
(g)
There should exist a logical area of mutual interest and involvement with the prospective city in the areas of culture and business.
(h)
Strong consideration shall be given to factors which contribute to a good balance between the cities: geographic location, government structure, comparable size, population composition and education.
(i)
There should be evidence of strong local community support for the prospective sister city relationship in order to ensure a strong financial base and interest in exchanges.
(Code 1977, § 18-5001)
Sec. 2-1812. - Selection criteria for sister city relationship.
(a)
Every city chosen to affiliate with the city as a sister city must be located in a country that has established diplomatic relations with the United States, provided that should such diplomatic relations between the two countries be terminated at any time, the sister city relationship may also be terminated.
(b)
Preference may be given to a city requesting a sister city relationship with the city where such city has no other sister city in the United States.
(c)
The city shall establish a sister city relationship with only one city per country.
(d)
The city shall give preference to those cities that are directly linked by air transportation to the city.
(e)
The city shall give preference to those cities or nations that maintain a career consulate or trade mission office in the city.
(f)
The city and the proposed sister city shall be of roughly similar size, either absolutely or in relation to its region.
(g)
A minimum of one activity per year must be planned.
(h)
When it is determined by the council that an established sister city relationship is no longer active, the council may terminate the relationship.
(Code 1977, § 18-5002)
Sec. 2-1813. - Sister city commission.
(a)
There is created and established a commission to be known as the sister city commission to consist of one representative from each sister city committee, two members to be appointed by the council president and three members to be appointed by the mayor. All members shall be residents of the city. Appointments made by the mayor and council president shall be confirmed by the council.
(b)
Each member of the sister city commission shall serve a term of office of three years.
(c)
The sister city commission shall have the duty to:
(1)
Adopt bylaws to govern its actions.
(2)
Set commission goals for each year for the sister city programs and meet regularly to implement these goals.
(3)
Facilitate exchange programs in cities which have been identified by both corresponding cities as mutually important and desirable.
(4)
Assist the sister city committees to ensure that their exchange programs are effective, reciprocal and sustained and encourage the sister city to form a corresponding sister city committee.
(5)
Encourage the participation of a broad cross section of the community in the sister city programs.
(6)
Raise the necessary funds through grants, donations, in-kind services and membership to implement the identified programs of the commission and the sister city committees.
(d)
The mayor, upon review of the recommendations made by the commission, shall determine with which cities the city shall establish sister cities relationships and shall forward recommendations relative thereto the city council.
(e)
A sister city relationship shall be established upon recommendation by the mayor and confirmation by the city council.
(Code 1977, § 18-5003)
Cross reference— Boards, councils, commissions and authorities, § 2-1851 et seq.
Sec. 2-1814. - Sister city committees.
Any sister city committee formed as a result of an established sister city relationship shall submit an annual report to the committee on the executive and then to the city council detailing the accomplishments of the previous year and outlining the work program for the current year. The report shall be submitted to the council no later than the second meeting of the council in the month of February.
(Code 1977, § 18-5004)
Secs. 2-1815—2-1850. - Reserved.
