DIVISION 15. - OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT

Sec. 114-436. - Definition and conditions.
Outside employment shall constitute any paid employment of an employee which is in addition to such employee's employment with the city. As related to one's employment with the city, outside employment shall only be allowed under the following conditions:
(1)
Such employment shall not interfere with or affect the performance of the employee's duties.
(2)
Such employment shall not involve a conflict of interest or a conflict with the employee's duties.
(3)
Such employment shall not involve the performance of duties which the employee should perform as part of such employee's employment with the city.
(4)
Such employment shall not occur during the employee's regular or assigned working hours, unless the employee is on either annual leave, compensatory leave or leave without pay.
(5)
No employee engaging in outside employment shall work at such outside employment for a longer period of time than that stated in the employee's request for permission to engage in such employment.
(6)
Such employment shall be conditioned upon the employee's being relieved immediately for the return to and performance of the duties of such employee's employment with the city, if such employee should be called for emergency service.
(7)
Such employment shall not involve the use of records or equipment of the city. Police uniforms shall not be considered equipment in the meaning of this subsection.
(Ord. No. 2007-22(06-O-2700), § 1, 3-27-07)
Sec. 114-437. - Procedure.
(a)
No employee shall perform outside employment without having first filed a written request with such employee's department head for permission to engage in outside employment. Such request shall state the type and duration of employment, the hours of work, the name and business address of the prospective employer and the location of the place at which such employee shall be engaged in outside employment.
(b)
The department head shall have the right to deny the request or approve the request, provided that such employment is in compliance with section 114-436
(c)
The finance/executive committee of the city council shall be notified when outside employment has been approved for employees whose appointments are subject to city council confirmation. Such notification shall be accompanied by a copy of the written request required by subsection (a) above.
(Ord. No. 2007-22(06-O-2700), § 1, 3-27-07)
Secs. 114-438—114-450. - Reserved.
