ARTICLE IV. - EXEMPTIONS FROM AD VALOREM TAXATION[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-40 et seq.

Sec. 15-76. - Goods in process of manufacture and production.
The city shall exempt from ad valorem taxation, including all such taxes levied for educational purposes and for state purposes, the inventory of goods in the process of manufacture or production, which shall include all partly finished goods and raw materials held for direct use or consumption in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's manufacturing or production business in the state. The exemption provided for herein shall apply only to tangible personal property which is substantially modified, altered or changed in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's manufacturing, processing or production operations in this state.
(Code 1966, § 19½-34)
Sec. 15-77. - Goods manufactured in state and held by manufacturer.
The city shall exempt from ad valorem taxation, including all such taxes levied for educational purposes and for state purposes, the inventory of finished goods manufactured or produced within the state in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's manufacturing or production business when held by the original manufacturer or producer of such finished goods. The exemption provided for herein shall be for a period not exceeding twelve (12) months from the date such property is produced or manufactured.
(Code 1966, §19½-35)
Sec. 15-78. - Finished goods to be shipped outside of state.
The city shall exempt from ad valorem taxation, including all such taxes levied for educational purposes and for state purposes, the inventory of finished goods which, on the first day of January, are stored in a warehouse, dock or wharf, whether public or private, and which are destined for shipment to a final destination outside the state and inventory of finished goods which are shipped into the state from outside this state and stored for transshipment to a final destination outside this state. The exemption provided for herein shall be for a period not exceeding twelve (12) months from the date such property is stored in this state. All property that is claimed to be exempt under the provisions of this section shall be designated as being "in transit" upon the official books and records of the warehouse, dock, or wharf, whether public or private, where such property is being stored. Such official books and records shall contain a full, true and accurate inventory of all such property, including the date of the receipt of the property, the date of the withdrawal of the property, the point of origin of the property, and the point of final destination of the same, if known. The official books and records of any such warehouse, dock or wharf, whether public or private, pertaining to any such "in transit property" shall be at all times open to the inspection of all taxing authorities of this state and of any political subdivision of this state.
(Code 1966, § 19½-36)
Sec. 15-79. - Homestead exemption for persons sixty-two years of age or over or disabled.
(a)
Each resident of the city who is sixty-two (62) years of age or over or who is disabled is hereby granted an exemption from all city ad valorem taxes, including ad valorem taxes to pay interest on and retire bonded indebtedness, in the amount of eight thousand dollars ($8,000.00) on a homestead owned and occupied by him or her as a residence if his or her adjusted gross income, together with the adjusted gross income of his or her spouse, who also occupies and resides at such homestead, does not exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for the immediately proceeding taxable year. For the purposes of this paragraph, the term "adjusted gross income" shall have the same meaning as that term is defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as now or hereafter amended, except that adjusted gross income shall not include income or benefits which are received as retirement, survivor or disability benefits under the Federal Social Security Act, or under any other public or private retirement, disability or pension system, except such income or benefits which are in excess of the maximum amount authorized to be received by an individual and his or her spouse under the Federal Social Security Act, as now or hereafter amended. The value of the residence in excess of the above exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation.
(b)
In order to qualify for the exemption provided for herein as being disabled, the person claiming such exemption shall be required to obtain a certificate from not more than two physicians licensed to practice medicine under the laws of Georgia, as now or hereafter amended, certifying that in the opinion of such physician or physicians such person is mentally or physically incapacitated to the extent that such person is unable to be gainfully employed and that such incapacity is likely to be permanent.
(c)
Any such owner shall not receive the benefits of such homestead exemption unless he or she or his or her agent files an affidavit with the tax commissioner of Houston County, giving his or her age, or if disabled the certificate or certificates provided for herein, and the amount of income which he or she and his or her spouse received during the last taxable year for income tax purposes, and such additional information relative to receiving the benefits of such exemption as will enable the tax commissioner to make a determination as to whether such owners are entitled to such exemption. The tax commissioner shall provide affidavit forms for this purpose. Such applications shall be processed in the same manner as other applications for homestead exemption, and the provisions of law applicable to the processing of homestead exemptions, as the same may exist or hereinafter be amended, shall apply thereto. Provided, that after any such owner has filed the proper affidavit, and certificate or certificates if disabled, as provided above, and has been allowed the exemption provided herein, it shall not be necessary that he or she make application and file the said affidavit and certificate thereafter for any year and the said exemption shall continue to be allowed to such owner. It shall be the duty of any such owner, however, to notify the tax commissioner in the event he or she becomes ineligible for any reason for the exemption provided in this paragraph.
(Ord. No. 2003-34, 6-3-03)
Secs. 15-80—15-100. - Reserved.
