Chapter 24 - VEHICLES FOR HIRE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Motor vehicles and traffic, Ch. 18.
State Law reference— Reciprocal agreements as to operation of vehicles registered in other states inapplicable to motor vehicles for hire, O.C.G.A. § 40-2-95.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 24-1—24-15. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TAXICABS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 24-16. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the following words have the indicated meanings:
License means a business license issued under chapter 15, article II of this Code.
Taxicab shall mean a motor-driven vehicle of not more than eight-passenger capacity operated by the owner thereof or an agent, lessee or employee of the owner and which is regularly available for hire to transport persons within or outside the city.
Taxicab business shall mean any separately owned and operated taxicab; or a fleet of owned or leased taxicabs; or a fleet of taxicabs owned separately but operating under one (1) name.
(Code 1966, § 22-11)
Sec. 24-17. - Rules and regulations.
The mayor and council may adopt additional rules and regulations respecting taxicabs, operators and drivers and to designate, from time to time, the necessary changes and rules governing the taxicabs.
(Code 1966, § 22-19)
Sec. 24-18. - Inspection.
The city police are authorized to make inspection of all taxicabs, from time to time, with full authority to approve or disapprove the operation thereof when the taxicab is not in good mechanical condition or is not in good sanitary condition.
(Code 1966, § 22-15)
Sec. 24-19. - Schedule of fares to be posted.
The schedule of fares shall be posted in each taxicab and in the office of each taxicab company.
(Code 1966, § 22-16)
Sec. 24-20. - Prohibited operators.
No person shall operate a taxicab in the city that has been convicted, plead guilty or nolo contendere to any felony within the three (3) years immediately preceding the issuance of the license or been convicted, plead guilty or nolo contendere to an offense involved in prostitution, soliciting for prostitution, or the illegal manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages or drugs in the three (3) years immediately preceding the issuance of the license.
(Code 1966, § 22-17)
Secs. 24-21—24-30. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 24-31. - Application; issuance; display.
(a)
Every person desiring to operate a taxicab in the city shall make application for license or privilege to so operate to the city clerk or his designee on blanks furnished by the city, and this application shall contain the name and address of the owner, the make and motor number of the vehicle, the length of time it has been in use and total mileage it has traveled and its passenger-carrying capacity.
(b)
The application shall be reviewed by the police department for any record of excessive recklessness on the part of the applicant or those operating taxicabs under the applicant's name.
(c)
If the application meets all requirements, a license shall be issued upon the payment of the proper license fee prescribed by the mayor and council. This license or a copy thereof shall be displayed on each taxicab operated in the city.
(Code 1966, § 22-12; Ord. No. 2003-13, §§ 1, 2, 2-18-03)
Sec. 24-32. - Liability insurance required.
(a)
Every applicant for a taxicab business license shall, before the license is granted, deposit with the city clerk, for each taxicab for which the privilege to operate is sought, a policy or certificate of liability insurance, indemnifying the applicant in the sums required by law. The certificate or policy of liability insurance shall be issued by a company or companies authorized to do business in the state and, if obtainable, licensed to do business in the city. The certificate or policy of insurance shall identify by motor number all vehicles insured under the policy or policies. The license for the operation of the taxicab business shall expire upon the lapse or cancellation or termination or revocation of any policy covering any taxicab operated under the business.
(b)
If any person owning, leasing or operating a taxicab in the city shall fail or refuse to satisfy and discharge any final judgment, within sixty (60) days after the date of the final judgment such failure or refusal shall be grounds for suspension or revocation of any license issued to any person or business found liable under that final judgment.
(Code 1966, § 22-13)
Sec. 24-33. - License amendment.
(a)
Each licensee under this article shall amend the license application originally filed for the license to include new taxicabs or exclude old taxicabs promptly upon adding or deleting taxicabs from the licensee's business so that an up-to-date list of operating taxicabs may be maintained.
(b)
Each licensee hereunder shall also provide the city clerk proof that any new taxicab added to the application is fully insured as required under this article.
(Code 1966, § 22-14)
Sec. 24-34. - Revocation.
Any license under this article may be suspended or revoked by the municipal court upon a finding that any provision of this article has been violated or that the person or business holding the license no longer meets the standards required for the issuance of the license.
(Code 1966, § 22-18)
