ARTICLE V. - FIRE SALES, GOING-OUT-OF-BUSINESS SALES, ETC.[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Uniform Deceptive Trade Practices Act, O.C.G.A. § 10-1-370 et seq.; Fair Business Practices Act, O.C.G.A. § 10-1-390 et seq.; Prohibition against false advertising, O.C.G.A. § 10-1-420 et seq.

Sec. 15-101. - License, etc., for persons in business for ninety days.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person who has been a bona fide merchant in business within the city, for a period of ninety (90) days next preceding the sale hereinafter referred to, to advertise or conduct any sale of goods, wares, or merchandise at retail that is represented as bankrupt, insolvent, assignee, adjuster, trustee, executor, administrator, receiver, wholesaler, jobber, manufacturer, closing out, liquidation, closing stock, fire or water-damage sale, or any other sale which is by representation or advertisement intended to lead the public to believe that the person conducting such sale is selling out or closing out the goods, wares or merchandise of any business for less than the current or going retail price thereof in the city, without first filing with the city clerk an inventory and obtaining a closing-out sale license.
(b)
The fee for such license shall be as shown in the city fee schedule.
(c)
The inventory required by this section shall contain a complete and accurate list of the stock of goods, wares and merchandise to be sold at any sale for which a license is hereby required together with the wholesale price thereof. The inventory or list shall be signed by the person seeking the license, or by a resident agent there-unto authorized, and by affidavit at the foot thereof he or such agent shall swear or affirm that the information therein given is full and true, and known by him or such agent to be so.
(Code 1966, §§ 15-11, 15-12; Ord. No. 2018-15, § 1, 7-17-18)
Sec. 15-102. - License, etc., for persons in business less than ninety days.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person who has not been a bona fide merchant, or has not been in business bona fide within the city for a period of ninety (90) days to advertise or conduct any sale of goods, wares or merchandise at retail that is represented as a bankrupt, insolvent, assignee, adjustor, trustee, executor, administrator, receiver, wholesaler, jobber, manufacturer, closing out, liquidation, closing stock, fire or water-damage sale, or any other sale which is by representation or advertisement intended to lead the public to believe that the person conducting such sale is selling out or closing out the goods, wares, or merchandise of any business for less than the current price or retail price thereof in the city, without first filing with the city clerk the inventory hereinafter provided for and obtaining from the clerk a closing-out sale license.
(b)
The fee for such license shall be, and the same is hereby fixed as follows:
(1)
For a period not exceeding thirty (30) days, four hundred dollars ($400.00);
(2)
For a period not exceeding sixty (60) days, eight hundred dollars ($800.00);
(3)
For a period not exceeding ninety (90) days, one thousand two hundred dollars ($1,200.00).
Only one (1) such license shall be issued to any one (1) person within a twelve-month period, and no such license shall be issued for less than thirty (30) days nor more than ninety (90) days.
(c)
The inventory required by this section shall contain a complete and accurate list of the stock of goods, wares and merchandise to be sold at any sale for which a license is hereby required together with the wholesale price thereof. The inventory or list shall be signed by the person seeking the license, or by a resident agent there-unto authorized, and by affidavit at the foot thereof he or such agent shall affirm or swear that the information therein given is full and true, and known by him or such agent to be so.
(Code 1966, §§ 15-14, 15-15)
Sec. 15-103. - Additions to inventory, etc.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to sell, offer to expose for sale at any sale referred to in this article, or to list on the required inventory, any goods, wares or merchandise which are not the regular stock of the store or other place, the business of which is to be closed out by such sale, or to make any replenishments or additions to such stock for the sale, or during the time thereof, or to fail or neglect or refuse to keep accurate records of the articles or things sold, from which records the city clerk or license inspector may ascertain the kind and quality of number sold.
(b)
Additions and replenishments may be added to the regular stock offered for sale if the person conducting such sale shall thoroughly advertise and inform the public that not only regular stock is to be sold, but that also other goods, wares and merchandise shall be added to the regular stock and that these additions or replenishments shall be offered for sale in connection with the regular stock.
(c)
When the additions or replenishments are to be sold in connection with the regular stock the person conducting such sale shall first pay the fee shown on the city fee schedule.
(d)
Whenever additions or replenishments are added to the regular stock to be sold, the person conducting such sale shall make a complete inventory of the additions or replenishments containing an accurate list of the stock of goods, wares and merchandise to be sold as additions or replenishments, and such list shall contain the purchase price of each article which is to be offered for sale, and also the price at which such article is to be offered for sale.
(e)
Such inventory or list shall be signed by the person conducting such sale, and an affidavit shall accompany the list, and the person conducting the sale shall swear to the accuracy of such list.
(Code 1966, §§ 15-13, 15-16; Ord. No. 2018-15, § 2, 7-17-18)
Sec. 15-104. - Merchandise to be marked.
(a)
The person conducting a sale under this article shall mark each article of merchandise plainly where it can be thoroughly understood by the public that the article of goods, wares or merchandise is a part of the regular stock or a part of the additions or replenishments.
(b)
The articles offered for sale shall have the following words marked thereon "additions" or "regular stock" and each article offered for sale shall have the purchase price marked thereon, and the price at which it is offered for sale shall also be marked thereon.
(Code 1966, § 15-17)
Sec. 15-105. - Oral misrepresentations concerning sale.
It shall be unlawful for any person conducting any sale to represent by word or mouth any advertisement or in any way, that he is closing out his business, when as a matter of fact, he is not closing out his business.
(Code 1966, § 15-18)
Sec. 15-106. - Oral misrepresentation concerning quality, prices or stock.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person conducting any sale to misrepresent by word or mouth, advertisement or in any other way the quality or price of any article offered for sale.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to represent by word of mouth, or advertisement or in any other way, that the articles offered for sale were a part of the regular stock of the store or place, when as a matter of fact, such articles were additions or replenishments which had been added to the regular stock.
(Code 1966, § 15-19)
Sec. 15-107. - Inspection of books.
The person conducting a sale under this article shall at all times permit the city clerk or license inspector or the chief of police to inspect his books, records, invoices, or any other paper or writing connected with the quality, quantity, prices, or kinds of goods, wares, or merchandise offered for sale.
(Code 1966, § 15-20)
Sec. 15-108. - Fraudulent price marking.
It shall be unlawful for any person in a bankrupt, insolvent, assignee, adjustor, trustee, executor, administrator, receiver, wholesaler, manufacturer, closing out, liquidation, closing stock, fire or water damage sale, or any sale which is intended to lead the public to believe that the person conducting such sale is selling out, or closing out the goods, wares or merchandise of any business for less than the current or going retail price, or any other sale, whether it is a closing out sale or not, to mark the prices of articles of merchandise, goods, wares or merchandise up at a higher level than such articles had previously sold, and then mark the prices on such articles down for the purpose of impressing the public that such articles were being offered for sale at a lower price than such articles were intricately worth.
(Code 1966, § 15-21)
Secs. 15-109—15-125. - Reserved.
