DIVISION 1. - MALT BEVERAGES

Sec. 6-21. - Definitions.
Unless the context or the specific provisions of this section demand otherwise, the words and terms used in this article shall have the definition and meaning as state law where used in O.C.G.A tit. 5A (Alcoholic Beverage).
Business location shall mean the location or proposed location of a retail or wholesale malt beverage outlet.
Clerk shall mean the city clerk or deputy city clerk of the city.
Commission shall mean city council of the City of Fort Oglethorpe.
Measured shall mean the straight line distance from the closest corner of the building in which the outlet or proposed outlet is located to the closest corner of the building of an involved institution or establishment except as otherwise stated herein.
Retail manager shall mean the person who does or will actually manage or operate the retail store on a day to day basis.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-21)
Sec. 6-22. - Necessity for license.
It shall be unlawful to manufacture, sell or offer to sell at wholesale or retail within the city, any malt beverage without having the appropriate license for such manufacture or sale, or to carry on such activity in violation of the terms of such license or of this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-22)
Sec. 6-23. - Separate license for each outlet; nontransferability; surrender.
(a)
A separate license shall be required for each malt beverage outlet, and a separate application shall be made for each.
(b)
No license shall be transferable or assignable.
(c)
Immediately upon the sale or closing of an outlet, it shall be the duty of the licensee to surrender his license to the commission.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-23)
Sec. 6-24. - Classification of licenses.
Licenses under this article shall be classified as follows:
(1)
Retail-convenience stores. A retail store whose primary function is the sale of food or medicines and related merchandise in which the sale of beer at retail is incidental to the operation thereof.
(2)
Wholesale. Wholesale malt beverage distributor, which shall permit only the sale of malt beverages at wholesale.
The amount of the license fee for each class shall be as set forth in the license schedule in section 6-62.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-24)
Sec. 6-25. - Initial license application.
Application for retail malt beverage license shall be as follows: Each initial applicant shall make written application to the commission for the privilege of engaging in the sale (specifying whether wholesale or retail) of malt beverages, such application using forms approved by the clerk or deputy clerk.
(1)
The application shall be filed with the clerk with a fee of $25.00 for investigation of the applicant and of the proposed location and processing of the application, which fee is not refundable.
(2)
The application shall state:
a.
As to the applicant(s): full name, age, home address, business address, complete record of all convictions, guilty pleas and nolo contendere pleas for violations of all laws, city, state and federal (except minor traffic violations).
b.
As to applicant(s) proposed outlet manager (if not the same as applicant): full name, age, home address, business address, complete record of all convictions, guilty pleas and pleas of nolo contendere for violations of all laws, city, state and federal, (except minor traffic violations).
c.
Exact location (street address) of proposed business outlet.
d.
Name and address of owner or landlord and/or resident manager of property proposed for location and whether or not there is a building proposed to be used already erected thereon.
e.
Tradename (or proposed tradename) of proposed business.
f.
Reserved.
g.
Such other information as may be required by the city council, police or the city attorney through interrogatories or otherwise.
(3)
The application shall be sworn to.
(4)
There shall be attached to the application a copy of applicant's application or proposed application for a license from the State of Georgia, if one is required.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-25; Ord. No. 2011-23, 1-9-2012)
Sec. 6-26. - Action by malt and wine beverage control commission.
Within seven days from the time the application is filed, the clerk shall notify the police or such other investigative officer as approved by the commission, who shall investigate the character of the applicant and the reputation of the location, and make a full report to the commission. The clerk shall also refer said application, together with an objection filed, to the commission. The commission shall, after investigation of applicant and proposed location direct the clerk to issue or refuse the license for which application is made, upon payment of the appropriate fee. The commission shall either issue or refuse to issue the license for which application is made within 60 days from the time application is filed.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-26)
Sec. 6-27. - Considerations and guidelines for granting or denying license.
The malt and wine beverage control commission, in making its determination on an initial application, shall be guided by factors set out in section 6-28.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-27)
Sec. 6-28. - Grounds for denial of license.
(a)
Prohibited location. It shall be unlawful to grant a license for the sale of malt beverages within the following area of the city:
(1)
Within a measured 300 feet of any church building, or of a state, county or city alcoholic treatment center. The word "building" as used herein shall mean a structure used at the time of filing of the application for license for the purposes of a church or alcoholic treatment building. Additionally, for the purpose of this article, a church is hereby defined as an organization for the purpose of preaching the gospel and other related religious activities located within a permanent structure either owned or leased by such organization. Said organization must consist of at least 15 adult members on its official rolls that meet on a regularly scheduled basis of not less than 30 times per year. Such organization must also qualify under the rules of Internal Revenue Service as an organization to which contributions may be deducted for federal income tax purposes.
(2)
Within 300 feet, measured in a straight line, from the nearest property line of any school or school house to the nearest corner of the building in which the outlet is to be operated.
(3)
In any existing building or establishment having a history of or reputation for prostitution or other sex offenses; fighting, shooting, or other violence; gambling; illegal dealing alcoholic beverages or drugs; or other violations of the law.
(b)
Prohibited outlet building. It shall be unlawful to grant a license for the sale of malt beverages at retail where the proposed location does not have a front entrance to the premises which is clearly visible from a public street, road or highway, except as to a freeway, campground, or private club which it would be impracticable.
(c)
Prohibited persons. It shall be unlawful to grant a license for the sale of malt beverages to:
(1)
A person who is not a good character and reputation in the community in which he resides.
(2)
A person who has been convicted of a serious felony within five years immediately prior to the filing of said application.
(3)
Reserved.
(4)
A person whose license under this article has been revoked for cause or who has had a license of any type under this article revoked for cause within two years immediately prior to the filing of the application.
(5)
A person, who at the time of application for renewal of any license issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon first application.
(6)
A person who is under the age of 21 years.
(7)
A person who is not of sound mind and memory.
(8)
An officer or employee of the city.
(9)
Any partnership or corporation where an individual having the controlling interest, either as owner, partner, stockholder, director or officer, shall have been convicted of a serious felony within five years immediately prior to the filing of said application.
(d)
Additional considerations. The commission in reaching its final determination on an initial application shall also be guided by the following factors as to whether or not to grant such license:
(1)
The proximity of other outlets, and give due regard to the nature of the commercial area.
(2)
The nature of the neighborhood immediately adjacent to the proposed location, that is, whether the same is predominantly residential, industrial or business.
(3)
The proximity of public parks and playgrounds.
(4)
Whether the proposed location has adequate off-street parking facilities or other parking available for its patrons.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-28; Ord. No. 99-53, 9-13-99; Ord. No. 2011-23, 1-9-2012; Ord. No. 2014-11, 8-25-2014)
Sec. 6-29. - Renewals of licenses; denial.
(a)
All licenses shall be issued for a period of one year, the same to be a calendar year, running from January 1 through December 31 of the same calendar year, and shall be renewable as a matter of course upon payment of the appropriate fee.
(b)
Each licensee shall make written application for renewal on or before November 1 of each year on forms approved by the clerk. Upon receipt of request for renewal by the clerk, the renewal applications will be presented to the police chief who will review the application and make his recommendations to renew or not to renew. If the recommendations is to renew, then the clerk shall issue the renewal license upon payment of the license fee. In the event the recommendation is not to renew, the application shall be referred to the commission for their consideration of renewal or rejection.
(c)
Reserved.
(d)
Reserved.
(e)
Said commission shall afford the licensee a public hearing upon the consideration of the application for renewal and the licensee shall be afforded complete due process of law on any hearing before the commission.
(f)
At the public hearing, the commission may grant, or deny for cause, the renewal of any license issued hereunder.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-29; Ord. No. 2011-23, 1-9-2012)
Sec. 6-30. - Suspension and revocation of licenses.
(a)
Summary action.
(1)
If at any time during the holding of a license granted under this chapter, it should appear that the licensee has violated the provisions of this chapter, or the laws of the state or any federal laws, or if it should appear that the application contained known false information, or if it appears necessary for the public safety, health and welfare, the police chief of the city, his assistants who are acting under his authority, or any officially designated license inspector may request the commission to suspend or revoke the license to sell or consume any alcoholic beverages within the city.
(2)
Reserved.
(3)
The commission shall hold a hearing on such request for a revocation or suspension and after such hearing, the commission may revoke or suspend said license or place said licensee on probation.
(b)
Action by the commission. The commission shall have full power and authority to revoke, refuse to renew, suspend or place on probation any licensee to sell or consume alcoholic beverages for violation of this chapter, or of the state or federal laws, or when said commission shall determine, after five days' notice and hearing that the operation of the licensed business is detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of the public. For the purpose of this section it shall be sufficient if notice is mailed, giving the time and place of the hearing by United States Certified Mail at the address of the licensee as shown in the application.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-30; Ord. No. 2011-23, 1-9-2012)
Sec. 6-31. - Taxation.
In addition to the annual license fees required, there is hereby levied and imposed an excise tax which shall be paid to the city, as provided by Georgia Laws, on all malt beverages sold by each wholesale dealer within the area of the city.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-31)
Sec. 6-32. - Method of tax payment.
Tax shall be paid to the city by each wholesale dealer on all malt beverages sold within the city not later than the 10th day of each month, based upon the units of beverage sold during the previous calendar month by said wholesalers to retailers in the city.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-32)
Sec. 6-33. - Payment of tax, report.
The wholesale dealer shall keep true and correct records of all sales and shipments and shall render a sworn statement of the name accompanying the monthly report to the city clerk, and said report shall show the exact quantities of malt beverages, by size and type of container and the amount of excise tax collected.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-33)
Sec. 6-34. - City's right of audit.
The city shall have the right to audit, and to require production of records from each wholesaler supplying retailers in the area of the city, and also from each retailer so supplied.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-34)
Sec. 6-35. - Failure to make a timely report and payment; penalty.
The failure to make a timely report and remittance of aforesaid taxes shall render a wholesale dealer liable for a penalty equal to ten percent of the total amount due, in addition to the amount due; and additionally if said report is not filed or if said taxes are not remitted and paid within 30 days from the date that the same are due, the city shall have the right to suspend and/or revoke any wholesale license, and further to prohibit said wholesaler from making any deliveries of any type whatsoever within the area of the city.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-35)
Sec. 6-36. - Sale prohibited when tax not paid.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell at retail or otherwise dispense beverages within the city on which the tax required in this article has not been paid to the wholesaler or distributor or to the city.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-36)
Secs. 6-37—6-50. - Reserved.
