Chapter 58 - PARKS AND RECREATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 34; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 74.
State Law reference— State parks, O.C.G.A. § 12-3-1 et seq.; authority of municipality to construct and operate parks, swimming pools, golf courses, recreation grounds and buildings used for sports, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3; establishment of recreation systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-1 et seq.; Georgia state games commission, O.C.G.A. § 50-12-40 et seq.; power to provide parks, recreation areas, programs and facilities, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(5).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 58-1. - Alcoholic beverages prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, consume, or serve any alcoholic beverage within a city park or recreational facility.
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages generally, ch. 6.
Sec. 58-2. - Vehicles prohibited on polo fields.
All motorized vehicles of any type or character are prohibited on any portion of the polo fields also known as the area within Barnhardt Circle, except in those areas provided for authorized parking on paved parking lots or as otherwise might be permitted by special permission of the city council.
(Code 1986, § 7-1-2)
Cross reference— Traffic and vehicles, ch. 90.
Secs. 58-3—58-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - RECREATION BOARD[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
State Law reference— Recreation boards, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-5.

Sec. 58-36. - Recreation board.
(a)
There is hereby created a recreation board to be known as the recreation board for the city, referred to in this article as the recreation board.
(b)
The purpose of the board shall be to acquire, establish, conduct and maintain parks, playgrounds, recreation facilities and activities.
(c)
The board shall consist of five persons serving without pay to be appointed by the city council. The terms of office shall be for five years or until their successors are appointed and qualified, except that the members of such board first appointed shall be appointed for such terms that the term of one member shall expire annually thereafter.
(d)
Upon the appointment of the recreation board, the members so appointed shall meet and organize by electing one of their members president and such other officers as may be necessary. The board shall formulate rules and regulations for the government of its activities and shall submit such rules and regulations to the city council for its approval.
(e)
Any vacancies which shall occur on the board other than by expiration of term shall be filled by the mayor only for the expired term.
(f)
The board shall be vested with all the rights, powers, and authority granted by the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 36-64-3 and 36-64-6.
(Code 1986, § 7-1-1)
