Chapter 26 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; fire prevention and protection, ch. 38.
State Law reference— Georgia Mutual Aid Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-1 et seq.; Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; Interstate Civil Defense and Disaster Compact, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-70 et seq.; authority to adopt temporary or experimental traffic regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(19).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 26-1—26-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT

Sec. 26-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency functions other than the functions for which the state and federal governments are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from disasters caused by enemy nuclear attack, sabotage or other hostile action, or by acts of nature, fire, explosion, civil disorders or other causes. These functions include, without limitation:
(1)
Firefighting services;
(2)
Law enforcement services;
(3)
Medical and health services;
(4)
Rescue services;
(5)
Engineering services;
(6)
Warning services;
(7)
Communications;
(8)
Defense from radiological fallout;
(9)
Welfare services;
(10)
Evacuation when and where necessary;
(11)
Emergency transportation;
(12)
Plant and utility protection;
(13)
Restoration of public utility services; and
(14)
Other functions related to protection and well-being of the population of the city;
together with all other activities necessary or incidental to preparation for and the carrying out of these functions.
(Code 1986, § 4-3-1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 26-32. - Office of the city emergency management director.
There is hereby established the city emergency management office. The city council shall nominate, for appointment by the governor, a director of emergency management for the city. When appointed, the emergency management director is charged with:
(1)
Representing the governing officials of the city on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
Assisting city officials in organizing city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
Developing in conjunction with other city department the plan for emergency functions set forth in section 26-31. Such plan will be in consonant with the state emergency plan and shall be submitted to the city council for approval and thence to the state director for approval.
(4)
Maintaining the emergency management office in carrying out the day-to-day administration of the emergency management and disaster program, including the rendering of required reports to the state emergency management office.
(5)
Rendering reports such as financial, daily activity, etc., as required by governing officials in keeping with good business practices.
(6)
Procuring, with authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the city emergency operating center.
(7)
Coordinating, during periods of a declared emergency and under the supervision of governing officials, the activities of the city emergency operating center staff.
(Code 1986, § 4-3-2)
Sec. 26-33. - City emergency management organization.
(a)
The city emergency management organization shall be established around existing city departments and agencies, and the emergency functions listed in section 26-31 are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department Emergency Function
Emergency management Emergency communications
Emergency management Shelter planning
Police department Emergency law enforcement service
Fire department Attack warning
Firefighting, and rescue service
Streets and water department Radiological defense
Emergency management office
(coordinate with county) Emergency welfare services
Streets and water department Emergency engineering service
General government department Logistics (resources management)
Emergency management office Emergency public information
Emergency management office Industrial and institution emergency planning
Emergency management office Coordination of training
  (b)
Heads of departments listed in subsection (a) of this section are responsible for developing the plan for their assigned emergency function. Such plans will be submitted through the emergency management director to the city council for approval.
(Code 1986, § 4-3-3)
Sec. 26-34. - Emergency powers.
In the event of an actual enemy attack upon the United States or any other disaster which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the city, the mayor, or in his absence his legally appointed successor, may declare that a state of emergency exists; and thereafter he shall have and may exercise for such period as such state of emergency exists or continues the following emergency powers:
(1)
To enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management forces.
(2)
To seize, take for temporary use or condemn any property for the protection of the public.
(3)
To sell, lend, give or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the city, to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies.
(4)
To perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the city.
(Code 1986, § 4-3-4)
Sec. 26-35. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the city, performing emergency functions pursuant to this article shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, volunteers shall have the same immunities as city officers and employees.
(Code 1986, § 4-3-5)
Sec. 26-36. - Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, or any rule, order, or regulation made pursuant to this chapter, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in Charter section 4.13.
(Code 1986, § 4-3-6)
