DIVISION 2. - WINE

Sec. 6-51. - Definitions.
(a)
Unless the context demands otherwise, the words and terms used in this article shall have the same definition and meaning as state law where used in O.C.G.A. tit. 5A (Alcoholic Beverage).
(b)
"Business location" shall mean the location or proposed location of a retail wine outlet.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-51)
Sec. 6-52. - License required.
(a)
A separate license shall be required for each wine outlet, and a separate application shall be made for each outlet.
(b)
No license shall be transferable or assignable.
(c)
Immediately upon the sale or closing of an outlet, it shall be the duty of the licensee to surrender the license to the city.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-52)
Sec. 6-53. - Classification of licenses; license fees.
License under this article shall be classified as follows:
(1)
Retail which shall permit only the sale of wine in packages at retail.
(2)
Wholesale-wholesale wine distributor, which shall permit only the sale of wine at wholesale.
The amount of the license fee for each class shall be set as set forth in the license schedule in section 6-62.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-53)
Sec. 6-54. - Application and qualifications for license.
Application for a retail package wine license shall be the same as, and in accordance with the requirements applicable to the sale of malt beverages by the package at retail, and all provisions in this chapter pertaining to the application and qualifications for a malt beverage license, including sections 6-3 through 6-9 shall be enforced in the sale of wine. All regulations controlling the sale of malt beverages shall also be applicable to the sale of wine as if fully set out as a separate section hereunder.
(Note: Wholesalers delivering wine on prior orders are not required to have a wine license when business is not located in city). It is the intention of this article that wine be sold either in conjunction with a qualified and licensed retail malt beverage outlet under the sale standards and restrictions as are applicable to retail malt beverage outlets, or if the licensee so desires that wine may be sold at a qualified licensed wine outlet which does not sell malt beverages; however, under all circumstances wine outlets shall be under the same standards and restrictions as are applicable to malt beverage outlets under this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-54)
Sec. 6-55. - Taxation.
(a)
In addition to the annual retail wine license fee required, there is hereby levied an excise tax computed as prescribed by Georgia laws.
(b)
The tax shall be paid to the city clerk, by each wholesale distributor, on all wine sold to the retailers in the city, no later than the tenth day of each month based upon the units of wine sold during the previous calendar month by said wholesalers to retailers in the city.
(c)
Each wholesale distributor shall furnish to the city clerk a summary of all purchase invoices for wine sold to each retailer in the city on or before the tenth day of each month following such purchases. Said invoices shall show the amount of excise tax paid.
(d)
The city shall have the right to audit, and to require production of records from each wholesaler, supplying retailers in the city and from each retailer so applied.
(1986 Code, § 9-3-55)
Secs. 6-56—6-60. - Reserved.
