CHAPTER 2. - ATHENS-CLARKE COUNTY PUBLIC FACILITIES AUTHORITY
Georgia Laws 1960, p. 2531—Athens Public Facilities Authority Act
Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Athens-Clarke County Public Facilities Authority created.
Sec. 3. General powers.
Sec. 4. Commissioners; meetings; officials; minutes and records.
Sec. 5. Definitions.
Sec. 6. Revenue bonds.
Sec. 7. Revenue bonds; execution.
Sec. 8. Revenue bonds; negotiability and exemption from taxation.
Sec. 9. Revenue bonds; sale and price.
Sec. 10. Revenue bonds; proceeds of bonds.
Sec. 11. Revenue bonds; replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
Sec. 12. Conditions precedent to issuance of revenue bonds.
Sec. 13. Credit not pledged.
Sec. 14. Revenue bonds; trust indenture as security.
Sec. 15. Revenue bonds; to whom the proceeds of the bonds shall be paid.
Sec. 16. Revenue bonds; sinking fund.
Sec. 17. Revenue bonds; remedies of bond holders.
Sec. 18. Revenue bonds; refunding bonds.
Sec. 19. Venue; jurisdiction; service.
Sec. 20. Revenue bonds; validation.
Sec. 21. Interest of bond holders protected.
Sec. 22. Monies received considered trust funds.
Sec. 23. Rates, charges and revenues of projects.
Sec. 24. Projects confined to Clarke County.
Sec. 25. Powers declared supplemental and additional.
Sec. 26. Authority without taxing power.
Sec. 27. Liberal construction of act.
Sec. 28. Effect of partial invalidity of Act.
Sec. 29. Repeal.
GEORGIA LAWS 1960, P. 2531—ATHENS PUBLIC FACILITIES AUTHORITY ACT

Sec. 1. - Short title.
This Act may be cited as the "Athens-Clarke County Public Facilities Authority Act."
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 1; Ga. L. 1996, p. 3746, § 1)
Sec. 2. - Athens-Clarke County Public Facilities Authority created.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Athens-Clarke County Public Facilities Authority, which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation by that name, style, and title to be known. Said corporation shall be separate and distinct from any public corporation heretofore created by the General Assembly and shall be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia exercising governmental powers. All property owned by said corporation shall be public property held and owned for governmental purposes and shall be exempt from taxation. The name of the Athens Public Facilities Authority is changed to the Athens-Clarke County Public Facilities Authority, and all references in this Act to such authority shall be to the renamed authority. All references in this Act to Athens, the City of Athens, or to Clarke County wherever they appear in this Act shall be construed to refer to Athens-Clarke County. The authority shall not undertake to acquire real property by any means nor to improve any real property, whether owned by the authority or by any other person or corporation, without first obtaining from the chief elected officer (CEO) and Commission of the Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia, an inducement resolution which clearly describes the real property affected and the amount of money to be spent on the project. Further, the authority shall not acquire real property by eminent domain nor finance any project by the issuance of revenue bonds, as set out in this chapter, without first obtaining from the CEO and Commission of the Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County an inducement resolution which clearly sets out that said property is to be acquired by eminent domain or said project financed by the issuance of revenue bonds. Further, the authority shall not enter into any intergovernmental contract without first obtaining from the CEO and Commission of the Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County an inducement resolution which clearly sets out that said contract is in the best interest of the citizens of Athens-Clarke County.
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 2; Ga. L. 1996, p. 3746, § 1)
Sec. 3. - General powers.
The Athens Public Facilities Authority shall have the power:
(a)
To hold, own and convey real and personal property;
(b)
To sue and be sued;
(c)
To have and to use a seal and to alter the same at pleasure;
(d)
To acquire, construct, purchase, own, equip, operate, extend, improve, lease and sell any project as hereinafter [in this chapter defined;
(e)
To exercise the powers conferred upon a "public corporation or authority" by Article VII, section VI, paragraph 1 of the constitution of Georgia, said Authority being hereby expressly declared to be a "public corporation or authority" within the meaning of said portion of the constitution of Georgia;
(f)
To exercise the power and right of eminent domain in accordance with the provisions of any law now or hereafter adopted applicable to the condemnation of property for public use;
(g)
To accept gifts and bequests for its corporate purposes;
(h)
To appoint, select and employ officers, agents and employees, including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and to fix their compensation;
(i)
To make contracts and leases, and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for the construction or improvement or extension of any project as hereinafter [in this chapter defined;
(j)
To cancel contracts, to compromise claims against itself and to dispose of and convey property not required by it for its corporate purposes upon such terms as it may in its discretion deem best;
(k)
To accept loans and grants of money or property of any kind from the United States, the State of Georgia, or any political subdivision of the State of Georgia;
(l)
To employ the services of any state or national bank having an office within the City of Athens as custodian of the funds belonging to it and as collecting and disbursing agent for any funds belonging to or held by it;
(m)
To make such rules and regulations with respect to the use by the public of any property owned by it as it shall in its discretion deem proper; [and
(n)
To make such rules and regulations governing its employees and property as it may in its discretion deem proper.
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 3)
Editor's note— The constitutional reference in paragraph (e) refers to the constitution of 1945. In the constitution of 1976, this section became Art. VIII, § IX, para. I. In the constitution of 1983, this section became Art. VIII, § V, para. VII.
Sec. 4. - Members; meetings; officials; minutes, and records.
(a)
The Athens-Clarke County Public Facilities Authority shall be governed by and its powers exercised by five (5) members who shall be nominated and elected by the CEO and commission of Athens-Clarke County. The three (3) commissioners serving as such on the effective date of this Act shall become three (3) members and shall complete the terms for which they were elected. All references in this Act to commissioners of the authority shall be to the members of the authority. For the additional members created by this Act and upon the expiration of terms of members, the CEO shall nominate a person as member, and in the event the commission fails to elect the person so nominated, then the CEO shall immediately submit an additional nomination, and in the event the commission fails to elect the second person so nominated, then the commission shall immediately proceed to nominate and elect the member in question. One of the two (2) additional members shall be nominated and elected for a term ending December 31, 1996, and the second additional member shall be nominated and elected for a term ending December 31, 1997. Thereafter, members shall be elected for terms of three (3) years. Whenever any member shall die, resign or be removed from office prior to the expiration of that member's term, a successor shall be nominated and elected to fill the unexpired term in the same manner as set out in this subsection. A member shall hold office until that member's successor has been elected and qualified. Members shall be more than twenty-five (25) years of age, shall have resided in Athens-Clarke County for two (2) years prior to taking office, and shall be registered voters of Athens-Clarke County. Each member shall take an oath before entering on the discharge of the member's duties to the effect that he or she will faithfully and honestly discharge the duties of office. At their first meeting each year the members shall designate one of their number as chairperson, and the member so designated shall serve as chairperson for the calendar year of such designation. Any member may be removed from office for physical or mental incompetency or for removal from Athens-Clarke County or for malfeasance in office by a two-thirds vote of the commission of Athens-Clarke County after service with written notice upon such member of the charges against him or her and after the member has been accorded a hearing with respect to such charges by the commission of Athens-Clarke County.
(b)
The initial meeting of the commissioners of the Athens-Clarke County Public Facilities Authority shall be held at 7:30 p.m. on the second Wednesday following the nomination and election of the two (2) members initially nominated and elected under the terms of this Act. Thereafter, meetings of the authority shall be held on the second Wednesday in April and October of each year. Additional meetings may be held at such time as the chairperson of the authority may designate upon the giving of 24 hours' written notice in advance of such meeting to each member. All meetings of the authority shall be public meetings and shall be held in the council chamber in the city hall in Athens, Georgia, or at any other place in Athens-Clarke County designated by its chairperson. The presence of three (3) members shall be necessary at a meeting to constitute a quorum, and the concurrence of two (2) members shall be necessary to take action on behalf of and binding upon the authority. The chairperson shall be entitled to vote on all questions coming before the authority. Each member shall be entitled to a fee of $25.00 for each meeting of the authority at which he or she is present or to such other compensation as may hereafter be fixed by law.
(c)
The manager of the Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia, or such manager's designee from his or her staff shall be ex officio treasurer of the Athens-Clarke County Public Facilities Authority; and a member of the manager's staff as designated by the manager shall be ex officio engineer of the Athens-Clarke County Public Facilities Authority. The attorney for the Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia, shall serve as the ex officio attorney for the Athens-Clarke County Public Facilities Authority.
(d)
Minutes of each meeting of the members of the authority shall be kept under the supervision of the chairperson. Such minutes shall constitute public records and shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the commission of the unified government of Athens-Clarke County. Such additional records of the funds, property, and actions of the authority as may be required by the members shall be kept at such place or places as may be designated by the members from time to time."
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 4; Ga. L. 1996, p. 3746, § 2)
Sec. 5. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings:
(a)
The word "Authority" shall mean the Athens-Clarke County Public Facilities Authority created in section 2 of this Act.
(b)
The word "project" shall include the following revenue-producing undertakings or any combination of two (2) or more of such undertakings:
(1)
Buildings and related facilities including driveways, walkways, appurtenances, and the land upon which the same are located which are necessary or convenient for the efficient operation of the Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia; or of any of its departments or agencies; or any board or authority which performs any governmental or proprietary function for or in conjunction with the Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia; or which are to be leased or used by the State of Georgia or any of its departments or agencies, the United States of America; or any of its departments or agencies or any regional authority or board of which the Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia, is a member or with which the Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County has any intergovernmental contract;
(2)
Any and all machinery, equipment, furniture, or real property necessary or convenient for the efficient operation of the Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia; or of any of its departments or agencies; or any board or authority which performs any governmental or proprietary function for or in conjunction with the Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia; or which are to be leased or used by the State of Georgia or any of its departments or agencies, or United States of America; or any of its departments or agencies or any regional authority or board of which the Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia, is a member or with which the Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County has any intergovernmental contract;
(3)
Causeways, tunnels, viaducts, bridges and other crossings, highways, parkways, airports, terminals, and other related facilities including parking facilities;
(4)
Parks, golf links and fairways, tennis courts, swimming pools, playgrounds, athletic fields, grandstands and stadiums, and buildings to be used for various types of sports, including baseball and football; buildings to be constructed and used for the housing of exhibits for fairs and educational purposes; buildings to be used for the housing of livestock, horses, cattle, swine, poultry, and agricultural exhibits for exhibition purposes; the erection and construction of buildings to be used for amusement purposes or educational purposes or a combination of the two; and also such buildings to be used for fairs, expositions, or exhibitions in connection therewith; and
(5)
Systems, plants, works, instrumentalities, and properties: (A) used or useful in connection with the obtaining of a water supply and the conservation, treatment, and disposal of water for public and private uses; (B) used or useful in connection with the collection, treatment, and disposal of sewerage, waste, and storm water; together with all parts of any such undertaking and all appurtenances thereto, including lands, easements, rights in land, water rights, contract rights, franchises, approaches, dams, reservoirs, generating stations, sewage disposal plants, intersecting sewers, trunk connecting and other sewer and water mains, filtration works, pumping stations, and equipment.
(c)
The term "cost of the project" shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements and franchises acquired and the cost of all conveyances in fee simple of the authority's title thereto and leases thereof, the cost of all machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction, and for one (1) year after the completion of construction, cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal and legal expenses, and of plans and specifications, and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, the construction of any project, the placing of the same in operation, and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of any funds of the authority, including the proceeds of any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act for any such project or projects.
(d)
The terms "revenue bonds," "bonds" and "obligations" as used in this Act shall mean revenue bonds issued by the Authority pursuant to the terms of this Act pledging to the punctual payment of the principal and interest of said bonds all or any part of the revenues of any designated project or projects.
(e)
Any project shall be deemed "self liquidating" if, in the judgment of the Authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the Authority therefrom and all properties used, leased and sold in connection therewith will be sufficient to pay the cost of operating, maintaining and repairing, improving and extending the project and to pay the principal and interest of the revenue bonds which may be issued to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of such project or projects.
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 5; Ga. L. 1996, p. 3746, § 3)
Sec. 6. - Revenue bonds.
The Authority shall have power and is hereby authorized at one (1) time, or from time to time, to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as herein [in this chapter defined of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, betterment or extension of any one (1) or more projects. The principal and interest of such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from such part of the revenues and earnings of such project or projects as may be designated in the resolution of the Authority authorizing the issuance of such revenue bonds. The revenue bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest as [sic] such rate or rates, shall be payable semiannually, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding thirty (30) years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the Authority, and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the Authority, as such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the Authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the revenue bonds. Unless otherwise provided therein, such resolution or resolutions shall take effect immediately. The Authority shall by such resolution determine the form of the revenue bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the revenue bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the state. The revenue bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the Authority may determine; and provision may be made by such resolution for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both the principal and interest.
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 6)
Sec. 7. - Revenue bonds; execution.
In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon shall cease to be such officer before delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. All such bonds shall be signed by the chairman of the Authority and attested by the clerk and treasurer of the Authority and the official seal of the Authority shall be affixed thereto and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the facsimile signatures of the chairman and clerk and treasurer of the Authority.
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 7)
Sec. 8. - Revenue bonds; negotiability and exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall have and are hereby declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the negotiable instruments law of this state. Such bonds are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose and the said bonds and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation within the state.
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 8)
State Law reference— Uniform Commercial Code, OCGA Title 11.
Sec. 9. - Revenue bonds; sale and price.
The Authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interest of the Authority, but no such sale may be made at a price less than par.
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 9)
Sec. 10. - Revenue bonds; proceeds of bonds.
The proceeds of such bonds shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of the project or projects, and unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, additional bonds may in like manner be issued to provide the amount of any deficit, which unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture shall be deemed to be of the same issue and shall be entitled to payment from the same fund without preference or priority of the bonds first issued for the same purpose. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which such bonds are issued, the surplus shall be paid into such funds as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture.
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 10)
Sec. 11. - Revenue bonds; replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The Authority may provide for the replacement of any bond which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 11)
Sec. 12. - Conditions precedent to issuance of revenue bonds.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things other than those proceedings, conditions and things which are specified or required by this Act.
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 12)
Sec. 13. - Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of the State of Georgia or of Clarke County or of the mayor and council of the City of Athens, but such bonds shall be payable solely from such part of the revenues and earnings of such project or projects as may be designated in the resolution of the Authority authorizing the issuance of such bonds. The issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly or contingently obligate the mayor and council of the City of Athens or Clarke County to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for the payment thereof, and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section.
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 13)
Sec. 14. - Revenue bonds; trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the Authority, any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the Authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or outside of the state. Such trust indenture may pledge to assign fees, tolls, rents, revenues and earnings to be received by the Authority, including the proceeds derived from the sale from time to time of any surplus property of the Authority, both real and personal. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting for [sic] the duties of the Authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair and insurance of the property, and the custody, safeguarding and application of all monies, including the proceeds derived from the sale of property of the authority, both real and personal, and may also provide than [sic] any project shall be construed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the Authority, and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefor and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depository of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other monies be satisfactory to such purchasers, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds pledging all or any part of the revenues and earnings of such project of [sic] projects may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depository and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the Authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bond holders and of the trustee. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the Authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bond holders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 14)
Sec. 15. - Revenue bonds; to whom the proceeds of the bonds shall be paid.
The Authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who or to any agency, bank or trust company which shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes hereof, subject to such regulations as this Act and such resolution or trust indenture may provide.
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 15)
Sec. 16. - Revenue bonds; sinking fund.
(a)
The revenues, fees, tolls and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings and revenues were produced by a particular projects [sic] for which bonds have been issued and any monies derived from the sale of any properties, both real and personal, of the Authority, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the Authority to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or the trust instrument may provide, and such funds so pledged, from whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one (1) or more or all sources not previously pledged and allocated, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture, into a sinking fund which said sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payments of:
(1)
The interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due;
(2)
The principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due;
(3)
The necessary charges of paying agent or agents for paying principal and interest; and
(4)
Any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as in this Act provided.
(b)
The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be a fund for the benefit of all revenue bonds issued pursuant to such resolution or trust instrument without distinction or priority of one (1) over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, surplus monies in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds issued pursuant to such resolution or trust indenture and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be canceled and shall not again be issued.
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 16)
Sec. 17. - Revenue bonds; remedies of bond holders.
(a)
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act or of any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by a resolution of the Authority passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus or other proceedings brought in any court of competent jurisdiction[, protect and enforce any and all rights granted under this Act or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel the performance of all duties required by this Act or by such resolution or trust indenture to be performed by the Authority, or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging and collecting of revenue, fees, tolls and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
(b)
In the event that the Authority shall default in the payment of the principal or interest on any of the revenue bonds after the same shall become due, whether at maturity or upon call for redemption, and such default shall continue for a period of thirty (30) days, or in the event that the Authority or any officer thereof shall fail or refuse to comply in any material respect with any agreement made with the holders of the revenue bonds as embodied in the resolution authorizing the issuance of such revenue bonds or the trust indenture securing the same, any holder of such revenue bonds, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent that the rights herein given may be restricted by a resolution of the Authority passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, shall have the right to apply in an appropriate judicial proceeding to any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a receiver of the project or projects all or a portion of the revenue from which is pledged to the payment of such revenue bonds. Such right shall exist whether or not such revenue bond holder or such trustee therefor is seeking or has sought to enforce any other right in connection with such revenue bonds. Upon such application the court, if it deems such action necessary for the protection of the bond holders, may appoint, and if the application is made by the holders of twenty-five (25) percent in principal amount of such revenue bonds then outstanding or by a trustee for the holders of such revenue bonds in such principal amount, shall appoint a receiver for such project or projects. The receiver so appointed shall forthwith, directly or by his agents and attorneys, enter into and upon and take possession of the project or projects and each and every part thereof and if the court so directs may exclude the Authority, its commissioners, officers, agents and employees and all persons claiming under them wholly therefrom and shall have, hold, use, operate, manage and control the same and each and every part thereof, and, in the name of the Authority or otherwise, as to the receiver may seem best, shall exercise all the rights and powers of the Authority with respect to such project or projects as the Authority itself might do. Such receiver shall maintain, restore, insure and keep insured such project or projects, and from time to time shall make all such necessary or proper repairs as to such receiver may seem expedient, and shall establish, levy, maintain and collect such fees, tolls, rentals and other charges in connection with such project or projects as to such receiver may seem necessary or proper and reasonable and shall collect all revenues and shall deposit the same in a separate account and shall apply such revenues so collected and received in such manner as the court shall direct. Whenever all that is due upon said revenue bonds, and interest thereon, shall have been paid or deposited as provided in the resolution of the Authority authorizing the issuance of said bonds or in the trust indenture securing the same, and all default [sic] shall have been cured and made good, and it shall appear to the court that no default is eminent [sic, the court shall direct the receiver to surrender possession of such project or projects to the Authority, the same right of the holders of the revenue bonds, or of the trustee of the trust indenture, to secure the appointment of a receiver to exist upon any subsequent default as hereinabove provided. Such receiver shall, in the performance of the powers hereinabove conferred upon him, act under the direction and supervision of the court making such appointment and shall at all times be subject to the orders and decrees of such courts and may be removed thereby. Nothing herein contained shall limit or restrict the jurisdiction of such court to enter such other and further orders and decrees as such court may deem necessary or appropriate for the exercise by the receiver of any of the functions specifically set forth herein. Notwithstanding anything herein contained to the contrary, said receiver shall have no power to sell, assign, mortgage or otherwise dispose of any assets of whatever kind or character belonging to the Authority and useful for such project or projects, but the power of any such receiver shall be limited to the operation and maintenance of such project or projects; and no court shall have jurisdiction to enter any order or decree requiring or permitting such receiver to sell, assign, mortgage or otherwise dispose of any such assets.
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 17)
Sec. 18. - Revenue bonds; refunding bonds.
The Authority is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issue of revenue refunding bonds of the Authority for the purpose of refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and any premium required for the payment of such bonds prior to maturity. The issuance of such revenue bonds, the maturities and all the details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the Authority with respect to the same, shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this Act insofar as the same may be applicable.
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 18)
Sec. 19. - Venue; jurisdiction; service.
The principal office of the authority shall be in Clarke County and the venue of any action against it shall be in Clarke County. Any action pertaining to the validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this Act and for the validation of any contract entered into by the Authority shall be brought in the superior court of Clarke County, Georgia, and such court shall have exclusive original jurisdiction of such actions. Service upon the authority of any process, subpoena or summons shall be effected by serving the same personally upon any commissioner of the Authority.
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 19)
Sec. 20. - Revenue bonds; validation.
Revenue bonds of the Authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure now or hereafter set forth in the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. L. 1957, p. 36 et seq.) amending the law formerly known as the Revenue Certificate Law of 1937 (Ga. L. 1937, p. 761 et seq., as amended) as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended. The petition for validation shall also make a party defendant to such action any municipality, county, Authority, subdivision or instrumentality of the State of Georgia or the United States of America or any department or agency thereof, if subject to be sued, which has contracted with the Authority for the services and facilities of the project for which bonds are to be issued and are sought to be validated; and such municipality, county, Authority, subdivision or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts adjudicated as security for the payment of any such bonds of the Authority. The bonds when validated, and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to the validity of such bonds against the Authority issuing the same; and the validity of the contract or contracts and of the terms and conditions thereof when validated, and the judgment of validation, shall be final and conclusive against the municipality, county, Authority, subdivision or instrumentality of the United States of America contracting with the Authority of [sic] it be a party to the validation proceeding as herein provided for.
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 20)
State Law reference— Revenue Bond Law, OCGA § 36-82-60 et seq.
Sec. 21. - Interest of bond holders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the Authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties or existence of said Authority or of its officers, employees or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency or Authority will be created which will compete with the Authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, nor will the state itself so compete with the Authority. The provisions of this section of this Act shall be for the benefit of the Authority and of the holders of any such bonds, and upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions of this Act shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 21)
Sec. 22. - Monies received considered trust funds.
All monies received by the Authority pursuant to this Act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as grants or other contributions, or as revenues, income, fees and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this Act and in such resolutions and trust indentures as may be enacted and entered into by the Authority pursuant to this Act.
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 22)
Sec. 23. - Rates, charges and revenues of projects.
The Authority is hereby authorized to prescribe and fix and collect rates, fees, tolls, rents and charges and to revise from time to time and collect such revised rates, fees, tolls, rents and charges for the services, facilities or commodities furnished, including leases, concessions or subleases of its lands or facilities, and to determine the price and terms at and under which its lands or facilities may be sold, and in anticipation of the collections of the revenues and income of such project or projects as may be specified in the resolution of the Authority authorizing the issuance of revenue bonds[, is authorized to issue revenue bonds as in this Act provided to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, equipment, betterment or extension of its lands and facilities and to pledge to the punctual payment of said bonds and the interest thereon all or any part of the revenues and incomes of such project or projects, including the revenues of improvements or extensions thereto thereafter made or the sale of any of its lands and facilities.
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 23)
Sec. 24. - Projects confined to Clarke County.
The Authority shall not be authorized to acquire, construct or extend any project wholly or partially outside the limits of Clarke County as now constituted.
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 24)
Sec. 25. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
This Act does not in any way take away from Clarke County or any municipal corporation located therein any power which may have been heretofore conferred upon it by law, but is supplemental thereto.
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 25)
Sec. 26. - Authority without taxing power.
The Authority shall not have the right to impose any tax on any person or property.
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 26)
Sec. 27. - Liberal construction of act.
This Act being for the purpose of promoting the health, morals and general welfare of the citizens of the State of Georgia and of Clarke County, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 27)
Sec. 28. - Effect of partial invalidity of Act.
The provisions of this Act are severable, and if any of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions of this Act.
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 28)
Sec. 29. - Repeal.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
(Ga. L. 1960, p. 2531, § 29)
