ARTICLE VI. - ELECTIONS
Chapter 1. Conduct of Elections
Section 6-101. Applicability of general laws.
Section 6-102. Regular election, time for holding; voting.
Section 6-103. Special elections.
Section 6-104. Nonpartisan elections.
Chapter 2. Election Districts; Reapportionment
Section 6-201. Number of districts; boundaries.
Section 6-202. Reapportionment of election districts.
CHAPTER 1. - CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS

Section 6-101. - Applicability of general laws.
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, primaries and regular and special elections shall be conducted in accordance with provisions of chapter 2 of title 21, of the O.C.G.A. [§ 21-2-1 et seq.], the "Georgia Election Code." As used in said Code, the terms "election" or "general election" shall be construed to include the term "regular election" as provided in section 6-102 of this Charter; the term "governing authority" shall include the mayor and the commissioners of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia; the terms "municipal," "municipality" or "county" shall include Athens-Clarke County, Georgia; and the term "public office" shall include elective offices of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia.
(Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-6-99, § 1)
Section 6-102. - Regular election, time for holding; voting.
(a)
Except for the initial elections which may or may not be held on the date of regular state elections (see section 9-101 of this Charter), regular elections for the elective public officers of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia, shall be held every two (2) years on the same Tuesday in November when regular state elections are held.
(b)
Only the electorate of each of the ten (10) election districts as defined in section 6-201 of this Charter shall be entitled to vote in the election for the commissioner to be elected from that district.
Section 6-103. - Special elections.
All special elections shall be held and conducted in accordance with applicable provisions of chapter 2 of title 21 of the O.C.G.A. [§ 21-2-1 et seq.], the Georgia Election Code, that govern the conduct of county elections.
Section 6-104. - Nonpartisan elections.
All regular elections for the elective public officers of the unified government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia, and all special elections for such officers shall be nonpartisan elections without a prior nonpartisan primary, as provided in Code Section 21-2-139 of the O.C.G.A.
(Ga. L. 2003, p. 3910)
CHAPTER 2. - ELECTION DISTRICTS; REAPPORTIONMENT

Section 6-201. - Number of districts; boundaries.
(a)
For the purpose of electing members of the unified government of Athens-Clarke County, the territory of the unified government of Athens-Clarke County is divided into ten commissioner districts. The boundaries of such districts shall be and correspond to those ten numbered districts described in and attached to and made a part of this Act and further identified as 'Plan:clarkeccprop2r-2012 Plan Type: Local Administrator: s046 User: Gina'.
(b)
(1)
For the purposes of such plan:
(A)
The term 'VTD' shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia. The separate numeric designations in a district description which are underneath a VTD heading shall mean and describe individual Blocks within a VTD as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia; and
(B)
Except as otherwise provided in the description of any district, whenever the description of any district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census maps for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(2)
Any part of the territory of the unified government of Athens-Clarke County which is not included in any district described in subsection (a) of this section shall be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(3)
Any part of the territory of the unified government of Athens-Clarke County which is described in subsection (a) of this section as being included in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(2002 Ga. Laws, p. 4246, § 2; 2012 Ga. Laws (Act No. 409), § 2)
Editor's note— The description of the districts as set forth in § 6-201 above may be found in appendix A to this Charter.
Section 6-202. - Reapportionment of election districts.
(a)
The election district boundaries of the unified government shall be reapportioned following the publication of each official federal decennial census of the population of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia. Such reapportionment shall be accomplished by the adoption of an amendment to this charter by the General Assembly of Georgia.
(b)
The reapportionment of election districts shall comply with the following specifications:
(1)
Each election district shall be formed of contiguous territory and its boundary lines shall be the center lines of streets or other well defined boundaries as utilized by the United States Bureau of the Census; and
(2)
Such election districts shall be nearly equal in population as practicable, and they shall comply with the requirements of the federal Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended.
(2012 Ga. Laws (Act No. 409), § 3)
Editor's note— Act No. 409, Section 4 states: "Those members of the unified government of Athens-Clarke County who are serving as such on the effective date of this Act and any person selected to fill a vacancy in any such office shall continue to serve as such members until the regular expiration of their respective terms of office and upon the election and qualification of their respective successors."

Additionally, Act No. 409, Section 5 states: "Election Districts 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10, as they exist immediately prior to the effective date of this Act, shall continue to be designated as Election Districts 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10, respectively, but as newly described under this Act, and on and after the effective date of this Act, such members of the board serving from those former election districts shall be deemed to be serving from and representing their respective districts as newly described under this Act."
