CHAPTER 1-28. - TAX ALLOCATION DISTRICT ADVISORY COMMITTEES

Sec. 1-28-1. - Advisory committees.
(a)
On or about November 10, 2020, the Commission of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia approved the adoption of Redevelopment Plans which resulted in the creation of the following tax allocation districts within Athens-Clarke County, Georgia:
(1)
"Tax Allocation District Number 1 - Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia" - Referred to as the "Mall Area Tax Allocation District" or "TAD 1";
(2)
"Tax Allocation District Number 2 - Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia" - Referred to as the "West Broad-Hawthorne Avenue Tax Allocation District" or "TAD 2";
(3)
"Tax Allocation District Number 3 - Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia" - Referred to as the "Newton Bridge Tax Allocation District" or "TAD 3";
(4)
"Tax Allocation District Number 4 - Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia" - Referred to as the "East Downtown Tax Allocation District" or "TAD 4";
(5)
"Tax Allocation District Number 5 - Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia" - Referred to as the "North Avenue Tax Allocation District" or "TAD 5"; and
(6)
"Tax Allocation District Number 6 - Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia" - Referred to as the "Lexington Road Tax Allocation District" or "TAD 6".
(b)
In accordance with the requirements of the respective Redevelopment Plans and as an additional measure to ensure the effectiveness of each of the tax allocation districts and their accountability to the citizens of Athens-Clarke County, there are hereby created separate advisory committees for each of the tax allocation districts created within Athens-Clarke County to be known as follows:
(1)
"Mall Area Tax Allocation District Advisory Committee";
(2)
"West Broad-Hawthorne Avenue Tax Allocation District Advisory Committee";
(3)
"Newton Bridge Tax Allocation District Advisory Committee";
(4)
"East Downtown Tax Allocation District Advisory Committee";
(5)
"North Avenue Tax Allocation District Advisory Committee"; and
(6)
"Lexington Road Tax Allocation District Advisory Committee."
(c)
The Mayor is hereby authorized to appoint the members of each Advisory Committee which shall each consist of six residents of Athens-Clarke County.
(d)
Members of each Advisory Committee shall serve three-year terms and may succeed themselves. Members may continue to serve until their successors are appointed by the Mayor. A Chair and Vice-Chair shall be elected from the membership of each committee on an annual basis.
(e)
The Advisory Committees are hereby authorized to adopt their own bylaws and rules and procedures.
( Ord. of 4-6-2021(5), § 1 )
Sec. 1-28-2. - Purpose.
In accordance with the requirements of the respective Redevelopment Plans, each Advisory Committee will have as its purpose making recommendations to Athens-Clarke County and its Redevelopment Agency on the use of Tax Allocation District ("TAD") Funds within the Redevelopment Area of that district and effective and equitable implementation of the redevelopment plan for the district. For additional information regarding these committees, see "Redevelopment Projects Within the Redevelopment Area—Goals and Priorities," as set forth in the respective Redevelopment Plans for each Tax Allocation.
( Ord. of 4-6-2021(5), § 1 )
Sec. 1-28-3. - Meetings.
Each Advisory Committee shall hold such meetings as may be necessary for said Committee to evaluate proposed Redevelopment Projects and make recommendations to Athens-Clarke County and its Redevelopment Agency on the use of Tax Allocation District ("TAD") Funds within the Redevelopment Area of that district and effective and equitable implementation of the redevelopment plan for the district. All meetings shall be subject to Georgia Open Meetings Law with notice of said meetings being provided at least 24 hours prior to the meeting. Meetings shall be open to the public, and conducted in accordance with the Georgia Open Meetings Law.
Three of the six members of an advisory committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business; however, a smaller number may adjourn from time to time. A majority of the members present must vote in the affirmative for a recommendation to be approved.
All records of each Advisory Committee shall be subject to Georgia Open Records law and maintained in accordance with local records retention schedules.
( Ord. of 4-6-2021(5), § 1 )
Sec. 1-28-4. - Staff and resources.
Each Advisory Committee shall have no oversight or authority over any Athens-Clarke County department, personnel, consultant, budget, or other committee. Each Committee shall be assigned such staff or contact persons as deemed necessary by the Manager to provide support and assistance to each committee sufficient to enable said committee to fulfill its purpose as set forth above in section 1-28-2.
( Ord. of 4-6-2021(5), § 1 )
