CHAPTER 9-21. - VARIANCES
Sec. 9-21-1. Variances—Purpose.
Sec. 9-21-2. Application.
Sec. 9-21-3. Variances—Standards.

Sec. 9-21-1. - Variances—Purpose.
Where practical difficulties, unnecessary hardships, and results inconsistent with the general purpose of this title may result from the strict application of certain provisions thereof, variance may be granted as provided in this chapter. This chapter may not be used to allow a use that is not in conformity with the uses specified by this title for the district in which the land is located. In granting a variance, the hearings board may impose conditions similar to those provided for special uses to protect the best interests of the surrounding property and property owners, the neighborhood, or the community as a whole.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 1)
Sec. 9-21-2. - Application.
Except as otherwise specifically provided for in this title, variances shall be a Type IV procedure. Such application shall be accompanied by a legal description of the property and plans and elevations necessary to show the proposed development. Any application involving the need to accurately depict property dimensions or property line locations, as determined by the Planning Director, shall be accompanied by a professionally sealed site plan per section 9-4-15. A. 1. Also to be included with such application shall be a statement and evidence showing that all of the circumstances set forth in section 9-21-3 exist.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 1; Ord. of 10-4-2005, § 1; Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 1 )
Sec. 9-21-3. - Variances—Standards.
A.
The hearings board may authorize such a variance from the terms of these regulations as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of provisions of this title will, in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship. Such variance may be granted in such individual case of unnecessary hardship upon deliberation of the evidence and a finding by the hearings board that:
1.
There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to this particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape, character, or topography that do not apply generally to other land in the vicinity; and
2.
The strict application of the provisions of this title to this particular piece of property would create an undue and unnecessary hardship so that the grant of the variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a property right and not merely to serve as a convenience to the applicant; and
3.
The special conditions and circumstances do not result from the actions of the applicant; and
4.
The benefits of granting the variance will be greater than any negative impacts on the development of the adjacent uses and will further the purpose and intent of this title and the comprehensive plan of Athens-Clarke County; and
5.
The variance, if granted, will represent the minimum variance that will afford relief from the identified hardship and will represent the least deviation possible from the zoning regulation and from the comprehensive plan.
B.
No variance shall be granted for the use of land or building that is prohibited by this title, nor shall it be granted for a variance from residential densities.
C.
In granting a variance, the board may attach conditions which it finds necessary to protect the best interest of the surrounding property or neighborhood and to otherwise achieve the purposes of this title. The conditions to an authorized variance shall also be a part of the public record and be a part of the requirements for an issuance of a building permit.
D.
Reserved.
E.
No petition for the same variance involving the same parcel of land once heard and acted upon by the board shall be accepted for a rehearing until the expiration of at least 12 months immediately following the decision by the board.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 1; Ord. of 12-6-2005, § 1; Ord. of 12-6-2006; Ord. of 2-3-2009, § 3)
