CHAPTER 3-12. - LITTER[11]
Sec. 3-12-1. Definitions.
Sec. 3-12-2. Litter in public places.
Sec. 3-12-3. Placement of litter in receptacles so as to prevent scattering.
Sec. 3-12-4. Sweeping litter into gutter prohibited; keeping sidewalk clean—Generally.
Sec. 3-12-5. Same—Merchant's duty.
Sec. 3-12-6. Litter thrown by persons in vehicles.
Sec. 3-12-7. Truck loads or tires causing litter.
Sec. 3-12-8. Litter in parks.
Sec. 3-12-9. Litter in lakes and fountains, etc.
Sec. 3-12-10. Throwing or distributing commercial hand bills in public places.
Sec. 3-12-11. Placing commercial and noncommercial hand bills on vehicles.
Sec. 3-12-12. Evidence of violating sections 3-12-10, 3-12-11, and 3-12-17.
Sec. 3-12-13. Depositing commercial and noncommercial handbills on uninhabited or vacant premises.
Sec. 3-12-14. Distribution of handbills where properly posted.
Sec. 3-12-15. Distributing commercial and noncommercial handbills at inhabited private premises.
Sec. 3-12-16. Dropping litter from aircraft.
Sec. 3-12-17. Posting notices prohibited.
Sec. 3-12-18. Litter on occupied private property.
Sec. 3-12-19. Private property to be maintained free of litter.
Sec. 3-12-20. Litter on vacant lots.
Sec. 3-12-21. Clearing litter from open private property by Athens-Clarke County.
Sec. 3-12-22. Penalties.
Sec. 3-12-23. Glass containers prohibited.

Footnotes:
--- (11) ---
Charter reference— Powers of Athens-Clarke County with regards to health and waste disposal, § 8-114(17), (21).

Sec. 3-12-1. - Definitions.
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meaning given herein:
Aircraft: Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used or designated for navigation or for flight in the air. The term "aircraft" includes helicopters and lighter-than-air dirigibles and balloons.
Authorized private receptacle: A litter storage and collection receptacle as required and authorized under the rules, regulations and ordinances of Athens-Clarke County.
Commercial handbill: Any printed or written matter, any sample or device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet, or any other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature:
(1)
Which advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or thing;
(2)
Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial establishment or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or indirectly promoting the interest thereof.
(3)
Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition or any event of any kind for which an admission fee is charged for the purpose of private gain or profit; but the terms of this section shall not apply where an admission fee is charged or a collection is taken up for the purpose of defraying the expenses incident to such meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition, or event of any kind, when it is held or given or takes place in connection with the dissemination of information. Provided, however, that nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to authorize the holding, giving or taking place of any meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind without a license, where such license is or may be required by law of this state or under any ordinance of Athens-Clarke County; or
(4)
Which, while containing reading matter other than advertising matter, is predominantly and essentially an advertisement and is distributed or circulated for advertising purposes for the private benefit and gain of any person so engaged as an advertiser or distributor.
Garbage: Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
Litter: "Refuse" or "garbage" as defined herein.
Newspaper: Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law, any newspaper duly entered with the United States Postal Service in accordance with federal statute or regulation, and any newspaper filed and recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law; and, in addition thereto, includes any periodical or current magazine, regularly published with not less than four (4) issues per year and sold to the public.
Noncommercial handbill: Any printed or written matter, any sample, device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet, or any other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature not included in the aforesaid definitions of a commercial handbill or newspaper.
Park: A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other public area in Athens-Clarke County, owned or used by Athens-Clarke County and devoted to active or passive recreation.
Private premises: Any dwelling, house, building or other structure, designed or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether inhabited temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule, or mailbox belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building or other structure.
Public place: Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and buildings.
Refuse shall mean, but not be limited to, putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body wastes) including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned automobiles or parts thereof, solid market and industrial wastes, combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, wastes from construction activity, and similar materials.
Vehicle: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 9)
Sec. 3-12-2. - Litter in public places.
No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk or other public place within Athens-Clarke County except in public receptacles, in authorized private receptacles for collection, or in official Athens-Clarke County disposal facilities.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 9)
Sec. 3-12-3. - Placement of litter in receptacles so as to prevent scattering.
Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or upon private property.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 9)
Sec. 3-12-4. - Sweeping litter into gutter prohibited; keeping sidewalk clean—Generally.
No person shall sweep or deposit in any gutter, street or other public place with Athens-Clarke County the accumulation of litter from any building or lot from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 9)
Sec. 3-12-5. - Same—Merchant's duty.
No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within Athens-Clarke County the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying places of business within Athens-Clarke County shall keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of litter.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 9)
Sec. 3-12-6. - Litter thrown by persons in vehicles.
No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit litter upon any street or other public place within Athens-Clarke County or upon private property.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 9)
Cross reference— Motor vehicles and traffic, Ch. 3-3.
Sec. 3-12-7. - Truck loads or tires causing litter.
(a)
No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within Athens-Clarke County unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any loads, contents or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley or other public place. Nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck within Athens-Clarke County the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any street, alley or other public place mud, dirt, concrete, liquid wastes, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any kind.
(b)
No person shall drive or move any loaded truck or other vehicle within or upon an Athens-Clarke County road or any other public road within Athens-Clarke County unless such vehicle and the load therein are covered by canvas or other material providing complete coverage, properly secured, so as to prevent any load, contents or litter from becoming loose, detached or blown from the vehicle or from dropping or escaping from the vehicle during movement of the vehicle.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 9)
Cross reference— Motor vehicles and traffic, Ch. 3-3.
Sec. 3-12-8. - Litter in parks.
No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park within Athens-Clarke County except in public receptacles. Litter shall be deposited in such receptacle to prevent the litter from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or upon any street or other public place. Where public receptacles are not provided, all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere as provided herein.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 9)
Sec. 3-12-9. - Litter in lakes and fountains, etc.
No person shall throw or deposit any litter in any fountain, pond, lake or stream, bay or other body of water in a park or elsewhere within Athens-Clarke County.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 9)
Sec. 3-12-10. - Throwing or distributing commercial hand bills in public places.
No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any sidewalk, street or other public place within Athens-Clarke County. Nor shall any such person hand out or distribute or sell any commercial handbill in any public place; provided, however, it shall not be unlawful on any sidewalk, street or other public place within Athens-Clarke County for any person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the receiver thereof, any noncommercial handbill to any person willing to accept it.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 9)
Sec. 3-12-11. - Placing commercial and noncommercial hand bills on vehicles.
No person shall throw or deposit any commercial nor noncommercial handbill in or upon any vehicle; provided, however, it shall not be unlawful in any public place for a person to hand out or distribute without charge to the receiver thereof a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is willing to accept it.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 9)
Sec. 3-12-12. - Evidence of violating sections 3-12-10, 3-12-11, and 3-12-17.
It shall be unlawful for any person to direct, order or instigate the placing of commercial or noncommercial handbills in violation of sections 3-12-10, 3-12-11, and 3-12-17. Furthermore, in the prosecution for the violation of these sections, the fact that a person, a product or a place of business is advertised on a commercial or noncommercial handbill shall be prima facie evidence that the person advertised, or the proprietor of the product advertised, or the proprietor of the place of business advertised, as the case may be, was the person directing the placing, distributing or throwing away the advertising matter in question.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 9; Ord. of 3-5-96, § 1)
Sec. 3-12-13. - Depositing commercial and noncommercial handbills on uninhabited or vacant premises.
No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any private premises which are temporarily or continuously vacant.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 9)
Sec. 3-12-14. - Distribution of handbills where properly posted.
No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial handbill upon any private premises if requested by any person thereon not to do so, or if there is placed on such premises in a conspicuous position near the entrance thereof a sign bearing the words: "No Trespassing," "No Vendors," "No advertisement," or any similar notice indicating in any manner that the occupants of such premises do not desire to have their right of privacy disturbed or to have any such handbills left upon such premises.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 9)
Sec. 3-12-15. - Distributing commercial and noncommercial handbills at inhabited private premises.
(a)
No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited, except by handing or transmitting any such handbill directly to the owner, occupant or other person then present in or upon such private premises; provided, however, in case of inhabited private premises which are not posted, as provided in this chapter, such person, unless requested by any person upon such premises not to do so, may place or deposit any such handbill in or upon such inhabited private premises if such handbill is so placed or deposited as to secure or prevent such handbill from being blown or drifted about such premises or sidewalks, streets or other public places and except that mail boxes may not be so used when so prohibited by federal postal law or regulations.
(b)
The provisions of this section shall not apply to the distribution of mail by the United States nor to newspapers (as defined herein), except that newspapers shall be placed on private property in such a manner as to prevent their being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or upon private property.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 9)
Sec. 3-12-16. - Dropping litter from aircraft.
No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit within Athens-Clarke County any litter, handbill or other object.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 9)
Sec. 3-12-17. - Posting notices prohibited.
No person shall post or affix any notice, poster, handbills or other paper or device, calculated to attract the attention of the public, to any lamppost, public utility pole or tree, or upon any public structure or building, except as may be authorized or required by law.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 9)
Sec. 3-12-18. - Litter on occupied private property.
No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied property within Athens-Clarke County, whether owned by such person or not, except that the owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or upon any private property.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 9)
Sec. 3-12-19. - Private property to be maintained free of litter.
The owner, occupant, or person in control of any private property shall at all times maintain the premises free of litter; provided, however, this section shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for collection.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 9; Ord. of 5-5-92, § 2; Ord. of 12-2-2003, § 1)
Sec. 3-12-20. - Litter on vacant lots.
No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private property within Athens-Clarke County, whether owned by such person or not.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 9)
Sec. 3-12-21. - Clearing litter from open private property by Athens-Clarke County.
(a)
Notice to remove. The Athens-Clarke County marshal is hereby authorized and empowered to notify the owner of any open or vacant private property within Athens-Clarke County or the agent that the conditions of such owner's property constitutes a danger to the public health, safety or welfare. Such notice shall be registered or certified mail, addressed to such owner at his last-known address.
(b)
Action upon noncompliance. Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any owner or agent so notified to properly dispose of litter dangerous to the public health, safety or welfare within 30 days after receipt of written notice or if the same is returned to the post office because of its inability to make delivery thereof, provided the same was properly addressed to the last-known address of such owner or agent, Athens-Clarke County is authorized and empowered to either remove the litter or to pay for its removal.
(c)
Charge included in tax bill. When Athens-Clarke County has affected the removal of litter or has paid for its removal, the actual cost thereof, plus accrued interest at the rate of six (6) percent per annum from the date of the completion of the work if not paid by such owner prior thereto, shall be charged to the owner of such property on the next regular tax bill forwarded to such property owner by Athens-Clarke County and such charge shall be due and payable by such owner at the time of payment of such bill.
(d)
Recorded statement constitutes lien. Where the full amount due Athens-Clarke County is not paid by such owner within 30 days after the disposal of such litter, as provided for in subsections (a) and (b) above, the Athens-Clarke County marshal shall cause to be recorded in the office of the clerk of superior court a sworn statement showing the cost and expense incurred for the work, the date the work was done, and the location of the property on which such work was done. The recordation of such sworn statement shall constitute a lien and privilege on the property and shall remain in full force and effect for the amount due in principal and interest, plus costs of court, if any, for collection, until final payment has been made. Such costs and expenses shall be collected in the manner fixed by law for the collection of taxes and shall be subject to a delinquent penalty of seven (7) percent if not paid in full on or before the date the tax bill upon which such charge appears becomes delinquent. Sworn statements recorded in accordance with the provisions hereof shall be prima facie evidence that all legal formalities have been complied with and that the work has been done properly and satisfactorily, and shall be full notice to every person concerned that the amount of the statement, plus interest, constitutes a charge against the property designated or described in the statement and that the same is due and collectible as provided by law.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 9)
Sec. 3-12-22. - Penalties.
The punishment imposed for any violation of this chapter shall not exceed a fine of $500.00 or 60 days imprisonment or both; however, the minimum fine which may be imposed shall be not less than $50.00 for a first offense, $75.00 for a second offense, and $150.00 for a third or subsequent offense. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 9)
Sec. 3-12-23. - Glass containers prohibited.
(a)
Glass prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to possess any open glass container for the consumption of any beverage on the public streets, sidewalks or rights-of-way or in any public or semipublic parking facility within Athens-Clarke County, Georgia.
(b)
"Semipublic parking facility" defined. The term "semipublic parking facility" shall include any privately owned area wherein motor vehicles may be parked by the public in conjunction with any business, enterprise, commercial establishment, office building, church, school or multiple-family residential building.
(c)
Exemption. This prohibition shall not apply to any property owned by the Board of Regents of the State of Georgia.
(Ord. of 3-1-94, § 1)
