CHAPTER 1-18. - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Sec. 1-18-1. Contracts to extend territorial jurisdiction.
Sec. 1-18-2. Relocation of water or sewer line easements.
Sec. 1-18-3. Oaths of police officers.
Sec. 1-18-4. Creation of Riverbend Parkway Urban Service District.

Sec. 1-18-1. - Contracts to extend territorial jurisdiction.
Athens-Clarke County shall not exercise any powers nor provide any services listed in article IX, section II, paragraph III of the Constitution of the State of Georgia inside the boundaries of any municipality or any other county except pursuant to express written contract with the municipality or county affected, which contract must be approved by the mayor and commission, and no Athens-Clarke County officer, agent or employee shall utilize any Athens-Clarke County facilities, equipment or Athens-Clarke County employees in violation of such constitutional provision.
(Ord. of 1-5-93, § 1; Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-6-99, § 1)
Sec. 1-18-2. - Relocation of water or sewer line easements.
(a)
Findings. The mayor and commission hereby find that Athens-Clarke County owns easements for water or sewer lines which do not accommodate the existing water and sewer lines as needed, do not accommodate planned construction of an improvement that would intrude over existing easement(s), or do not accommodate planned construction of a water or sewer line. Thus from time to time said easements need to be relocated on the same property in order to exchange an existing easement with the property owner for a different easement location on the same property.
(b)
After investigation and upon a written determination by the director of Athens-Clarke County public utilities or his authorized agents that the relocation will not impede the ability of Athens-Clarke County to exercise all of the powers and property interests granted to Athens-Clarke County in the original easement, the director of Athens-Clarke County public utilities is authorized to prepare or to approve easement documents necessary to accomplish such relocation of water or sewer lines.
(c)
After written approval of said documents by the Athens-Clarke County Manager and by the Athens-Clarke County attorney, the director of Athens-Clarke County Public Utilities is authorized to submit for execution by the mayor and/or the property owner such documents as required by law to effectuate a legal transfer of the easement interests being relocated.
(d)
If the relocation is requested by any party other than Athens-Clarke County, the owner of the property shall be responsible for the preparation of the deeds and plats necessary for the relocation of the easements and all related costs.
(Ord. of 9-4-2001, § 1)
Sec. 1-18-3. - Oaths of police officers.
The Chief of Police of the Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia is authorized and empowered to administer all required official oaths of office to police officers employed by the Unified Government.
( Ord. of 9-5-2017(2) , § 1)
Sec. 1-18-4. - Creation of Riverbend Parkway Urban Service District.
(a)
The Commission hereby determines and finds that the creation of the Riverbend Parkway Urban Service District is in the best interests of the residents and/or property owners of the Riverbend Parkway Service District Area, and in the best interests of all the residents of Athens-Clarke County.
(b)
The boundaries of the Riverbend Parkway Urban Service District shall consist of that area identified as the Riverbend Parkway Single Family Residential Housing as shown on the map which is attached hereto as Exhibit "A" and incorporated herein by reference.
(c)
The services provided within the Riverbend Parkway Urban Service District shall consist of the same services being provided by the Athens-Clarke County Solid Waste Department to the Urban Service District ("Solid Waste Services").
(d)
The Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia shall from time to time review and evaluate such services and may change the nature of the services provided, if deemed necessary or desirable.
(e)
The Riverbend Parkway Urban Service District shall be a tax district and the Unified Government shall have the power to assess, levy and collect additional taxes in accordance with the kind, character, type, and degree of services actually provided therein, in accordance with the provisions of said Charter. In addition to or in lieu of said additional taxes, the Unified Government may charge for services provided to the Riverbend Parkway Urban Service District by determining the cost of each service and assess those costs against each citizen receiving said service.
(f)
Solid Waste Services shall be provided to the Riverbend Parkway Urban Service District effective as of December 31, 2019.
( Ord. of 11-5-2019(2) )
