Chapter 30 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; fire prevention and protection, ch. 38.
State Law reference— Georgia Mutual Aid Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-1 et seq.; Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 30-1—30-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DISASTERS OR STATES OF EMERGENCY
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 30-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
State of emergency is as defined by O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), and means a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster, emergency or energy emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.7-2(3)(b))
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Secs. 30-32—30-55. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - SUSPENSION OF PORTIONS OF THIS CODE AND OTHER FORMALITIES

Sec. 30-56. - Purpose.
The health, safety and welfare of the citizens and property of the county may be jeopardized during an emergency, disaster or the subsequent recovery period by the inability of the board of commissioners to act expediently without regard to certain formalities. The board of commissioners is authorized pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 38-3-27(b) and 38-3-28 to take actions necessary to provide for the health and safety of persons and property during periods of emergency or disaster, provided that such actions are not inconsistent with any orders, rules or regulations promulgated by the governor of the state or his delegate. The powers and functions exercised by the board of commissioners necessary to conduct the business and affairs of the county during an emergency or disaster proclaimed as such by the appropriate state official may continue without regard to compliance with time consuming procedures and formalities pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-54. In accordance with O.C.G.A. §§ 36-10-4(c)(5) and 32-4-63(6), certain formalities concerning public works contracts may be waived when necessitated by an emergency. The board of commissioners believes that it is desirable to have legislation in place authorizing the board of commissioners to waive certain formalities and procedures, as necessary, in case of an emergency, natural disaster or the subsequent recovery period.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.7-1(1))
Sec. 30-57. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Fee means any fee or rate charged by the county for building permits, land disturbance permits, zoning applications, special land use permits, temporary land use permits and other fees relating to the reconstruction, repair and clean up of areas impacted by a disaster or emergency. This term shall not include those fees collected by the county on behalf of the federal or state government, or those fees charged by the county pursuant to a federal or state statute or regulation.
Subsequent recovery period means the period of time that a disaster or emergency continues to cause disruptions in the area impacted by the disaster or emergency, which period of time shall not exceed six months after the state of emergency declaration by the governor is terminated unless extended by official action of the board of commissioners.
Temporary dwelling means any mobile or easily movable home, trailer, recreational vehicle or structure not otherwise permitted by the zoning regulations in a particular zoning district.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.7-1(3)(a), (c), (d))
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 30-58. - Meetings.
Upon proclamation by the appropriate state official of an emergency or disaster of manmade or natural causes or enemy attack impending on or affecting the state or the United States, the affairs and business of the county may be conducted at places other than the regular or usual place thereof, within or outside of the county, when it is not prudent, expedient or possible to conduct business at the regular location. When such meetings occur outside of the county, all actions taken by the board of commissioners shall be as valid and binding as if performed within the county. Such meetings may be called by the presiding officer or any two members of the board of commissioners without regard to or compliance with time consuming procedures and formalities otherwise required by law.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.7-1(2)(a))
Sec. 30-59. - Purchasing and public works contracts.
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the appropriate state official, or upon the determination by the board of commissioners or its designee of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the board of commissioners, its designee or the emergency interim successor may contract for public works without letting such contract out to the lowest, responsible bidder, and without advertising and posting notification of such contract for four weeks; provided, however, that any public works contract entered into pursuant to this section shall be entered on the minutes of the board of commissioners as soon as practical, and the nature of the emergency described therein.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.7-1(2)(b))
Sec. 30-60. - Code enforcement.
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the appropriate state official, or upon the determination by the board of commissioners or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the board of commissioners, its designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily suspend the enforcement of this Code, or any portion thereof, where:
(1)
The emergency or disaster is of such a nature that immediate action outside this Code is required;
(2)
Such suspension is consistent with the protection of the public health, safety and welfare; and
(3)
Such suspension is not inconsistent with any federal or state statutes or regulations.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.7-1(2)(c))
Sec. 30-61. - Fees.
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the board of commissioners or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the board of commissioners, its designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily reduce or suspend any permit fees, application fees or other rate structures, as necessary, to encourage the rebuilding of the area impacted by the disaster or emergency.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.7-1(2)(d))
Sec. 30-62. - Temporary dwellings.
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the appropriate state official, or upon the determination by the board of commissioners or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the board of commissioners, its designee or the emergency interim successor may authorize temporary mobile homes, trailers, recreational vehicles or other temporary dwelling structures or parks in any zoning district while the primary dwelling is being repaired, provided that such temporary dwellings or parks are designed by an engineer and the plans are approved by the county health department and the county engineering and environmental services division. The temporary permit shall not exceed six months in duration. In the case of continuing hardship and in the discretion of the board of commissioners or its designee, the permit may be extended for an additional period of six months. Upon expiration of the temporary permit or an extension, the temporary dwelling shall be removed.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.7-1(2)(e))
Secs. 30-63—30-85. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CURFEWS

Sec. 30-86. - Purpose.
The health, safety and welfare of the people and property in the county may be jeopardized during an emergency, disaster or imminent threat thereof, by the presence of looters, vandals, thieves and others who would take advantage of the confusion and devastation that accompanies such an event. The board of commissioners is authorized pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 38-3-27(b)(2) and 38-3-28 to take any action necessary to provide for the health and safety of persons and property during periods of emergency or disaster, provided that such actions are not inconsistent with any orders, rules or regulations promulgated by the governor or his delegate. The board of commissioners believes that it is desirable to have legislation in place authorizing the board of commissioners to enact a curfew when it is determined necessary to maintain order and to protect either the people or property during an emergency or disaster in all or certain areas of the county.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.7-2(1))
Sec. 30-87. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Curfew means a regulation requiring the withdrawal of any person not otherwise exempt from this division from appearing in certain public areas during specified hours.
Exempt individuals, unless otherwise specified in the resolution implementing the curfew, means and includes those individuals engaged in the provision of designated, essential services, such as fire, law enforcement, emergency medical services and hospital services, military services, and utility emergency repairs. The resolution may, in the discretion of the board of commissioners, also exempt regular employees of local industries traveling to and from their jobs with appropriate identification, news media employees, building and repair contractors, properly registered according to section 30-113, performing activities related to construction, repair, renovation or improvement of buildings and other structures damaged during the disaster or emergency.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.7-2(3)(a), (b))
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 30-88. - Institution of curfew.
(a)
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor or other appropriate state official, or upon the determination by the board of commissioners or its designee of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the board of commissioners, its designee or the emergency interim successor may adopt a resolution instituting a curfew when it is determined necessary to protect and safeguard the people and property in the county.
(b)
All unincorporated areas of the county shall be subject to the terms of the curfew, unless otherwise specified in the resolution.
(c)
The resolution instituting the curfew shall include the dates and hours that the curfew shall be in effect.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.7-2(2))
Sec. 30-89. - Prohibition.
It shall be prohibited for any person, other than exempt individuals, to appear in public in the territory subject to the curfew, including, but not limited to, streets, highways, alleys, sidewalks, vacant lots, parks, public buildings or any other public places, in all or a delineated part of the unincorporated areas of the county, during the stated hours of the curfew.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.7-2(4))
Sec. 30-90. - Violation; penalties.
Any individual violating the provisions of this division, upon conviction, shall be subject to penalties and costs as provided in section 1-9.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.7-2(5))
Secs. 30-91—30-110. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - REGISTRATION OF BUILDING AND REPAIR SERVICES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building construction, ch. 18.

Sec. 30-111. - Purpose.
During and following periods of emergency resulting from natural or manmade disaster, the public is at risk from unscrupulous building contractors and repair services, scams and other unconscionable activities related to constructing, repairing, renovating and making improvements to buildings and other structures damaged during the disaster. Registration of building construction and repair contractors during a declared emergency, which is authorized pursuant to the police powers of the county and O.C.G.A. §§ 38-3-28 and 38-3-56, will provide a means to protect the public from unscrupulous building and repair contractors.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.7-3(1))
Sec. 30-112. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building contractor means any person engaging in, undertaking or carrying on any business consisting of or relating to building construction, repair, renovation or making improvements to real property including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures or fixtures attached thereto.
Doing business means, any building contractor who:
(1)
Has or operates an office, agency, project site or place of business located in the unincorporated areas of the county, whether permanently, temporarily, periodically or otherwise, that provides the following activities, which include, but are not limited to, the:
a.
Construction, renovation or repair of dwellings or buildings; or
b.
Making of improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto.
(2)
Performs the following activities or services in the unincorporated areas of the county expressly, which include, but are not limited to, the:
a.
Construction, renovation or repair of dwellings or buildings; or
b.
Making of improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto regardless of the location of the principal office.
Subsequent recovery period means that period during which a disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed three months after the emergency declaration has been terminated by the governor.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.7-3(3)(a), (b), (d))
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 30-113. - Registration of building contractors.
During a state of emergency or subsequent recovery period, no person shall engage in, undertake or carry on any business, in whole or in part, within the unincorporated areas of the county, consisting of or relating to building, constructing, repairing, renovating or making improvements to real property, including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures or fixtures attached thereto, without having registered with the board of commissioners the name of the business and identifying the individuals who directly or indirectly own the business, and having paid fees as provided by section 30-115.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.7-3(2))
Sec. 30-114. - Certification of building contractors.
All building contractors doing business or proposing to do business in the unincorporated areas of the county during a state of emergency or the subsequent recovery period, shall register and file applications with the clerk of the board of commissioners or such other person designated by the board of commissioners at the county offices or such other place designated by the board of commissioners. The building contractor shall, under oath, provide the board of commissioners with a statement describing the general nature of the business to be conducted, and give true and correct information as may be called for on the registration form, application or certificate provided by the county.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.7-3(4))
Sec. 30-115. - Fees.
Building contractor registration fees under the terms and conditions of this division shall be fixed by the board of commissioners and set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county clerk. Registration fees shall be paid in full at the time of issuance of the registration certification.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.7-3(5))
Sec. 30-116. - Display of registration certification.
Each certification issued under this division shall be conspicuously posted by the building contractor in his place of business, or shall be carried on his person or vehicle used in such business. Such certification shall be exhibited to any authorized enforcement officer when so requested.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.7-3(8))
Sec. 30-117. - Transferability.
Each certification issued under this division is granted to, and shall be accepted by, the building contractor under the condition that such certification is not transferable, and after issuance of such certification, no such certification shall be transferred by the county or the building contractor to another individual or entity.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.7-3(7))
Sec. 30-118. - Revocation; suspension.
Each certification granted under this division is a mere permit to engage in the business only as long as such business is conducted in a lawful manner. The board of commissioners reserves the right to revoke or suspend any certification granted under this division if the building contractor or his agent or employee acting within the scope of his employment, violates this division or any other county, state or federal law. If, after issuance of a certification under this division, the county desires to revoke such certification, written notice thereof shall be given to the building contractor, which notice shall specify the violation with which the building contractor is charged and a date, time and place at which a hearing shall be held with regard to the violation. The building contractor shall have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing, and shall have the right to be represented by counsel and to introduce and submit evidence in opposition to such revocation.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.7-3(9))
Sec. 30-119. - Violation; penalties.
Any building contractor required by this division to pay a registration fee, who engages in business without first registering and receiving a registration certification from the county as required in this division, shall be in violation of this section. Violation of this section, upon conviction, shall be subject to penalties and costs as set forth in section 1-9. Each day a building contractor does business in the unincorporated areas of the county without complying with this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.7-3(6))
Secs. 30-120—30-140. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - OVERCHARGING FOR GOODS, MATERIALS, SERVICES AND HOUSING

Sec. 30-141. - Purpose.
The health, safety and welfare of the people in the county depend upon the availability and affordability of certain essential goods, materials, services and housing. During certain periods of emergency resulting from a natural or manmade disaster, people in the county are at risk from dramatic and unjustified increases in the prices of such goods, materials, services and housing. Such increases in price may be excessive and unconscionable during a state of emergency and may hinder the ability of the county to recover from the disaster. Legislation is necessary to prohibit any person from raising prices for goods, materials, services and housing to excessive, unconscionable or unfair levels during a declared state of emergency or subsequent recovery period. Limitations on price overcharging during a declared state of emergency is authorized pursuant to the police powers of the county and O.C.G.A. § 38-3-28.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.7-4(1))
Sec. 30-142. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Overcharging means charging prices for goods, materials, services or housing which are substantially in excess of the customary charges, or in applicable cases, substantially in excess of the supplier's or provider's costs for such goods, materials, services or housing. The existence of overcharging shall be presumed from a substantial increase in the price at which the goods, materials, services or housing was offered in the usual course of business immediately prior to the onset of the emergency, but shall not include increases in costs to the supplier directly attributable to higher costs of materials, supplies and labor resulting from the emergency.
Subsequent recovery period means that period during which a disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed six months after the emergency declaration has been terminated by the governor unless such period is extended by official action of the board of commissioners.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.7-4(4)(a), (c))
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 30-143. - Prohibited.
In order to preserve, protect or sustain the life, health or safety of persons or property in the county, it shall be unlawful during the duration of a state of emergency or subsequent recovery period in which the county has been designated as a disaster area, for any person located or doing business in county to overcharge for any goods, materials, services or housing sold within the county.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.7-4(2))
Sec. 30-144. - Violation; penalties.
Violation of this provisions of this division, upon conviction, shall be subject to penalties and costs as set forth in section 1-9.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.7-4(4))
DIVISION 6. - COST RECOVERY

Sec. 30-145. - Definitions.
For the purposes of section, the following words or phrases shall have the meanings below:
Hazardous material shall mean hazardous waste, substances or materials as defined by any federal, state, county or local statute, law, ordinances or codes relating to human and environmental protection.
Incident shall mean a response by Columbia County Fire Rescue involving a release or discharge of hazardous material.
Release or discharge shall mean any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, leaching, seeping, dumping or disposing into the environment.
Responsible party shall mean any individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership, commercial entity, joint venture, governmental entity, company or any other legal entity that is, in whole or in part, the cause of an actual or threatened release or discharge of hazardous material or is an owner, tenant occupant or party in control of property receiving any benefit, services or equipment provided by Columbia County in response to an incident. When the service rendered by Columbia County directly benefits more than one person, entity or property, each owner, tenant, occupant or party in control of each property so benefited shall be a responsible party.
(Ord. No. 14-12, § 1(Exh. A), 10-7-2014)
Sec. 30-146. - List of services provided.
A detailed listing of hazardous material response services provided to persons, entities and or agencies will be compiled by Columbia County Fire Rescue. This information shall be forwarded to the Columbia County Risk Management Department, which shall be responsible for the billing. This information shall include:
(1)
Name and address of the owner, lessee, occupant and/or responsible party(s);
(2)
Date, time and location of the incident;
(3)
Any and all incident report or case numbers from responding emergency services;
(4)
Description of services rendered; and
(5)
Itemized list of all costs.
(Ord. No. 14-12, § 1(Exh. A), 10-7-2014)
Sec. 30-147. - Applicable recovery charges.
The applicable recovery charges for service shall begin upon arrival of the first responding unit and shall include, but is not limited to:
(1)
All personnel costs, including wages, salaries, fringe benefits and insurance, at actual hourly rate per hour, per person for on-duty response and actual over-time rates per hour for off-duty response;
(2)
Costs for loss, consumption, repair and decontamination of equipment, vehicles, instruments, clothing, supplies and other items, at actual replacement cost;
(3)
Subsistence supplies, at actual cost;
(4)
Miscellaneous expenses, at actual cost;
(5)
Equipment charges shall include, but are not limited to, each fire engine, ladder truck, rescue unit, hazardous material unit and all equipment and apparatus needed by the fire department and other county departments required to respond, and shall be charged based on the then current Federal Emergency Management Agency Schedule of Equipment Rates for like or similar equipment.
(6)
A charge for billing and processing of two percent of the total cost will be assessed.
(Ord. No. 14-12, § 1(Exh. A), 10-7-2014)
Sec. 30-148. - Allocation of funds.
All funds received from persons, entities or agencies that have been billed for services will be allocated by the Columbia County Risk Manager to each county department from which the expenditures were incurred for personnel costs, decontamination, repair, replacement and purchase of items of both durable and consumable categories.
(Ord. No. 14-12, § 1(Exh. A), 10-7-2014)
