APPENDIX B - GEORGIA POWER COMPANY FRANCHISE[1]
ORDINANCE GRANTING PERMISSION AND CONSENT to Georgia Power Company, its successors, lessees and assigns, to occupy the streets and public places of the City of Kennesaw, Georgia, in constructing, maintaining, operating and extending poles, lines, cables, equipment and other apparatus for transmitting and distributing electricity, and for other purposes.

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the ordinance granting a franchise to Georgia Power Company, as adopted by the mayor and council on August 18, 1975. Amendments to the ordinance are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original ordinance. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings have been made uniform, catchlines have been added to facilitate usage and the same system of capitalization, citation to state statutes, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Section I. - Granting of Authority.
On August 18, 1975, the Mayor and Council adopted the Georgia Power Company franchise agreement for a term of thirty-five (35) years. In accordance with the City of Kennesaw Charter, Section 1.02(g), franchise agreements shall not exceed periods of twenty (20) years. Therefore, certain amendments shall be incorporated into this franchise as requested by the parties, with a term ending November 3, 2025. Pursuant to a 2006 amendment of the Charter by the General Assembly, the City is authorized to grant franchises not to exceed periods of thirty (30) years and has thereby extended this franchise agreement an additional ten (10) years, expiring November 3, 2035.
Be it ordained by the governing authority of the City of Kennesaw (hereafter referred to as the "city"), that the authority, right, permission and consent are hereby granted to Georgia Power Company, its successors, lessees and assigns (hereafter referred to as the "company"), for a period of twenty (20) years by virtue of Ordinance No. 2005-35, plus ten (10) additional years by virtue of Ordinance No. 2006-19, 2006 to occupy and use the streets, alleys and public places of the city within the present and future limits of the said city as from time to time the company may deem proper or necessary for the overhead or underground construction, maintenance, operation and extension of poles, towers, lines, wires, cables, conduits, insulators, transformers, appliances, equipment, connections and other apparatus for the business and purpose of transmitting, conveying, conducting, using, supplying and distributing electricity for light, heat, power and other purposes for which electric current may be or become useful or practicable for public or private use, and to re-enter upon such streets, alleys and public places from time to time as it may deem proper or necessary to perform these functions, and to cut and trim trees and shrubbery when and where necessary, in the judgment of the company, to ensure safe and efficient service.
The term "Distribution Facilities" means poles, lines, wires, cables, conductors, insulators, transformers, appliances, equipment, connections, and other apparatus installed by or on behalf of the Company (whether before or after the adoption of this Ordinance Amending Franchise) in the streets, alleys, or public places of the City for the purpose of distributing electricity within the present and future limits of the City. Distribution Facilities do not include any of the following: (i) electric transmission lines with a design operating voltage of 46 kilovolts or greater (hereafter referred to as "Transmission Lines"); (ii) poles, towers, frames, or other supporting structures for Transmission Lines (hereafter referred to as "Transmission Structures"); (iii) Transmission Lines and related wires, cables, conductors, insulators, or other apparatus attached to Transmission Structures; (iv) lines, wires, cables, or conductors installed in concrete-encased ductwork; or (v) network underground facilities.
(Ord. No. 2005-35, § I, 11-7-05; Ord. No. 2006-19, § I, 8-7-06)
Section II. - Terms and Considerations.
Be it further ordained that the rights, permission and consents herein contained are made for the following considerations and upon the following terms and conditions, to-wit:
1.
The company shall pay into the treasury of the city on or before March 1st of each year, a sum of money equal to four percent of the gross sales of electric energy to customers served under residential and commercial rate schedules (as prescribed or amended by the Georgia Public Service Commission from time to time) within the corporate limits of the city and such expanded limits as may be annexed and four percent of the gross sales of electric energy to customers served under industrial rate schedules (as so prescribed) within the corporate limits of the city during the immediate prior year.
2.
The amount, if any, of any tax, fee, charge or imposition of any kind required, demanded or exacted by the city on any account, other than ad valorem taxes on property and license taxes on the sale of home appliances, shall operate to reduce to that extent the amount due from the percentage of gross sales above provided for.
3.
The company shall fully protect, indemnify and save harmless the city from all damages to person or property caused by the construction, maintenance, operation or extension of poles, wires or other apparatus, or conditions of streets, alleys or public places resulting there from, for which the said city would otherwise be liable.
4.
The company shall, in constructing, maintaining, operating and extending its poles, wires and other apparatus, submit and be subject to all reasonable exercises of the police power by the city. Nothing contained herein, however, shall require the company to surrender or limit its property rights created hereby without due process of law, including adequate compensation, for any other purpose at the instance of the city or for any purpose at the instance of any other entity, private or governmental.
5.
In the event that the City of any other entity acting on behalf of the City requests or demands that the Company relocate any Distribution Facilities from their then-current locations within the streets, alleys, and public places of the City in connection with a public project or improvement, then the Company shall relocate, at its expense, the Distribution Facilities affected by such project or improvement. The Company's obligations under this paragraph 2 shall apply without regard to whether the Company has acquired, or claims to have acquired, an easement or other property right with respect to such Distribution Facilities and shall not affect the amounts paid or to be paid to the City under the provisions of the 1975 Ordinance. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph 2, the Company shall not be obligated to relocate, at its expense, any of the following: (i) Distribution Facilities that are located on private property at the time relocation is requested or demanded; (ii) Distribution Facilities that are relocated in connection with sidewalk improvements (unless such sidewalk improvements are related to or associated with road widenings, the creation of new turn lanes, or the addition of acceleration/deceleration lanes); (iii) streetscape projects or other projects undertaken primarily for aesthetic purposes; or (iv) Distribution Facilities that are converted from an overhead configuration or installation to an underground configuration or installation.
6.
The City and the Company recognize that both parties benefit from economic development within the City. Accordingly, when it is necessary to relocate any of the Company's facilities (whether Distribution Facilities, Transmission Lines, Transmission Structures, or other facilities) within the City, the City and the Company shall work cooperatively to minimize costs, delays, and inconvenience to both parties while ensuring compliance with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, the City and the Company shall communicate in a timely fashion to coordinate projects included in the City's five-year capital improvement plan, the City's short-term work program, or the City's annual budget in an effort to minimize relocation of the Company's facilities. Such communication may include, but is not limited to, (i) both parties' participation in the Georgia Utilities Coordinating Council, Inc. (or any successor organization) or a local utilities coordinating council (or any successor organization) and (ii) both parties' use of the National Joint Utility Notification System (or any successor to such system mutually acceptable to both parties).
7.
With regard to each streetscape project undertaken by or on behalf of the City, the City shall pay the Company in advance for the Company's estimated cost to relocate any of the Company's facilities (whether Distribution Facilities, Transmission Lines, Transmission Structures, or other facilities) in connection with such project. For each streetscape project, the Company shall estimate in good faith the amount of incremental base revenue, if any, that the Company will realize as a result of new customer load or expansion of existing customer load attributable to such project; and such estimate shall be based on tariffs in effect at the time that construction of such project begins and shall not include fuel recovery charges, non-electric service billings, or taxes. If such estimate indicates that the Company will realize incremental base revenue, the Company shall do one of the following, whichever results in greater cost savings to the City: (i) reduce the City's advance payment to the Company for relocation costs by ten percent (10%); or (ii) where the City has developed a bona fide marketing plan within twelve months after construction of such project begins, either refund the amount of the Company's incremental base revenue during such twelve-month period to the City or credit such amount against any future payment due from the City to the Company. The City and the Company acknowledge and agree that the amount of any refund or credit calculated pursuant to clause (ii) of the foregoing sentence of this paragraph 4 shall not exceed the amount of the City's advance payment to the Company for relocation costs associated with such project.
(Ord. No. 2005-35, § II, 11-7-05; Ord. No. 2006-19, § II, 8-7-06)
Section III. - Limits or Restricts.
Be it further ordained that nothing contained in this Ordinance Amending Franchise shall limit or restrict the right of customers within the corporate limits of the City to select an electric supplier as may hereafter be provided by law.
(Ord. No. 2005-35, § III, 11-7-05; Ord. No. 2006-19, § III, 8-7-06)
Section IV. - Filing of written acceptance.
Be it further ordained that the company shall, within 90 days from the approval of this ordinance, file its written acceptance of the same with the clerk of said city, so as to form a contract between the parties.
(Ord. No. 2005-35, § IV, 11-7-05; Ord. No. 2006-19, § IV, 8-7-06)
Section V. - Repeal of conflicting provisions.
Be it further ordained that upon such acceptance all laws and ordinances, and all agreements between the parties, in conflict herewith be and the same shall thereupon stand repealed and terminated, respectively.
(Ord. No. 2005-35, § V, 11-7-05; Ord. No. 2006-19, § V, 8-7-06)
