APPENDIX A - UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE[1]
CITY OF KENNESAW, GEORGIA
ORDINANCE NO. 2011-06, 2011
AN ORDINANCE
TO
ADOPT A UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE;
AND,
RESTATE AND INCORPORATE THE DEVELOPMENTAL STANDARDS INTO THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE ADOPTED BY THIS ORDINANCE;
AND,
RESTATE AND INCORPORATE APPENDIX A, ZONING, OF THE CITY OF KENNESAW CITY ORDINANCES INTO THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE ADOPTED BY THIS ORDINANCE;
AND,
APPROVE ALL AMENDMENTS TO THE KENNESAW CITY ORDINANCES AS SET FORTH IN THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE AS ADOPTED BY THIS ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF KENNESAW, COBB COUNTY, GEORGIA, AS FOLLOWS:
WHEREAS, the Mayor and City Council of the City of Kennesaw are charged with the protection of the public health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the City of Kennesaw; and,
WHEREAS, the State of Georgia authorizes the Mayor and City Council of the City of Kennesaw to exercise their power as they see fit to protect and maintain the safety and welfare of the citizens and the property located in the City of Kennesaw; and,
WHEREAS, the Mayor and City Council find that consolidation of all certain City Ordinances into a single standalone document entitled the Kennesaw Unified Development Code would be beneficial to the City and the citizens and property owners in the City of Kennesaw;
WHEREAS, an Ordinance adopting the Unified Development Code is being approved by the Mayor and Council of the City of Kennesaw;
WHEREAS, the Unified Development Code will include the Ordinances referenced below; and,
NOW THEREFORE, to accomplish the foregoing, the Mayor and the City Council of the City of Kennesaw while in regular session on April 18, 2011, at 6:30 P.M. pursuant to their authority, do adopt the Unified Development Code, which shall include the following:
Section 1.
The Mayor and City Council of the City of Kennesaw adopt a Unified Development Code which shall be comprised of the following Table of Contents and the corresponding sections:
CITY OF KENNESAW
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTION 2.
The following Development Standards whose section numbers and descriptions are stated below are restated and incorporated, as amended, into the Unified Development Code being adopted:
100 PROCESS/GENERAL PROVISIONS
100 GENERAL
101 DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESS
102 DEVELOPMENT PERMITS/APPROVALS
104 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
105 FEES, REQUIREMENTS, PENALTIES AND APPEALS
106 IMPACT FEES/DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
107 SITE CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS
108 STRUCTURAL PLAN REVIEW DOCUMENTS
200 PLATS/RECORD DRAWING
200 GENERAL
201 PRELIMINARY PLATS
202 FINAL PLAT
203 LOTS
204 PHASED DEVELOPMENT
205 DEDICATION OF RIGHT-OF-WAY AND EASEMENTS
206 RECORD DRAWINGS
207 EXEMPTIONS
300 SECURITIES AND ENFORCEMENT
300 GENERAL
301 MAINTENANCE AND PERFORMANCE SECURITIES
312 ENFORCEMENT
303 STOP WORK ORDERS
400 TECHNICAL STANDARDS
401 STREETS
402 ACCESS
403 OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
404 SIDEWALKS
405 DISABLED PERSONS REQUIREMENTS
406 BUS SHELTERS
407 STANDARDS FOR LIGHTING
408 EASEMENTS
409 STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEMS
410 WATER AND SEWER
411 EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
412 FENCES, BUFFERS & BERMS, MAILBOXES, AND IRRIGATION SYSTEMS
413 STRUCTURAL RETAINING WALLS
414 FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
415 TIMBER HARVESTING/CLEARING
416 TREE PROTECTION AND REPLACEMENT
417 ZONING
418 DAMS (WATER IMPOUNDMENT FACILITY)
419 HISTORIC PROPERTIES
420 CEMETERIES
421 SWIMMING POOL REQUIREMENTS
422 UTILITIES
423 CONDOMINIUMS
500 MATERIAL SPECIFICATIONS
500 GENERAL
501 CAST-IN-PLACE CONCRETE
502 PRECAST CONCRETE STRUCTURES
503 WATER
504 SANITARY SEWER
505 STORM DRAINAGE
506 STREETS AND RIGHT-OF-WAY
600 STANDARD DETAILS
700 DEFINITIONS
SECTION 3.
The Articles set forth below of Appendix A—Zoning—of the Ordinances of the City of Kennesaw and the sections and subsections included in those Articles are restated and incorporated, as amended by the Unified Development Code as adopted, into that Unified Development Code:
ARTICLE I. - TITLE
ARTICLE II. - PREAMBLE AND ENACTMENT
ARTICLE III. - SHORT TITLE
ARTICLE IV. - INTERPRETATIONS AND DEFINITIONS
ARTICLE V. - ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS
ARTICLE VI. - APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS
ARTICLE VII. - GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE VIII. - REGULATIONS AND USE REQUIREMENTS BY DISTRICT
ARTICLE IX. - ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS (GENERAL)
ARTICLE X. - EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS
ARTICLE XI. - ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT, PENALTIES AND REMEDIES
ARTICLE XII. - AMENDMENTS
ARTICLE XIII. - LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
ARTICLE XIV. - FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
ARTICLE XV. - RESERVED
ARTICLE XVI. - CHATTAHOOCHEE RIVER TRIBUTARY PROTECTION
ARTICLE XVII. - TREE CONSERVATION AND REPLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS
ARTICLE XVIII. - SOIL EROSION REQUIREMENTS
ARTICLE XIX. - REQUIREMENTS FOR MAKING A ZONING OR LAND USE PERMIT APPLICATION
ARTICLE XX. - ZONING STANDARDS
ARTICLE XXI. - PERMITS
ARTICLE XXII. - SIGN ORDINANCE
SECTION 4.
The amendments to the Sections of the Kennesaw City Code Sections being incorporated into the Unified Development Code are described in Exhibit A to this ordinance. Exhibit A is hereby incorporated into this ordinance as though fully set forth here and is approved and adopted by the Mayor and City Council.
SECTION 5.
The Mayor and City Council approve and adopt the entire Unified Development Code as set forth in Exhibit B to this ordinance, which is a CD containing the Unified Development Code. That Exhibit is hereby incorporated into this ordinance as though fully set forth here.
SECTION 6.
Once the Unified Development Code is established, the text of all of Appendix A—Zoning—of the Kennesaw Code of Ordinances shall be replaced with the following text: "See Unified Development Code."
SECTION 7.
The Mayor and City Council hereby approve the renumbering of the Sections of the Kennesaw City Ordinances as set forth in Exhibit B to this ordinance.
SECTION 8.
In restating and incorporating the Ordinances, as amended, into the Unified Development Code, the Mayor and City Council hereby:
A.
Specifically incorporate and ratify all prior hearings and findings related to the passage and purposes of the Ordinances incorporated into the Unified Development Code which are merely renumbered and/or amended in part; and,
B.
Specifically incorporate and ratify any individual zoning resolutions and zoning previously approved and as amended which are currently in full force and effect; and,
C.
Specifically incorporate and ratify the currently adopted historical districts, and the current central business district;
D.
Specifically incorporate and ratify all zoning maps, all zoning districts, all zoning decisions, all variances, and all special land use permits currently in full force and effect.
SECTION 9.
All ordinances, parts of ordinances, or regulations in conflict herewith are repealed as of the effective date of this ordinance.
SECTION 10.
Should any section of this ordinance be declared invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration shall not affect the validity of the ordinance as a whole or any part thereof which is not specifically declared to be invalid or unconstitutional.
SECTION 11.
This ordinance shall become effective from and after its adoption and execution by the Mayor, pursuant to Section 2.11 of the City Charter of the City of Kennesaw.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Kennesaw City Council on this 18 th day of April, 2011.
ATTEST: CITY OF KENNESAW:
EXPAND
/s/
      Debra Taylor, City Clerk
    EXPAND
/s/
      Mark Mathews, Mayor
    Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the city's unified development code as adopted by the city council with Ord. No. 2011-06 on April 18, 2011. Amendments to the ordinance are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original ordinance. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For complete derivation of Appendix A see the Code Comparative Table at the end of this volume.
Cross reference— Code enforcement, § 2-181 et seq.; alcoholic beverages, ch. 6; amusements and entertainments, ch. 14; businesses, ch. 22; cable communications, ch. 26; stormwater utility and environment, ch. 46; historic preservation, ch. 54; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 78; subdivisions, ch. 80; utilities, ch. 90.
State Law reference— Authority to adopt plans and exercise the power of zoning, Ga. Const. art IX, § II, ¶ IV; the Zoning Procedures Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.; local government zoning powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-67A-1 et seq.; effect of zoning laws on covenants running with the land, O.C.G.A. § 4-5-60.

Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.01.00 - TITLE
This code shall be known and cited as "The Unified Development Code City of Kennesaw, Georgia" and may be referred to as the "UDC."
1.02.00 - AUTHORITY
Pursuant to the authority conferred by O.C.G.A. § 36-66 et seq., and Article IX of the Georgia Constitution and the amendments thereto, for the purposes of promoting the health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity or the general welfare of the municipality; lessening congestion in the streets; securing safety from fire, panic and other dangers; providing adequate light and air; preventing the overcrowding of land; avoiding inadequate light and air; avoiding undue concentration of population; facilitating the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements; improving the aesthetic appearance of the municipality; conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land and buildings throughout the municipality, all in accordance with a comprehensive plan, the governing body of the City of Kennesaw, Georgia, does hereby ordain, enact and thereby incorporate into the City Code of Kennesaw, Georgia, this article and the following articles and sections.
( Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 1(Exh. A1), 6-21-21)
1.03.00 - APPLICABILITY

1.03.01 - Generally
This UDC shall apply only to the incorporated areas of the City of Kennesaw. No buildings, structures, or land shall be used or occupied; and no building, structure, or part thereof shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, enlarged, or structurally altered unless in conformity with the regulations of this UDC. A change of use shall conform to the standards, criteria, requirements, and procedures of this UDC.
1.03.02 - Exemptions and Exceptions
The following general conditions or circumstances are exempt from the provisions and requirements of the UDC:
1.
Buildings or structures that are legally under construction on the date of adoption of the UDC;
2.
Buildings or structures for which a building permit has been issued as of the effective date of this UDC, provided that construction commences prior to the expiration of the building permit, and continues until completed;
3.
Development pursuant to an approved development plan or subdivision plat approved prior to the effective date of this UDC, provided that development commences not later than one (1) year after the effective date of this UDC; or
4.
The proposed use of property lawfully approved as of the effective date of this UDC.
5.
All building and construction codes and activity as set forth in Chapter 18 of the City of Kennesaw Municipal Code.
1.04.00 - PURPOSE AND INTENT
1.
These regulations are enacted to promote the proper location, height, bulk, number of stories, and size of buildings and other structures, sizes of yards, courts, and the use of other open spaces, density and distribution of population, and the use of buildings, structures, and land for trade, industry, residence, recreation, agriculture, forestry, conservation, sanitation, protection against floods, and public activities.
2.
The purpose of these regulations is to:
a.
Promote the health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity or general welfare of the municipality;
b.
Promote desirable living conditions and the sustained stability of neighborhoods;
c.
Protect property against blight and depreciation;
d.
Secure economy in government expenditures;
e.
Lessen congestion in the streets;
f.
Secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers;
g.
Provide adequate light and air; preventing the overcrowding of land;
h.
Avoid undue concentration of population;
i.
Facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and other public requirements;
j.
Protect the value of existing properties; and
k.
Promote the most appropriate use of land, buildings, and structures throughout the municipality in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan.
1.05.00 - RELATIONSHIP TO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
The City of Kennesaw Comprehensive Plan is the official development policy and implementation guide for the City to coordinate and direct physical and economic development, related public investment, and, to provide reasonable regulations for the development of private property in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. This UDC is designed to implement all provisions of that Plan for the development and use of land.
1.06.00 - ADMINISTRATION
The City Manager is the Chief Administrative Official of the City of Kennesaw. Throughout this UDC, the term "City Manager" is used to indicate the responsibility for specified actions, except where specified actions are reserved or specifically delegated by law to another official. In all instances, "City Manager" means the "City Manager or designee." The City Manager will assign authority to the appropriate staff personnel listed below in this section, to enforce, interpret, administer and implement all sections of the Unified Development Code.

1.06.01 - Building Official
modified
Shall be the individual who serves as Director of the Construction and Development Division as designated by the Mayor and City Council in accordance with Section 101.4 of the Standard Building Code, 1991 Ed., and as may be amended from time to time. As used herein, the Building Official shall also be known as the Building Services Director.
( Ord. No. 2023-12 MEETING , § 1, 6-19-23)
1.06.02 - Public Works Director
Shall be the individual who serves as Director of Public Works Department who plans and directs the work of the department, supervises the work of personnel involved in street and drainage system, vehicle and equipment maintenance, and solid waste collection and disposal.
1.06.03 - Zoning Administrator
modified
City of Kennesaw staff person as designated by the Mayor and City Council who serves to administer the Unified Development Code and who is authorized to interpret the terms and provisions of the Unified Development Code, including the Zoning Ordinance, Historic Preservation Design Guidelines, and Architectural Standards and to ensure consistent application and adherence to the adopted Comprehensive Plan, all adopted Master Plans and Studies for the City of Kennesaw and all other duties assigned by the City Manager. As used herein, Zoning Administrator shall also be known as the Planning and Zoning Administrator.
( Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 1(Exh. A1), 6-21-21; Ord. No. 2023-12 MEETING , § 2, 6-19-23)
1.06.04 - Plan Review Committee
The Kennesaw Development Plan Review committee comprised of representatives of internal departments to interface with outside agencies and private companies involved in the development process.
•
Building Services
•
Public Works
•
City Engineer
•
Planning and Zoning
•
Economic Development
•
Environmental
The duty of this committee is to provide review and regulatory oversight over all development regulations that involve development activity in the City of Kennesaw.
1.07.00 - DOCUMENTS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE

1.07.01 - City of Kennesaw Future Land Use Map
The City of Kennesaw Future Land Use Map, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this UDC.
1.07.02 - City of Kennesaw Area Map
modified
The City of Kennesaw Area Map, together with all explanatory matter thereon and provided in the Comprehensive Plan, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this UDC.
1.07.03 - City of Kennesaw Zoning Map
The City of Kennesaw Zoning Map, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this UDC.
1.07.04 - Building and Construction Codes
modified
A.
All building and construction codes are listed in Sections 18-15 and Section 18-16 of the City of Kennesaw Municipal Code.
B.
Availability for Review. (Section 18-17)
A copy of each of the technical codes is on file in the office of the Building Official and is available for review upon request.
1.07.05 - (Reserved)
1.08.00 - RULES OF INTERPRETATION

1.08.01 - Generally
Specific provisions of this UDC shall be followed in lieu of general provisions that may be in conflict with the specific provision. In the interpretation and application of this UDC all standards, provisions, and requirements shall be liberally construed in favor of the objectives and purposes of the City and shall not be construed to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under State statutes. Where provisions of this UDC conflict with other regulations, the more stringent restrictions shall be applied.
1.08.02 - Responsibility for Interpretations
In the event that any question arises concerning the application of regulations, standards, definitions, development criteria, or any other provision of this UDC, the Zoning Administrator and/or his/her designee shall be responsible for interpretation. In the interpretation of this UDC, the Zoning Administrator shall be guided by the City of Kennesaw Comprehensive Plan and applicable State law.
Responsibility for interpretation by the Zoning Administrator as set forth in this section shall be construed to include interpretation of any technical codes adopted by reference in this UDC. Interpretation shall not be construed to override the responsibilities assigned by the Mayor and City Council to any commission, board, or official named in other sections or chapters of this UDC.
( Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 1(Exh. A1), 6-21-21)
1.08.03 - Rules for Boundary Interpretations
Interpretations regarding boundaries of zoning districts shall be made in accordance with the following:
1.
Boundaries shown as following or approximately following any street shall be construed as following the centerline of the street.
2.
Boundaries shown as following or approximately following any platted lot line or other property line shall be construed as following such line.
3.
Boundaries shown as following or approximately following section lines, half-section lines, or quarter-section lines shall be construed as following such lines.
4.
Boundaries shown as following or approximately following the shoreline of a river, stream, lake or other water body shall be construed as following such shoreline.
1.08.04 - Reserved
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2021-07, § 1(Exh. A1), adopted June 21, 2021, repealed § 1.08.04, which pertained to Fire District (Sec. 18-19).
1.08.05 - Rules of Construction
1.
Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
2.
Words used in the singular number include the plural, and words used in the plural include the singular.
3.
The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, corporation, trust and company as well as an individual.
4.
The word "lot" includes the word "plot" or "parcel."
5.
The word "building" includes the word "structure."
6.
The word "shall" is mandatory not directory.
7.
The word "may" is permissive.
8.
The words "used" or "occupied" as applied to any land or building shall be construed to include the words "intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied."
9.
The word "map," "zoning map" or "Kennesaw Zoning Map" shall mean the "Official Zoning Map of the City of Kennesaw, Georgia."
10.
"Or" may be read "and," "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
11.
The term "written" or "in writing" shall include any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
12.
The term "day" means a calendar day.
13.
The term "month" means a calendar month.
14.
The word "week" shall mean seven (7) days.
15.
The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
1.08.06 - Computation of Time
When a number of days is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first or last day shall not be counted; and if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the person having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as provided for in O.C.G.A., Section 1-4-1, the person having the privilege or duty shall have through the following day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty; however, when the following day is a Saturday or Sunday, the person shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty.
1.09.00 - ACRONYMS AND DEFINITIONS
Except as specifically defined herein, all words used in this ordinance have their customary dictionary definitions. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following words shall have the meaning herein indicated. The following terms are defined for purposes of this UDC.

1.09.01 - Acronyms
EXPAND
"A" A High Risk classification for a flood zone as defined by the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
AASHTO American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials
ADA Americans with Disabilities Act
"AD" A High Risk classification for a flood zone as defined by the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
"AE" A High Risk classification for a flood zone as defined by the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
"AH" A High Risk classification for a flood zone as defined by the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
"AO" A High Risk classification for a flood zone as defined by the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
ARC Atlanta Regional Commission
BCCMP Bituminous-Coated Corrugated Metal Pipe
BMP Best Management Practice
BOD Biological Oxygen Demand
CADD Computer Aided Design and Drafting
CBD Central Business District
CCMWA Cobb County Marietta Water Authority
CCWS Cobb County Water System
CFR Code of Federal Regulations
CLG Certified Local Government
CLOMA Conditional Letter of Map Amendment
CLOMR Conditional Letter of Map Revision
CMP Corrugated Metal Pipe
COD Chemical Oxygen Demand
CRC Community Retail Commercial District
CRZ Critical Root Zone
CWA Clean Water Act
DBH Diameter Breast-Height
DCA Department of Community Affairs
DFD Density Factor Deficit
DRI Developments of Regional Impact
DXF Drawing Interchange File
DUA Dwelling Units per Acre
EDF Existing Density Factor
EPA Environmental Protection Agency, United States
EPD State Environmental Protection Division
FAA Federal Aviation Administration
FCC Federal Communications Commission
FEMA Federal Emergency Management Agency
FHBM Flood Hazard Boundary Map
FIRM Flood Insurance Rate Map
FIS Flood Insurance Study
FST Fee Simple Townhome District
GC General Commercial District
GDOT Georgia Department of Transportation
GFC Georgia Forestry Commission
GI Green Infrastructure
GIS Geographic Information System
GUST Georgia Underground Storage Tank
HDPE High-density Polyethylene Pipe
HGB Highway General Business District
HI Heavy Industrial District
HIS Kennesaw Historic District
HIS Historic District
HPC Historic Preservation Commission
HPV Historic Preservation Village
HSG Hydrologic Soil Group
HUD Housing and Urban Development
ICC International Code Council
IE Invert Elevation
KHD Kennesaw Historic District
l Liter (metric volume of measurement)
LDP Land Disturbance Permit
LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design
LF Loading Factor
LI Light Industrial District
LID Low Impact Development
LOMR Letter of Map Revision
LRO Low-Rise Office District
Mg Milligram
Mg/l Milligrams per liter
MHP Mobile Home Park District
MUTCD Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices
NGVD National Geodetic Vertical Datum
NPDES National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
NRC Neighborhood Retail Commercial District
NS Neighborhood Shopping District
NTU Nephelometric Turbidity Unit
O&M Operation and Maintenance
OCGA Official Code of Georgia Annotated
OI Office/ Institutional District
OSHA Occupational Safety and Health Administration
P Permitted (from land use table)
PD Planned Development
PE Professional Engineer
Plan Comprehensive Plan
POTW Publicly Owned Treatment Works
PSC Planned Shopping Center District
PSI Pounds per Square Inch
PUD-R Planned Urban Development — Residential District
PVC Planned Village Community District
R Residential District — Single Family
RA-4 Residential District — 4 units/ acre
RA-5 Residential District — 5 units/ acre
RA-6 Residential District — 6 units/ acre
R-D Residential Duplex District, 20,000 square feet lot/s
RDF Replacement Density Factor
RM Residential District — Multifamily
RM-8 Residential — Multifamily, 8 units per acre
RM-12 Residential — Multifamily, 12 units per acre
RM-16 Residential — Multifamily, 16 units per acre
RR Rural Residential District
RRC Regional Retail Commercial District
SCS Soil Conservation Services
SD Sight Distance
SDF Site Density Factor
SE Special Exception
SIC Standard Industrial Classification
SSSF Self Service Storage Facilities
SWDA Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.
TND Traditional Neighborhood Development
TS Tourist Services
TSS Total Suspended Solids
UDC Unified Development Code
USC United States Code
USPS United States Postal Service
UVC Urban Village Commercial District
VOC Volatile Organic Compounds
  (Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12; Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 1(Exh. A1), 6-21-21)
1.09.02 - Definitions
The following terms shall have the corresponding meanings ascribed to them for purposes of enforcing and applying the provisions of the UDC. However, if a term defined herein is specifically given another meaning within the context of a chapter or article or provision, then in that case, that other meaning shall control for purposes of enforcing and applying that chapter or article or provision.
1st Class Stream Boundary: All that land identified as Zone A on the effective "flood insurance rate map" prepared by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and/or all that land as identified on the Chattahoochee Tributary Map within the 1st Class Stream Boundary. Provided, however, a report prepared and sealed by a registered engineer defining the unaltered area of special flood hazard may be substituted in lieu of the above.
2nd Class Stream Boundary: The stream channel and all that land identified by the soil survey report of Cobb County, Georgia prepared by the United States Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service classified as a young alluvium and more specifically as the following type series: Buncombe, Congaree, Chewacla, Wehadkee and/or all that land as identified on the Chattahoochee Tributary Map within the 2nd Class stream boundary. Provided, however, a report prepared and sealed by a registered engineer defining the unaltered area of special flood hazard may be substituted in lieu of the above.
A-Frame sign: A portable, self-supporting sign with a maximum width of 650 mm and maximum standing height of one meter. Typically referred to as a sandwich board, blackboard, A-board or footway signage.
Abandoned Sign: A sign that contains or exhibits broken panels, visible rust, visible rot, damaged support structures, or missing letters or which is otherwise dilapidated, unsightly, or un-kept, and for which no person accepts maintenance responsibility. Abandoned signs will be required to meet current sign ordinance regulations for height, square feet, location and material requirements.
Acceleration/deceleration lane: An additional lane provided along a major thoroughfare running from a private driveway or property entrance for a distance of the greater of 60 percent of the property frontage or 100 feet.
Accessory Building or Structure: A building or structure subordinate to the principal use or building on a lot or property and serving a purpose customarily incidental to the use of the principal building. Where an accessory building or structure is attached to the principal building in a substantial manner, as by a wall or roof, such accessory building or structure shall be considered part of the principal building. By way of example, accessory structures include garages, decks and fences.
Accessory Retail Uses: Retail sales and services accessory to the operation of an office building or institutional use, motel, hotel, high-rise apartment development, conducted wholly within the building housing the use to which such activities are accessory, provided that the floor space used or to be used for such secondary uses shall be limited to a total of 25 square feet per dwelling unit in a high-rise apartment development or 25 square feet per room in a hotel or motel, or ten percent of the net floor area in an office building or institutional use, and provided that:
1.
Every public entrance to such a use shall be from a lobby, hallway or other interior portion of the primary use structure;
2.
No show window, advertising, or display shall be visible from the exterior of the primary use structure; and
3.
No merchandise shall be stored or displayed outside of the primary use structure.
However, the requirements of subsections 1. and 2. above shall not apply to restaurants and cafeterias secondary to a hotel or motel and office building or institutional use; these secondary uses may be located in a structure other than the primary use structure. The following secondary uses are permitted: barber shops, beauty shops, laundry and dry cleaning pick-up and distribution stations and other similar personal service establishments; drugstores; bookstores; florists; convenience food stores; gift shops; cafeterias and restaurants; private clubs; laundry facilities for the convenience of residents; newsstands. However, the total net floor space for such secondary building or structure uses shall be limited to 6,000 square feet.
Accessory Uses (commercial): Uses subordinate to the principal use or building on a lot and serving a purpose customarily incidental to the use of the principal building, provided any such use is built with or after the construction of the principal building. Such uses include, but are not limited to the following: fuel pumps, bank ATM units, vending machines, newspaper racks, drink machines, ice boxes, and phone booths.
Accessory Uses (residential): Uses subordinate to the principal use or building on a lot and serving a purpose customarily incidental to the use of the principal building, provided any such use is built with or after the construction of the principal building. Such uses include, but are not limited to: garbage pads, heating and air conditioning units, Jacuzzis, greenhouses, tennis courts, swimming pools (private), playhouses, playgrounds, and the like. A tower and/or antenna are considered an accessory use if located on a lot or parcel shared with a different existing primary use or existing structure.
Accidental Discharge: A discharge prohibited by this article, which occurs by chance and without planning, thought or intention prior to occurrence.
Adaptive Use: Recycling an old building for a use other than that for which it was originally constructed.
Addition (to an existing building): Any walled and roofed expansion to the perimeter of a building in which the addition is connected by a common load-bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition which is connected by a firewall or is separated by an independent perimeter load-bearing wall shall be considered New Construction.
Administrator: A City of Kennesaw city engineer, zoning administrator, City or County Arborists or environmental specialist.
Adult bookstore or adult video store means a commercial establishment which, as one of its substantial business activities, offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the following items: books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, digital video discs, slides, or other visual representations which are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas. A "substantial business activity" exits where the commercial establishment meets any one or more of the following criteria:
(1)
At least 25 percent of the establishment's displayed merchandise consists of the foregoing items; or
(2)
At least 25 percent of the wholesale value of the establishment's displayed merchandise consists of the foregoing items; or
(3)
At least 25 percent of the retail value of the establishment's displayed merchandise consists of the foregoing items; or
(4)
At least 25 percent of the establishment's revenues derive from the sale or rental, for any form of consideration, of the foregoing items; or
(5)
The establishment devotes at least 25 percent of its interior business space or, if less than 25 percent, devotes at least 500 square feet of its interior business space to the display, sale, and/or rental of the foregoing items (aisles and walkways used to access said items shall be included in the term "interior business space"); or
(6)
The establishment regularly offers for sale or rental at least 1,000 of the foregoing items and limits access to the premises or to the portion of the premises occupied by said items to adults only; or
(7)
The establishment regularly advertises itself or holds itself out, using "adult," "XXX," "sex," "erotic," or substantially similar language, as an establishment that caters to adult sexual interests; or
(8)
Maintains an adult arcade, which means any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image-producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are characterized by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Adult cabaret means a commercial establishment or facility which regularly features live dancers, performers or other persons who appear nude.
Adult motion picture theater means a commercial establishment where films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions which are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown to more than five persons for any form of consideration.
Adult movie house means any movie theater which on a regular, continuing basis shows films rated "X" by the Motion Picture Coding Association of America or any movie theater which presents for public viewing on a regular, continuing basis so-called "adult films" depicting sexual conduct.
Agricultural Produce Stand: A structure not greater than 1,000 square feet for the purpose of seasonal sales of products grown or produced on the premises on which it is located.
Alignment: The arrangement of objects along a straight line.
Alley or Service Drive: A public or private way permanently reserved as a secondary means of access to abutting property and which may be used for public utility purposes. Frontage on said alley shall not be construed as satisfying the requirements of this ordinance related to frontage on a dedicated street.
Altered or Alteration of Building: Any change in the supporting members of a building (such as bearing walls, columns, girders) except changes as may be required for its safety; any addition to a building; any change in use from that one district classification to another; or of a building from one location to another; any act or process that changes the exterior architectural appearance of a building.
Alternative Tower Structure: Structures utilized for antenna-mounting purposes that include, but are not limited to, simulated trees, clock towers, steeples, silos, light poles, electric transmission towers and other such structures that are compatible with the natural setting and surrounding structures, and effectively camouflage or conceal the presence of antennas or towers.
Amusement park means a place owned and operated permanently and exclusively for the purpose of providing amusement, attraction, and entertainment to the general public through the means of rides, live entertainment and games either on a seasonal or year round basis, which park has at least 25 rides and 50 games or attractions and the area of the amusement park is comprised of at least 80 acres exclusive of parking.
Ancillary Retail Sales (industrial districts): Retail sale of goods and services which is secondary in nature to the primary industrial use of the property in so much that the goods for sale have been produced on-site or are in storage at the site for planned distribution to other areas. The ancillary retail sale of goods shall only be conducted as part of the permitted industrial use and shall not be a freestanding business.
Animal Shows: Exhibitions of domestic or large animals for a maximum of seven days.
Animated Illumination or Effects: Illumination or effects with action, motion, moving characters or flashing lights. This may require electrical energy, but shall also include wind actuated devices. Specifically included is any motion picture or video mechanism used in conjunction with any outdoor advertising structure in such a manner as to permit or allow the images to be visible from any public right-of-way. This definition does not include signs which indicate only time and/or temperature, provided that such time and/or temperature signs do not change or alternate messages more than 12 times a minute or electronic message signs as permitted within.
Antenna: Any exterior transmitting or receiving devices mounted on a tower, building or structure and used in communications that radiate or capture electromagnetic waves, digital signals, analog signals, radio, wireless, telecommunications signals or other communications signals. Such definition does not include, for purposes of this ordinance, radar antennas, amateur radio antennas, satellite earth stations, television receiving antennas and direct broadcast satellite dishes.
Antenna, Array: Any two or more antennas that operate as components of a complete antenna suite for a single wireless communication facility.
Antenna, Concealed: Any antenna designed and erected on or in a building or alternative structure in such a way that it blends in with the existing façade and/or is located such that it is not readily visible to a person at adjacent street level.
Apartment: A room or suite of two or more rooms occupied or suitable for occupancy as a dwelling unit for one family in a multiple dwelling or any other building not a single-family dwelling or two-family dwellings.
Apartment Building: A building designed for or occupied exclusively by three or more families with separate housekeeping facilities for each family.
Appeal: A request for a review of the City of Kennesaw's interpretation of or decision with respect to any provision of an ordinance or code to the applicable appeals body.
Applicant (as pertaining to storm water management): A person submitting a post-development storm water management application and plan for approval.
Appropriate: Suitable to or compatible with what exists. Proposed work on historic properties is evaluated for "appropriateness" during the design review process.
Arcade: A building or part of a building in which five or more pinball machines, video games, or other children's rides or other similar player-operated amusement devices are maintained, not including commercial recreation restaurant.
Architectural Style: Showing the influence of shapes, materials, detailing or other features associated with a particular architectural style.
Area of Shallow Flooding: A designated "AO", "AH", "AR/AO", "AR/AH" zone on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a one percent or greater annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
Area of Special Flood Hazard: the land subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. This includes all floodplain and flood prone areas at or below the base flood elevation (including A, A1-30, A-00, AE, AH, and AR on the FHBM or the FIRM), all floodplain and flood prone areas as referenced in Section 3.01.01 D of the UDC. All streams with a drainage area of 100 acres or greater shall have the area of special flood hazard delineated.
Ashlar: A dressed or squared stone and the masonry built of such hewn stone. It may be coursed, with continuous horizontal joints or random, with discontinuous joints.
Assisted Living Facilities: Housing units designed for dependent senior adults that require on-going supportive services including but not limited to medical care, food preparation, daily living and the like.
Audible sign: Any sign which emits a sound.
Automobile Service Station (gas, filling station): A building or structure used for the retail sale and dispensing of fuel, lubricants, tires, batteries, accessories, and supplies, including installation and minor services customarily incidental thereto; facilities for washing and for chassis and gear lubrication of vehicles are permitted if enclosed in a building.
Automobile Storage Yard and Wrecker Service: An establishment used for the short-term storage of damaged or confiscated vehicles.
Automotive Paint and Body Repair Shops: An establishment for restoring auto bodies, painting or refinishing with all activities carried on entirely within an enclosed building.
Automotive Salvage and Wrecking Yards: Any place where two or more motor vehicles not in running condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open and are not being restored to operation, or any land, building or structure used for wrecking or storing of such motor vehicles or farm machinery, or parts thereof, stored in the open and not being restored to operating condition; and including the commercial salvaging of any other goods, articles or merchandise.
Auxiliary Water Supply: Any water supply on or available to the premises other than the city's approved public water supply. These auxiliary waters include, but are not limited to, water from another purveyor's public potable water supply or any natural source such as a well, spring, river, stream, harbor, etc., or used waters or industrial fluids. These auxiliary waters may be contaminated, polluted or constitute an unacceptable water source over which the city does not have sanitary control.
Awning/Canopy Sign: Any sign that is part of, or attached to, an awning, canopy or other fabric, plastic or structural protective cover over a door, entrance, window, or outdoor service area. Awning and canopy signs include fascia return signs, fascia signs, on canopy signs and under canopy signs. A marquee is not an awning or a canopy.
Baluster: A turned or rectangular upright supporting a stair handrail or forming part of a balustrade.
Balustrade: An entire railing system including a top rail and its balusters, and often a bottom rail.
Banner: A sign other than a flag with or without characters, letters, illustrations or ornamentation applied to cloth, paper, plastic, or fabric that is intended to be hung either with a frame or without a frame. Flags, feather flag signs and canopy signs are not considered banners.
Bar: Shall be an establishment that does not meet the definition of a restaurant, nightclub, lounge, farm winery or hotel, and serves alcoholic beverages for consumption on premises. The establishment derives 75 percent or more total annual gross revenue from the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises. A licensee of a bar shall obtain and keep in force and affect a food service permit.
Base Flood: The flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year also known as the "100-year-flood".
Basal Area: The cross-sectional area of a tree trunk at diameter breast-height (DBH) expressed herein in terms of "units" per acre.
Base Flood Elevation: The highest water surface elevation anticipated at any given point during the base flood.
Basement: A portion of the building partly underground which has more than one-half of its height measured from finished floor to finished ceiling above the average grade of the adjoining ground; and not deemed a story unless the ceiling is six feet or more above the grade. A basement shall be counted as a story if subdivided or used for dwelling or business purposes.
Bathhouse and Massage Parlors: An establishment to which the public is permitted or invited and in which services offered include some form of physical contact between employee and patron and in which services offered are characterized or distinguished by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Bay: One unit of a building that consists of a series of similar units; commonly defined as the number of vertical divisions within a building façade.
Beacon: Any light with one or more beams directed into the atmosphere or directed at one or more points not on the same lot as the light source; also, any light with one or more beams that rotate or more.
Bed and Breakfast Establishment: A private owner-occupied single-family residence, with a maximum of five guestrooms rented for a daily fee, which is subordinate to the primary residence.
Best Management Practices (BMPs): A collection of structural practices and vegetative measures which, when properly designed, installed and maintained, will provide effective erosion and sedimentation control. The term "properly designed" means designed in accordance with the hydraulic design specifications contained in the "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia" specified in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6 subsection (b), as may be amended from time to time.
Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five days at 20 degrees Celsius, expressed in milligrams per liter.
Biomedical Waste Transfer and Disposal Facility: A facility engineered and designed for the collection and/or transfer of biomedical waste products such as used gauze, syringes, needles, bandages, test tubes, surgical wastes from a collector vehicle to a larger transport vehicle to another destination for incineration or disposal.
Blade sign: A sign that projects from a wall or surface that normally runs perpendicular to the wall or surface that it is attached.
Block Out Zone: An area that is measured from the intersecting points of a public right-of-way, street, road, highway, railroad, at any entrance onto or exit from any public road or other location and extending 20 feet along the right-of-way in each direction and closed so as to form a triangle in the corner created by the intersection.
Board (as pertaining to environmental protection): The State Board of Natural Resources.
Boardinghouse: A building, house, or portion thereof, where persons reside and meals are provided for not more than 15 persons, who are not members of the operator's family, for compensation.
Bootleg sign: A sign, placard, poster, card, banner, or other indication of the interests of any person, group, business, or organization affixed or attached to any post, pole, fence, tree, including but not limited to light or telephone poles, on any street, sidewalk, thoroughfare, or public right of way other than signs erected or caused to be erected by the City of Kennesaw.
Bottle House: Any place of business open to the public or any private club providing food or entertainment in the normal course of business, which allows guest, patrons or members to bring in and to consume alcoholic beverages on the premises.
Brace: A diagonal stabilizing member of a building frame.
Bracket: A projecting support used under cornices, eaves, balconies, or windows to provide structural support.
Brewery or Brewer: A domestic manufacturer of malt beverages that is licensed by the state. Provided a license is issued as required, a brewery is authorized to sell malt beverages by the package, by the drink and operate flight tastings on the premises of the brewery (or brewer) pursuant to appropriate state law, without additional license requirements, except as required in Chapter 78.
Brewpub means any eating establishment in which malt beverages are manufactured, subject to the barrel production limitation prescribed in O.C.G.A. § 3-5-36. As used in this paragraph, the term "eating establishment" means an establishment which is licensed to sell distilled spirits, malt beverages, or wines and which derives at least 50 percent of its total annual gross food and beverage sales from the sale of prepared meals or food; provided, however, that when determining the total annual gross food and beverage sales, barrels of malt beverages sold to licensed wholesale dealers, as authorized pursuant to subparagraph (D) of paragraph (2) of O.C.G.A. § 3-5-36, or to the public for consumption off the premises, as authorized pursuant to subparagraph (D) of paragraph (2) and paragraph (4) of O.C.G.A. § 3-5-36, shall not be used.
Buffer: An area serving as a visual or physical barrier created by the use of planted or natural existing materials alone in combination with berms, decorative fencing or walls. Except for a water quality buffer as defined in the UDC, the following uses are permitted within an undisturbed perimeter buffer (after site plan approval and certificates of occupancy issue): public and private utilities, detention facilities, access drives, pools, decks, gazebos, and fences.
Buffer Area: An area set aside to give additional setback from adjacent structures or types of land use.
Buildable Area of Lot: Refers to the area of a lot within the building setback lines within which a principal building or structure may be erected.
Building: Any structure designed or built for the support, enclosure, shelter, or protection of persons, animals or property of any kind.
Building, Accessory: A building subordinate to the main building on a lot and used for purposes incidental to the main or principal building and located on the same lot therewith. An accessory building shall be located behind the principal building.
Building, Principal: A building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which said building is situated. In any residential district, any structure containing a dwelling unit shall be defined to be the principal building on the plot on which same is situated.
Building Form: The overall shape of a structure.
Building Height (height of structure or building): The vertical distance to the highest point of the roof for flat roofs; to the deck line for mansard roofs; and to the average height between eaves and the ridge of the gable, hip, and gambrel roofs, measured from the curb level if the building is not more than ten feet from the front lot line or from the grade in all other cases.
Building line means a line beyond which no foundation wall or part of the structure of any building shall project, with the exception of roof overhang and the subsurface projection of footings; provided however, that such overhang and footings do not encroach upon the adjacent property or right-of-way.
Building Mass: The physical size and bulk of a structure.
Building Official: Person authorized to enforce provisions of the technical construction codes.
Building Scale: The size of structure as it appears to the pedestrian.
Building Setback Line: A line establishing the minimum allowable distance between the walls of the building or accessory structure and any right-of-way, or other property line, when measured perpendicularly thereto. Covered porches, fireplace chases, decks, eaves or any building structure, whether enclosed or not, shall be considered as a part of the building and shall not project into the required yard.
Bunting: A long colored strip of cloth or other pliable material used for festive decorations and containing no commercial or noncommercial message, logo or emblem, and must be attached to the structure.
Business Announcement Signs: Wall mounted or freestanding signs that announce the future opening and location of a business prior to the issuance of City of Kennesaw Certificate of Occupancy and Business License.
Business Area: Any street length between intersections where 50 percent or more of such street length is in use for business purposes.
Caliper: The standard for trunk measurements of nursery stock. Caliper of the trunk shall be taken at six inches above the ground for trees up to and including four-inch caliper size, and 12 inches above the ground for trees larger than four-inch caliper.
Canopy: A roofed structure constructed of fabric or other material placed so as to extend outward from a building providing a protective shield for doors, windows and other openings, supported by the building and supports extended to the ground directly under the canopy or cantilevered from the building.
Canopy Sign: A sign affixed to, imposed upon or painted on any permanent roof-like structure extending over a driveway or vehicle access area. Such signs may be mounted flush or suspended. A flush canopy sign is one that is mounted in such a manner that a continuous face with the canopy is formed. A hanging canopy sign is one suspended from or beneath the canopy.
Capital: The uppermost part of a column or pilaster.
Casement: A hinged window frame that opens horizontally like a door.
Car Wash: A building, or portion thereof, where vehicles are washed with the use of a chain conveyor and blower, automated or mechanized washers or hand-held steam-cleaning device.
Cellar: A portion of a building partly underground which has less than one-half of its height measured from finished floor to finished ceiling above the average grade of the adjoining ground and not deemed a story.
Centerline of Street: The line surveyed and monumented by the City of Kennesaw or the Georgia State Highway Department or if a centerline has not been surveyed and monumented, that line running midway between the outside curbs or ditches of the street.
Certificate of Appropriateness: A document evidencing approval by the Historic Preservation Commission of the proposal to make a material change in the appearance of a designated historic property, area, building, structure, monument, streetscape, square or neighborhood located with a designated historic property zone.
Certified Local Government (CLG): A program that is a mechanism to formally involve local governments in the national historic preservation program. Most states have procedures that extend CLG status to communities that adopt a preservation ordinance and establish a preservation commission.
Channel: A natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks that conducts continuously or periodically flowing water.
Character: Those individual qualities of buildings, sites and districts that differentiate and distinguish them from other buildings, sites and districts.
Characterized by means describing the essential character or quality of an item. As applied in this article, no business shall be classified as a sexually oriented business by virtue of showing, selling, or renting materials rated NC-17 or R by the Motion Picture Association of America.
Charitable Collection Receptacle: Any unattended receptacle or container made of metal, steel, or any other material designed or intended for the collection and temporary storage of charitable donations of clothing, books, personal or household items of other goods, which shall not include containers for the purpose of collecting monetary donations.
Chattahoochee River Tributary Protection Area hereinafter referred to as the "protection area;" is defined and established to be the stream channel and all the land within the 1st Class stream boundary and 2nd Class stream boundary of all 1st Class and 2nd Class flowing tributaries of the Chattahoochee River downstream from Buford Dam and upstream from Peachtree Creek as indicated on the Chattahoochee Tributary Map.
Chattahoochee Tributary Map: That map entitled "Chattahoochee Tributary Map" adopted January 3, 1984, as amended, by the Mayor and City Council which identifies all 1st Class, and 2nd Class flowing streams within the municipal limits of the City of Kennesaw, Georgia, and which may identify any affected land within the 1st Class stream boundary and the 2nd Class stream boundary.
Check cashing establishments means any business, company, corporation, establishment, organization, private enterprise, shop, or store whose primary service is that of a check casher, as defined by O.C.G.A, as may be amended from time to time.
Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD): A measure of oxygen equivalent of that portion of the organic matter in a sample that is susceptible to oxidation by a strong chemical oxidant.
Chevron: A V-shaped decoration generally used as a continuous frieze or molding that is typical of the Art Deco style.
Child care learning center: Any place operated by a person, society, agency, corporation, institution, or group wherein are received for pay for group care less than 24 hours per day, without transfer of legal custody, seven or more children under 18 years of age; provided, however, that this term shall not include a private school which provides kindergarten through grade 12 education, meets the requirements of O.C.G.A. § 20-2-690, and is accredited by one or more of the entities listed in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (6) of O.C.G.A. § 20-3-519 and which provides care before, after, or both before and after the customary school day to its students as an auxiliary service to such students during the regular school year only.
Christmas Tree Sales: Retail sales of Christmas trees between Thanksgiving and December 26th.
Cigar shops, smoke shops and tobacco stores: Any establishment that provides tobacco, cigarette and specialized accessories used for smoking purposes for retail sale. All accessories and products are subject to State and local regulations.
Circuses and Carnivals: Provision of games, eating and drinking facilities, live entertainment, animal exhibitions or similar activities in a tent or other temporary structure for a maximum of seven days. This classification excludes events conducted in a permanent entertainment facility. Fire Code compliance is required.
Citizen Advisory Committee: A committee comprised of a diverse cross section of citizens serving as volunteers for the purpose of providing feedback and recommendations on proposals dealing with city policies, land use proposals and initiatives that affect the general public. This committee is structured and will follow all the appropriate rules of conduct for committees and meeting structure including taking of minutes and submittal of findings to the City of Kennesaw Departments, City Manager and Mayor and Council.
City: City of Kennesaw.
City Council: Mayor and City Council for the City of Kennesaw.
City Engineer: The official or consulting engineer to whom the city has delegated the responsibilities normally associated with this title.
City of Kennesaw or City: Refers to a municipal corporation chartered pursuant to the laws of the State of Georgia, any department, board, or commission of such city, any elected or appointed official, or any employee or designee thereof.
Clean Water Act: The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
Clapboard: A long, narrow board with one edge thicker than the other, overlapped to cover the outer walls of frame structures.
Classical: Of, or pertaining to, the architecture of ancient Greece and Rome.
Clinic: A building designed and used for the diagnosis and treatment of human patients, not containing overnight care facilities. A clinic shall include laboratory facilities in conjunction with normal clinic services.
Closed Function: An event not open to the general public which must have a written, limited guest list prepared at least 48 hours in advance of the date on which the closed function is to occur, and which occurs on property owned and maintained by the city. No pay-at-the-door guest or drop-ins are to be permitted. Alcoholic beverages may be served without charge and consumed at closed functions, but the offer and sale of alcoholic beverages at such functions is prohibited; except that a general admission fee permitting attendance at the closed function may be collected in advance.
Club or Lodge (noncommercial): Building or facilities owned or operated by a corporation, association, person or persons for social, educational or recreational purpose, but not primarily for profit or to render a service which is customarily carried on as a business.
Co-location: The placement of additional antennas or antenna array on an existing or approved tower or alternative structures; or the sharing of a common location by two or more approved providers of wireless communication services.
Collector street: A street which is designated as such on the major thoroughfare plan and which is intended to collect traffic from residential streets and direct it safely to secondary or major streets.
Column: A slender upright structure, generally consisting of a cylindrical shaft, a base and a capital; pillar: It is usually a supporting or ornamental member in a building. Also, a vertical support of round section that in classical architecture consists of three parts: base, shaft, and capital.
Combiner: A device that allows two or more wireless service providers to share an antenna or an antenna array by combining signals to be transmitted and separating signals being received.
Commercial Building Type: A definition based on the composition of a commercial building's primary façade. Most commercial façades are divided into major divisions or elements that are used to define the building type.
Commercial Filming, Limited: Commercial motion picture or video photography at the same location six or fewer consecutive days per quarter of a calendar year in residential districts or fewer than 15 days per quarter of a calendar year in nonresidential districts.
Commercial Indoor Recreation Uses: Indoor recreational uses such as bowling alleys, driving ranges, batting cages, shooting ranges, and the like.
Commercial Message: Any message that identifies, advertises, directs attention to or promotes a business; or any message that attempts to generate good will for a business; or any message that advertises a good, product, property or service or otherwise proposing a commercial transaction.
Commercial Outdoor Recreation Uses: Outdoor recreation uses such as baseball and softball batting cages, shooting ranges, miniature golf, putt-putt golf, driving range, and the like.
Commercial Recreation Restaurant: Any establishment which provides as a principal uses the combination of family-oriented recreation and on-premises dining where neither the recreation nor the on-premises dining is clearly accessory or incidental to the operation of the other. Any such establishment shall not be a sexually oriented business. For the purpose of this definition, recreation may include but is not limited to:
1.
Television and motion pictures;
2.
Sound and sight systems;
3.
Mechanical and/or electronic operated games;
4.
Animated mechanical devices and/or rides; and
5.
Live entertainment.
Commission (as pertaining to environmental protection): The state soil and water conservation commission.
Community Activity Center: A future land use category to provide for areas that can meet the immediate needs of several neighborhoods or communities. Typical land uses for this area include low to mid-rise office buildings and department stores.
Community Fair: A festival or fair conducted wholly within public areas owned by a local government, provided that any activity is conducted at least 200 feet from any property line; any event shall not exceed 21 days.
Community Retail Uses: Retail commercial stores and services which are assigned to serve several neighborhoods making up a community such as: neighborhood retail uses larger than 6,000 square feet, department stores, discount houses, mini-malls, strip shopping centers, home improvement stores, wholesale outlets, clothing and apparel-marts, indoor flea markets, antique malls, sporting goods stores, and the like.
Compatible: Not detracting from surrounding elements, buildings, sites or structures; appropriate given what already exists.
Component: An individual part of a building, site or district.
Component: Any assembly, subassembly, or combination of parts for use as a part of a building, which may include structural, electrical, plumbing, mechanical, and fire protection systems and other systems affecting health and safety.
Condominium (building): Individual ownership of units in a multifamily structure, together with joint ownership of common areas of the building and grounds.
Confined Animal Feeding Operation: A building or fenced enclosure designed and used for the holding or fattening of animals in preparation for market.
Conservation Easement: A portion of land set aside in its natural state and preserved as open space in perpetuity.
Construction Activity: Activities subject to the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act or NPDES General Construction Permits. These include construction projects resulting in or involving land disturbance. Such activities include but are not limited to clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
Consumer Fireworks Retail Sales Facility: as defined by NFPA 1124, the structure is used primarily for the retail display and sale of consumer fireworks to the public. If the amount is greater than 1,000 (gross) pounds, then the occupancy must meet special sprinkler system and other special requirements for an H-3 occupancy under the 2012 International Fire Code (IFC) and International Building Code (IBC).
Contemporary: Of the current period; modern.
Context: The setting in which a historic element or building exists.
Contiguous: Next to, abutting, or touching and having a boundary, or portion thereof, which is common or coterminous.
Contributing: Contributes to the architectural or historic significance of a historic district. (A "contributing building" in a historic district is one that may be of limited individual significance but nevertheless functions as an important component of the district.)
Convenience Store: A retail establishment whose primary business is the sale of pre-packaged or unprepared food and grocery items which may sell fuel products, household items, or tobacco products and other goods commonly associated with the same.
Convenience Food Store with Self-service Fuel Sales: Any retail establishment offering for sale automotive fuels, pre-packaged food products, beverages, household items, and other goods commonly associated with the same. Further, there shall be no automotive repairs done on-site.
Conviction: Adjudication of guilt, plea of guilty, plea of "nolo contendere" or the forfeiture or a bond when charged with a crime, but shall not include a discharge under provisions of what is commonly called the State of Georgia First Offender Act.
Cooling Water: The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
Copy: Refers to the wording, designs and other advertising display on the surface of a sign.
Corbel: A projection or one of a series of projections, each stepped progressively farther forward with increasing height; anchored in a wall, story, column, or chimney.
EXPAND
Corinthian Order: The slenderest and most ornate of the classical Greek orders of architecture, characterized by a slim fluted column with bell-shaped capital decorated with stylized acanthus leaves.
  Cornice: The projection at the top of a wall. The top course or molding of a wall when it serves as a crowning member.
Corridor: All land within the buffer areas established adjacent to reservoirs or perennial streams within a water supply watershed.
Cottage Food Operator: A person who produces Cottage Food Products only in the Home Kitchen of that person's primary domestic residence and only for sale directly to the Consumer. The definition of terms relating to Cottage Food Operators as set forth in the regulations of the Georgia Department of Agriculture (Cottage Food Regulations - Rules 40-7-19 and as amended from time to time) are hereby adopted and incorporated as if fully set forth herein.
Cover: Vegetative or earth materials that provide natural shelter for animal life, or the factors that provide such shelter.
Critical Root Zone (CRZ): The minimum area beneath a tree which must be left undisturbed in order to preserve a sufficient root mass to give a tree a reasonable chance of survival. The critical root zone (CRZ) will typically be represented by a circle centered on the tree's trunk with a radius equal in feet to one and a quarter the number of inches of the trunk diameter. Example: The CRZ radius of a 20-inch diameter tree is 25 feet.
Crosswalk: A right-of-way within a block dedicated to public use for pedestrian use only and is so designed as to provide access to adjacent streets or lots.
Cul-de-Sac: A street having one end open to traffic and being permanently terminated within the plat by a vehicular turnaround.
Cultural Facility (private): Private building or facility such as art galleries, museums, legitimate theaters (other than motion picture or video), libraries, and other uses similar in character above.
Customer: Any owner of premises receiving any city utility system service or any end-user thereof, including any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual firm, association or trust and any municipal or private corporation organized or existing under the laws of this or any other state or country.
Cut (as pertaining to earthwork): A portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation; the depth below original ground surface to excavated surface; also known as excavation.
Dam: Means any artificial barrier, including appurtenance works, which impounds or diverts water, and which either:
1.
Is 25 feet or more in height from the natural bed of the stream or watercourse measured at the downstream tow of the barrier, or from the lowest elevation of the outside limit of the barrier if it is not across the stream channel or watercourse, to the maximum water storage elevation; or
2.
Has an impounding capacity at maximum water storage elevation of 50 acre-feet or more; excepting the following:
a.
Any artificial barrier which is not in excess of six feet in height, regardless of storage capacity, or which has a storage capacity at maximum water storage elevation not in excess of 15 acre-feet regardless of height;
b.
Any artificial barrier constructed by the United States Soil Conservation Service, or any other department or agency of the United States Government when such department or agency has designed or approved plans, has supervised construction, maintained the program of inspection, provided however, that this exception shall cease when the supervising federal agency relinquishes authority for the operation or maintenance of such artificial barrier;
c.
Any artificial barrier licensed by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or for which a license application is pending with the Federal Energy Regulation Commission; or
d.
Any artificial barrier classified by the state soil and water conservation committee as a dam where improper operation or dam failure would not be expected to result in loss of human life.
Dam Break Flood Zone: The area within the flood contour elevations subject to flooding as designated by the city engineer based upon information obtained from the U.S. Corp of Engineers or other federal, state, or county agencies, or local hydraulic studies undertaken as a result of any seepage or failure of any dam.
Dead storage: Storage of goods partly not in use and not associated with any principal commercial or manufactory use.
Dead-end street: A street having only one end open for access to another street, the other end being abruptly terminated with no turnaround.
Deck: A roofless accessory attached or detached platform without exterior walls, generally constructed of wood, which adjoins a residence. Rails or safety features shall not be deemed to be exterior walls.
Demolition: Any act or process that destroys a structure in part or in whole.
Density:
1.
The overall intensity of land use for the total project.
2.
Residential density is the number of housing units permitted per acre in the zoning district involved in accordance with the terms of the zoning ordinance or as authorized under conditional zoning by the Mayor and City Council. The maximum residential density per developable acre authorized for R-40, R-30, R-20, R-15, R-12, R-10, PUD-R, RA-4, RA-5, RA-6 RM-8, RM-12, RM-16, FST and MHP zoning districts are set forth in Chapter Four of the Unified Development Code. These maximums could be lowered by conditional zoning by the Mayor and City Council. A developable acre shall not include any part or parts of rivers, streams, floodplains and natural lakes which are not the result of manmade dams. The maximum allowable dwelling units per acre shall in no event exceed any of the following:
a.
The maximum set forth in article VIII of this appendix for such zoning district;
b.
The maximum dwelling units per acre which can be constructed without violating any other restrictions, limitations, and/or requirements of such zoning district or the maximum authorized under conditional zoning by the Mayor and City Council.
Density Factor: A unit of measure to prescribe the calculated basal area required for replacement or as existing tree coverage on a site.
Dentil: A small rectangular block used in a series below the cornice.
Department (as pertaining to environmental protection): The Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
Design Standards: The "design standards" manual provides specific development and rehabilitation standards for all new construction, as well as rehabilitation, reconstruction of historic properties within the Kennesaw Historic District. Also applies to the City-wide Design Standards.
Designation or Designated: A decision by the Mayor and City Council, wherein a property or district proposed for preservation is located, to designate such property or district as a "historic property" or as a "historic district."
Designated Recycling Collection Location: Metal or heavy-duty plastic containers, bins or dumpsters designed for short-term holding of pre-bagged recyclable items such as tin, aluminum, glass, and paper (no perishable or food items allowed) for scheduled minimum monthly pickup with no on-premises sorting. The center must be maintained in a safe, clean, neat and sanitary fashion.
1.
Such location shall be visually screened and maintained;
2.
Such location shall be within the building setbacks unless otherwise approved by the zoning administrator or his/her designee due to topography, safety, internal traffic flow, site distance, or for other site-related circumstances not created by the property owner.
Detention: The temporary storage of storm water runoff in a storm water management facility for the purpose of controlling the peak discharge.
Detention Facility: A detention basin or structure designed for the detention of storm water runoff and gradual release of stored water at controlled rates.
Developer: A person who undertakes land development activities.
Development: A land development or land development project.
Development or Single Development: Any project or group of related projects constructed or planned for construction on a single parcel or on contiguous parcels under single ownership.
Development Agreement: A written agreement between the City of Kennesaw and a property owner and/or his representative that sets forth obligations, conditions, timing, funding, or other land development project requirements.
Development of Regional Impact: Large scale developments that are likely to have regional effects beyond the City's jurisdiction.
Development Plan: Any plan as determined by the zoning administrator which shows substantial information and intent to develop the property affected in a specific manner.
Diameter: Diameter breast-height/DBH: The standard of tree size (for trees existing on a site). The tree trunk is measured at a height of four and a half feet above the ground. If a tree splits into multiple trunks below four and a half feet, measure the trunk at its most narrow point beneath the split.
Directional: Refers to providing instructions for travel to or indicating the location of a place or event, whether by words, arrows or other symbols.
Director (as pertaining to environmental protection): The director of the Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
Distance: The measurement in lineal feet from the closest point of the sign to the nearest property line or to the closest point of another sign, as the case may be.
Distiller: A manufacturer of distilled spirits.
Division (as pertaining to environmental protection): The Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
Doric Order: A classical order most readily distinguished by its simple, unornamented capitals and tablets with vertical grooving, called triglyphs, set at regular intervals in the frieze.
Dormer or Dormer Window: A window set upright in a sloping roof. The term is also used to refer to the roofed projection in which this window is set.
Double-Hung Sash Window: A window with two sashes, one above the other, arranged to slide vertically past each other.
Downtown Activity Center: A future land use category that is designed to reinforce the unique role and character of the City of Kennesaw downtown area.
Drainage Easement: An easement appurtenant or attached to a tract or parcel of land allowing the owner of adjacent tracts or other persons to discharge storm water runoff onto the tract or parcel of land subject to the drainage easement.
Drainage Structure: A device composed of a virtually non-erodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water from one place to another by intercepting the flow and carrying it to a release point for storm-water management, drainage control, or flood control purposes.
Drip Line: An imaginary vertical line that extends from the outermost branches of a tree's canopy to the ground.
Drive-in Establishment: An establishment which is designed to provide, either wholly or in part, service to customers while in their automobiles parked upon the premises.
Dwelling: A building designed, arranged or used for permanent living and/or sleeping quarters (excludes mobile home).
Dwelling, Multifamily: A building designed for three or more multifamily dwelling units.
Dwelling, Single-Family: A building designed or arranged to be occupied by one family only.
Dwelling, Two-Family (duplex): A building designed or arranged to be occupied by two families living independently of each other.
Dwelling Unit: One or more rooms physically arranged so as to create an independent housekeeping establishment for occupancy by one family with separate toilets and facilities for cooking and sleeping.
Easement: A grant by the property owner for the use by the public, a corporation, or persons of a strip of land for specific purposes.
Eating and drinking establishment: Retail establishments selling food and drink for consumption on the premises, including lunch counters and refreshment stands selling prepared foods and drinks for immediate on-site consumption.
Eave: The underside of a sloping roof projecting beyond the wall of a building.
Economically and Technically Feasible and Viable: Refers to the capability of being provided:
1.
Through technology which has been demonstrated in actual applications (not simply through tests or experiments) to operate in a workable manner; and
2.
In a manner which has a reasonable likelihood of generating a reasonable profit or other financial benefits, when measured over the term of the lease.
Electronic Display: Shall mean a message displayed through the use of LED, LCD, plasma, or other similar type of panels or screens.
Element: An individual defining feature of a building, structure, site or district.
Elevated Building: A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated floor raised above the ground level by foundation, walls, shear walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
Elevation: A mechanically accurate, "head-on" drawing of a face of a building or object, without any allowance for the effect of the laws of perspective. Any measurement on an elevation will be in a fixed proportion, or scale, to the corresponding measurement on the real building.
Engaged Column: A column partially built into a wall, not freestanding.
Entablature: The horizontal part of an architectural order, supported on columns, composed of architrave, frieze, and cornice.
Entry wall sign: Any single faced sign attached to or erected and confined within the limits of an exterior wall generally along the perimeter of a development.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA): The United States Environmental Protection Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the administrator or other duly authorized official of such agency.
Erosion: The process by which land surface is worn away by the action of wind, water, ice or gravity.
Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan: A plan for the control of soil erosion and sedimentation resulting from a land-disturbing activity.
Escort Bureau, Introduction Services: Any business, agency or persons who, for a fee, commission, hire, reward, profit or other consideration, furnishes or offers to furnish names of persons, or who introduces, furnishes or arranges for persons who may accompany other persons to or about social affairs, entertainments or places of amusements, or who may consort with others about any place of public resort or within any private quarters.
Ex Parte Communication: Some form of communication between one party to a proceeding (e.g., an applicant for a permit) and a public official with some responsibility for making a decision affecting that proceeding occurring outside the formal decision-making process and without the knowledge of the other party to the proceeding.
Existing Construction: Any structure for which the "start of construction" commenced before August 1, 1980.
Existing Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision: A manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and the final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before August 1, 1980.
Expansion to an Existing Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision: Refers to the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads.
Explicit media outlet means any commercial establishment which has an inventory of goods that is composed of at least 50 percent of books, pamphlets, magazines, or other printed publications, films or other media which depict sexually explicit nudity or sexual conduct.
Extended Detention: The detention of storm water runoff for an extended period, typically 24 hours or greater.
Extended Stay Hotel or Motels: Any hotel or motel in which fifty percent or greater of all guest rooms have facilities for both the storage and preparation of food and which are designed or utilized for weekly or monthly occupancy.
Exterior Architectural Appearance: Architectural character, general composition, and general arrangement of the exterior of the structure; including, but not limited to, the kind, color, and texture of the building material and type and character of all windows, doors, light fixtures, signs, and appurtenant elements.
Exterior Environmental Features: All those aspects of the landscape or the development of the site including but not limited to walls, fences, signs, light fixtures, steps or appurtenant elements thereof including any improvement, grading or alteration of the land.
Exterior Environmental Features: All those aspects of the landscape or the development of the site including but not limited to walls, fences, signs, light fixtures, steps or appurtenant elements thereof including any improvement, grading or alteration of the land.
Extreme Flood Protection: Measures taken to prevent adverse impacts from large low-frequency storm events with a return frequency of 100 years or more.
Façade: That portion of any exterior elevation on the building extending from grade to top of the parapet, wall, or eaves and the entire width of the building elevation.
False Front: A front wall which extends beyond the sidewalls of a building to create a more imposing façade.
Fall zone: An area equal to 133% of the height of a structure in every direction.
Family: One or more related persons by blood, legal adoption, or marriage or not more than three (3) persons not related, occupying a dwelling and living as a single housekeeping unit, as distinguished from persons occupying a boardinghouse, rooming house, hotel, or Purpose Built Student Housing as herein defined. Maximum residential occupancy for a residential dwelling unit will be calculated by the number of residents per square foot of floor space as per the currently adopted International Property Maintenance Code.
Family child care learning home: means a private residence operated by any person who receives therein for pay for supervision and care less than 24 hours per day, without transfer of legal custody, at least three but not more than six children under 13 years of age who are not related to such person and whose parents or guardians are not residents in the same private residence.
Fanlight: A window, often semi-circular, over a door, with radiating muntins suggestive of a fan.
Farm Winery: A domestic manufacturer of wine in quantities of less than 100,000 gallons of wine per calendar year, that is licensed by the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. 3-6-21.1, or as may be amended from time to time. Provided a license is issued as required by this chapter, a farm winery is authorized to sell wine by the package, by the drink and operate a wine tasting facility on the premises of the farm winery without additional license requirements, except as is required by state or federal law or The tasting room shall be limited to a single room. Licensed premises means the premises for which the farm winery license is issued or property located contiguous to the farm winery and owned by the winery.
Fast food restaurant: An establishment whose principal business is the sale of pre-prepared or rapidly prepared food directly to the customer in a ready-to-consume state for consumption either within the restaurant building, in cars, on the premises, or off the premises.
Feather flag sign: A sign other than a flag or banner without or without characters, letters or illustrations or ornamentation applied to cloth, paper, plastic or fabric affixed to a pole or poles that erected by the insertion of a stake into the ground or other optional base. A feather flag sign includes but is not limited to flags customarily referred to by the sign industry as blade flags, rectangle flags, teardrop flags or swooper flags.
Fee Simple: The owner is entitled to the entire property with unconditional power of disposition during his life and which descends to his heirs and legal representatives upon his death intestate.
Fenestration: The arrangement and design of windows in a building.
Fill (as pertaining to earthwork): A portion of land surface to which soil or other solid material has been added; the depth above the original ground.
Final Plat: A finished drawing or drawings of the subdivision showing completely and accurately all legal and engineering information and certification necessary for recording. The finished drawing or drawings may consist of one or more drawings of the subdivision which together form the final plat, all of which must comply with the requirements of this chapter.
Finished Grade: The final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting or filling and conforming to the proposed design.
Flag: A piece of fabric or other flexible material solely containing distinctive colors, patterns, standards, words or emblems used as the symbol of an organization or entity.
Flag mounted wall sign: A sign that is affixed perpendicular to a wall.
Flashing (as pertains to lighting): Illumination which is not kept constant in intensity at all times when in use and which exhibits sudden or marked changes in lighting effects. The term "flashing" excludes illuminated signs which indicate only time and/or temperature, provided that such time/temperature signs do not change or alternate messages more than 12 times a minute.
Floatable Oil: Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment facility. Wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection system.
Flood or Flooding: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
1.
The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
2.
The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM): An official map of a community, issued by the Federal Insurance Administration, where the boundaries of areas of special flood hazard have been defined as Zone A.
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM): An official map of a community, issued by the Federal Insurance Administration, delineating the areas of special flood hazard and/or risk premium zones applicable to the community.
Flood Insurance Study (FIS): The official report by the Federal Insurance Administration evaluating flood hazards and containing flood profiles and water surface elevations of the base flood.
Floodplain or Flood-prone Area: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any source (see definition of "flooding")
Floodway or Regulatory Floodway: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated height.
Floor Area, Gross: The floor area within the inside perimeter of the exterior walls of the building under consideration, exclusive of vent shafts and courts, without deduction for corridors, stairways, closets, the thickness of interior walls, columns or other features. The floor area of a building, or portion thereof, not provided with surrounding exterior walls shall be the usable area under the horizontal projection of the roof or floor above.
Floor Area, Net: The floor area within a building being heated by any equipment or appliance.
Floor Area Ratio: The ratio of floor area permitted on a zoning lot to the size of the lot:
Floor Area/Lot Area = Floor Area Ratio.
Foot Candle: A quantitative unit measuring the amount of light cast on to a given point, measured as one (1) lumen per square foot.
Footprint: The horizontal area as seen in plan, measured from the outside of all exterior walls and supporting columns. It includes residences, garages, covered carports, and accessory structures, but not trellises, patios, and areas of porch, deck, and balcony less than 30 inches from finished grade.
Fraternity or Sorority House: A dwelling maintained exclusively for members affiliated with an academic or professional college or university or other recognized institution of higher learning.
Freestanding Sign: A self-contained sign which is wholly independent of any building or other structure, including but not limited to ground based monument sign but not including any off-premises outdoor advertising sign, any canopy or awning sign located within the buildable area of the lot, temporary signs, flags, standard information sign, wall sign, window sign, menu sign, signs on accessory uses, or suspended sign.
EXPAND
Frieze: The middle horizontal member of a classical entablature, above the architrave and below the cornice.
Frontage, Lot: The distance for which the front property line of the lot and the street line are coincident.
Functionally Dependent Use: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water.
  Functions (as pertaining to wetlands): The beneficial roles that wetlands serve, including: storage, conveyance and attenuation of floodwater and storm water; protection of water quantity and reduction of erosion; habitat for wildlife, including rare, threatened and endangered species; food chain support for a wide variety of wild life and fisheries; educational, historical and archeological value protection; and scenic, aesthetic and recreational amenities.
Gable: The portion, above eave level, of an end wall of a building with a pitched or gambrel roof. In the case of a pitched roof this takes the form of a triangle. The term is also used sometimes to refer to the whole end wall.
Garage: A structure or any portion thereof in which one or more automobiles are housed or kept, not including exhibition or showrooms, or storage of cars for sale.
Garbage (as pertaining to Utilities): The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
Generalized Wetland Map: A map showing the general locations of wetlands within the jurisdiction of the City of Kennesaw as shown on the National Wetlands Inventory (NWI) map.
Golf Course: A tract of land [of] not less than 115 acres dedicated for playing the game of golf which is open to the private club's membership and their guests and special events. The par shall not be less than 68 the men's tees as governed by the United States Golf Association (USGA). Further, the golf course shall not measure less than 5,550 yards as governed by the USGA.
Grade: An average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the building or structure.
Grading: Altering the shape of ground surfaces to a predetermined condition; this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling and shaping or any combination thereof and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
Grading Permit: A permit issued on-site by the site inspection staff to allow the commencement of any clearing, grubbing and/or grading. This building permit is issued only after a land disturbance permit has been issued and all erosion control and tree protection measures have been installed in accordance with the approved plan.
Green Infrastructure: Is an approach to wet weather management that is cost-effective, sustainable, and environmentally friendly. Green Infrastructure management approaches and technologies infiltrate, evapotranspire, capture and reuse stormwater to maintain or restore natural hydrologies.
Green Space or Open Space: Permanently protected areas of the site that are preserved in a natural state.
Grocery Store: A retail establishment whose primary function is the sale of packaged or unprepared food and grocery items for consumption off the premises and whose annual gross sales of alcoholic beverages do not exceed five percent of its total gross sales.
Ground Based Monument Sign: A self-contained sign permanently attached to the ground which is wholly independent of any building or other structure. The sign must be a solid structure. No open spaces which allow a direct line of sight from one side of the sign to the other are permissible in the area located beneath the widest part of the sign face where the message is located in a direct vertical plane to the ground. By way of example and without limitation the sign cannot be attached to, resting upon, or supported by any pillars, columns, pylons which allow for open spaces or direct line of sight from one side of the sign to the other beneath the widest area of the sign face in a direct vertical plane to the ground.
Ground Elevation: The original elevation of the ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
Group Home: A dwelling unit, operated by an affiliate of a national, regional, state or county organization that has a philanthropic mission, who live together as a single housekeeping unit and which has a long term, family-like environment wherein staff persons provide care, education and participation in community activities, under a structured and scheduled plan with the primary goal of enabling the residents to live as independently as possible in order to reach their maximum potential. A group home may include a home for the disabled. As used in this subsection, the term "disabled" shall mean:
(1)
Having a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of such person's major life activities;
(2)
Having a record of having such an impairment; or
(3)
Being regarded as having such impairment.
However, "disabled" shall not include persons who currently use illegal controlled substances, persons who have been convicted of the illegal manufacture or distribution of controlled substances, sex offenders, and juvenile offenders or persons with or without disabilities who present a direct threat to the persons or property of others. The term "group home" shall not include a halfway house, a treatment center for alcoholism or drug abuse, a work release facility for convicts or ex-convicts, a home for the detention and/or rehabilitation of juveniles adjudged delinquent or unruly and placed in the custody of the state, or other housing facilities serving as an alternative to incarceration. The term "group home" shall also not allow the use of a dwelling as an apartment or duplex. A group home shall not allow the use of a dwelling as a home for individuals on parole, probation, or convicted and released from incarceration, for any crimes including child molestation, aggravated child molestation, or child sexual abuse, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 16-6-4, as may be amended from time to time, or individuals required to register as sex offenders pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 42-1-12, as may be amended from time to time.
Growing Season: A period of no less than 12 months during which there are at least three contiguous months of dormancy followed by a spring leafing.
Growler Shop: Any establishment selling only malt beverages, craft beer, wine and/or hard cider and holding either a package license or a package/pouring license that allows for both package sales of malt beverages, craft beer and/or hard cider and limited consumption of malt beverages, craft beer, wine and/or hard cider on the premises pursuant to Section 6-111 of the City Code. Growler shops shall not be required to have more than one entrance to the establishment in order to hold a pouring/package license and shall not be required to serve or sell food in addition to the service or sales of alcohol.
Grubbing: The removal of understory vegetation from the site, provided that no trees greater than six inches in diameter as measured at the base shall be removed.
Halfway House: Any dwelling used as a residence for the purpose of rehabilitating individuals in order to transition back into the community and housing any of the following: individuals being treated for drug dependency, on parole, probation, or serving a criminal sentence on condition of house arrest.
Hardwood Tree: Any tree that is not coniferous (cone bearing). This definition is based on the colloquialism, and does not necessarily reflect any true qualities of the tree.
Hazardous Waste: Solid and liquid wastes or combinations thereof that may cause or contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in serious, irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness or which pose a substantial threat to human health when improperly handled.
Header: The end of a brick, sometimes glazed.
Health Department: Refers to the county health department.
Heavy Manufacturing Establishment: Manufacturing establishments, other than those classified as light manufacturing, including those involving the conversion of raw materials into usable finished products, provided that manufacturing that will generate liquid waste from the manufacturing process or air pollutants shall comply with anti-pollution standards by the state or county.
Height: The measure in linear feet from the highest point on an object to the unaltered elevation of the ground at the base of the object or directly beneath the object. At the election of the permit holder, the height of a sign may be measured from the highest point on the sign to the level of the nearest road from which the sign is intended to be viewed. When referring to a tower or other structure, a distance measured from the finished grade of the parcel to the highest point on the tower or other structure, including the base pad and any antenna.
High Density Residential (land use): A future land use category that provides for locations where housing at densities of four (4) to sixteen (16) dwelling units per acre is appropriate. Density on any particular site should be sensitive to surrounding areas and should offer a reasonable transition of land use. The higher end of the range, sixteen (16) units per acre, should be limited to major highway corridors.
High Style: A completely authentic or academically correct interpretation of an architectural style; a "textbook" example of one particular style and not a composition of several different styles.
Highest Adjacent Grade: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface, prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed foundation of a building.
Historic: Refers to a property or resource that must be at least 50 years old to be considered "historic". Ordinarily cemeteries, birthplaces, graves of historical figures, properties owned by religious institutions or used for religious purposes, structures that have been moved from their original locations, reconstructed historic buildings, properties primarily commemorative in nature, and properties that have achieved significance within the past 50 years shall not be considered "historic" nor eligible for the National Register of Historic Places. However, such properties will qualify if they are integral parts of districts that do meet the criteria or if they fall within the following categories:
1.
A religious property deriving primary significance from architectural or artistic distinction or historical importance; or
2.
A building or structure removed from its original location but which is primarily significant for architectural value, or which is the surviving structure most importantly associated with a historic person or event; or
3.
A birthplace or grave of a historical figure of outstanding importance if there is no other appropriate site or building directly associated with his or her productive life; or
4.
A cemetery which derives its primary significance from graves of persons of transcendent importance, from age, from distinctive design features, or from association with historic events; or
5.
A reconstructed building when accurately executed in a suitable environment and presented in a dignified manner as part of a restoration master plan, and when no other buildings or structure with the same association has survived; or
6.
A property primarily commemorative in intent if design, age, tradition, or symbolic value has invested it with its own exceptional significance; or
7.
A property achieving significance within the past 50 years if it's of exceptional importance.
Historic Building: Any building located in the City of Kennesaw Historic District that is designated by the Historic Preservation Commission as being "historic" pursuant to Section 4.02.01E of the Unified Development Code, as amended from time to time.
Historic District: A zoning district which possesses a significant concentration, linkage, or continuity of sites, buildings, structures, or objects united historically or aesthetically by plan or physical development. (college campuses, central business districts, residential areas, commercial areas, large forts, industrial complexes, civic centers, rural villages, canal systems, collections of habitation and limited activity sites, irrigation systems, large farms, ranches, estate, or plantations, transportation networks, and large landscaped parks).
Historic Landmark or Property (ies) or historical landmark or property (ies): Any site (including significant trees or other plant life located thereon), building, or structure or particular historic or aesthetic significance to the city, the state or the nation. Landmarks include sites, buildings, or structures where cultural, political, spiritual, economic, social or artistic history of the community, state or nation is reflected or exemplified or which are identified with historic personages or with important events in local, state or national history, or which embody the distinguishing characteristics of an architectural specimen, inherently valuable for a representation of a period, style or method of construction, or a notable work of construction, or a notable work of a master designer or architect whose individual genius influenced his age, or as determined by the Historic Preservation Commission or Museum and Agency Director.
Historic Object: A term ("object") used to distinguish buildings and structures from those constructions that are primarily artistic in nature or are relatively small in scale and simply constructed. Although it may be, by nature or design, movable, an object is associated with a specific setting or environment. (Sculpture, monuments, boundary markers, statuary, and fountains).
Historic Preservation: Identification, evaluation, recordation, documentation, curation, acquisition, protection, management, rehabilitation, restoration, stabilization, maintenance, and reconstruction, or any combination of the foregoing activities.
Historic Preservation Jurisdiction: All properties within but not limited to the properties, buildings or sites or districts as designated by the City of Kennesaw and/or further designated on the historic register of the city, state or nation.
Historic Restoration: Requires that the re-creation duplicate the appearance at some previous point in time as closely as current scholarship allows.
Historic Significance: The importance of a property to history, architecture, archeology, engineering, or culture of a community, state, or the nation. It is achieved through association with events, activities or patterns; association with important persons; distinctive physical characteristics of design, construction, or form; potential to yield important information.
Historic Site: Refers to the location of a significant event, a prehistoric or historic occupation or activity, or a building or structure, whether standing, ruined, or vanished, where the location itself possesses historic, cultural, or archeological value regardless of the value of any existing structure (habitation sites, funerary sites, rock shelters, village sites, hunting and fishing sites, ceremonial sites, pertroglyphs, rock carvings, gardens, grounds, battlefields, ruins of historic buildings and structures, campsites, trails, areas of land, cemeteries, designed landscapes, and natural features, such as springs and rock formations, and land areas having cultural significance).
Historic Structure: Refers to any structure that is:
1.
Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or that has been determined eligible for individual listing on the National Register of Historic Places as determined by the Secretary of the Interior of the United States, for significance at the local, state or national level.
2.
Determined to be a contributing building, site, structure, or object in a historic district listed on the National Register of Historic Places or a contributing building, site, structure, or object in a historic district that has been determined eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places as determined by the Secretary of the Interior of the United States for significance at the local, state, or national level.
3.
Listed on the Georgia Register of Historic Places either individually or as a contributing element in a historic district. The Georgia Register of Historic Places uses the same criteria and documentation procedures as the National Register of Historic Places. Properties listed in the National Register are automatically listed in the Georgia Register. Conversely, properties in the Georgia Register are not included in the National Register unless they are separately nominated. The Georgia Register is the state designation referenced by state laws and regulations regarding state grants, property tax abatements, the Georgia Environmental Policy Act, the State-owned Historic Properties Act, and other state preservation and environmental programs.
4.
Listed on a Local Inventory of Historic Places either individually or as contributing element in a historic district. The City of Kennesaw uses the same criteria and documentation procedures as the National Register of Historic Places.
Historic or Scenic Views: Geographic areas in the City of Kennesaw which have been formally designated on the National Historic Register; have been included in any nature preserve or scenic preservation efforts; have been identified in the City of Kennesaw Comprehensive Plan; or have sufficient historic or scenic merit as determined by the Mayor and Council or by the Kennesaw Historic Preservation Commission. A scenic view may be from a stationary viewpoint or be seen as one travels along a roadway or path.
Holding Tank Waste: Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum pump tank trucks.
Home Occupations: Home Occupation means those occupations which are customarily performed in a small area of a residence due to the low intensity nature of such uses and which have any one of the following characteristics associated with its operation:
i.
The home occupation requires customers to frequent the residence;
ii.
The home occupation requires nonrelated employees to work at the residence;
iii.
The home occupation involves the creation, manufacturing, or producing of a product at the residence and such product(s) are intended for sale;
iv.
The home occupation is a cottage food operator;
v.
the home occupation involves the regular collection, purchase, storage, or distribution of products (new or used) at the residence and such product(s) are intended for sale.
vi.
A Land Use permit approval is required.
Hookah: A water pipe of Middle Eastern origin used to smoke tobacco and fruit flavorings. The apparatus utilizes a glass base with a hose and grommet assembly.
Hookah Bars: Similar in use to traditional bar serving alcohol. The hookah bar sells flavored tobacco that is smoked in hookahs. Subject to State and local laws regulating bar operations and smoking and tobacco use.
Hospital: A building or portion thereof designed or used for therapeutic treatment of bed patients who are physically or mentally ill.
Hotel: A facility offering transient lodging for at least 15 guests, and offered to the public for compensation and in which ingress and egress to and from all rooms are made through an inside lobby or office supervised by a person in charge at all hours.
Hotspot: An area where the use of the land has the potential to generate highly contaminated runoff, with concentrations of pollutants in excess of those typically found in storm water.
Housing Official: The building official or his or her authorized representative.
Human Excreta: The bowel and kidney discharges of human beings.
Hydric Soils: Soils that form as a result of saturated soil conditions. A list of these soils is maintained by the Soil Conservation Service.
Hydrologic Soil Group (HSG): A Natural Resource Conservation Service classification system in which soils are categorized into four runoff potential groups. The groups range from group "A" soils, with high permeability and little runoff produced, to group D soils, which have low permeability rates and produce much more runoff.
Hydrophytic Vegetation: Macrophytic plants tolerant of or dependant on saturated soil conditions.
Illicit Discharge: Any direct or indirect non-storm water discharge to the (municipal) separate storm sewer system, except as exempted in Chapter 3.
Illegal Connection: Refers to either of the following:
(1)
Any pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which allows an illicit discharge to enter the storm drain system including but not limited to any conveyances which allow any non-storm water discharge including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain system, regardless of whether such pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance has been previously allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency; or
(2)
Any pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance connected to the (municipal) separate storm sewer system which has not been documented in plans, maps, or equivalent records and has not been approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
Illuminated sign, external: A sign illuminated by an external light source. Such source cannot be a device that changes color, flashes or alternates.
Illuminated sign, internal: A sign illuminated by an internal light source. Such source cannot be a device that changes color, flashes or alternates.
Impervious Cover or Surface: A manmade structure or surface that prevents the infiltration of storm water into the ground below the structure or surface. Examples include buildings, roads, driveways, parking lots, decks, swimming pools, and patios.
Includes: Denotes a partial definition.
Indirect Discharge: The discharge or the introduction of nondomestic pollutants from any source regulated under Section 307(b) or (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1317), into the POTW, including holding tank waste discharged into the system.
Indoor Entertainment Hall: A publicly or privately owned commercial establishment that:
1.
Provides professional, live musical entertainment or concerts, performed on site indoors, at least three nights a week on average over the course of a calendar year;
2.
Regularly serves prepared food, with a full service kitchen, consisting of a three-compartment pot sink, a stove or grill permanently installed, and refrigerator, all of which must be approved by the health and fire departments;
3.
Is prepared to serve food every hour it is open;
4.
Derives at least 25 percent of its total annual gross sales from the sale of prepared meals or foods, admission charges, ticket sales, sale of merchandise, vending sales, attendance fees, or other recreational, promotional, or operational activities;
5.
Does not ever provide sexually related adult entertainment;
6.
Has at least 40,000 square feet of enclosed heated space;
7.
Has an occupant capacity of at least 3,500;
8.
Is located on a major thoroughfare;
9.
Does not provide the sale of alcohol on Sundays, unless such establishment qualifies for Sunday sales under state law and the provisions of this chapter of the Kennesaw Code of Ordinances; and
10.
Does not allow the admission of persons under the age of 21 during hours when alcohol is served, except in accordance with the provisions of section 6-90 hereunder. Indoor entertainment halls shall be allowed to sell alcoholic beverages through concession sales.
Industrial Activity: Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as defined in 40 CFR, Section 122.26 (b) (14).
Industrial area (land use): A future land use category to provide for areas that can support light industrial, office/warehouse, and distribution uses as well as heavy industrial and manufacturing.
Industrial Fluids System: Any system containing a fluid or solution, which may be chemically, biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted, in a form or concentration such as would constitute a health, system or pollutional hazard if introduced into an approved water supply. This may include, but not be limited to: polluted or contaminated waters; process waters and "used waters" originating from the public potable water system, which may have deteriorated in sanitary quality; chemicals in fluid form; plating acids and alkalies, circulating cooling waters connected to an open cooling tower and/or cooling towers that are chemically or biologically treated or stabilized with toxic substances; oils, gases, glycerin, paraffin's, caustic and acid solutions and other liquid and gaseous fluids used in industrial or other purposes or for firefighting purposes; or contaminated natural waters emanating from wells, springs, streams, rivers, bays, harbors, seas, irrigation canals or systems.
Industrial Storm Water Permit: A National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued to an industry or group of industries which regulates the pollutant levels associated with industrial storm water discharges or specifies on-site pollution control strategies.
Industrial User: A source of indirect discharge which does not constitute a discharge of pollutants under regulations issued pursuant to section 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1342).
Industrial Waste Surcharge: The charge made in excess of the sewer service charge for all wastewater over and above normal wastewater.
Industrial Wastes: The wastewater from industrial processes as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
Industrialized Building: Any structure or component thereof which is designed and constructed in compliance with the state minimum standards code and is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation on a building site and has been manufactured in such a manner that all parts or processes cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof.
Infill: New construction within a historic district generally situated on the site of a demolished structure but possibly on a site never previously developed.
Infill Development: The construction of a building on a vacant parcel located in a predominantly built up area.
Infiltration: The process of percolating storm water runoff into the subsoil.
Inflatable Advertising Devices: Refers to air or gas filled signs and figures used for advertising purposes. The term "inflatable advertising devices" excludes latex and similar balloons of less than two feet in diameter.
Inoperative or Junk Condition: means and includes, but shall not be limited to, any automobile, vehicle, trailer of any kind or type, or contrivance or part thereof, the condition of which is one or more of the following:
(1)
Wrecked.
(2)
Dismantled.
(3)
Partially dismantled.
(4)
Inoperative.
(5)
Abandoned.
(6)
Discarded.
(7)
Does not have a valid license plate attached thereto or is otherwise in bad repair.
(Code 1986, § 8-5-171; Ord. No. 2006-17, 8-7-06)
Inspection and Maintenance Agreement: A written agreement providing for the long-term inspection and maintenance of storm water management facilities and practices on a site or with respect to a land development project, which when properly recorded in the deed records constitutes a restriction on the title to a site or other land involved in a land development project.
Installation: The assembly of an industrialized building on-site and the process of affixing the industrialized building, component, or system to land, a foundation, footings, or an existing building.
Interference (as pertaining to water and sewerage treatment): The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment processes or operations which contribute to a violation of any requirement of the county's NPDES permit. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the POTW in accordance with section 405 of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1345) or any criteria, guidelines or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, or more stringent state criteria, including those contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to title IV of SWDA, applicable to the method of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
Interior Sign: A sign intended to be placed in and viewed from the interior of a building.
Interpretive Restoration: Less scholarly than a historic restoration, it involves keeping all of the original architectural features intact and reconstructing missing elements as faithfully as budget allows.
Interstate Highway: Refers to any road of the state highway system which is a portion of the National System of Interstate and Defense Highways, as officially designated or as may hereafter be so designated by the state department of transportation and approved by the United States Secretary of Transportation pursuant to 23 USC 103, or any limited access highway as officially designated or as may hereafter be so designated by the state department of transportation and approved by the United States Secretary of Transportation pursuant to the provisions of 23 USC 103. Includes Interstate 75.
Ionic Order: A classical order distinguished by a capital with spiral scrolls, called volutes.
Jurisdictional Wetland: A wetland area that meets the definitional requirements for wetlands as determined by the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers.
Keystone: The central voussoir of an arch shaped in a wedge form.
Kitchenette: An area for preparation of foods limited to a refrigerator, sink, stovetop unit, microwave unit or portable oven and shall not include a built-in oven.
Knee Brace: A non-structural diagonal member used as exterior ornamentation, extending from the façade to the eave of a building.
Lake: A body of water one acre or more in surface area, created either by a manmade or natural dam or other means of water impoundment.
Land Development: Any land change, including, but not limited to, clearing, digging, grubbing, stripping, removal of vegetation, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land, construction, paving, and any other installation of impervious cover.
Land Development Activities: Refers to those actions or activities which comprise, facilitate or result in land development.
Land Development Project: Refers to a discrete land development undertaking.
Land Disturbance: Means any land change intentionally brought about by any person as a result of activities which include, but are not limited to, clearing, grubbing, stripping, removal of vegetation, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land, that do not involve construction, paving or any other installation of impervious cover.
Land-Disturbing Activity: Scraping, plowing, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, or filling of land or placement of any structure or impervious surface, dam, obstruction, or deposit and as defined by O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq. (Georgia's Control of Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Act) as amended from time to time.
Land Use Permit: A time limited privilege permit for allowing compatible business uses in residentially zoned property.
Landfill (private): A disposal site employing an engineering method of disposing of solid wastes in a manner that minimizes environmental hazards by spreading, compacting to the smallest volume, and applying cover material over all exposed waste at the end of the operating day.
Landmark: A building, structure, object or site worthy of preservation, designated as historic for its historic, archaeological, architectural or aesthetic value.
Large Quantity Generator of Hazardous Waste: Any person, corporation, partnership, association or other legal entity defined as a "large quantity generator" by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources pursuant to O.C.G.A. 12-8-60 et seq., as may be amended from time to time, and regulated by the State of Georgia under that section.
Legal Lot of Record: A lot which meets the legal requirements set forth for the applicable zoning district.
Light (architectural): A section of window, the pane or glass.
Light Automotive Repair Establishment: An indoor repair establishment (no outside storage) for performing light auto and small truck repair (under one ton) such as oil changes, lubrication, transmission, belts, hoses, inspections, brakes, and the like.
Light Manufacturing Establishment: An establishment for production, processing, assembly, manufacturing, compounding, preparation, cleaning, servicing, testing, or repair of material, goods or products; however, the manufacturing and production of any product which emits noxious noise, odor or fumes, bulk storage of flammable materials for resale, and other heavy manufacturing uses listed herein, shall not be permitted.
Limited Development Area: The portion of the water supply watershed not included in the water quality area.
Limited Home Occupations: Those occupations which are customarily performed in a small area of a residence due to the low intensity nature of such uses subject to the requirements outlined in the districts in which they are a permitted use.
Limited Retail Uses: Commonly found specialized low scale and/or low intensity retail uses (square footages not to exceed 5,000 square feet unless noted below) that offer basic services and frequently purchased goods to the immediate surrounding residential areas such as: antique shop, bakery, barber and beauty shops, beverage shop, bookstore (but not including adult bookstore), bridal shop, camera shop, china and pottery store, clothing store, craft and hobby shop, delicatessen, dog grooming shop, draperies and interior decorating supplies, drug store or hardware store with no permanent outside display (provided that the gross floor area does not exceed 10,000 square feet total), dry goods store, florist, furniture store, gifts and stationery store, jewelry store, manicurist shop, meat market/butcher shop, millinery store, mimeograph and letter shop, music store, novelty shop, pedicurist shop, shoe repair shop, shoe store, market or grocery store (provided that the gross floor area does not exceed 35,000 square feet), and tailor shop.
EXPAND
Lintel: A horizontal structural or ornamental member over an opening, which generally carries the weight of the wall above it.
Live Entertainment: Music, comedy, readings, dancing, acting or other entertainment, excluding sexually oriented businesses, performed on-site. This classification includes dancing by patrons to live or recorded music.
  Livestock, Nondomestic and Wild Animals, and Poultry: Animals, nondomestic and wild animals, and species of the aviary family which are or may be raised for the purpose of providing food, transportation, or being resold or bred (excluding only dogs, cats, rabbits, fish, pet mice, hamsters, gerbils, parrots and parakeets):
1.
Shall only be permitted on a lot containing not less than two acres;
2.
All buildings used for animals shall be set back not less than 200 feet from any property line;
3.
All animals shall be maintained at least 25 feet from any residential property line;
4.
There shall be not less than 5,000 square feet of fenced lot area not covered by the principal structure for each animal, unless the property is a bona fide farm.
Local Issuing Authority (pertaining environmental permitting): The City of Kennesaw Environmental Specialist or a designated and qualified representative of either the City of Kennesaw or the environmental specialist, who shall be responsible for administering this article and has been certified by the director of environmental protection division of the department of natural resources, pursuant to subsection (a) O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8.
Local Governing Authority: The Mayor and Council of the City of Kennesaw.
Local Permitting Authority: Refers to the City of Kennesaw to include without limitation, individuals from public works, zoning, or building departments, environmental specialist or code enforcement as applicable.
Lot: Contiguous parcels of land legally platted and recorded as a legal lot of record, in single or common ownership, and not divided by a public street. Also, a portion of a subdivision, or any other parcel of land and identified by a tract number, lot number or symbol of an approved subdivision plat properly recorded, and which is or may in the future be offered for sale, conveyance, transfer or improvement. In determining the area and dimensions of a lot, no part of the right-of-way of a road or crosswalk may be included.
Lot, corner: A lot fronting on two streets at their intersection. When the frontage of one street exceeds the frontage of the other, the one with the least frontage shall be deemed the front of the lot.
Lot, double frontage: Any lot, other than a corner lot, which has frontage on two streets.
Lot Coverage: The percentage of a lot which may be covered with permitted or accessory buildings or structures, excluding walks, drives, and other similar uses, and recreational facilities which are accessory to a permitted use.
Lot Depth: The average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
Lot Frontage: The distance for which the front property line of the lot and the street line are coincident.
Lot of Record: A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of which has been recorded in the records of the Clerk of Superior Court of Cobb County; or a parcel of land, the deed of which has been recorded in the same office as of the effective date of this ordinance.
Lot Width: The distance between side lot lines measured at the front building line.
Lounge: A separate room, in which alcoholic beverages are sold, connected with a part of an adjacent to a restaurant or located in a hotel as defined in this section with all booths, stools and tables being unobstructed and open to view. All lounges shall be air conditioned and have a seating capacity of at least 50. A lounge, as defined in this section, which is operated on a different floor in the premises, or in a separate building, or is not connected to or adjacent to a restaurant, shall be considered a separate establishment and shall pay an additional license fee therefore.
Low Impact Development: Is an approach to land development (or re-development) that works with nature to manage stormwater as close to its source as possible. LID employs principles such as preserving and recreating natural landscape features, minimizing effective imperviousness to create functional and appealing site drainage that treat stormwater as a resource rather than a waste product.
Low/Medium Density Residential (land use): A future land use category to provide for areas that are suitable for low to moderate density housing between one (1) and four (4) dwelling units per acre.
Lowest Floor: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other than a basement, is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of other provisions of this code.
Major Street: An existing or proposed street or highway designated as a major street on the official zoning map of the City of Kennesaw, Georgia.
Maintenance: Routine care for a building, structure or site that does not involve design alterations.
Major Thoroughfare: A street which is designated as such on the major thoroughfare plan and which is intended to provide swift movement of traffic through the community.
Mannequin sign holder: a human-like figure that is used to display, hold or mount a sign.
Manufacture: The process of making, fabricating, constructing, forming, or assembling a product from raw, unfinished, or semi-finished materials.
Manufactured Home: A structure transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with our without a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term manufactured home does not include a recreational vehicle.
Marquee, marquee sign: Any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a building or extending along and projecting beyond the wall of the building, generally designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather.
Massage Therapy: The application of a system of structured touch, pressure, movement, and holding to the soft tissue of the body in which the primary intent is to enhance or restore health and well-being. The term includes complementary methods, including without limitation the external application of water, superficial heat, superficial cold, lubricants, salt scrubs, or other topical preparations and the use of commercially available electromechanical devices which do not require the use of transcutaneous electrodes and which mimic or enhance the actions possible by the hands; the term also includes determining whether massage therapy is appropriate or contraindicated, or whether referral to another health care provider is appropriate. Massage therapy shall not include the use of ultrasound, fluidotherapy, laser, and other methods of deep thermal modalities.
Master Plan: A comprehensive plan for the city approved by the planning commission which may consist of the major thoroughfare plan, general land use plan, street and road classification plan and other maps, data and descriptive matter for the physical development of the city of any portion thereof, including any amendments, extensions or additions thereto as recommended by the planning commission.
Material Change in Appearance: A change that will affect the exterior environmental feature or the exterior architectural appearance of a historic property including, but not limited to, any one or more of the following:
1.
A reconstruction or alteration affecting any exterior architectural appearance of a historical property;
2.
Excavation or significant land disturbance of a historic property;
3.
The erection, demolition, restoration or removal of any building or other structure;
4.
The construction or alteration of any exterior environmental features including but not limited to: driveways, walkways, parking lots, fences, accessory buildings, accessory structures, lighting fixtures, and permanent yard signs;
5.
The removal of exterior environmental features including trees ten inches in diameter or circumference of 32 inches measured at a point 54 inches above the ground.
Maximum Residential Occupancy: Maximum occupancy for a residential dwelling unit will be calculated by the number of residents per square foot of floor space as per adopted the currently adopted International Property Maintenance Code
Mean Sea Level: The datum to which base flood elevations shown on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) are referenced. For purposes of this ordinance the term is synonymous with National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) and/or the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988.
Menu sign: A sign or sign structure which is fully enclosed or otherwise protected from the elements, including, but not limited to, a box, shadow box, or cabinet, attached to a wall, or freestanding, which is used generally for the purpose of displaying menus or announcements of activities within an on-premise establishment for which the menu or announcement is displayed. A menu display may be used for a restaurant without drive-through service and for transient lodging facilities which have restaurant facilities open to the general public in addition to registered guests.
Microcell: A wireless communication facility comprising an antenna extending no more than four feet above the structure to which it is attached, and with an area no larger than 576 square inches (e.g. 3" × 1 1/2" panel antenna or 2" diameter parabolic antenna) as viewed from any one point.
Mining: A process involving the removal or extraction of dirt, sand, soil, rock, gravel, minerals, petroleum, natural gas, or other natural resources.
Minor: A person less than 18 years of age.
Mobile Food Vending Unit: Any motorized vehicle, designed to be portable and not permanently attached to the ground from which food is peddled, vended, sold for sale or given away. This term does not include a mobile food service unit as defined and regulated in Chapter 5 of this UDC.
Mobile Home: A transportable, factory-built home designed to be used as a year-round residential dwelling and built prior to the enactment of the Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974. Removal of the wheels and the placement on a foundation does not change its classification. A travel trailer is not a mobile home.
Mobile Home Park: A parcel of land which has been planned and improved for the placement of mobile homes for non-transient use.
Mobile sign: A sign which revolves, rotates, swings, undulates, or otherwise attracts attention through the structural movement of parts.
Modillion: A small curved and ornamented bracket used to support the upper part of the cornice.
Modular Building: A factory-manufactured single-family dwelling which is constructed in one or more sections and complies with the definition of "industrialized building."
Modular Home: A factory-fabricated transportable building consisting of units designed to be incorporated at a building site on a permanent foundation into a permanent structure to be used for residential purposes.
Motel: A building in which lodging or board and lodging are provided for transient guests and offered to the motoring public for compensation in which ingress and egress to and from all rooms are made primarily direct from an exterior walkway rather than from an inside lobby.
Mothballing: The process of stabilizing and securing a historic building against further deterioration due to weather and/or vandalism.
Motor Vehicle: An automotive vehicle not operated on rails for use on highways.
Mullion: A vertical member separating and often supporting windows, doors, or panels in a series.
Multifamily dwelling unit: A multifamily dwelling unit consists of one or more rooms which are arranged, designed or used as living quarters for related and unrelated persons.
Multi-tenant: One or more buildings, located on a single parcel, containing two or more separate and distinct individual suites or space, which suites or space occupy separate portions of a building and which are physically separated from each other by walls or common walls.
Muntin: A secondary framing member to hold panes within a window, window wall, or glazed door.
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD): As corrected in 1929, a vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain.
National Categorical Pretreatment Standard or Pretreatment Standard: Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with section 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1347) which applies to a specific category of industrial users.
National Pollution Discharge Elimination System or NPDES Permit: A permit issued pursuant to section 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq. (33 U.S.C. 1342). (The "Act" means the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.)
Natural Outlet: Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface water or groundwater.
Natural Ground Surface: The ground surface in its original state before any grading, excavation or filling.
Natural Vegetated Area: An undeveloped area largely free from human disturbance where naturally occurring vegetation is allowed to remain undisturbed or is enhanced and maintained by human intervention. Activities specifically allowed in such an area include:
1.
Conservation or preservation of soil, water, vegetation, fish, shellfish and other wildlife;
2.
Outdoor recreational activities, including hunting, fishing, trapping, bird watching, hiking, boating, horseback riding, swimming, canoeing, skeet and trap shooting;
3.
Education, scientific research and nature trails;
4.
Maintenance or repair of lawfully located roads, structures and utilities used in the service of the public, provided that the work is conducted using best management practices to ensure that negative effects on the pervious nature of the land shall be minimized;
5.
Limited excavating, filling and land disturbance necessary for the repair and maintenance of structures necessary to the permissible uses.
Neglect: The failure to care for a property in such a manner as to prevent its deterioration. Neglect is often not intentional, but may lead to very serious deterioration of materials and even structural systems.
Neighborhood Activity Center (land use): A future land use category to provide for areas that serve neighborhood residents and businesses. Typical land uses for these areas include small offices, limited retail, and grocery stores.
Neighborhood Retail Uses: Commonly found low scale and low intensity retail uses (square footages not to exceed 6,000 square feet unless noted below) that offer basic services and frequently purchased goods to the immediate surrounding residential areas such as but not limited to: auto parts store, antique shop, appliance store (home use), bakery, barber and beauty shops, beverage shop, bookstore (but not including adult bookstore), bridal shop, camera shop, china and pottery store, clothing store, dance studio, delicatessen, dog grooming shop, draperies and interior decorating supplies, drug store or hardware store (provided that the gross floor area does not exceed 20,000 square feet total), dry goods store, florist, furniture store, gifts and stationery store, jewelry store, manicurist shop, meat market/butcher shop, millinery store, mimeograph and letter shop, music store, novelty shop, paint store, pedicurist shop, shoe repair shop, shoe store, sporting goods store, supermarket or grocery (provided that the gross floor area does not exceed 70,000 square feet), tailor shop, toy store, variety shop, and video stores.
Nephelometric Turbidity Units (NTU): Numerical units of measure based upon photometric analytical techniques for measuring the light scattered by finely divided particles of a substance in suspension. This technique is used to estimate the extent of turbidity in water in which colloidally dispersed particles are present.
New Construction: For floodplain management purposes, any-structure for which the "start of construction" commenced after August 1, 1980 and includes any subsequent improvements to the structure.
New Development: A land development activity on a previously undeveloped site.
New manufactured home park or subdivision: A manufactured home park or subdivision for the construction of facilities for serving the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after August 1, 1980.
Nightclub: An establishment having a seating capacity of at least 100 people with all booths and tables being unobstructed and open to view, deriving its primary income from the sales of alcoholic beverages, and providing to its patrons a band and/or other professional live entertainment performed onsite, including, but not limited to, music, comedy, readings, dancing or acting. All nightclubs shall be equipped with air conditioning and shall maintain an adequate kitchen with a sufficient number of servants and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for their patrons, provided that nightclubs located in hotels having dining room and kitchen facilities may be excluded from the requirement of maintaining a kitchen in connection with such nightclub. The principal business of such nightclubs shall be entertainment, and the serving of food and spirituous liquors shall be incidental thereto.
Nonautomotive Repair Uses: Commonly found low intensity repair shops such as, but not limited to, jewelry, camera, home appliance, televisions, and video cassette recorders.
Nonprofit Riding Stable: A building for the shelter and feeding of domestic animals, especially horses.
Noncommercial Message: A copy that does not contain a commercial message and specifically included in the definition of noncommercial message is copy whereby the public is to be informed regarding a political event or candidate or issue.
Nonconforming Sign: Any lawfully erected sign which, on the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived, fails to comply with the requirements of this article, including by reason of annexation into the city.
Nonconforming Use: Any building or land lawfully occupied by a use at the time of passage of the ordinance or amendment thereto which does not conform after the passage of this ordinance or amendment thereto with the regulation of the district in which it is situated. A use merely contemplated for the future but unrealized of the effective date of an amendment to this UDC does not constitute a nonconforming use. Existing improvements which did not meet required parking and loading regulation, height regulations, area regulations, and residential floor regulations at the time they were constructed in the district in which they are located are not nonconforming uses as defined above.
Noncontributing: Does not contribute to the architectural or historic significance of a historic district. (Some noncontributing resources are not yet fifty years of age, and therefore do not meet the age requirement for contributing resources. Other noncontributing resources may be historic but have lost their architectural integrity due to extensive changes or alterations.)
Nonpoint Source Pollution: A form of water pollution that does not originate from a discrete point such as a sewage treatment plant or industrial discharge, but involves the transport of pollutants such as sediment, fertilizers, pesticides, heavy metals, oil, grease, bacteria, organic materials and other contaminants from land to surface water and groundwater via mechanisms such as precipitation, storm water runoff, and leaching. Nonpoint source pollution is a by-product of land use practices such as agricultural, silvicultural, mining, construction, subsurface disposal and urban runoff sources.
Nonstructural Storm Water Management Practice or Nonstructural Practice: Any natural or planted vegetation or other nonstructural component of the storm water management plan that provides for or enhances storm water quantity and/or quality control or other storm water management benefits, and includes, but is not limited to, riparian buffers, open and green space areas, overland flow filtration areas, natural depressions, and vegetated channels.
Non-Storm Water Discharge: Any discharge to the storm drain system that is not composed entirely of storm water. See Chapter 6.08.02 for exceptions.
Non-Supportive Facilities: Individual housing units designed for independent senior adults that do not include or provide any type of supportive services such as transportation, medical care, food preparation and the like. See also Supportive Facilities and Senior Citizen Housing.
Normal Maintenance and Repair: Activities related to the reasonable and customary upkeep of structures or property including painting and cleaning. However, normal maintenance or repair conclusively does not include any structural alteration, any modification that requires a building permit or any alteration that costs in excess of 50 percent of the value of the sign prior to such maintenance and repair, as established in the initial sign permit application. The city shall consider updated evidence of value by means of qualified appraisal subsequent to the initial application.
Normal Wastewater: Wastewater discharged into the sanitary sewers in which the average concentration of total suspended solids and BOD is not more than 300 mg/l, total phosphorus is not more than 15 mg/l, total Kjeldahl nitrogen is not more than 18 mg/l; and total flow is not more than 25,000 gallons per day.
Novelty store: Any establishment that provides unique products for sale not previously defined in this chapter or under any retail use definition. This definition and use does not involve any uses defined under the Sexually Oriented Business ordinance or cigar shop, smoke shop and tobacco store definitions adopted in the code of ordinances.
Nudity or a state of nudity means the showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a fully opaque covering, or the showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple and areola.
Nursing Home: A home for aged or ill persons in which three or more persons not of the immediate family are provided with food, shelter and care for compensation; but not including hospitals, clinics or similar institutions devoted primarily to diagnosis and treatment.
Off-premises Outdoor Advertising Sign: Means a sign with a commercial message which identifies, advertises or promotes a product, service, person, place, activity, event, idea or any other thing not sold, offered or conducted on the lot where the sign is located or which may be sold, offered or conducted only incidentally, if at all, on the premises where this sign is located. This shall include those signs commonly referred to as a billboard which is a large (typically over 600 square feet of sign area), immobile and permanent structure. For purposes of this UDC, "off-premises outdoor advertising sign:" shall not include any conforming sign under the Sign Ordinance with or without a permit under any zoning district, including all temporary signs. Changing the sign face on an off-premises outdoor advertising sign from a commercial message to a noncommercial message will not change the grandfathered or non-conforming status of the sign under this UDC.
Off-site Facility: A storm water management facility located outside the boundaries of the site.
Office Park: Two or more buildings which are clustered together in which professional services are primarily engaged.
Office Service and Supply Establishments: Wholesale and retail commercial establishments that sell, service and supply small office equipment and supplies such as, but not limited to, stores that offer sales of copiers, facsimile machines, typewriters, ribbons, transcribers, dictation equipment, tape, staplers, and other general office equipment.
On-site Facility: A storm water management facility located within the boundaries of the site.
On-premises Sign: Means a sign which identifies advertises or promotes a product, service, person, place, activity, event, idea or any other thing which is the principal product, service, person, place, activity, event, idea or any other thing sold, offered or conducted on the premises where the sign is located.
Open Space: Any front, side or rear yards, courts, usable open space provided about a building in order to meet the requirements of this Code.
Open Space, Landscaped: That portion of a given lot, not covered by buildings, parking, access and service areas, that is designed to enhance privacy and the amenity of the development by providing landscaping features, screening and buffering for the benefit of the occupants or those in neighboring areas, or a general appearance of openness. Landscaped open space may include, but need not be limited to, grass lawns, decorative planting, berms, walls and fences, sidewalks/walkways, ornamental objects such as fountains, statues and other similar natural and manmade objects, wood areas, and watercourses, any or all of which are designed and arranged to produce an aesthetically pleasing effect within the development.
Order: A definite arrangement of column, capital, and entablature, each having its own set of rules and ornamental features. The five classical orders are Tuscan, Doric, Ionic, Corinthian, and Composite.
Other Consumer Goods and Services: Businesses which cater to consumers such as awning shops and sales, burglar alarm systems, clothing (secondhand), exhibition house, furniture, home furnishings, equipment, and appliances (secondhand), glass, mirror, lawn mower and small motor, trading stamp redemption center, and the like.
Other Service Establishment: Businesses or locations catering to specialty services such as auction house or store, cabinet maker, caterer, delivery and express service, driving school (private), fur repair and storage, gunsmith shop, locksmith shop, safe and vault repair, scientific instrument repair, taxidermist, tool sharpener, and the like.
Overbank Flood Protection: Measures taken to prevent an increase in the frequency and magnitude of out-of-bank flooding (i.e. flow events that exceed the capacity of the channel and enter the floodplain), and that are intended to protect downstream properties from flooding for the two-year through 25-year frequency storm events.
Overlay District: A district that applies supplementary regulations to land previously classified as belonging to a specific zoning district or land-use category.
Owner: The legal or beneficial owner of a site, including but not limited to, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, receiver, executor, trustee, lessee or other person, firm or corporation in control of the site.
Package Store: A business establishment whose primary business activity is the retail sale of alcoholic beverages by the package.
Pain Management Clinic: Means an entity or business which fulfills all of the following criteria: 1) A privately owned clinic, business, or office; 2) That is not affiliated with any facility for the treatment of the terminally ill; or any facility for the treatment of drug addiction; or any hospice; or any hospital and; 3) Which employs one or more physicians who are primarily engaged in the treatment of pain by prescribing Pain Medications; and, 4) Which fills or dispenses those Pain Medications either at the same or a different location.
Palladian Window: A window of large size, characteristic of neoclassical styles, divided by columns or piers, resembling pilasters, into three lights, the middle of which is taller and wider than the others, and is round-headed.
Par 3 Golf Course: A tract of land not less than 40 acres dedicated for playing an 18 hole game of golf which is open to the general public or private club use. The par shall not be less than 27 for nine holes or 54 for 18 holes from the men's tees as governed by the United States Golf Association (USGA). Further, the golf course shall not measure less than 1,750 or greater than 3,500 yards, respectively.
Parapet: A low wall or railing often used around a balcony or along the edge of a roof.
Parcel: Any plot, lot or acreage shown as a unit on the latest county tax assessment records.
Park means any lands or facility owned, operated, controlled or managed by any county, city or federal government or any governmental entity in and upon which recreational activities or places are provided for recreation and enjoyment to the general public.
Park/Recreation/Conservation (land use): A future land use category to illustrate the public or semi-public park, recreation, and conservation land uses in the City. The future land use map reflects only existing public uses.
Parking for Vehicles: Shall mean to provide a location for on-site parking for automobiles, trucks, and recreational vehicles (with a manufacturer's towing and/or carrying capacity rating of less than 1 1/2 tons). This restriction shall not apply to vehicles parked on religious assembly property which are operated exclusively for religious assembly use.
Parking Space: An area which has for its exclusive purpose the parking of a vehicle which complies with the adopted design standards.
Pawn or Pledge means a bailment of personal property as security for any debt or engagement, redeemable upon certain terms and with the power of sale upon default.
Pawn Stores/Shops: Any establishment which offers in the regular course of business "a pawn transaction" as defined in O.C.G.A. 44-12-139 as it exists or as it may be amended.
Pawn transaction means any loan on the security of pledged goods or any purchase of pledged goods on the condition that the pledged goods may be redeemed or repurchased by the pledger or seller for a fixed price within a fixed period of time.
Pawnbroker means any person engaged in whole or in part in the business of lending money on the security of pledged goods, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property on the condition that it may be redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a fixed price within a fixed period of time, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property from persons or sources other than manufactured or licensed dealers as part of or in conjunction with the business activities described in this ordinance.
Pawnshop means any business wherein a substantial part thereof is to take or receive, by way of pledge, pawn, consignment or exchange, any goods, wares, merchandise, or any kind of personal property whatever, as security for the repayment of money lent thereon. "Pawn shop" does not include banks, savings and loan institutions, credit unions, or other banking organizations regulated by state or federal law.
Payday loan establishment means any establishment whose business includes the making of deferred deposit transactions, commonly referred to as "payday loans."
Pediment: The triangular gable end of the roof above the horizontal cornice.
Pennant stream sign: Any lightweight plastic, fabric, or other material suspended from a rope, wire, or string, usually in a series, designed to move in the wind.
Perennial Stream: A stream that flows throughout the year, as indicated by a solid blue line on United States Geological Survey (USGS) seven-minute topographic series maps (scale of 1/24,000).
Permanent sign: Any sign which, when installed, is intended for permanent use. A permanent freestanding sign shall be of a type and construction as not to be easily or readily removed from the lot on which it has been erected.
Permit: The authorization necessary to conduct a land-disturbing activity under the provisions of this ordinance.
Person: Any natural person, corporation, or unincorporated association.
Person in Charge: The person or persons possessed of a freehold of an improvement or improvement parcel or a lesser estate therein, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, assignee of rents, receiver, executor, trustee, lessee, agent or any other person directly or indirectly in control of an improvement or improvement parcel.
Personal Property Sales: Sales of personal property under a permit from the city, such as estate sales, yard sales, bakery sales, garage sales, bazaars, and the like; three weekends per calendar year, not to exceed three days per sale.
pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
Pilaster: A flat-faced representation of a column projecting from a wall.
Plan Review Committee: The Kennesaw Development Plan Review Committee comprised of representatives of internal departments as well as interface with outside agencies and private companies involved in the development process.
•
Building Services
•
Public Works
•
City Engineer
•
Planning and Zoning
•
Economic Development
•
Environmental
The duty of this committee is to provide review and regulatory oversight over all development regulations that involve development activity in the City of Kennesaw.
Planned Development: A tract of land developed initially under single ownership or control; the development of which is unique and of a substantially different character than that of surrounding areas. Such development shall be based on a plan which allows for flexibility of design not available under normal zoning district requirements.
Planned Unit Development (land use): A future land use category that is designed to designate locations that are transitional in nature, that have property/structures that could be converted to a use more beneficial to the community, and that are more consistent with the future objectives of the City and the City of Kennesaw Comprehensive Plan. Areas designated as Planned Unit Development are intended to be developed as part of a large scale development and not as part of a lot by lot conversion project. Each Planned Unit Development is considered on a case by case basis.
Planning Commission: The City of Kennesaw Planning Commission.
Planning and Zoning Administrator: City of Kennesaw staff person authorized to interpret, amend and regulate the Zoning Ordinance, Historic Preservation Design Guidelines, Architectural Standards, ensure consistent compliance to the adopted Comprehensive Plan, all adopted Master Plans and Studies for the City of Kennesaw and all other duties assigned by the City Manager.
Plat: A map indicating the subdivision or re-subdivision of land, intended to be filed for record.
Pollutant: Anything, which causes or contributes to pollution and diminished water or air quality. Pollutants may include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; petroleum hydrocarbons; automotive fluids; cooking grease; detergents (biodegradable or otherwise); degreasers; cleaning chemicals; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects and accumulations, so that the same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous liquid and solid wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or structure; concrete and cement; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind. Any dredge, spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial, municipal and agricultural waste discharged into water.
Pollution or pollutants: The manmade or man-induced alteration of the chemical, physical, biological and radiological integrity of water or air. The contamination or other alteration of any water's physical, chemical or biological properties by the addition of any constituent and includes but is not limited to, a change in temperature, taste, color, turbidity, or odor of such waters, or the discharge of any liquid, gaseous, solid, radioactive, or other substance into any such waters as will or is likely to create a nuisance or render such waters harmful, detrimental or injurious to the public health, safety, welfare, or environment, or to domestic, commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational, or other legitimate beneficial uses, or to livestock, wild animals, birds, fish or other aquatic life.
Pond: A body of standing water less than one acre in surface area, created either by a natural dam, or other means of water impoundment.
Porch: A covered but unenclosed projection from the main wall of a building that may or may not use columns or other ground supports for structural purposes.
Portable Display Sign: Any sign which is not permanently affixed to the ground or to a structure, including, but not limited to, signs on trailers or signs mounted or painted on vehicles which are parked in such a manner so as to serve the purpose of a sign.
Portico: A porch or covered walk consisting of a low-pitched roof supported on classical columns and finished in front with an entablature and a pediment.
Porte Cochere: A large covered entrance porch through which vehicles can pass.
Post-development: The time period, or the conditions that may reasonably be expected or anticipated to exist, after completion of the land development activity on a site as the context may require.
Pre-development: The time period, or the conditions that exist, on a site prior to the commencement of a land development project and at the time that plans for the land development of a site are approved by the city. Where phased development or plan approval occurs (preliminary grading, roads and utilities, etc.), the existing conditions at the time prior to the first item being approved or permitted shall establish pre-development conditions.
Preliminary Plat: A drawing which shows the proposed layout of a subdivision in sufficient detail to indicate unquestionably its workability, but is not in final form for recording and the details are not completely computed.
Premises: Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
Premises [of Sexually Oriented Business] means the real property upon which the sexually oriented business is located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but not limited to, the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways, and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership, control, or supervision of the licensee, as described in the application for a sexually oriented business license.
Preservation: The process of taking steps to sustain the form, details and integrity of a property essentially as it presently exists. Preservation may involve the elimination of deterioration and structural damage, but does not involve reconstruction to any significant degree.
Pressed Metal: Thin sheets of metal molded into decorative designs and used to cover interior walls and ceilings and on the exterior of some 20th century commercial structures.
Pretreatment or Treatment: The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, or by process changes or other means, except as prohibited by 40 CFR 403.6(d).
Projecting Sign means a sign securely fastened to the building surface by metal supports which suspend the sign over the public sidewalk.
Properly Shredded Garbage: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
Primary Highway: Means any road of the state highway system which is a portion of connected main highways, as officially designated or as may hereafter be so designated by the State Department of Transportation and approved by the United States Secretary of Transportation pursuant to 23 USC 103.
Primary Permittee: Owners, general contractors and operators of a project having day-to-day operational control of a facility or site.
Principal Use: The primary use and chief purpose of a lot or structure.
Private Club: A nonprofit association organized and existing under the laws of the state, actively in operation within the city, which has been in existence at least one year prior to the filing of its application for a license to be issued under this chapter, having at least 75 members regularly paying monthly, quarterly, or semiannual dues, organized and operated exclusively for pleasure, recreation and other non-profitable purposes, no part of the net earnings of which injures to the benefit of any shareholders or members, and owning, hiring or leasing a building or space therein for the reasonable use to its members with suitable kitchen and dining room space and equipment and maintaining and using a sufficient number of servants and employees for cooking, preparing and serving meals for its members and guest; provided, that no member or officer, agent or employee of the club is paid, directly or indirectly receives, in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the sale of spirituous liquors to the club or its members or guest beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed by its members at any annual meetings or by its governing board out of the general revenue of the club.
Private Community Center: A place, structure, area, or other private or non-publicly owned facility used for and providing fraternal, social, and/or recreational programs generally open to the public and designed to accommodate and serve significant segments of the community.
Private Party Function: An event held by an organizer, private party where alcoholic beverages are provided. The licensee must submit to and have the private party function approved by the supervisor of the city's business license office provided such function does not threaten the health, safety and welfare of the participants or public. In the event the private party function is not approved by the business license supervisor the licensee may appeal said decision to the Mayor and Council. The Mayor and City Council shall have authority to approve the private party function provided the function does not threaten the health, safety and welfare of the participants or public.
Private Residence: A house or dwelling wherein not less than one or more than two families customarily reside and shall not include a mobile home, an apartment house having facilities for housing more than two families, a boardinghouse or rooming house where there are five or more boarders or roomers, any residence which has been unoccupied for a period of six consecutive months immediately prior to the filing of any application for license, or any residence that shall be a nonconforming use in a commercial zone.
Pro Shop: An ancillary structure or area provided for sale or supply of equipment associated with the primary permitted or accessory use.
Professional Office: Structure wherein services are performed involving predominately administrative, professional or clerical operations including but not limited to law, doctor, optician, audiologist, accounting, tax preparation, real estate, stock broker, architect, engineer, manufacturer representative, professional counselor, dentist, investigative services, photographer, insurance, contractor, land surveyor, telephone sales, political campaign, veterinarian, travel bureau, chiropractors office.
Prohibited Sign: Means any sign, other than a non-conforming sign, not conforming to the Chapter.
Project: The entire proposed development project regardless of the size of the area of land to be disturbed.
Projecting Sign: Means a sign securely fastened to the building surface by metal supports which suspend the sign over the public sidewalk.
Pub: Means any premises at which a retailer licensed pursuant to this chapter to sell alcoholic beverages derives between 50 percent and 75 percent of its total annual gross revenue from the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises. A licensee of a pub shall obtain and keep in force and affect a food service permit.
Public Park: Any public lands owned or controlled and operated by this city, any county of this state, any municipality of the state, the state, the United States of America or any property owned or managed by a nonprofit organization, in and upon which facilities are provided for the recreation and enjoyment of the general public.
Public Service Information: Means time, temperature, notice of public meetings, special events, road/traffic directional signs, etc.
Public Service Institutional (land use): A future land use category to illustrate public or semi-public service institutional land uses in the City. The future land use map reflects only existing public uses.
Public Sign: A sign of a governmental body, governmental agency or public authority or entity, including but not limited to signs in the exercise of the power of eminent domain, traffic signs, directional sign, signals or similar regulatory devices or warnings, official flags, emblems, official public notices, official instruments, signs of historical interest or other similar signs or devices.
Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW): A treatment works as defined by Section 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1292) which is owned in this instance by the county or the city. This definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW treatment plant, but does not include pipes, sewers or other conveyances not connected to a facility providing treatment.
Purpose Built Student Housing: A multifamily residential development characterized by student housing apartments for adults attending universities and colleges wherein each student is under an independent lease with the landlord to rent on a per bedroom basis.
Pylon Sign: A freestanding sign that is typically detached from a building and supported by one or more structural elements which are architecturally similar to the design of the sign. A pylon sign includes, but is not limited to, a center monument pole sign, a dual pylon sign and flag mounted pylon sign. Pylon sign does not include a ground based monument sign.
Qualified Personnel (pertaining to environmental protection): Any person who meets or exceeds the educational and training requirements of specified by O.C.G.A. 12-7-19, as may be amended from time to time. (Soil Erosion and Control certification)
Quasi Judicial: The action, discretion, etc., of public administrative officers or bodies, who are required to investigate facts, or ascertain the existence of facts, hold hearings, and draw conclusions from them, as a basis for their official action, and to exercise discretion of a judicial nature.
Quoins: Heavy blocks, generally of stone or wood, cut in emulation of stone and used at the corners of buildings to reinforce and ornament walls.
Real Estate Marketing Sign: A temporary real estate sign located at the entrance to a subdivision/real estate development that shows the name of the project or development, name and phone number of real estate agent or agency that is handling the listing or sales, price range and hours of sales, and not to exceed 16 square feet in area.
Rear of the Principal Building: Shall be that point where the main portion of the building ends without consideration of wings or annexes which are not parallel to the main portion of the building.
Reconstruction: The process of reproducing the exact form of a component, building, structure or site that existed at some time in the past.
Recreational Vehicle: Refers to a vehicle which is:
1.
Built on a single chassis;
2.
400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection;
3.
Designed to be self-propelled or permanently tow able by light duty truck; and
4.
Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
Recycling (architectural): The process of restoring, rehabilitating, renovating, remodeling, or adapting an old building so that it can be used by another generation.
Recycling Center: A center or location designed for sorting or collection of recyclables from designated recycling collection locations and other private entity sources.
Redevelopment: A land development project on a previously developed site, but excludes ordinary maintenance activities, remodeling of existing buildings, resurfacing of paved areas, and exterior changes or improvements which do not materially increase or concentrate storm water runoff, or cause additional nonpoint source pollution.
Regional Activity Center (land use): A future land use category to provide for areas that can support a high intensity of development. Typical land uses in these areas include high-rise office buildings and regional malls.
Regional Shopping Center: A group of commercial enterprises offering a range of commercial goods and services in an aggregate of 500,000 square feet or more of net floor area which:
1.
Are designed as a single commercial group, whether or not located on the same lot;
2.
Are under one-common ownership or management, or having one common arrangement for the maintenance of the grounds;
3.
Are connected by party walls, partitions, covered canopies or other structural members to form one continuous structure;
4.
Share a common parking area; and
5.
Otherwise present the appearance of one continuous commercial area.
Regional Storm Water Management: Facility or regional facility referring to storm water management facilities designed to control storm water runoff from multiple properties, where the owners or developers of the individual properties may assist in the financing of the facility, and the requirement for on-site controls is either eliminated or reduced.
Regular or regularly means and refers to the consistent and repeated doing of the act so described.
Rehabilitation: The process of returning a building to a state of utility while retaining those elements essential to its architectural, historical and/or aesthetic significance.
Religious Assembly: A site or facility maintained by a bona fide religious group for the primary purposes of religious worship. Religious assemblies include but are not limited to churches, mosques, synagogues and temples.
Remodeling: Changing the appearance and style of a structure by removing or covering over original details and substituting new materials and forms.
Renovation: The process of making a structure usable again where there is a greater proportion of new materials and elements introduced into the building.
Repair: Any minor change to a property that is not construction, removal, demolition or alteration and that does not change exterior architectural appearance.
Replacement Tree: A new tree planted on a site to meet minimum site density factor requirements (regardless of whether trees existed prior to any development).
Reservoir Boundary: The edge of a reservoir, defined by its normal pool level.
Residence means a house, apartment, boardinghouse or rooming house, duplex, or other multifamily housing, for human dwelling, or any property zoned therefore.
Residential Street: A street which is designated as such on the major thoroughfare plan and which is used for local circulation in residential areas providing access to abutting property.
Rest Home: A health facility where persons are housed and furnished with meals and continuous nursing care for compensation.
Restaurant: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are actually and regularly prepared and served, without sleeping accommodations, such place seating a minimum of 50 or more people, and holding a certificate of approval from the county health department. A restaurant shall maintain a full-service kitchen which consists of, at a minimum, a three-compartment pot sink, a stove or grill permanently installed and a refrigerator. A restaurant serves meals every hour that they are open and the serving of such meals shall be the principal business conducted, with the serving of distilled spirits, beer and/or wine to be consumed on the premises as only incidental thereto. In order to be classified as a restaurant under this chapter, the licensee must derive a minimum of 50 percent of its total annual gross food and beverage sales, over any 12-month period of time, from the sale of prepared meals or food. In the case of an audit, the relevant time period shall be the 12 months immediately preceding the commencement of the audit. If the restaurant being audited has been in operation as a restaurant for less than 12 months, the audit period shall be the period of time the entity has operated as a restaurant, and the restaurant must derive a minimum of 50 percent of its total annual gross food and beverage sales for that audit period from the sale of prepared meals or food. If the restaurant previously operated as another type of business, e.g., a bar as that term is defined in this section, total annual gross food and beverage sales for the time period it has been operated as a restaurant shall be the only data relevant to the audit and the data for the period it operates as another type of business shall not be examined during the audit.
Restoration: The process of returning a building to its appearance at an earlier time (though not necessarily to its original appearance). Restoration involves the removal of later additions and the replacement of missing components and details.
Retail Activities (limited): See limited retail uses.
Retail Sales, Outdoor: Retail sales of new merchandise on the site of a legally established retail business which has a direct relationship to the existing businesses.
Retaining Wall: A wall or similar structure devise used at a grade change to hold the soil on the up-hillside from slumping, sliding, or falling.
Right-of-Way: The real property owned and controlled by a governmental agency for maintaining public infrastructure, including streets, sidewalks, pathways, mass transit rail lines, drainage ditches and structures, shoulders, traffic control devices, and vegetative buffers. The width of the right-of-way outside the pavement of any given street or road can be determined by the City Public Works department.
Riparian: Belonging to or relating to the bank of a river, stream, lake, pond, or impoundment.
Riser: The vertical part of a step or stair.
Road Classifications: All roads in Kennesaw and the width of such rights-of-way shall be as follows:
1.
Arterial — 100-foot (or more) right-of-way width.
2.
Major collector — 80-foot right-of-way width.
3.
Minor collector — 60-foot right-of-way width.
4.
Local — 40-foot right-of-way width.
Roadway Drainage Structure: A device such as a bridge, culvert, or ditch, composed of a virtually non-erodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic, or other such material that conveys water under a roadway by intercepting the flow on one side of a traveled way consisting of one or more defined lanes, with or without shoulder areas, and carrying water to a release point on the other side.
Roof: The top covering of a building. Following are some types:
1.
Gable roof has a pitched roof with ridge and vertical ends.
2.
Hip roof has sloped ends instead of vertical ends.
3.
Shed roof (lean-to) has one slope only and is built against a higher wall.
4.
Jerkin-head (clipped gable or hipped gable) is similar to gable but with the end clipped back.
5.
Gambrel roof is a variation of a gable roof, each side of which has a shallower slope above a steeper one.
Roof Sign: A sign erected, constructed or maintained on the roof of any building.
Rooming House: A building where lodging only is provided for compensation to three or more, but not exceeding 15 persons. A building which has accommodations for more than 14 persons shall be defined as a hotel under the terms of this ordinance.
Runoff: Storm water runoff.
Sanitary Water Closet: Any flush toilet properly connected with the city sanitary sewer system, or a septic tank of approved construction and condition.
Sash: A window frame that opens by sliding up or down.
School means only such state, county, city, church or other schools as teach the subjects commonly taught in the common schools and colleges and universities of this state and which are public schools or private schools as defined in subsection (b) of O.C.G.A. § 20-2-690, or as may be amended from time to time, including any public or private location that teaches the Georgia Pre-kindergarten Program and shall not include private schools where only specialized subjects such as law, stenography, business, music, art, medicine, dentistry, vocational occupations and other special subjects are taught and shall not include residences where home study programs are located.
Secondary Permittee: Individual builders, utility companies and utility contractors within common developments.
Secondary Street: A street which is designated as such on the major thoroughfare plan and which is intended to provide easy and convenient traffic movement within the community.
Sediment: Solid material, both organic and inorganic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water, ice, or gravity as a product of erosion.
Sedimentation: The process by which eroded material is transported and deposited by the action of water, wind, ice or gravity.
Self-Service Storage Facility (SSSF): Fully enclosed facility containing independent bays, which are leased to individuals exclusively for dead storage of goods or personal property.
Semi-Permanent Directional Signs (SPDS): Signs which convey directions to a specific place under construction or to specific real estate for sale or to a noncommercial event, and are not intended to be permanent but rather are intended to provide direction to a place or event for a limited period of time.
Senior Citizen: Citizens that are 55 years of age or older as defined by the Fair Housing Act as amended from time to time.
Senior Citizen Housing or Senior Housing: Residential units that are part of a Senior Living development that may be rented or owned by the resident for occupancy. Residential units may be Supportive or Non-supportive.
Senior Living: Site location, site planning and architectural design that provides a safe, functional live, work, and play environment for residents 55 years of age or older as defined by the Fair Housing Act as amended from time to time.
Separate Storm Sewer System (Municipal): Any facility designed or used for collecting and/or conveying storm water, including but not limited to any roads with drainage systems, highways, city streets, curbs, gutters, inlets, catch basins, piped storm drains, pumping facilities, structural storm water controls, ditches, swales, natural and man-made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures, and which is:
(1)
Owned or maintained by the city;
(2)
Not a combined sewer; and
(3)
Not part of a publicly-owned treatment works.
Septic Tank: An underground cavity with watertight walls into which flows the effluent of sanitary water closets and from which effluent does not come to the surface of the ground.
Service Station: Any building, structure or land use for the retail sale of motor vehicle fuel, oil, accessories and motor vehicle servicing, except that major repairs, body repairs and painting of motor vehicles shall not be considered motor vehicle servicing.
Setback: The distance that defines the width of a protected land area, measured from the boundary of the feature of the landscape (e.g., a property line, a wetland, a stream bank) that the measurement is designed to protect.
Setting: The immediate physical environment of a building, structure, site or district.
Sexual conduct means acts of masturbation, homosexuality, sodomy, sexual intercourse, or physical contact with a person's clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area, buttocks, or, if such person is female, breast, which, to the average person, applying contemporary community standards, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value and predominantly appeals to the prurient interest, that is, a shameful or morbid interest in nudity or sex.
Sexual device means any three-dimensional (object designed for stimulation of the male or female human genitals, anus, buttocks, nipple, or for sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others and shall include devices such as dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, cock rings, anal beads, nipple clamps, and physical representations of the human genital organs. Nothing in this definition shall be construed to include devices primarily intended for protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing pregnancy.
Sexual device shop means a commercial establishment:
(1)
Where more than 100 sexual devices are regularly made available for sale or rental; or
(2)
Where sexual devices are regularly made available for sale or rental and the establishment regularly gives special prominence to sexual devices (e.g., by using lighted display cases for sexual devices, having a room or discrete area of the establishment significantly devoted to sexual devices, positioning sexual devices near cash registers or similar points of sale, hosting events focused on sexual devices, or holding itself out to the public as a place that focuses on sexual devices).
This definition shall not be construed to include an establishment containing a pharmacy that employs a licensed pharmacist to fill prescriptions on the premises or an establishment primarily dedicated to providing durable medical equipment.
Sexually oriented business means an adult bookstore or adult video store, an adult cabaret, an adult motion picture theater, an explicit media outlet, or a sexual device shop.
Shelter (homeless): Charitable, nonprofit, short-term housing and/or room and board accommodations for poor, transient, or needy individuals which must meet the following minimum criteria:
1.
Adequate showers and restroom facilities must be provided at the location to meet the needs of the overnight guests;
2.
Beds must be provided for all overnight guests excluding staff and volunteer workers;
3.
No shelter shall be located closer than 1,000 feet to the nearest single-family residence;
4.
Guests of the shelter shall be required to leave the shelter premises no later than 7:00 a.m.;
5.
All premises shall be maintained in a clean, safe, and sanitary fashion;
6.
Adequate provisions for transporting and parking guests shall be submitted to and approved by the zoning administrator or his/her designee.
Shopping Center: A group of commercial establishments, planned, developed, owned and managed as a unit, with off-street parking provided on the property and related in its location, size and type of shops to the trade area which the unit serves.
Side Lights: A vertical line of small glass panes flanking a doorway.
Sign: Any name, identification, description, display, illustration, banner, string of lights or device which is affixed to or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, structure, vehicle or land in view of the general public and which directs attention to an idea, opinion, product, place, activity, person, institution or business.
Sign with electronic display: A sign in which the message may be changed at intervals by computer controller, microprocessor controller or by remote control, and whose message is displayed through the use of LED, LDC, plasma or other similar type of panels or screens, including devices known as commercial electronic message signs or similar devices.
Significant: Possessing importance to a particular building, structure, site or district; essential to maintaining the full integrity of a particular building, structure, site or district.
Signs during vacancy: Signs permitted for developments with vacant lots, units, and/or tenant spaces.
Silviculture: A branch of forestry which deals with the establishment, development, care and reproduction of stands of timber.
Single Housekeeping unit: Means that the occupants of a dwelling unit have established ties and familiarity with each other, jointly use common areas, interact with each other, share meals, household activities, lease agreement or ownership of the property, expenses and responsibilities; membership in the single housekeeping unit is fairly stable as opposed to transient, and members have some control over who becomes a member of the single housekeeping unit.
Site: A plot of land intended or suitable for development; also the ground or area on which a building has been built.
Slope: A degree of deviation of surface from the horizontal usually expressed in percent or degree.
Soffit: The underside of a structural part, as of a beam, arch, etc.
Softwood Tree: Any coniferous (cone bearing) tree. This definition is based on the colloquialism, and does not necessarily reflect any true qualities of the tree.
Soil and Water Conservation District Approved Plan: An erosion and sedimentation control plan approved in writing by the Cobb Soil and Water Conservation District.
Special Exception Use: A use that, owing to some special characteristics attendant to its operation or installation, is permitted in a district subject to approval of the Mayor and City Council, and subject to special requirements, different from those usual requirements for the district in which the special exception use may be located.
Specified anatomical areas means and includes:
(1)
Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region, buttock, and female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola; and
(2)
Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
Specified sexual activity means any of the following:
(1)
Intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, flagellation or torture in the context of sexual relations, or excretory functions in the context of sexual relations, anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio, necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism or zooerasty; or
(2)
Clearly depicted human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or tumescence.
Specimen Tree: Any tree that qualifies for special consideration for conservation, due to its size, type, condition, or historical value, according to criteria set forth in this ordinance.
Stabilization: The process of establishing an enduring soil cover of vegetation by the installation of temporary or permanent structures for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the erosion process and the resultant transport of sediment by wind, water, ice or gravity.
Staff: Personnel to include, but not limited to, the Planning and Zoning Administrator, Building Official, and Director of Public Works.
Standard informational sign: A sign with an area not greater than six square feet, containing no reflecting elements, flags, or projections and which, when erect, stands at a height not greater six feet and is mounted on a stake or metal frame with a thickness or diameter not greater than one and one-half inches. Standard information sign includes, but is not limited to, those signs commonly known as post and panel signs.
Start of Construction: (for other than new construction or substantial improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348), includes substantial improvement, and means the date a permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of the structure on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings, installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation, or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include initial land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
State General Permit (pertaining to environmental permits): The National Pollution Discharge Elimination System general permit or permits issued for the control of storm-water runoff from construction activities as is now in effect or as may be amended or reissued in the future pursuant to the state's authority to implement the same through federal delegation under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. Section 1251, et seq., and subsection (f) of O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30.
State Waters: Any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the State which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation.
Storefront: The street level façade of a commercial building, usually having display windows.
Storm Water or Storm Water Runoff: Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage resulting from any form of natural precipitation and consisting entirely of water from such precipitation.
Storm Water Better Site Design: Nonstructural site design approaches and techniques that can reduce a site's impact on the watershed and can provide for nonstructural storm water management. Storm water better site design includes conserving and protecting natural areas and green space, reducing impervious cover and using natural features for storm water management.
Storm Water Management: The collection, conveyance, storage, treatment and disposal of storm water runoff in a manner intended to prevent increased flood damage, stream bank channel erosion, habitat degradation and water quality degradation, and to enhance and promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
Storm Water Management Facility: Any infrastructure that controls or conveys storm water runoff.
Storm Water Management Measure: Any storm water management facility or nonstructural storm water practice.
Storm Water Management Plan: A document describing how existing runoff characteristics will be affected by a land development project and containing measures for complying with the provisions of this article.
Storm Water Management System: The entire set of structural and nonstructural storm water management facilities and practices that are used to capture, convey and control the quantity and quality of the storm water runoff from a site.
Storm Water Retrofit: A storm water management practice designed for a currently developed site that previously had either no storm water management practice in place or a practice inadequate to meet the storm water management requirements of the site.
Storm Water Runoff: The flow of surface water resulting from precipitation.
Story: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there is no floor above it, the space between such floor and the ceiling above it. A basement shall be counted as a story if its ceiling is over six feet above the average level of the finished ground surface adjoining exterior walls of such story, or if it is used for business or dwelling purposes.
Stream: Any state waters, beginning:
(1)
At the location of a spring, seep, or groundwater outflow that sustains stream flow; or
(2)
At a point in the stream channel with a drainage area of 25 acres or more; or,
(3)
Where evidence indicates a drainage area of less than 25 acres that the environmental specialist has verified its existence through field study.
Stream Bank: The sloping land that contains the stream channel and begins where vegetation is rested by normal flow.
Stream Channel: The portion of a watercourse that contains the base flow of the stream.
Streamer: Strips of fabric or other flexible material combined together and used as a wind activated device.
Street: A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way which affords the principal means of access to abutting properties.
Streetscape: All physical elements that may be viewed along a street.
Street Fairs: Provision of games, eating and drinking facilities, live entertainment, or similar, temporary activities not requiring the use of roofed structures.
Structural Alteration: Any change in the supporting members of a building, such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any structural change in roof, or dimension of the rooms therein.
Structural Erosion and Sedimentation Control Practices: Practices for the stabilization of erodible or sediment- producing areas by utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purpose of either changing the surface of the land or storing, regulating or disposing of runoff to prevent excessive sediment loss. Examples of structural erosion and sediment control practices are riprap, sediment basins, dikes, level spreaders, waterways or outlets, diversions, grade stabilization structures, sediment traps and land grading, etc. Such practices can be found in the publication Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
Structural Storm Water Control: A structural storm water management facility or device that controls storm water runoff and changes the characteristics of that runoff including, but not limited to, the quantity and quality, the period of release or the velocity of flow.
Structure: Anything constructed or erected which has, or the use of which requires, permanent or temporary location on or in the ground, or which is attached to something having a permanent location on the ground, including, but not limited to, the following: buildings, gazebos, signs, billboards, tennis courts, radio and television antennae and satellite dishes (including supporting towers), swimming pools, light fixtures, walls, fences and steps.
Student life programming: Programs to help facilitate learning and growth in Purpose Built Student Housing district that address each of the four themes of the programming model (community development; academic development; personal wellness and growth; and inclusivity) that help guide personal growth for the residents.
Subdivider: A person providing or developing land so as to constitute subdivision.
Subdivision: All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, legacy, or a new street or a change in an existing street, and includes existing subdivisions, and where appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided; however, the term does not include combination or recombination of portions of previously platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are equal to the standards of the local issuing authority.
Substantial Damage: Refers to damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to it's before damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
Substantial Improvement: Any combination of repairs, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other improvements of a structure the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure prior to the "start of construction" of the improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial damage" regardless of the actual amount of repair work performed. The term does not, however, include either (1) any project improvements of a structure to correct existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; (2) any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure.
Substantially Improved Existing Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision: Refers to repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets, utilities and pads equals or exceeds 50 percent of the value of the streets, utilities and pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
Supportive Facilities: Individual housing units designed for independent senior adults that include or provide supportive services such as transportation, medical care, food preparation and the like. See also Non-Supportive Facilities and Senior Citizen Housing.
Suspended sign: A sign which is suspended from an eave or soffit of a building, provided it accommodates eight or more feet of ground clearance.
Suspended Solids: The total suspended matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, and that is removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, and referred to as non-filterable residue.
Swap Meets, Nonrecurring: Retail sale or exchange of new, handcrafted, or secondhand merchandise for maximum period of 48 hours, conducted by a single sponsor no more than twice in any year.
System: Structural, plumbing, mechanical, electrical, or fire safety elements, materials, or components used separately or combined for use in a building.
Take-out restaurant: An establishment where food and/or beverages are sold in a form ready for consumption, here all or a significant portion of the consumption takes place or is designed to take place outside the confines of the restaurant, and where ordering and pickup of food may take place from an automobile.
Temporary sign: Any sign that is not permanently mounted.
Temporary Uses: Specialized and intermittent uses of property such as animal shows, Christmas tree sales, circuses and carnivals, commercial filming limited, live entertainment, personal property sales, religious assemblies, retail sales outdoor, street fairs, and swap meets (nonrecurring) not to exceed 30 days or the time period set forth in these definitions, whichever is lesser. Adequate off-street parking shall be provided for all such uses.
Tent: A temporary or permanent structure having a roof and/or walls of fabric.
Thoroughfare Plan: That plan designated "thoroughfare plan," prepared under the direction of the Public Works Department, and as may be amended from time to time. Thoroughfare Plan may also refer to the Cobb County Thoroughfare Plan as amended from time to time if a City-wide thoroughfare plan is not available.
Title loan establishment means any establishment whose business includes providing a short-term loan in which the borrower's car title is used as collateral. The borrower must be the lien holder (i.e. own the car outright). Loans are usually for less than 30 days. If the loan is not repaid, the lender can take ownership of the car and sell it to recoup the loan amount.
Tobacco product means:
a.
Any substance containing tobacco leaf in any form, including, but not limited to, the following items: bidis, chewing tobacco, dipping tobacco, cigarettes, cigars, dipping smoking, smokeless tobacco of any type and in any form, pipe tobacco, hookah tobacco, snus, snuff, and/or tobacco used to prepare cigarettes.
b.
Smokeless, electronic cigarettes which do not contain tobacco but are designed to appear to be a cigarette and which delivers nicotine to the user, and/or any papers, wrappers, or other products that are used for the purpose of making cigarettes or cigars.
c.
Any product or formulation of matter containing biologically active amounts of nicotine that is manufactured, sold, offered for sale, or otherwise distributed with the expectation that the product or matter will be introduced into the human body, but does not include any cessation product specifically approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for use in treating nicotine or tobacco dependence.
d.
Tobacco products shall not include items made of candy or gum products in the form of a cigarette or cigar.
Tobacco retailer means any person who sells, offers for sale, or does or offers to exchange for any form of consideration, tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco paraphernalia. "Tobacco retailing" shall mean the doing of any of these things. This definition is without regard to the quantity of tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco paraphernalia sold, offered for sale, exchanged, or offered for exchange.
Topography: The physical land surface relief describing the terrain elevation and slope.
Tower: Means any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including but not limited to self-supported or monopole towers and lattice-framed towers. The term includes radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, common-carrier towers, and cellular telephone or PCS towers and all other non-alternative towers and structures.
Townhouse: An attached or detached house in a row or group, each house separated from adjoining houses in the same row or group by architectural style, changing of façade, offsets and by fire walls or fire separations. Ownership is in fee simple.
Toxic Pollutant: Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic in regulations promulgated by the administrator of the EPA.
Trailer, Camping: Any portable structure or vehicle designed for highway travel which is used or intended to be used for either living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, and which does not include all of the following facilities: a flush water closet, a lavatory, a bath or shower, and kitchen sink.
Transom Window: A small window or series of panes above a door, or above a casement or double hung window.
Transportation/Utilities (land use): A future land use category to illustrate public or semi-public transportation and utilities land uses in the City. The future land use map reflects only existing public uses.
Tree: Any living, self-supporting, woody perennial plant which normally obtains a trunk diameter of at least two inches and a height of at least ten feet and typically has one main stem or trunk and many branches.
Tree Bank: A fund in the City of Kennesaw's Comprehensive Annual Budget, which holds monies for the sole purpose of purchasing, planting and maintaining trees and landscaping materials on public property. This fund receives contributions made as an alternative compliance means of tree replacement during a land development process. Voluntary contributions may also be made to this fund.
Tree-Save Area: All areas designated for the purpose of meeting tree density requirements, saving specimen or significant trees, and/or conserving natural buffers.
Trout Streams: All streams or portions of streams within the watershed as designated by the Wildlife Resources Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources under the provisions of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20 et seq., as may be amended from time to time. Streams designated as primary trout waters are defined as water supporting a self-sustaining population of rainbow, brown or brook trout. Streams designated as secondary trout waters are those in which there is no evidence of natural trout reproduction, but are capable of supporting trout throughout the year. First order trout waters are streams into which no other streams flow except springs. Understory Tree: Any tree which typically grows to a mature height of less than 40 feet.
Unlawful Structure: A structure found in whole or in part to be occupied by more persons than permitted under the adopted building and safety codes, or was erected, altered or occupied contrary to law.
Unsafe Equipment: Any boiler, heating equipment, elevator, moving stairway, electrical wiring or device, flammable liquid containers or other equipment on the premises or within the structure which is in such disrepair or condition that such equipment is a hazard to life, health, property or safety of the public or occupants of the premises or structure.
Unsafe Structure: A structure that is found to be dangerous to the life, health, property or safety of the public or the occupants of the structure by not providing minimum safeguards to protect or warn the occupants in the event of fire, or because such structure contains unsafe equipment or is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe or of such faulty construction or unstable foundation, that partial or complete collapse is possible.
User (pertaining to water and sewerage treatment): Any person, who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of wastewater into the POTW.
Utility: Public or private water or sewer piping systems, water or sewer pumping stations, electric power lines, fuel pipelines, telephone lines, roads, driveways, bridges, river/lake access facilities, storm water systems and railroads.
Variance: A grant of relief from the requirements of this ordinance.
Vegetative Erosion and Sedimentation Control Measures: Measures for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by covering the soil with:
1.
Permanent seeding, sprigging or planting, producing long-term vegetative cover; or
2.
Temporary seeding, producing short-term vegetative cover; or
3.
Sodding, covering areas with a turf of perennial sod-forming grass.
Such measures can be found in the Publication Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
Vernacular: Based on regional tradition and utilizing regional materials.
Village Design: A mixed use corporate, commercial, office or residential district.
Violation: Any breach of the provisions of this article, including failure to obtain a land disturbance permit when required, failure to follow best management practices, and violating NTU levels when BMPs were not followed.
Visual Continuity: A sense of unity or belonging together that elements of the built environment exhibit because of similarities among them.
Wall Sign: Any sign attached parallel to a wall, painted, on the wall surface or erected and confined within the limits of any outside wall of any building or structure, which is supported by such wall or building and which displays only one sign surface. No wall sign shall extend more than 24 inches from any wall, building or structure. A wall sign includes, but is not limited to, a channel letter or individual letter.
Wastewater: The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface water and storm water that may be present.
Watercourse: Any natural or artificial watercourse, stream, river, creek, channel, ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine, or wash in which water flows either continuously or intermittently and which has a definite channel, bed and banks, and including any area adjacent thereto subject to inundation by reason of overflow or floodwater.
Water, non-potable: Water which is not safe for human consumption or which is of questionable potability.
Water, potable: Any water which, according to recognized standards, is safe for human consumption.
Water, used: Any water supplied by a water purveyor from a public potable water system to a consumer's water system after it has passed through the point of delivery and is no longer under the sanitary control of the water purveyor.
Water Purveyor: A supplier of water, including property owners supplying water for their own use.
Water Quality Buffer: A designated area of adequate width to provide for protection of the stream bank, channel soils and vegetative cover, as determined by the community development department, that is adjacent to any state waters, watercourses, or drainage areas, and in which no land disturbing activities shall be undertaken unless approved in the site plan. Such activities may include stream crossings for transportation routes or utilities construction, sewer and water line construction and minor landscaping or channel improvement activities to stabilize critical areas.
Water Quality Critical Area: The portion of the water supply watershed nearest the public water intake, where the most stringent land-use limitations of this article apply.
Watershed: The land area that drains into a particular stream.
Water Supply Watershed: The drainage area (watershed) of lands upstream of a governmentally-owned public drinking water intake or water supply reservoir.
Water Table: A sloping horizontal surface, of brick or stone, on an exterior wall, usually at the foundation level.
Wetland: An area that is inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances does support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
Wetland Delineation: The establishment of wetland boundaries by a representative of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers or an authority designated by the Corps.
Wetland Protection District: All wetlands within the jurisdiction of the City of Kennesaw and shown on the generalized wetland map.
Window Parts: The moving units of a window are known as sashes and move within the fixed frame. The sash may consist of one large pane of glass or may be subdivided into smaller panes by thin members called muntins or glazing bars.
Window Sign: Any sign that is placed on a window or upon the window panes or glass, either inside or outside the building, and is visible from the exterior of the structure.
Wireless Transmission Facilities: All equipment at a single location used by a private business user, governmental user, or commercial wireless service provider to transmit, receive or relay electromagnetic waves, digital signals, analog signals, radio waves, microwave or any other wireless communication signals. Such a facility may include antennas, arrays of antennas, telecommunication towers, support structures, transmitters, receivers, base station, combiners, amplifiers, repeaters, filters or other electronic equipment; together with all associated cabling, wiring, equipment enclosures and other improvements.
Wireless Communication Facility, concealed: A wireless communication facility with all the antennas camouflaged to match or complement the color and architectural treatment of the surface upon which they are mounted, or which has all facility components concealed behind landscaping or a façade or parapet wall.
Yard: A space on the same lot with a principal building, open, unoccupied, and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky except where encroachments and accessory buildings, structures, uses, and decks are expressly permitted. When private roads are involved, the orientation and location of the building itself shall determine the front, back and side yards.
Yard, front: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building, extending the full width of the lot, and situated between the street and the front setback line and projected to the side lines of the lot.
Yard, rear: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building, extending the full width of the lot, and situated between the rear line of the lot and the line representing the minimum rear yard requirements.
Yard, side: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with the principal building, situated between the side line of the lot and the minimum required side yard and extending from the rear line of the front yard to the front line of the rear yard.
Zoning Buffer: Any area that is required to remain undisturbed as a condition of zoning.
Zoning District: Refers to the zoning designation of parcels of land as per the Chapter 2 of this UDC.
Zoning Ordinance: The zoning regulations enacted by the Mayor and Council and set forth in the UDC.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12; Ord. No. 2012-15, § 1, 12-17-12; Ord. No. 2014-09, 7-21-14; Ord. No. 2015-05, § 1, 4-20-15; Ord. No. 2015-07, § 1, 8-17-15; Ord. No. 2015-11, 11-16-15; Ord. No. 2016-04, 3-7-16; Ord. No. 2016-18, § 4, 8-15-16; Ord. No. 2018-21, § 2(Exh. C), 10-15-18; Ord. No. 2018-23, § 1(Exh. A), 10-15-18; Ord. No. 2018-24, § 1(Exh. A), 10-15-18; Ord. No. 2019-05 , § 1(Exh. A), 9-16-19; Ord. No. 2020-09 , § 1, 8-17-20; Ord. No. 2021-04 , § 1(Exh. A), 2-15-21; Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 1(Exh. A2), 6-21-21)
Chapter 2 - ZONING DISTRICTS
2.00.00 - GENERALLY
The use of buildings, structures, and land in accordance with the comprehensive plan shall comply with the use requirements for zoning districts set forth in Chapter 2. Buildings, structures, or land shall be occupied or used only in conformity with all of the regulations set forth herein for the district in which it is located. The regulations contained in this article, are intended to: promote the orderly future development of Kennesaw in accordance with the official comprehensive plan; discourage the size and generally type of development which would create excessive requirements and costs for public services; discourage uses which because of its size or type would generate abnormal amounts of traffic on minor streets; and protect and promote a suitable environment for family life.
2.01.00 - ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE OF ZONING DISTRICTS

2.01.01 - Official Zoning Map
A.
The boundaries of the districts are hereby established as shown on a map entitled "Official Zoning Map, City of Kennesaw, Georgia," adopted by the Kennesaw City Council from time to time, and certified by the city clerk. Said map and all explanatory matter, including the adopted zoning resolution, thereon accompanies and is hereby made part of this ordinance.
B.
Said map shall represent as close as possible the actual zoning, but in the event of a discrepancy the explanatory material shall prevail.
C.
Said map shall be retained in the office of the city clerk.
D.
If, in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance, changes are made in district boundaries or other subject matter portrayed on the zoning map, such change shall be made on the official zoning map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the City Council.
E.
Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated or abandoned by official action of the Mayor and Council, the zoning district adjoining each side of such street, alley or public way shall be automatically extended to the center of same.
2.01.02 - District Boundaries
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the aforesaid districts as shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
A.
Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerlines of streets or highways, street lines or highway right-of-way lines or such lines extended, such centerlines, street lines or highway right-of-way lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
B.
Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately follow lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be said boundaries.
C.
Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are approximately parallel to the centerlines of streets or highways, or rights-of-way of same, such district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance there from as indicated on the zoning map. If no distance is given, such dimension shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on said zoning map. However, the explanatory matter shall be the determining factor.
D.
Where a district boundary line divides a lot in single ownership at the time of enactment of this ordinance, the district requirements for the least restricted portion of such lot shall be deemed to apply to the whole thereof, provided that such extensions shall not include any part of such lot more than thirty five (35) feet beyond the district boundary line.
E.
Where any dispute exists, the metes and bounds legal description shall control.
2.01.03 - Residential Zoning Districts
The following residential zoning districts are established:
2.01.03.01 The regulations for the R-40 Single-Family residential district (40,000-square-foot lot size) are as follows:
A.
Purpose and intent. The R-40 single-family residential district is established to provide locations for single-family detached dwellings or residentially compatible institutional and recreational uses at low densities, as defined under the City of Kennesaw Comprehensive Land Use Plan, and as may be amended from time to time, with access both to public water and sewerage.
B.
Uses. Any use not permitted as of right, or not permitted by Special Exception, or not permitted by land use permit is prohibited. To the extent there is a conflict between the permitted use table and this subsection, this section shall control for purposes of determining whether the use is allowed. See Section 4.04.01 for standards associated with Special Exception uses. Any conflict between the standards set forth in this district and those set forth in Section 4.04.01, the standards in Section 4.04.01 shall control for purposes of developing a Special Exception use.
The following uses are permitted:
Clubs or lodges (noncommercial)
Community fairs
Designated recycling collection locations
Executive golf courses
Fruit trees, nuts and vegetables for personal consumption (not for commerce)
Golf courses (18-hole regulation, public and private use)
Golf course (Par-3)
Group homes
Limited Home Occupation
Nonprofit riding stables
Nonprofit (seasonal use) fishing lake
Private parks
Recreation grounds other than tennis courts and golf courses
Religious assemblies
Single family dwelling units (detached)
Temporary uses
The following uses are permitted by special exception (refer to section 4.04.01)
Cemeteries
Mausoleums
Private community centers
Private schools of general and special education
The following uses are permitted by land use permit or special land use permit:
Cottage food operators (refer to section 4.04.05 Standards for Home Occupation)
Home Occupations (refer to section 4.04.05)
Family child care learning home (refer to section 4.04.05 Standards for Home Occupation)
Manufactured Homes (refer to section 4.04.04)
Radio, television and other communication towers and antennas (refer to section 4.04.06)
C.
Requirements for certain uses. The following uses shall have the requirements as ascribed to them in this subsection.
1.
Cottage Food Operators:
(a)
Cottage food operators shall adhere to all rules and regulations imposed by the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
(b)
There shall be no signage or other exterior evidence of the cottage food operator.
(c)
Deliveries of specialty ingredients such as herbs and spices, etc., limited to those made by the United States Postal Service or other carrier (FedEx, United Parcel Service, etc.) that routinely deliver mail/internet order products to residents.
(d)
No cottage food products prepared by the cottage food operator may be picked up by a commercial carrier.
(e)
There shall be no employees parking on the site unless approved by the Mayor and City Council in accordance with Section 4.04.05.
(f)
A home occupation land use permit shall be required.
2.
Limited Home Occupations:
(a)
There shall be no exterior evidence of the home occupation, including but not limited to any type of identifying signs.
(b)
No article, product or service used or sold in connection with such activity shall be other than those normally found on the premises.
(c)
No mechanical equipment shall be used for such occupation except such equipment as is customary for purely household and hobby purposes.
(d)
Such use shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling unit, and only persons living in the dwelling unit shall be employed in such occupation.
(e)
No more than 25 percent of the dwelling unit may be used for the operation.
(f)
No materials, equipment or business vehicles may be stored or parked on the premises, except that one business vehicle, used exclusively by the resident may be parked in a carport, garage, or rear or side yard.
(g)
The off-site employees of the resident shall not congregate on the premises for any purpose concerning the business of the home occupation.
(h)
There shall be no deliveries of supplies for use in the home occupation or pickups of the items produced by the occupant by commercial carriers.
(i)
No clients or customers are allowed on the premises on a regular basis.
(j)
The limited home occupation shall not create a nuisance.
3.
Designated Recycling Collection Locations:
(a)
Must be maintained in a safe, clean, neat, and sanitary fashion;
(b)
Such location shall be visually screened and maintained;
(c)
Such location shall be within the building setbacks unless otherwise approved by the zoning administrator or his/her designee due to topography, safety, internal traffic flow, site distance, or for other site-related circumstances not created by the property owner.
4.
Group Home:
(a)
A group home shall be shared by four or fewer persons, excluding resident staff;
(b)
The group home must provide the City of Kennesaw with a copy of its scheduled activity plan, a copy of the group home rules, and, if applicable, evidence of active enforcement under the Georgia Association of Recovery Residence standards;
(c)
The group home must be under the direction and guidance of a designated managing caregiver that resides at the group home;
(d)
The designated managing caregiver or his or her designee shall be available on a 24-hour basis in the event of emergencies or complaints; and
(e)
A group home must submit to random inspections by the City Code Enforcement;
(f)
A group home shall comply with all applicable regulations by the Board of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities and the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities.
5.
Family childcare learning home:
(a)
Maximum of six children under 13 years of age at one time for pay or not for pay;
(b)
For purpose of this section only, children who are related by direct blood kin or adoption to the childcare provider shall not be included in the calculation of the six children limitation;
(c)
The childcare shall not create a nuisance to immediately adjacent property owners;
(d)
Off-street parking must be provided for childcare pick-up and drop-off; and
(e)
No employees;
(f)
Proof of a Family child care learning home license under O.C.G.A. § 20-1A-10(v), or as amended from time to time, by the Department of Early Care and Learning or its successor agency;
(g)
A home occupation land use permit shall be required.
6.
Temporary Uses:
(a)
An approved temporary use shall not exceed 30 days and may be renewed for not more than one additional 30-day period.
(b)
Adequate off-street parking shall be provided.
(c)
Application for a temporary use shall be made with the City Business License division.
D.
Dimensional standards for Development. Setback shall be measured from the property line of the parcel. The property with the shortest amount of road frontage shall be the front setback for determining other setbacks (major side, side, rear).
1.
Minimum lot size: 40,000 square feet. The Zoning Administrator shall not be authorized to recommend a variance for more than 25 percent of the minimum lot size.
2.
Minimum floor area: 1,600 square feet.
3.
Minimum lot width at front setback line: 75 feet; cul-de-sac, 60 feet.
4.
Minimum public road frontage: 75 feet; cul-de-sac, 50 feet.
5.
Maximum cover: 35%
6.
Maximum building height: 35 feet.
7.
A basement shall be counted as a story if the ceiling is six feet or more above the grade and is either subdivided or used for dwelling or business purposes. A basement is a portion of the building partly underground which has more than one-half of its height measured from finished floor to finished ceiling above the average grade of the adjoining ground.
8.
Please refer to Site Design Standards for Base Zoning Districts set forth in Section 4.01.00 of the Unified Development Code, as amended from time to time, for additional regulations.
9.
Minimum building setbacks:
(a)
Front yard as measured from arterial: 45 feet.
(b)
Front yard as measured from collector: 45 feet.
(c)
Front yard as measured from local: 45 feet.
(d)
Side yard (aka minor side yard): 12 feet.
(e)
Rear yard: 40 feet.
(f)
Major side: 25 feet.
10.
Measuring building setbacks: The number and type of setbacks is determined based on the number and type of public road frontages for the lot as follows and as shown on the following diagram:
(a)
One public road frontage: The front yard setback is measured from the one public road frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the other two yards are side yards.
(b)
Two public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The major side yard setback is measured from the road with the longer frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the yard opposite the major side yard is the minor side yard.
(c)
Three public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The two major side yard setbacks are measured from the other two road frontages (arterial, collector, or local). The remaining yard is a minor side yard.
(d)
Building setbacks apply to both principal and accessory buildings and structure except where it explicitly states otherwise.
(e)
Irregular shaped lots: The Planning and Zoning Administrator will determine setbacks for irregular shaped lots adhering to the spirit and intent of this section.
2.01.03.02 The regulations for the R-30 Single-Family residential district (30,000-square-foot lot size) are as follows:
A.
Purpose and intent. The R-30 single-family residential district is established to provide locations for single-family detached dwellings or residentially compatible institutional and recreational uses at low to moderate densities, as defined under the City of Kennesaw Comprehensive Land Use Plan, and as may be amended from time to time, with access both to public water and sewerage.
B.
Uses. Any use not permitted as of right, or not permitted by Special Exception, or not permitted by land use permit is prohibited. To the extent there is a conflict between the permitted use table and this subsection, this section shall control for purposes of determining whether the use is allowed. See Section 4.04.01 for standards associated with Special Exception uses. Any conflict between the standards set forth in this district and those set forth in Section 4.04.01, the standards in Section 4.04.01 shall control for purposes of developing a Special Exception use.
The following uses are permitted:
Clubs or lodges (noncommercial)
Community Fairs
Designated Recycling Collection locations
Executive golf courses
Fruit Trees, Nuts and Vegetables for personal consumption (not for commerce)
Golf Courses (Par 3)
Golf Courses (18-hold regulation; private and public)
Group homes
Limited home occupation
Nonprofit riding stables
Nonprofit (seasonal use) fishing lakes
Private parks
Recreation grounds other than tennis courts and golf courses
Religious assemblies
Single family dwelling units (detached)
Temporary uses
The following uses are permitted by special exception (refer to section 4.04.01):
Cemeteries
Mausoleums
Private community centers
Private schools of general and special education
The following uses are permitted by land use permit or special land use permit:
Cottage food operator (refer to section 4.04.05 Standards for Home Occupation)
Family childcare learning home (refer to section 4.04.05 Standards for Home Occupation)
Home occupation (refer to section 4.04.05)
Radio, television, and other communication towers and antennas (refer to section 4.04.06)
C.
Requirements for certain uses. The following uses shall have the requirements as ascribed to them in this subsection.
1.
Cottage Food Operators:
(a)
Cottage food operators shall adhere to all rules and regulations imposed by the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
(b)
There shall be no signage or other exterior evidence of the cottage food operator.
(c)
Deliveries of specialty ingredients such as herbs and spices, etc., limited to those made by the United States Postal Service or other carrier (FedEx, United Parcel Service, etc.) that routinely deliver mail/internet order products to residents.
(d)
No cottage food products prepared by the cottage food operator may be picked up by a commercial carrier.
(e)
There shall be no employees parking on the site unless approved by the Mayor and City Council in accordance with Section 4.04.05.
(f)
A home occupation land use permit shall be required.
2.
Limited Home Occupations:
(a)
There shall be no exterior evidence of the home occupation, including but not limited to any type of identifying signs.
(b)
No article, product or service used or sold in connection with such activity shall be other than those normally found on the premises.
(c)
No mechanical equipment shall be used for such occupation except such equipment as is customary for purely household and hobby purposes.
(d)
Such use shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling unit, and only persons living in the dwelling unit shall be employed in such occupation.
(e)
No more than 25 percent of the dwelling unit may be used for the operation.
(f)
No materials, equipment or business vehicles may be stored or parked on the premises, except that one business vehicle, used exclusively by the resident may be parked in a carport, garage, or rear or side yard.
(g)
The off-site employees of the resident shall not congregate on the premises for any purpose concerning the business of the home occupation.
(h)
There shall be no deliveries of supplies for use in the home occupation or pickups of the items produced by the occupant by commercial carriers.
(i)
No clients or customers are allowed on the premises on a regular basis.
(j)
The limited home occupation shall not create a nuisance.
3.
Designated Recycling Collection Locations:
(a)
Must be maintained in a safe, clean, neat, and sanitary fashion;
(b)
Such location shall be visually screened and maintained;
(c)
Such location shall be within the building setbacks unless otherwise approved by the zoning administrator or his/her designee due to topography, safety, internal traffic flow, site distance, or for other site-related circumstances not created by the property owner.
4.
Group Home:
(a)
A group home shall be shared by four or fewer persons, excluding resident staff;
(b)
The group home must provide the City of Kennesaw with a copy of its scheduled activity plan, a copy of the group home rules, and, if applicable, evidence of active enforcement under the Georgia Association of Recovery Residence standards;
(c)
The group home must be under the direction and guidance of a designated managing caregiver that resides at the group home;
(d)
The designated managing caregiver or his or her designee shall be available on a 24-hour basis in the event of emergencies or complaints; and
(e)
A group home must submit to random inspections by the City Code Enforcement;
(f)
A group home shall comply with all applicable regulations by the Board of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities and the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities.
5.
Family childcare learning home:
(a)
Maximum of six children under 13 years of age at one time for pay or not for pay;
(b)
For purpose of this section only, children who are related by direct blood kin or adoption to the childcare provider shall not be included in the calculation of the six children limitation;
(c)
The childcare shall not create a nuisance to immediately adjacent property owners;
(d)
Off-street parking must be provided for childcare pick-up and drop-off; and
(e)
No employees;
(f)
Proof of a Family child care learning home license under O.C.G.A. § 20-1A-10(v), or as amended from time to time, by the Department of Early Care and Learning or its successor agency;
(g)
A home occupation land use permit shall be required.
6.
Temporary Uses:
(a)
An approved temporary use shall not exceed 30 days and may be renewed for not more than one additional 30-day period.
(b)
Adequate off-street parking shall be provided.
(c)
Application for a temporary use shall be made with the City Business License division.
D.
Dimensional standards for Development. Setback shall be measured from the property line of the parcel. The property with shortest amount of road frontage shall be the front setback for determining other setbacks (major side, side, rear).
1.
Minimum lot size: 30,000 square feet. The Zoning Administrator shall not be authorized to recommend a variance for more than 25 percent of the minimum lot size.
2.
Minimum floor area: 1,600 square feet.
3.
Minimum lot width at front setback line: 60-feet; cul-de-sac, 60 feet.
4.
Minimum public road frontage: 75 feet; cul-de-sac, 50 feet.
5.
Maximum cover: 35%
6.
Maximum building height: 35 feet.
7.
A basement shall be counted as a story if the ceiling is six feet or more above the grade and is either subdivided or used for dwelling or business purposes. A basement is a portion of the building partly underground which has more than one-half of its height measured from finished floor to finished ceiling above the average grade of the adjoining ground.
8.
Minimum building setbacks:
(a)
Front yard as measured from arterial: 50 feet.
(b)
Front yard as measured from collector: 50 feet.
(c)
Front yard as measured from local: 40 feet.
(d)
Side yard (aka minor side yard): 10 feet.
(e)
Rear yard: 40 feet.
(f)
Major side: 25 feet.
9.
Measuring building setbacks: The number and type of setbacks is determined based on the number and type of public road frontages for the lot as follows and as shown on the following diagram:
(a)
One public road frontage: The front yard setback is measured from the one public road frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the other two yards are side yards.
(b)
Two public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The major side yard setback is measured from the road with the longer frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the yard opposite the major side yard is the minor side yard.
(c)
Three public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The two major side yard setbacks are measured from the other two road frontages (arterial, collector, or local). The remaining yard is a minor side yard.
(d)
Building setbacks apply to both principal and accessory buildings and structure except where it explicitly states otherwise.
(e)
Irregular shaped lots: The Planning and Zoning Administrator will determine setbacks for irregular shaped lots adhering to the spirit and intent of this section.
2.01.03.03 The regulations for the R-20 Single-Family residential district (20,000-square-foot lot size) are as follows:
A.
Purpose and intent. The R-20 single-family residential district is intended to provide suitable areas for single-family, detached dwellings at medium densities as defined under the City of Kennesaw Comprehensive Land Use Plan, and as may be amended from time to time, with access to both public water and sewerage.
B.
Uses. Any use not permitted as of right, or not permitted by Special Exception, or not permitted by land use permit is prohibited. To the extent there is a conflict between the permitted use table and this subsection, this section shall control for purposes of determining whether the use is allowed. See Section 4.04.01 for standards associated with Special Exception uses. Any conflict between the standards set forth in this district and those set forth in Section 4.04.01, the standards in Section 4.04.01 shall control for purposes of developing a Special Exception use.
The following uses are permitted:
Clubs or lodges
Community Fairs
Designated Recycling Collection locations
Executive golf courses
Fruit Trees, Nuts and Vegetables for personal consumption (not for commerce)
Golf courses (Par 3)
Golf courses (18-hold regulation; private and public)
Group homes
Limited home occupations
Nonprofit riding stables
Nonprofit (seasonal use) fishing lakes
Private parks
Recreation grounds other than tennis courts and golf courses
Religious assemblies
Single family dwelling units (detached)
Temporary uses
The following uses are permitted by special exception (refer to section 4.04.01):
Cemeteries
Mausoleum
Private community centers
Private schools of general and special education
The following uses are permitted by land use permit or special land use permit:
Cottage food operator (refer to section 4.04.05 Standards for Home Occupation)
Family childcare learning home (refer to section 4.04.05 Standards for Home Occupation)
Home occupations (refer to section 4.04.05)
Manufactured Homes
Radio, television and other communication towers and antennas (refer to section 4.04.06)
C.
Requirements for certain uses. The following uses shall have the requirements as ascribed to them in this subsection.
1.
Cottage Food Operators:
(a)
Cottage food operators shall adhere to all rules and regulations imposed by the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
(b)
There shall be no signage or other exterior evidence of the cottage food operator.
(c)
Deliveries of specialty ingredients such as herbs and spices, etc., limited to those made by the United States Postal Service or other carrier (FedEx, United Parcel Service, etc.) that routinely deliver mail/internet order products to residents.
(d)
No cottage food products prepared by the cottage food operator may be picked up by a commercial carrier.
(e)
There shall be no employees parking on the site unless approved by the Mayor and City Council in accordance with Section 4.04.05.
(f)
A home occupation land use permit shall be required.
2.
Limited Home Occupations:
(a)
There shall be no exterior evidence of the home occupation, including but not limited to any type of identifying signs.
(b)
No article, product or service used or sold in connection with such activity shall be other than those normally found on the premises.
(c)
No mechanical equipment shall be used for such occupation except such equipment as is customary for purely household and hobby purposes.
(d)
Such use shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling unit, and only persons living in the dwelling unit shall be employed in such occupation.
(e)
No more than 25 percent of the dwelling unit may be used for the operation.
(f)
No materials, equipment or business vehicles may be stored or parked on the premises, except that one business vehicle, used exclusively by the resident may be parked in a carport, garage, or rear or side yard.
(g)
The off-site employees of the resident shall not congregate on the premises for any purpose concerning the business of the home occupation.
(h)
There shall be no deliveries of supplies for use in the home occupation or pickups of the items produced by the occupant by commercial carriers.
(i)
No clients or customers are allowed on the premises on a regular basis.
(j)
The limited home occupation shall not create a nuisance.
3.
Designated Recycling Collection Locations:
(a)
Must be maintained in a safe, clean, neat, and sanitary fashion;
(b)
Such location shall be visually screened and maintained;
(c)
Such location shall be within the building setbacks unless otherwise approved by the zoning administrator or his/her designee due to topography, safety, internal traffic flow, site distance, or for other site-related circumstances not created by the property owner.
4.
Group Home:
(a)
A group home shall be shared by four or fewer persons, excluding resident staff;
(b)
The group home must provide the City of Kennesaw with a copy of its scheduled activity plan, a copy of the group home rules, and, if applicable, evidence of active enforcement under the Georgia Association of Recovery Residence standards;
(c)
The group home must be under the direction and guidance of a designated managing caregiver that resides at the group home;
(d)
The designated managing caregiver or his or her designee shall be available on a 24-hour basis in the event of emergencies or complaints; and
(e)
A group home must submit to random inspections by the City Code Enforcement;
(f)
A group home shall comply with all applicable regulations by the Board of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities and the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities.
5.
Family childcare learning home:
(a)
Maximum of six children under 13 years of age at one time for pay or not for pay;
(b)
For purpose of this section only, children who are related by direct blood kin or adoption to the childcare provider shall not be included in the calculation of the six children limitation;
(c)
The childcare shall not create a nuisance to immediately adjacent property owners;
(d)
Off-street parking must be provided for childcare pick-up and drop-off; and
(e)
No employees;
(f)
Proof of a Family child care learning home license under O.C.G.A. § 20-1A-10(v), or as amended from time to time, by the Department of Early Care and Learning or its successor agency;
(g)
A home occupation land use permit shall be required.
6.
Temporary Uses:
(a)
An approved temporary use shall not exceed 30 days and may be renewed for not more than one additional 30-day period.
(b)
Adequate off-street parking shall be provided.
(c)
Application for a temporary use shall be made with the City Business License division.
D.
Dimensional standards for Development. Setback shall be measured from the property line of the parcel. The property with shortest amount of road frontage shall be the front setback for determining other setbacks (major side, side, rear).
1.
Minimum lot size: 20,000 square feet. The Zoning Administrator shall not be authorized to recommend a variance for more than 25 percent of the minimum lot size.
2.
Minimum floor area: 1,500 square feet.
3.
Minimum lot width at front setback line: 75 feet; cul-de-sac, 60 feet.
4.
Minimum public road frontage: 75 feet; cul-de-sac, 50 feet.
5.
Maximum cover: 35%
6.
Maximum building height: 35 feet.
7.
A basement shall be counted as a story if the ceiling is six feet or more above the grade and is either subdivided or used for dwelling or business purposes. A basement is a portion of the building partly underground which has more than one-half of its height measured from finished floor to finished ceiling above the average grade of the adjoining ground.
8.
Minimum building setbacks:
(a)
Front yard as measured from arterial: 40 feet.
(b)
Front yard as measured from collector: 40 feet.
(c)
Front yard as measured from local: 35 feet.
(d)
Side yard (aka minor side yard): 10 feet.
(e)
Rear yard: 35 feet.
(f)
Major side: 25 feet.
9.
Measuring building setbacks: The number and type of setbacks is determined based on the number and type of public road frontages for the lot as follows and as shown on the following diagram:
(a)
One public road frontage: The front yard setback is measured from the one public road frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the other two yards are side yards.
(b)
Two public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The major side yard setback is measured from the road with the longer frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the yard opposite the major side yard is the minor side yard.
(c)
Three public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The two major side yard setbacks are measured from the other two road frontages (arterial, collector, or local). The remaining yard is a minor side yard.
(d)
Building setbacks apply to both principal and accessory buildings and structure except where it explicitly states otherwise.
(e)
Irregular shaped lots: The Planning and Zoning Administrator will determine setbacks for irregular shaped lots adhering to the spirit and intent of this section.
2.01.03.04 The regulations for the R-15 Single-Family residential district (15,000-square-foot lot size) are as follows:
A.
Purpose and intent. The R-15 single-family residential district is intended to provide suitable areas for single-family, detached dwellings at medium densities as defined by the City of Kennesaw Comprehensive Land Use Plan, and as may be amended from time to time, with access to both public water and sewerage.
B.
Uses. Any use not permitted as of right, or not permitted by Special Exception, or not permitted by land use permit is prohibited. To the extent there is a conflict between the permitted use table and this subsection, this section shall control for purposes of determining whether the use is allowed. See Section 4.04.01 for standards associated with Special Exception uses. Any conflict between the standards set forth in this district and those set forth in Section 4.04.01, the standards in Section 4.04.01 shall control for purposes of developing a Special Exception use.
The following uses are permitted:
Clubs or lodges
Community Fairs
Designated recycling collection locations
Executive golf courses
Golf courses (Par 3)
Golf courses (18-hole regulation; private and public)
Group homes
Limited home occupation
Nonprofit riding stables
Nonprofit (seasonal use) fishing lakes
Private parks
Recreation grounds other than tennis courts and golf courses
Religious assemblies
Single family dwelling units (detached)
Temporary uses
The following uses are permitted by special exception (refer to section 4.04.01):
Cemeteries
Mausoleums
Private community centers
Private schools of general and special education
The following uses are permitted by land use permit or special land use permit:
Cottage food operators (refer to section 4.04.05 Standards for Home Occupation)
Family childcare learning home (refer to section 4.04.05 Standards for Home Occupation)
Home occupation (refer to section 4.04.05)
Manufactured Homes
Radio, television, and other communication towers and antennas (refer to section 4.05.06)
C.
Requirements for certain uses. The following uses shall have the requirements as ascribed to them in this subsection.
1.
Cottage Food Operators:
(a)
Cottage food operators shall adhere to all rules and regulations imposed by the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
(b)
There shall be no signage or other exterior evidence of the cottage food operator.
(c)
Deliveries of specialty ingredients such as herbs and spices, etc., limited to those made by the United States Postal Service or other carrier (FedEx, United Parcel Service, etc.) that routinely deliver mail/internet order products to residents.
(d)
No cottage food products prepared by the cottage food operator may be picked up by a commercial carrier.
(e)
There shall be no employees parking on the site unless approved by the Mayor and City Council in accordance with Section 4.04.05.
(f)
A home occupation land use permit shall be required.
2.
Limited Home Occupations:
(a)
There shall be no exterior evidence of the home occupation, including but not limited to any type of identifying signs.
(b)
No article, product or service used or sold in connection with such activity shall be other than those normally found on the premises.
(c)
No mechanical equipment shall be used for such occupation except such equipment as is customary for purely household and hobby purposes.
(d)
Such use shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling unit, and only persons living in the dwelling unit shall be employed in such occupation.
(e)
No more than 25 percent of the dwelling unit may be used for the operation.
(f)
No materials, equipment or business vehicles may be stored or parked on the premises, except that one business vehicle, used exclusively by the resident may be parked in a carport, garage, or rear or side yard.
(g)
The off-site employees of the resident shall not congregate on the premises for any purpose concerning the business of the home occupation.
(h)
There shall be no deliveries of supplies for use in the home occupation or pickups of the items produced by the occupant by commercial carriers.
(i)
No clients or customers are allowed on the premises on a regular basis.
(j)
The limited home occupation shall not create a nuisance.
3.
Designated Recycling Collection Locations:
(a)
Must be maintained in a safe, clean, neat, and sanitary fashion;
(b)
Such location shall be visually screened and maintained;
(c)
Such location shall be within the building setbacks unless otherwise approved by the zoning administrator or his/her designee due to topography, safety, internal traffic flow, site distance, or for other site-related circumstances not created by the property owner.
4.
Group Home:
(a)
A group home shall be shared by four or fewer persons, excluding resident staff;
(b)
The group home must provide the City of Kennesaw with a copy of its scheduled activity plan, a copy of the group home rules, and, if applicable, evidence of active enforcement under the Georgia Association of Recovery Residence standards;
(c)
The group home must be under the direction and guidance of a designated managing caregiver that resides at the group home;
(d)
The designated managing caregiver or his or her designee shall be available on a 24-hour basis in the event of emergencies or complaints; and
(e)
A group home must submit to random inspections by the City Code Enforcement;
(f)
A group home shall comply with all applicable regulations by the Board of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities and the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities.
5.
Family childcare learning home:
(a)
Maximum of six children under 13 years of age at one time for pay or not for pay;
(b)
For purpose of this section only, children who are related by direct blood kin or adoption to the childcare provider shall not be included in the calculation of the six children limitation;
(c)
The childcare shall not create a nuisance to immediately adjacent property owners;
(d)
Off-street parking must be provided for childcare pick-up and drop-off; and
(e)
No employees;
(f)
Proof of a Family child care learning home license under O.C.G.A. § 20-1A-10(v), or as amended from time to time, by the Department of Early Care and Learning or its successor agency;
(g)
A home occupation land use permit shall be required.
6.
Temporary Uses:
(a)
An approved temporary use shall not exceed 30 days and may be renewed for not more than one additional 30-day period.
(b)
Adequate off-street parking shall be provided.
(c)
Application for a temporary use shall be made with the City Business License division.
D.
Dimensional standards for Development. Setback shall be measured from the property line of the parcel. The property with shortest amount of road frontage shall be the front setback for determining other setbacks (major side, side, rear).
1.
Minimum lot size: 15,000 square feet. The Zoning Administrator shall not be authorized to recommend a variance for more than 25 percent of the minimum lot size.
2.
Minimum floor area: 1,400 square feet.
3.
Minimum lot width at front setback line: 75 feet; cul-de-sac, 60 feet.
4.
Minimum public road frontage: 75 feet; cul-de-sac, 50 feet.
5.
Maximum cover: 35%
6.
Maximum building height: 35 feet.
7.
A basement shall be counted as a story if the ceiling is six feet or more above the grade and is either subdivided or used for dwelling or business purposes. A basement is a portion of the building partly underground which has more than one-half of its height measured from finished floor to finished ceiling above the average grade of the adjoining ground.
8.
Minimum building setbacks:
(a)
Front yard as measured from arterial: 40 feet.
(b)
Front yard as measured from collector: 40 feet.
(c)
Front yard as measured from local: 35 feet.
(d)
Side yard (aka minor side yard): 10 feet.
(e)
Rear yard: 30 feet.
(f)
Major side: 25 feet.
9.
Measuring building setbacks: The number and type of setbacks is determined based on the number and type of public road frontages for the lot as follows and as shown on the following diagram:
(a)
One public road frontage: The front yard setback is measured from the one public road frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the other two yards are side yards.
(b)
Two public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The major side yard setback is measured from the road with the longer frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the yard opposite the major side yard is the minor side yard.
(c)
Three public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The two major side yard setbacks are measured from the other two road frontages (arterial, collector, or local). The remaining yard is a minor side yard.
(d)
Building setbacks apply to both principal and accessory buildings and structure except where it explicitly states otherwise.
(e)
Irregular shaped lots: The Planning and Zoning Administrator will determine setbacks for irregular shaped lots adhering to the spirit and intent of this section.
2.01.03.05 The regulations for the R-12 Single-Family residential district (12,000-square-foot lot size) are as follows:
A.
Purpose and intent. The R-12 single-family residential district is intended to provide suitable areas for single-family, detached dwellings at medium densities as defined by the City of Kennesaw Comprehensive Land Use Plan, and as may be amended from time to time, with access to both public water and sewerage.
B.
Uses. Any use not permitted as of right, or not permitted by Special Exception, or not permitted by land use permit is prohibited. To the extent there is a conflict between the permitted use table and this subsection, this section shall control for purposes of determining whether the use is allowed. See Section 4.04.01 for standards associated with Special Exception uses. Any conflict between the standards set forth in this district and those set forth in Section 4.04.01, the standards in Section 4.04.01 shall control for purposes of developing a Special Exception use.
The following uses are permitted:
Clubs or lodges
Community Fairs
Designated recycling collection locations
Executive golf courses
Golf courses (Par 3)
Golf courses (18-hole regulation; private and public)
Group homes
Limited home occupation
Nonprofit riding stables
Nonprofit (seasonal use) fishing lakes
Private parks
Recreation grounds other than tennis courts and golf courses
Religious assembles
Single family dwelling units (detached)
Temporary uses
The following uses are permitted by special exception (refer to section 4.04.01):
Cemeteries
Mausoleums
Private community centers
Private schools of general and special education
The following uses are permitted by land use permit or special land use permit:
Cottage food operator (refer to section 4.04.05 Standards for Home Occupation)
Family child care learning home (refer to section 4.04.05 Standards for Home Occupation)
Home occupation (refer to section 4.04.05)
Manufactured Homes
Radio, television, and other communication towers and antennas (refer to section 4.05.06)
C.
Requirements for certain uses. The following uses shall have the requirements as ascribed to them in this subsection.
1.
Cottage Food Operators:
(a)
Cottage food operators shall adhere to all rules and regulations imposed by the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
(b)
There shall be no signage or other exterior evidence of the cottage food operator.
(c)
Deliveries of specialty ingredients such as herbs and spices, etc., limited to those made by the United States Postal Service or other carrier (FedEx, United Parcel Service, etc.) that routinely deliver mail/internet order products to residents.
(d)
No cottage food products prepared by the cottage food operator may be picked up by a commercial carrier.
(e)
There shall be no employees parking on the site unless approved by the Mayor and City Council in accordance with Section 4.04.05.
(f)
A home occupation land use permit shall be required.
2.
Limited Home Occupations:
(a)
There shall be no exterior evidence of the home occupation, including but not limited to any type of identifying signs.
(b)
No article, product or service used or sold in connection with such activity shall be other than those normally found on the premises.
(c)
No mechanical equipment shall be used for such occupation except such equipment as is customary for purely household and hobby purposes.
(d)
Such use shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling unit, and only persons living in the dwelling unit shall be employed in such occupation.
(e)
No more than 25 percent of the dwelling unit may be used for the operation.
(f)
No materials, equipment or business vehicles may be stored or parked on the premises, except that one business vehicle, used exclusively by the resident may be parked in a carport, garage, or rear or side yard.
(g)
The off-site employees of the resident shall not congregate on the premises for any purpose concerning the business of the home occupation.
(h)
There shall be no deliveries of supplies for use in the home occupation or pickups of the items produced by the occupant by commercial carriers.
(i)
No clients or customers are allowed on the premises on a regular basis.
(j)
The limited home occupation shall not create a nuisance.
3.
Designated Recycling Collection Locations:
(a)
Must be maintained in a safe, clean, neat, and sanitary fashion;
(b)
Such location shall be visually screened and maintained;
(c)
Such location shall be within the building setbacks unless otherwise approved by the zoning administrator or his/her designee due to topography, safety, internal traffic flow, site distance, or for other site-related circumstances not created by the property owner.
4.
Group Home:
(a)
A group home shall be shared by four or fewer persons, excluding resident staff;
(b)
The group home must provide the City of Kennesaw with a copy of its scheduled activity plan, a copy of the group home rules, and, if applicable, evidence of active enforcement under the Georgia Association of Recovery Residence standards;
(c)
The group home must be under the direction and guidance of a designated managing caregiver that resides at the group home;
(d)
The designated managing caregiver or his or her designee shall be available on a 24-hour basis in the event of emergencies or complaints; and
(e)
A group home must submit to random inspections by the City Code Enforcement;
(f)
A group home shall comply with all applicable regulations by the Board of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities and the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities.
5.
Family childcare learning home:
(a)
Maximum of six children under 13 years of age at one time for pay or not for pay;
(b)
For purpose of this section only, children who are related by direct blood kin or adoption to the childcare provider shall not be included in the calculation of the six children limitation;
(c)
The childcare shall not create a nuisance to immediately adjacent property owners;
(d)
Off-street parking must be provided for childcare pick-up and drop-off; and
(e)
No employees;
(f)
Proof of a Family child care learning home license under O.C.G.A. § 20-1A-10(v), or as amended from time to time, by the Department of Early Care and Learning or its successor agency;
(g)
A home occupation land use permit shall be required.
6.
Temporary Uses:
(a)
An approved temporary use shall not exceed 30 days and may be renewed for not more than one additional 30-day period.
(b)
Adequate off-street parking shall be provided.
(c)
Application for a temporary use shall be made with the City Business License division.
D.
Dimensional standards for Development. Setback shall be measured from the property line of the parcel. The property with shortest amount of road frontage shall be the front setback for determining other setbacks (major side, side, rear).
1.
Minimum lot size: 12,000 square feet. The Zoning Administrator shall not be authorized to recommend a variance for more than 25 percent of the minimum lot size.
2.
Minimum floor area: 1,200 square feet.
3.
Minimum lot width at front setback line: 75 feet; cul-de-sac, 60 feet.
4.
Minimum public road frontage: 75 feet; cul-de-sac, 50 feet.
5.
Maximum cover: 30%
6.
Maximum building height: 35 feet.
7.
A basement shall be counted as a story if the ceiling is six feet or more above the grade and is either subdivided or used for dwelling or business purposes. A basement is a portion of the building partly underground which has more than one-half of its height measured from finished floor to finished ceiling above the average grade of the adjoining ground.
8.
Minimum building setbacks:
(a)
Front yard as measured from arterial: 40 feet.
(b)
Front yard as measured from collector: 40 feet.
(c)
Front yard as measured from local: 35 feet.
(d)
Side yard (aka minor side yard): 10 feet.
(e)
Rear yard: 20 feet.
(f)
Major side: 25 feet.
9.
Measuring building setbacks: The number and type of setbacks is determined based on the number and type of public road frontages for the lot as follows and as shown on the following diagram:
(a)
One public road frontage: The front yard setback is measured from the one public road frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the other two yards are side yards.
(b)
Two public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The major side yard setback is measured from the road with the longer frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the yard opposite the major side yard is the minor side yard.
(c)
Three public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The two major side yard setbacks are measured from the other two road frontages (arterial, collector, or local). The remaining yard is a minor side yard.
(d)
Building setbacks apply to both principal and accessory buildings and structure except where it explicitly states otherwise.
(e)
Irregular shaped lots: The Planning and Zoning Administrator will determine setbacks for irregular shaped lots adhering to the spirit and intent of this section.
2.01.03.06 The regulations for the R-10 Single-Family residential district (10,000-square-foot lot size) are as follows:
A.
Purpose and intent. The R-10 single-family residential district is intended to provide suitable areas for single-family, detached dwellings at medium densities as defined by the City of Kennesaw Comprehensive Land Use Plan, and as may be amended from time to time, with access to both public water and sewerage.
B.
Uses. Any use not permitted as of right, or not permitted by Special Exception, or not permitted by land use permit is prohibited. To the extent there is a conflict between the permitted use table and this subsection, this section shall control for purposes of determining whether the use is allowed. See Section 4.04.01 for standards associated with Special Exception uses. Any conflict between the standards set forth in this district and those set forth in Section 4.04.01, the standards in Section 4.04.01 shall control for purposes of developing a Special Exception use.
The following uses are permitted:
Clubs or lodges
Community Fairs
Designated recycling collection locations
Executive golf courses
Golf courses (Par 3)
Golf courses (18-hole regulation; private and public)
Group homes
Limited home occupation
Nonprofit riding stables
Nonprofit (seasonal use) fishing lakes
Private parks
Recreation grounds other than tennis courts and golf courses
Religious assemblies
Single family dwelling units (detached)
Temporary uses
The following uses are permitted by special exception (refer to section 4.04.01):
Cemeteries
Mausoleums
Private community centers
Private schools of general and special education
The following uses are permitted by land use permit or special land use permit:
Cottage food operators (refer to section 4.04.05 Standards for Home Occupation)
Family child care learning home (refer to section 4.04.05 Standards for Home Occupation)
Home occupation (refer to section 4.04.05)
Manufactured Homes
Radio, television and other communication towers and antennas (refer to section 4.04.06)
C.
Requirements for certain uses. The following uses shall have the requirements as ascribed to them in this subsection.
1.
Cottage Food Operators:
(a)
Cottage food operators shall adhere to all rules and regulations imposed by the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
(b)
There shall be no signage or other exterior evidence of the cottage food operator.
(c)
Deliveries of specialty ingredients such as herbs and spices, etc., limited to those made by the United States Postal Service or other carrier (FedEx, United Parcel Service, etc.) that routinely deliver mail/internet order products to residents.
(d)
No cottage food products prepared by the cottage food operator may be picked up by a commercial carrier.
(e)
There shall be no employees parking on the site unless approved by the Mayor and City Council in accordance with Section 4.04.05.
(f)
A home occupation land use permit shall be required.
2.
Limited Home Occupations:
(a)
There shall be no exterior evidence of the home occupation, including but not limited to any type of identifying signs.
(b)
No article, product or service used or sold in connection with such activity shall be other than those normally found on the premises.
(c)
No mechanical equipment shall be used for such occupation except such equipment as is customary for purely household and hobby purposes.
(d)
Such use shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling unit, and only persons living in the dwelling unit shall be employed in such occupation.
(e)
No more than 25 percent of the dwelling unit may be used for the operation.
(f)
No materials, equipment or business vehicles may be stored or parked on the premises, except that one business vehicle, used exclusively by the resident may be parked in a carport, garage, or rear or side yard.
(g)
The off-site employees of the resident shall not congregate on the premises for any purpose concerning the business of the home occupation.
(h)
There shall be no deliveries of supplies for use in the home occupation or pickups of the items produced by the occupant by commercial carriers.
(i)
No clients or customers are allowed on the premises on a regular basis.
(j)
The limited home occupation shall not create a nuisance.
3.
Designated Recycling Collection Locations:
(a)
Must be maintained in a safe, clean, neat, and sanitary fashion;
(b)
Such location shall be visually screened and maintained;
(c)
Such location shall be within the building setbacks unless otherwise approved by the zoning administrator or his/her designee due to topography, safety, internal traffic flow, site distance, or for other site-related circumstances not created by the property owner.
4.
Group Home:
(a)
A group home shall be shared by four or fewer persons, excluding resident staff;
(b)
The group home must provide the City of Kennesaw with a copy of its scheduled activity plan, a copy of the group home rules, and, if applicable, evidence of active enforcement under the Georgia Association of Recovery Residence standards;
(c)
The group home must be under the direction and guidance of a designated managing caregiver that resides at the group home;
(d)
The designated managing caregiver or his or her designee shall be available on a 24-hour basis in the event of emergencies or complaints; and
(e)
A group home must submit to random inspections by the City Code Enforcement.
(f)
A group home shall comply with all applicable regulations by the Board of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities and the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities.
5.
Family childcare learning home:
(a)
Maximum of six children under 13 years of age at one time for pay or not for pay;
(b)
For purpose of this section only, children who are related by direct blood kin or adoption to the childcare provider shall not be included in the calculation of the six children limitation;
(c)
The childcare shall not create a nuisance to immediately adjacent property owners;
(d)
Off-street parking must be provided for childcare pick-up and drop-off; and
(e)
No employees;
(f)
Proof of a Family child care learning home license under O.C.G.A. § 20-1A-10(v), or as amended from time to time, by the Department of Early Care and Learning or its successor agency;
(g)
A home occupation land use permit shall be required.
6.
Temporary Uses:
(a)
An approved temporary use shall not exceed 30 days and may be renewed for not more than one additional 30-day period.
(b)
Adequate off-street parking shall be provided.
(c)
Application for a temporary use shall be made with the City Business License division.
D.
Dimensional standards for Development. Setback shall be measured from the property line of the parcel. The property with shortest amount of road frontage shall be the front setback for determining other setbacks (major side, side, rear).
1.
Minimum lot size: 10,000 square feet. The Zoning Administrator shall not be authorized to recommend a variance for more than 25 percent of the minimum lot size.
2.
Minimum floor area: 1,050 square feet.
3.
Minimum lot width at front setback line: 75 feet; cul-de-sac, 60 feet.
4.
Minimum public road frontage: 75 feet; cul-de-sac, 50 feet.
5.
Maximum cover: 30%
6.
Maximum building height: 35 feet.
7.
A basement shall be counted as a story if the ceiling is six feet or more above the grade and is either subdivided or used for dwelling or business purposes. A basement is a portion of the building partly underground which has more than one-half of its height measured from finished floor to finished ceiling above the average grade of the adjoining ground.
8.
Minimum building setbacks:
(a)
Front yard as measured from arterial: 40 feet.
(b)
Front yard as measured from collector: 40 feet.
(c)
Front yard as measured from local: 35 feet.
(d)
Side yard (aka minor side yard): 10 feet.
(e)
Rear yard: 20 feet.
(f)
Major side: 25 feet.
9.
Measuring building setbacks: The number and type of setbacks is determined based on the number and type of public road frontages for the lot as follows and as shown on the following diagram:
(a)
One public road frontage: The front yard setback is measured from the one public road frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the other two yards are side yards.
(b)
Two public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The major side yard setback is measured from the road with the longer frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the yard opposite the major side yard is the minor side yard.
(c)
Three public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The two major side yard setbacks are measured from the other two road frontages (arterial, collector, or local). The remaining yard is a minor side yard.
(d)
Building setbacks apply to both principal and accessory buildings and structure except where it explicitly states otherwise.
(e)
Irregular shaped lots: The Planning and Zoning Administrator will determine setbacks for irregular shaped lots adhering to the spirit and intent of this section.
2.01.03.07 The regulations for the Planned Unit Development residential PUD-R district are as follows:
A.
Purpose and intent. The PUD-R planned unit development residential district is established to encourage and provide flexible site plan and building arrangements under a unified plan of development rather than by lot-by-lot regulation. The PUD-R district is not intended to encourage greater density of development, but rather to encourage ingenuity and resourcefulness in land planning to assure the provision of park and recreation land and facilities for the use of the occupants of the development in order to obtain a more desirable environment. The density should be consistent with the surrounding development.
B.
Uses. Any use not permitted as of right, or not permitted by Special Exception, or not permitted by land use permit is prohibited. To the extent there is a conflict between the permitted use table and this subsection, this section shall control for purposes of determining whether the use is allowed. See Section 4.04.01 for standards associated with Special Exception uses. Any conflict between the standards set forth in this district and those set forth in Section 4.04.01, the standards in Section 4.04.01 shall control for purposes of developing a Special Exception use.
The following uses are permitted:
Clubs or lodges
Community Fairs
Designated recycling collection locations
Executive golf courses
Golf courses (Par 3)
Golf courses (18-hole regulation; private and public)
Limited home occupation
Nonprofit riding stables
Nonprofit (seasonal use) fishing lakes
Private parks
Recreation grounds other than tennis courts and golf courses
Religious assemblies
Single family dwelling units (attached)
Single family dwelling units (detached)
Temporary uses
Townhouse dwelling units
Two family dwelling units
The following uses are permitted by special exception (refer to section 4.04.01):
Cemeteries
Mausoleums
Private community centers
Private schools of general and special education
The following uses are permitted by land use permit or special land use permit:
Cottage food operators (refer to section 4.04.05 Standards for Home Occupation)
Family child care learning home (refer to section 4.04.05 Standards for Home Occupation)
Home occupation (refer to section 4.04.05)
Manufactured Homes
Radio, television, and other communication towers and antennas (refer to secton 4.04.06)
C.
Requirements for certain uses. The following uses shall have the requirements as ascribed to them in this subsection.
1.
Cottage Food Operators:
(a)
Cottage food operators shall adhere to all rules and regulations imposed by the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
(b)
There shall be no signage or other exterior evidence of the cottage food operator.
(c)
Deliveries of specialty ingredients such as herbs and spices, etc., limited to those made by the United States Postal Service or other carrier (FedEx, United Parcel Service, etc.) that routinely deliver mail/internet order products to residents.
(d)
No cottage food products prepared by the cottage food operator may be picked up by a commercial carrier.
(e)
There shall be no employees parking on the site unless approved by the Mayor and City Council in accordance with Section 4.04.05.
(f)
A home occupation land use permit shall be required.
2.
Limited Home Occupations:
(a)
There shall be no exterior evidence of the home occupation, including but not limited to any type of identifying signs.
(b)
No article, product or service used or sold in connection with such activity shall be other than those normally found on the premises.
(c)
No mechanical equipment shall be used for such occupation except such equipment as is customary for purely household and hobby purposes.
(d)
Such use shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling unit, and only persons living in the dwelling unit shall be employed in such occupation.
(e)
No more than 25 percent of the dwelling unit may be used for the operation.
(f)
No materials, equipment or business vehicles may be stored or parked on the premises, except that one business vehicle, used exclusively by the resident may be parked in a carport, garage, or rear or side yard.
(g)
The off-site employees of the resident shall not congregate on the premises for any purpose concerning the business of the home occupation.
(h)
There shall be no deliveries of supplies for use in the home occupation or pickups of the items produced by the occupant by commercial carriers.
(i)
No clients or customers are allowed on the premises on a regular basis.
(j)
The limited home occupation shall not create a nuisance.
3.
Designated Recycling Collection Locations:
(a)
Must be maintained in a safe, clean, neat, and sanitary fashion;
(b)
Such location shall be visually screened and maintained;
(c)
Such location shall be within the building setbacks unless otherwise approved by the zoning administrator or his/her designee due to topography, safety, internal traffic flow, site distance, or for other site-related circumstances not created by the property owner.
4.
Family childcare learning home:
(a)
Maximum of six children under 13 years of age at one time for pay or not for pay;
(b)
For purpose of this section only, children who are related by direct blood kin or adoption to the childcare provider shall not be included in the calculation of the six children limitation;
(c)
The childcare shall not create a nuisance to immediately adjacent property owners;
(d)
Off-street parking must be provided for childcare pick-up and drop-off; and
(e)
No employees;
(f)
Proof of a Family child care learning home license under O.C.G.A. § 20-1A-10(v), or as amended from time to time, by the Department of Early Care and Learning or its successor agency;
(g)
A home occupation land use permit shall be required.
5.
Temporary Uses:
(a)
An approved temporary use shall not exceed 30 days and may be renewed for not more than one additional 30-day period.
(b)
Adequate off-street parking shall be provided.
(c)
Application for a temporary use shall be made with the City Business License division.
D.
Standards for Development.
1.
Lot size and set back requirements. Lot-by-lot setbacks shall not apply in the PUD-R district; however, no primary structure shall be closer than 15 feet to another primary structure.
2.
Landscape buffer and screening requirements. Unless otherwise noted within this district's requirements, any property within a PUD-R district which abuts a more restrictively zoned residentially zoned property shall have a minimum of ten-foot landscaped screening buffer. Additionally, during the construction phase, a 40-foot undisturbed buffer shall be maintained except for access points, required detention/retention facilities or utilities. Required buffers may be included within required setbacks; however, in such case that the required buffer is greater than the required setback, the required buffer shall be adhered to. Additionally, necessary private utilities and access drives may be allowed through, over or across a landscaped buffer. Any such uses which are proposed through, over or across a designated undisturbed buffer must be approved pursuant to an original site plan or site plan modification.
(a)
Objectives. Undisturbed, planted landscaped buffers and berms shall be implemented in connection with a permitted project and shall address the following objectives:
(1)
Screening to enhance aesthetic appeal;
(2)
Control or direction of vehicular and pedestrian movement;
(3)
Reduction of glare;
(4)
Buffering of noise;
(5)
Establishment of privacy.
(b)
Standards. Buffers or berms shall be required when a PUD-R district is located adjacent to a more restrictive residential district; a minimum of ten-foot buffer is required.
(1)
Buffers. Landscaped buffers are subject to review and approval by the Zoning Administrator in accordance with the following standards:
(a)
Plantings are to be a mix of evergreen trees and shrubs.
(b)
Species are to be ecologically compatible to the site and appropriate for the design situation.
(c)
Unless public safety concerns dictate otherwise, a buffer should maximize a visual barrier to a height of six feet within two years of planting.
(d)
Minimum height of plant materials at installation is five feet for trees and two feet for shrubs.
(e)
Fencing or walls are to be a minimum of six feet in height as approved by the Zoning Administrator.
(f)
Trees included in buffer planting may be counted toward site density calculations as required by Section 3.07.00 of the UDC pertaining to tree preservation and replacement, subject to review and approval by the Zoning Administrator.
(g)
Buffers shall be regularly maintained by the property owner to ensure that the objectives and standards are met.
(h)
When topography and existing conditions allow, the required ten-foot buffer should be an undisturbed buffer.
(i)
Any appeals from a determination by the Zoning Administrator shall be to the Mayor and City Council pursuant to Section 10.05.01 of the UDC.
(2)
Berms. Berms are subject to review and approval by the Zoning Administrator in accordance with the following standards:
(a)
Berms shall be utilized when consistent with surrounding property features.
(b)
Berms shall be stabilized.
(c)
Berms shall be constructed to be consistent with natural or proposed drainage patterns.
(d)
Berms shall be regularly maintained by the property owner.
3.
Building and structure requirements. Maximum building height is 35 feet.
4.
Minimum lot size for a single-family dwelling is 8,400 square feet.
2.01.03.08 The regulations for the RA-4 Residential District (four units per acre) (8,400-square-foot lot size) are as follows:
A.
Purpose and intent. The RA-4 residential district is established to provide locations for the development of affordable single-family detached or attached residential dwelling units including the combination of duplexes, triplexes, and quadraplexes, with access to both public water and sewerage for medium to high density residential classifications as defined under the City of Kennesaw Comprehensive Land Use Plan, and as may be amended from time to time. The attached dwelling units are to be designed for placement on an individual lot attached to another dwelling unit or on an adjoining lot where the units will be attached by a common party wall.
B.
Uses. Any use not permitted as of right, or not permitted by Special Exception, or not permitted by land use permit is prohibited. To the extent there is a conflict between the permitted use table and this subsection, this section shall control for purposes of determining whether the use is allowed. See Section 4.04.01 for standards associated with Special Exception uses. Any conflict between the standards set forth in this district and those set forth in Section 4.04.01, the standards in Section 4.04.01 shall control for purposes of developing a Special Exception use.
The following uses are permitted:
Community Fairs
Designated recycling collection locations
Executive golf courses
Golf courses (Par 3)
Golf courses (18-hole regulation; private and public)
Group homes
Limited home occupation
Nonprofit riding stables
Nonprofit (seasonal use) fishing lakes
Private parks
Recreation grounds other than tennis courts and golf courses
Religious assemblies
Single family dwelling units (attached)
Single family dwelling units (detached)
Temporary uses
The following uses are permitted by special exception (refer to section 4.04.01):
Cemeteries
Private community centers
Private schools of general and special education
The following uses are permitted by land use permit or special land use permit:
Cottage food operators (refer to section 4.04.05 Standards for Home Occupation)
Home occupation (refer to section 4.04.05)
Manufactured Homes
Radio, television and other communication towers and antennas (refer to section 4.04.06)
C.
Requirements for certain uses. The following uses shall have the requirements as ascribed to them in this subsection.
1.
Cottage Food Operators:
(a)
Cottage food operators shall adhere to all rules and regulations imposed by the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
(b)
There shall be no signage or other exterior evidence of the cottage food operator.
(c)
Deliveries of specialty ingredients such as herbs and spices, etc., limited to those made by the United States Postal Service or other carrier (FedEx, United Parcel Service, etc.) that routinely deliver mail/internet order products to residents.
(d)
No cottage food products prepared by the cottage food operator may be picked up by a commercial carrier.
(e)
There shall be no employees parking on the site unless approved by the Mayor and City Council in accordance with Section 4.04.05.
(f)
A home occupation land use permit shall be required.
2.
Limited Home Occupations:
(a)
There shall be no exterior evidence of the home occupation, including but not limited to any type of identifying signs.
(b)
No article, product or service used or sold in connection with such activity shall be other than those normally found on the premises.
(c)
No mechanical equipment shall be used for such occupation except such equipment as is customary for purely household and hobby purposes.
(d)
Such use shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling unit, and only persons living in the dwelling unit shall be employed in such occupation.
(e)
No more than 25 percent of the dwelling unit may be used for the operation.
(f)
No materials, equipment or business vehicles may be stored or parked on the premises, except that one business vehicle, used exclusively by the resident may be parked in a carport, garage, or rear or side yard.
(g)
The off-site employees of the resident shall not congregate on the premises for any purpose concerning the business of the home occupation.
(h)
There shall be no deliveries of supplies for use in the home occupation or pickups of the items produced by the occupant by commercial carriers.
(i)
No clients or customers are allowed on the premises on a regular basis.
(j)
The limited home occupation shall not create a nuisance.
3.
Designated Recycling Collection Locations:
(a)
Must be maintained in a safe, clean, neat, and sanitary fashion;
(b)
Such location shall be visually screened and maintained;
(c)
Such location shall be within the building setbacks unless otherwise approved by the zoning administrator or his/her designee due to topography, safety, internal traffic flow, site distance, or for other site-related circumstances not created by the property owner.
4.
Group Home:
(a)
A group home shall be shared by four or fewer persons, excluding resident staff;
(b)
The group home must provide the City of Kennesaw with a copy of its scheduled activity plan, a copy of the group home rules, and, if applicable, evidence of active enforcement under the Georgia Association of Recovery Residence standards;
(c)
The group home must be under the direction and guidance of a designated managing caregiver that resides at the group home;
(d)
The designated managing caregiver or his or her designee shall be available on a 24-hour basis in the event of emergencies or complaints; and
(e)
A group home must submit to random inspections by the City Code Enforcement
(f)
A group home shall comply with all applicable regulations by the Board of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities and the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities.
5.
Temporary Uses:
(a)
An approved temporary use shall not exceed 30 days and may be renewed for not more than one additional 30-day period.
(b)
Adequate off-street parking shall be provided.
(c)
Application for a temporary use shall be made with the City Business License division.
D.
Dimensional standards for Development. Setback shall be measured from the property line of the parcel. The property with shortest amount of road frontage shall be the front setback for determining other setbacks (major side, side, rear).
1.
Minimum lot size: 8,400 square feet.
2.
Minimum acreage required: 80,000 square feet.
3.
Maximum acreage required: 20 acres
4.
Maximum density: 4 units per acre.
5.
Minimum floor area: 1,000 square feet.
6.
Minimum lot width at front setback line: 60 feet; cul-de-sac, 50 feet.
7.
Minimum public road frontage: 70 feet; cul-de-sac, 35 feet; 50 feet minimum public road frontage if interior to development.
8.
Maximum cover: 35%.
9.
Maximum building height: 35 feet.
10.
Minimum width between buildings: 15 feet.
11.
Basement: A basement shall be counted as a story if the ceiling is six feet or more above the grade and is either subdivided or used for dwelling or business purposes. A basement is a portion of the building partly underground which has more than one-half of its height measured from finished floor to finished ceiling above the average grade of the adjoining ground.
12.
Minimum building setbacks:
(a)
Front yard as measured from arterial: 50 feet.
(b)
Front yard as measured from collector: 50 feet.
(c)
Front yard as measured from local: 40 feet.
(d)
Side yard (aka minor side yard): 10 feet (if not interior portion of development); 5 feet (if interior portion of development).
(e)
Rear yard: 30 feet.
(f)
Major side: 25.
13.
Measuring building setbacks: The number and type of setbacks is determined based on the number and type of public road frontages for the lot as follows and as shown on the following diagram:
(a)
One public road frontage: The front yard setback is measured from the one public road frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the other two yards are side yards.
(b)
Two public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The major side yard setback is measured from the road with the longer frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the yard opposite the major side yard is the minor side yard.
(c)
Three public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The two major side yard setbacks are measured from the other two road frontages (arterial, collector, or local). The remaining yard is a minor side yard.
(d)
Building setbacks apply to both principal and accessory buildings and structure except where it explicitly states otherwise.
(e)
Irregular shaped lots: The Planning and Zoning Administrator will determine setbacks for irregular shaped lots adhering to the spirit and intent of this section.
(f)
Interior shall be considered the portion which does not abut an exterior property boundary.
2.01.03.09 The regulations for the RA-5 residential district (7,000-square-foot lot size) are as follows:
A.
Purpose and intent. The RA-5 district is established to provide locations for the development of affordable single-family detached or attached residential dwelling units including the combination of duplexes, triplexes, and quadraplexes, with access to both public water and sewerage for medium to high density residential classifications as defined under the City of Kennesaw Comprehensive Land Use Plan, and as may be amended from time to time. The attached dwelling units are to be designed for placement on an individual lot attached to another dwelling unit or on an adjoining lot where the units will be attached by a common party wall.
B.
Uses. Any use not permitted as of right, or not permitted by Special Exception, or not permitted by land use permit is prohibited. To the extent there is a conflict between the permitted use table and this subsection, this section shall control for purposes of determining whether the use is allowed. See Section 4.04.01 for standards associated with Special Exception uses. Any conflict between the standards set forth in this district and those set forth in Section 4.04.01, the standards in Section 4.04.01 shall control for purposes of developing a Special Exception use.
The following uses are permitted:
Community fairs
Designated recycling collection locations
Executive golf courses
Golf courses (18-hole regulation public and private)
Golf courses (Par 3)
Group homes
Limited Home Occupation
Nonprofit (seasonal use) fishing lakes
Nonprofit riding stables
Private Parks
Recreation grounds other than tennis courts and golf courses
Religious assemblies
Single family dwelling units (attached)
Single family dwelling units (detached)
Temporary uses
The following uses are permitted by special exception (refer to section 4.04.01):
Cemeteries
Private community centers
Private schools of general and special education
The following uses are permitted by land use permit or special land use permit:
Cottage food operators (refer to section 4.04.05 Standards for Home Occupation)
Home occupations (refer to section 4.04.05)
Manufactured homes
Radio, television and other communication towers and antennas (refer to section 4.04.06)
C.
Requirements for certain uses. The following uses shall have the requirements as ascribed to them in this subsection.
1.
Cottage Food Operators:
(a)
Cottage food operators shall adhere to all rules and regulations imposed by the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
(b)
There shall be no signage or other exterior evidence of the cottage food operator.
(c)
Deliveries of specialty ingredients such as herbs and spices, etc., limited to those made by the United States Postal Service or other carrier (FedEx, United Parcel Service, etc.) that routinely deliver mail/internet order products to residents.
(d)
No cottage food products prepared by the cottage food operator may be picked up by a commercial carrier.
(e)
There shall be no employees parking on the site unless approved by the Mayor and City Council in accordance with Section 4.04.05.
(f)
A home occupation land use permit shall be required.
2.
Limited Home Occupations:
(a)
There shall be no exterior evidence of the home occupation, including but not limited to any type of identifying signs.
(b)
No article, product or service used or sold in connection with such activity shall be other than those normally found on the premises.
(c)
No mechanical equipment shall be used for such occupation except such equipment as is customary for purely household and hobby purposes.
(d)
Such use shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling unit, and only persons living in the dwelling unit shall be employed in such occupation.
(e)
No more than 25 percent of the dwelling unit may be used for the operation.
(f)
No materials, equipment or business vehicles may be stored or parked on the premises, except that one business vehicle, used exclusively by the resident may be parked in a carport, garage, or rear or side yard.
(g)
The off-site employees of the resident shall not congregate on the premises for any purpose concerning the business of the home occupation.
(h)
There shall be no deliveries of supplies for use in the home occupation or pickups of the items produced by the occupant by commercial carriers.
(i)
No clients or customers are allowed on the premises on a regular basis.
(j)
The limited home occupation shall not create a nuisance.
3.
Designated Recycling Collection Locations:
(a)
Must be maintained in a safe, clean, neat, and sanitary fashion;
(b)
Such location shall be visually screened and maintained;
(c)
Such location shall be within the building setbacks unless otherwise approved by the zoning administrator or his/her designee due to topography, safety, internal traffic flow, site distance, or for other site-related circumstances not created by the property owner.
4.
Group Home:
(a)
A group home shall be shared by four or fewer persons, excluding resident staff;
(b)
The group home must provide the City of Kennesaw with a copy of its scheduled activity plan, a copy of the group home rules, and, if applicable, evidence of active enforcement under the Georgia Association of Recovery Residence standards;
(c)
The group home must be under the direction and guidance of a designated managing caregiver that resides at the group home;
(d)
The designated managing caregiver or his or her designee shall be available on a 24-hour basis in the event of emergencies or complaints; and
(e)
A group home must submit to random inspections by the City Code Enforcement.
(f)
A group home shall comply with all applicable regulations by the Board of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities and the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities.
5.
Temporary Uses:
(a)
An approved temporary use shall not exceed 30 days and may be renewed for not more than one additional 30-day period.
(b)
Adequate off-street parking shall be provided.
(c)
Application for a temporary use shall be made with the City Business License division.
D.
Dimensional standards for Development. Setback shall be measured from the property line of the parcel. The property with shortest amount of road frontage shall be the front setback for determining other setbacks (major side, side, rear).
1.
Minimum lot size: 7,000 square feet.
2.
Minimum acreage required: 80,000 square feet.
3.
Maximum acreage required: 20 acres
4.
Maximum density: 5 units per acre.
5.
Minimum floor area: 1,000 square feet.
6.
Minimum lot width at front setback line: 60 feet; cul-de-sac, 50 feet.
7.
Minimum public road frontage: 70 feet; cul-de-sac, 35 feet; 50 feet minimum public road frontage if interior to development.
8.
Maximum cover: 35.
9.
Maximum building height: 35 feet.
10.
Minimum width between buildings: 15 feet.
11.
Basement: A basement shall be counted as a story if the ceiling is six feet or more above the grade and is either subdivided or used for dwelling or business purposes. A basement is a portion of the building partly underground which has more than one-half of its height measured from finished floor to finished ceiling above the average grade of the adjoining ground.
12.
Minimum building setbacks:
(a)
Front yard as measured from arterial: 50 feet.
(b)
Front yard as measured from collector: 50 feet.
(c)
Front yard as measured from local: 40 feet.
(d)
Side yard (aka minor side yard): 10 feet (if not interior portion of development); 5 feet (if interior portion of development).
(e)
Rear yard: 30 feet.
(f)
Major side: 25.
13.
Measuring building setbacks: The number and type of setbacks is determined based on the number and type of public road frontages for the lot as follows and as shown on the following diagram:
(a)
One public road frontage: The front yard setback is measured from the one public road frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the other two yards are side yards.
(b)
Two public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The major side yard setback is measured from the road with the longer frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the yard opposite the major side yard is the minor side yard.
(c)
Three public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The two major side yard setbacks are measured from the other two road frontages (arterial, collector, or local). The remaining yard is a minor side yard.
(d)
Building setbacks apply to both principal and accessory buildings and structure except where it explicitly states otherwise.
(e)
Irregular shaped lots: The Planning and Zoning Administrator will determine setbacks for irregular shaped lots adhering to the spirit and intent of this section.
(f)
Interior shall be considered the portion which does not abut an exterior property boundary.
2.01.03.10 The regulations for the RA-6 residential district (6,200-square-foot lot size) are as follows:
A.
Purpose and intent. The RA-6 district is established to provide locations for the development of affordable single-family detached or attached residential dwelling units including the combination of duplexes, triplexes, and quadraplexes, with access to both public water and sewerage for medium to high density residential classifications as defined under the City of Kennesaw Comprehensive Land Use Plan, and as may be amended from time to time. The attached dwelling units are to be designed for placement on an individual lot attached to another dwelling unit or on an adjoining lot where the units will be attached by a common party wall.
B.
Uses. Any use not permitted as of right, or not permitted by Special Exception, or not permitted by land use permit is prohibited. To the extent there is a conflict between the permitted use table and this subsection, this section shall control for purposes of determining whether the use is allowed. See Section 4.04.01 for standards associated with Special Exception uses. Any conflict between the standards set forth in this district and those set forth in Section 4.04.01, the standards in Section 4.04.01 shall control for purposes of developing a Special Exception use.
The following uses are permitted:
Community fairs
Designated recycling collection location
Executive golf courses
Golf course (18-hole regulation; public and private)
Golf courses (Par 3)
Group homes
Limited Home Occupation
Nonprofit (seasonal use) fishing lakes
Nonprofit riding stables
Private Parks
Recreation grounds other than tennis courts and golf courses
Religious assemblies
Single family dwelling units (attached)
Single family dwelling units (detached)
Temporary uses
The following uses are permitted by special exception (refer to section 4.04.01):
Cemeteries
Private community centers
Private schools of general and special education
The following uses are permitted by land use permit or special land use permit:
Cottage food operators (refer to section 4.04.05 Standards for Home Occupation)
Home occupations (refer to section 4.04.05)
Manufactured Homes
Radio, television and other communication towers and antennas (refer to section 4.04.06)
C.
Requirements for certain uses. The following uses shall have the requirements as ascribed to them in this subsection.
1.
Cottage Food Operators:
(a)
Cottage food operators shall adhere to all rules and regulations imposed by the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
(b)
There shall be no signage or other exterior evidence of the cottage food operator.
(c)
Deliveries of specialty ingredients such as herbs and spices, etc., limited to those made by the United States Postal Service or other carrier (FedEx, United Parcel Service, etc.) that routinely deliver mail/internet order products to residents.
(d)
No cottage food products prepared by the cottage food operator may be picked up by a commercial carrier.
(e)
There shall be no employees parking on the site unless approved by the Mayor and City Council in accordance with Section 4.04.05.
(f)
A home occupation land use permit shall be required.
2.
Limited Home Occupations:
(a)
There shall be no exterior evidence of the home occupation, including but not limited to any type of identifying signs.
(b)
No article, product or service used or sold in connection with such activity shall be other than those normally found on the premises.
(c)
No mechanical equipment shall be used for such occupation except such equipment as is customary for purely household and hobby purposes.
(d)
Such use shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling unit, and only persons living in the dwelling unit shall be employed in such occupation.
(e)
No more than 25 percent of the dwelling unit may be used for the operation.
(f)
No materials, equipment or business vehicles may be stored or parked on the premises, except that one business vehicle, used exclusively by the resident may be parked in a carport, garage, or rear or side yard.
(g)
The off-site employees of the resident shall not congregate on the premises for any purpose concerning the business of the home occupation.
(h)
There shall be no deliveries of supplies for use in the home occupation or pickups of the items produced by the occupant by commercial carriers.
(i)
No clients or customers are allowed on the premises on a regular basis.
(j)
The limited home occupation shall not create a nuisance.
3.
Designated Recycling Collection Locations:
(a)
Must be maintained in a safe, clean, neat, and sanitary fashion;
(b)
Such location shall be visually screened and maintained;
(c)
Such location shall be within the building setbacks unless otherwise approved by the zoning administrator or his/her designee due to topography, safety, internal traffic flow, site distance, or for other site-related circumstances not created by the property owner.
4.
Group Home:
(a)
A group home shall be shared by four or fewer persons, excluding resident staff;
(b)
The group home must provide the City of Kennesaw with a copy of its scheduled activity plan, a copy of the group home rules, and, if applicable, evidence of active enforcement under the Georgia Association of Recovery Residence standards;
(c)
The group home must be under the direction and guidance of a designated managing caregiver that resides at the group home;
(d)
The designated managing caregiver or his or her designee shall be available on a 24-hour basis in the event of emergencies or complaints;
(e)
A group home must submit to random inspections by the City Code Enforcement; and
(f)
A group home shall comply with all applicable regulations by the Board of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities and the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities.
5.
Temporary Uses:
(a)
An approved temporary use shall not exceed 30 days and may be renewed for not more than one additional 30-day period.
(b)
Adequate off-street parking shall be provided.
(c)
Application for a temporary use shall be made with the City Business License division.
D.
Dimensional standards for Development. Setback shall be measured from the property line of the parcel. The property with shortest amount of road frontage shall be the front setback for determining other setbacks (major side, side, rear).
1.
Minimum lot size: 6,200 square feet.
2.
Minimum acreage required: 80,000 square feet.
3.
Maximum acreage required: 20 acres.
4.
Maximum density: 6 units per acre.
5.
Minimum floor area: 1,000 square feet.
6.
Minimum lot width at front setback line: 60 feet; cul-de-sac, 60 feet.
7.
Minimum public road frontage: 70 feet; cul-de-sac, 35 feet; 50 feet minimum public road frontage if interior to development.
8.
Maximum cover: 35%.
9.
Maximum building height: 35 feet.
10.
Basement: A basement shall be counted as a story if the ceiling is six feet or more above the grade and is either subdivided or used for dwelling or business purposes. A basement is a portion of the building partly underground which has more than one-half of its height measured from finished floor to finished ceiling above the average grade of the adjoining ground.
11.
Minimum building setbacks:
(a)
Front yard as measured from arterial: 50 feet.
(b)
Front yard as measured from collector: 50 feet.
(c)
Front yard as measured from local: 40 feet.
(d)
Side yard (aka minor side yard): 10 feet (if not interior portion of development); 5 feet (if interior portion of development).
(e)
Rear yard: 30 feet (if not interior portion of development); 30 feet (if interior portion of development).
(f)
Major side: 25 feet
12.
Measuring building setbacks: The number and type of setbacks is determined based on the number and type of public road frontages for the lot as follows and as shown on the following diagram:
(a)
One public road frontage: The front yard setback is measured from the one public road frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the other two yards are side yards.
(b)
Two public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The major side yard setback is measured from the road with the longer frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the yard opposite the major side yard is the minor side yard.
(c)
Three public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The two major side yard setbacks are measured from the other two road frontages (arterial, collector, or local). The remaining yard is a minor side yard.
(d)
Building setbacks apply to both principal and accessory buildings and structure except where it explicitly states otherwise.
(e)
Irregular shaped lots: The Planning and Zoning Administrator will determine setbacks for irregular shaped lots adhering to the spirit and intent of this section.
(f)
Interior shall be considered the portion which does not abut an exterior property boundary.
2.01.03.11 The regulations for the Multi-family district (eight units per acre) RM-8 residential district (80,000-square-foot lot size) are as follows:
A.
Purpose and intent. The RM-8 multiple-family residential district is established to provide locations for multifamily residential uses or residentially compatible institutional and recreational uses at high densities as defined under the City of Kennesaw Comprehensive Land Use Plan, and as may be amended from time to time, with access to both public water and sewer.
B.
Uses. Any use not permitted as of right, or not permitted by Special Exception, or not permitted by land use permit is prohibited. To the extent there is a conflict between the permitted use table and this subsection, this section shall control for purposes of determining whether the use is allowed. See Section 4.04.01 for standards associated with Special Exception uses. Any conflict between the standards set forth in this district and those set forth in Section 4.04.01, the standards in Section 4.04.01 shall control for purposes of developing a Special Exception use.
The following uses are permitted:
Community Fairs
Condominiums
Designated Recycling collection locations
Executive golf courses
Fraternity and sorority houses/residence halls
Golf courses (Par 3)
Golf courses (18-hole regulation; private and public)
Limited Home Occupations
Multi-family dwelling units
Nonprofit riding stables
Nonprofit (seasonal use) fishing lakes
Private parks
Recreation grounds other than tennis courts and golf courses
Religious assemblies
Single family dwelling units (attached)
Single family dwelling units (detached)
Temporary uses
Two family dwelling units
The following uses are permitted by special exception (refer to section 4.04.01):
Cemeteries
Private community centers
Private schools of general and special education
The following uses are permitted by land use permit or special land use permit:
Home occupation (refer to section 4.04.05)
Radio, television and other communication towers and antennas (refer to section 4.04.06)
C.
Requirements for certain uses. The following uses shall have the requirements as ascribed to them in this subsection.
1.
Limited Home Occupations:
(a)
There shall be no exterior evidence of the home occupation, including but not limited to any type of identifying signs.
(b)
No article, product or service used or sold in connection with such activity shall be other than those normally found on the premises.
(c)
No mechanical equipment shall be used for such occupation except such equipment as is customary for purely household and hobby purposes.
(d)
Such use shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling unit, and only persons living in the dwelling unit shall be employed in such occupation.
(e)
No more than 25 percent of the dwelling unit may be used for the operation.
(f)
No materials, equipment or business vehicles may be stored or parked on the premises, except that one business vehicle, used exclusively by the resident may be parked in a carport, garage, or rear or side yard.
(g)
The off-site employees of the resident shall not congregate on the premises for any purpose concerning the business of the home occupation.
(h)
There shall be no deliveries of supplies for use in the home occupation or pickups of the items produced by the occupant by commercial carriers.
(i)
No clients or customers are allowed on the premises on a regular basis.
(j)
The limited home occupation shall not create a nuisance.
2.
Designated Recycling Collection Locations:
(a)
Must be maintained in a safe, clean, neat, and sanitary fashion;
(b)
Such location shall be visually screened and maintained;
(c)
Such location shall be within the building setbacks unless otherwise approved by the zoning administrator or his/her designee due to topography, safety, internal traffic flow, site distance, or for other site-related circumstances not created by the property owner.
3.
Temporary Uses:
(a)
An approved temporary use shall not exceed 30 days and may be renewed for not more than one additional 30-day period.
(b)
Adequate off-street parking shall be provided.
(c)
Application for a temporary use shall be made with the City Business License division.
D.
Dimensional standards for Development. Setback shall be measured from the property line of the parcel. The property with shortest amount of road frontage shall be the front setback for determining other setbacks (major side, side, rear).
1.
Minimum lot size: 80,000 square feet.
2.
Maximum density: 8 units per acre.
3.
Minimum floor area:
(a)
450 square feet: efficiency.
(b)
600 square feet: one bedroom.
(c)
750 square feet: two bedroom.
(d)
900 square feet: three bedroom.
4.
Minimum lot width at front setback line: 75 feet.
5.
Minimum public road frontage: 75 feet.
6.
Maximum cover: 25%.
7.
Maximum building height: 35 feet.
8.
Minimum width between buildings: 15 feet.
9.
Basement: A basement shall be counted as a story if the ceiling is six feet or more above the grade and is either subdivided or used for dwelling or business purposes. A basement is a portion of the building partly underground which has more than one-half of its height measured from finished floor to finished ceiling above the average grade of the adjoining ground.
10.
Minimum building setbacks:
(a)
Front yard as measured from arterial: 75 feet.
(b)
Front yard as measured from collector: 50 feet.
(c)
Front yard as measured from local: feet.
(d)
Side yard (aka minor side yard): 35 feet (if not interior portion of development); 15 feet (if interior portion of development).
(e)
Rear yard: 40 feet.
(f)
Major side: 35.
11.
Measuring building setbacks: The number and type of setbacks is determined based on the number and type of public road frontages for the lot as follows and as shown on the following diagram:
(a)
One public road frontage: The front yard setback is measured from the one public road frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the other two yards are side yards.
(b)
Two public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The major side yard setback is measured from the road with the longer frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the yard opposite the major side yard is the minor side yard.
(c)
Three public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The two major side yard setbacks are measured from the other two road frontages (arterial, collector, or local). The remaining yard is a minor side yard.
(d)
Building setbacks apply to both principal and accessory buildings and structure except where it explicitly states otherwise.
(e)
Irregular shaped lots: The Planning and Zoning Administrator will determine setbacks for irregular shaped lots adhering to the spirit and intent of this section.
(f)
Interior shall be considered the portion which does not abut an exterior property boundary.
2.01.03.12 Purpose built student housing ("PBSH" District).
A.
Purpose and intent. The PBSH District is established to promote the development of safe, secure, affordable, aesthetically-pleasing student housing apartments for adults attending universities and colleges. Student housing is identified by having at least four of the following characteristics: 1) ability to rent on a per bedroom basis; 2) roommate matching services; 3) flexible lease terms to coincide with academic calendar; 4) furnished apartment units; 5) amenities such as study area, bike share program, and/or student convenience store; or 6) student life programming. The PBSH District is designed to encourage and provide flexible site plan and building arrangements under a unified plan of development rather than by lot-by-lot regulation. The PBSH District is not intended to encourage greater density of development, but rather to encourage ingenuity and resourcefulness in land planning. The PBSH district is appropriate in the following future land use areas as designated by the City of Kennesaw Comprehensive Plan: High density residential; neighborhood activity center; community activity center; and industrial.
B.
Uses. Any use not permitted as of right, or not permitted by Special Exception, or not permitted by land use permit is prohibited. To the extent there is a conflict between the permitted use table and this subsection, this section shall control for purposes of determining whether the use is allowed.
The following uses are permitted:
Purpose built student housing.
C.
Standards for development.
1.
Minimum acreage required: Four acres.
2.
Minimum lot area: Not applicable.
3.
Maximum building coverage: 40 percent.
4.
Maximum impervious surface coverage: 70 percent.
5.
Density requirement: Maximum allowable density is 100 bedrooms per acre, unless the PBSH development abuts (on any side) single family residentially zoned property. Any PBSH development abutting (on any side) single family residentially zoned property, the maximum allowable density is 50 bedrooms per acre for the entire development.
6.
Maximum number of bedrooms per apartment unit: Five bedrooms.
7.
Maximum number of residents per bedroom: One resident.
8.
Minimum lot width at front set back: 75 feet.
9.
Bathroom requirement: There shall be at least one bathroom for every two bedrooms, unless there are an uneven number of bedrooms in the unit, in which case, the odd bedroom shall have a corresponding bathroom. A bathroom shall contain at a minimum:
(a)
One wash basin.
(b)
One toilet.
(c)
One shower and/or bathtub.
10.
Minimum floor area for each unit:
(a)
Efficiency units: 450 square feet (an efficiency unit shall be considered a one bedroom unit for purpose of calculating density and parking).
(b)
One bedroom units: 600 square feet.
(c)
Two bedroom units: 1,000 square feet.
(d)
Three bedroom units: 1,189 square feet.
(e)
Four bedroom units: 1,400 square feet.
(f)
Five bedroom units: 1,700 square feet.
(g)
Minimum floor area shall not include basement, garage or accessory buildings.
(h)
Bedroom and living room size requirements shall at a minimum meet the square footage requirements of the International Property Maintenance Code, as amended from time to time.
11.
Each PBSH development shall include a common-use multi-purpose amenity area that accommodates a study area and an exercise/fitness room. Each development shall also feature green space that can be used by residents as a passive outdoor area. Said green space shall constitute at a minimum five percent of the gross acreage of the subject parcel. Buffers and setbacks can be utilized to accommodate said green space.
12.
Height and structure requirements.
(a)
Maximum building height is 55 feet, unless the PBSH development abuts (on any side) single family residentially zoned property. Any PBSH development abutting (on any side) single family residentially zoned property, the maximum building height is 35 feet for the entire development. All facades shall be masonry, brick or hardy plank (or substantially similar material) or combination thereof, and the construction material of the facade shall incorporate noise absorbing/blocking material in order to minimize noise.
(b)
The use of stucco shall be prohibited.
13.
Minimum set back requirements:
(a)
All structures proposed in the PBSH district that abut residential zoning shall be constructed a minimum of 50 feet from the abutting property line. For purposes of this district, residential zoning is any district that permits a residential use, including any district that permits a mixture of residential and non-residential use. The setback requirement under this section as applied to any residential use that permits a mixture of residential and non-residential (i.e. CBD, HPV, PVC) is applicable to only those portions that are designated or developed for residential use.
(b)
All structures proposed in the PBSH district that abut non-residential zoning shall be constructed a minimum of 35 feet from the abutting property line.
14.
Landscape buffer and screening requirements.
(a)
Any property within a PBSH district which abuts a more restrictively zoned residential property shall have a minimum of 30-foot landscaped screening buffer. More restrictively zoned residential property shall mean those properties that allow for a lesser number of units per acre than the actual density (number of units divided by land area) proposed under the PBSH development plan. The land area, for purposes of calculating the actual density under this section, shall not include floodplain, wetlands, or impervious surface dedicated to common areas (i.e. pool, tennis court, clubhouse, study area, management office).
(b)
Required buffers may be included within required setbacks; however, in such case that the required buffer is greater than the required setback, the required buffer shall be adhered to. Additionally, necessary private utilities and access drives may be allowed through, over or across a landscaped buffer. Any such uses which are proposed through, over or across a designated undisturbed buffer must be approved pursuant to an original site plan or site plan modification.
(c)
Objectives. Undisturbed, planted landscaped buffers and berms shall be implemented in connection with a permitted project and shall address the following objectives:
(i)
Screening to enhance aesthetic appeal;
(ii)
Control or direction of vehicular and pedestrian movement;
(iii)
Reduction of glare;
(iv)
Buffering of noise;
(v)
Establishment of privacy.
(d)
Buffers. Landscaped buffers are subject to review and approval by the Zoning Administrator in accordance with the following standards:
(i)
Plantings are to be a mix of evergreen trees and shrubs.
(ii)
Species are to be ecologically compatible to the site and appropriate for the design situation.
(iii)
Unless public safety concerns dictate otherwise, a buffer should maximize a visual barrier to a height of six feet within two years of planting.
(iv)
Minimum height of plant materials at installation is five feet for trees and two feet for shrubs.
(v)
Fencing or walls are to be a minimum of six feet in height as approved by the Zoning Administrator.
(vi)
Trees included in buffer planting may be counted toward site density calculations as required by Section 3.07.00 of the UDC pertaining to tree preservation and replacement, subject to review and approval by the Zoning Administrator.
(vii)
Buffers shall be regularly maintained by the property owner to ensure that the objectives and standards are met.
(viii)
When topography and existing conditions allow, the required buffer should be an undisturbed buffer.
(ix)
Any appeals from a determination by the Zoning Administrator shall be to the Mayor and City Council pursuant to Section 10.05.01 of the UDC.
D.
Access and parking requirements:
1.
Submission of a traffic impact study that demonstrates either the development will not have a negative impact on existing traffic conditions or that the negative impacts of the development can be mitigated through traffic improvements that will be incorporated as part of the development plan. Traffic counts shall be no more than three years old from date of the study and shall be taken during a time of year when the academic calendar is in session for nearby universities and schools.
2.
The principal access for the development shall be an arterial or major collector roadway, as identified in the City of Kennesaw Unified Development Code or similar classification document.
3.
Parking requirements: Sites shall be designed to accommodate on-site parking for at least 0.75 vehicles per bedroom with additional parking for visitors calculated at 0.30 vehicles per unit.
4.
To the extent the nearby post-secondary college and/or university does not agree to provide regular shuttle service to and from the campus for residents, the development shall agree to provide regular shuttle service to and from the campus for residents;
5.
The development shall have a dedicated pick-up drop-off space/lanes for a transportation network service (i.e. private shuttle, Uber, Lyft, taxi etc.).
E.
Security requirements:
1.
The property management company shall submit a security plan in accordance with the standards of Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED). The security plan shall be submitted to the City of Kennesaw Police Department for review and safe-keeping and shall be updated annually at the beginning of each calendar year, no later than January 31. Any such security plan shall require that on-site management shall be required 24 hours per day, seven days per week.
2.
All access points on the property shall be secured with gated entry and shall be self-closing;
3.
The development shall be enclosed with a minimum six-foot high privacy fence along the entire property line.
4.
The property shall be equipped with a security camera system that shall be monitored by the property management company on-site. Any such system shall record and store video images located throughout the common areas, including the parking areas, and signs shall be posted throughout the development notifying residents and visitors of the security camera system;
5.
The security system shall provide remote access to 911 operations;
6.
All common area doors and access gates shall be secured with electronic locks;
7.
All apartment units shall be equipped with a door that features a 180-degree peep hole;
8.
For every 200 parking spaces, the development shall feature at least one Emergency Blue Light Phone that is connected to the Cobb County Public Safety's 24-hour communications center and identify the phone location if the caller is unable to talk.
9.
Lighting: In order to ensure adequate illumination of the development and promote safety and security, the Parking Lot Design Guide standards set forth for Basic Enhanced Security, Security, and High Security as set forth in the Illuminating Engineering Society Lighting Handbook (IESNA), latest edition, as amended, is adopted as the standard for the installation and operating of lighting in parking lots in the PBSH district.
F.
In addition to the district requirements as set forth in this section of the Unified Development Code, the development within the PBSH district shall also comply with all other applicable provisions in the Unified Development Code that do not conflict with this ordinance, including but not limited to, regulations pertaining to the following: Floodplain, wetland, water supply, watershed, landscaping, tree, design standard, architectural standards, parking and parking lot design, sidewalks, pathways, storm drainage systems, storm drainage easements, water, sewer, access, lighting, street and roadway, retaining wall, dams, utilities, fences, buffers, berms, mailboxes and irrigations systems, signs, wireless telecommunication facilities, accessory and temporary uses, and incidental and permanent storage.
G.
In addition to any other required information, development proposals submitted for rezoning to the PBSH district shall be required to provide the following information:
1.
Preliminary site plan that illustrates locations of access drives, privacy fencing with gates, bike racks (if any) and amenity areas, setback lines and landscaping buffer locations;
2.
Executive summary of the project. Executive summary shall include: 1) contact and background information of the developer proposing to construct the project specific to the product proposed; 2) Project scope and market demand information; and 3) details regarding the proposed phasing of the construction of the project;
3.
Floor plan of all the proposed unit types that demonstrates the location, dimensions and layout of bedrooms, bathrooms, kitchen and common living area in the units;
4.
Elevations, building height information and proposed materials and facades.
2.01.03.13 The regulations for the Multi-family residential district (twelve units per acre) RM-12 residential district (80,000-square-foot lot size) are as follows:
A.
Purpose and intent. The RM-12 multiple-family residential district is established to provide locations for multifamily residential uses or residentially compatible institutional and recreational uses at high densities as defined under the City of Kennesaw Comprehensive Land Use Plan, and as may be amended from time to time, with access to both public water and sewerage.
B.
Uses. Any use not permitted as of right, or not permitted by Special Exception, or not permitted by land use permit is prohibited. To the extent there is a conflict between the permitted use table and this subsection, this section shall control for purposes of determining whether the use is allowed. See Section 4.04.01 for standards associated with Special Exception uses. Any conflict between the standards set forth in this district and those set forth in Section 4.04.01, the standards in Section 4.04.01 shall control for purposes of developing a Special Exception use.
The following uses are permitted:
Community fairs
Designated recycling collection locations
Executive golf courses
Fraternity and sorority houses/ residence halls
Golf courses (Par 3)
Golf courses (18-hole regulation; private and public)
Limited home occupation
Multi-family dwelling units
Nonprofit riding stables
Nonprofit (seasonal use) fishing lakes
Private parks
Recreation grounds other than tennis courts and golf courses
Religious assemblies
Single family dwelling units (attached)
Single family dwelling units (detached)
Temporary uses
Two family dwelling units
The following uses are permitted by special exception (refer to section 4.04.01):
Cemeteries
Private community centers
Private schools of general and special education
The following uses are permitted by land use permit or special land use permit:
Home occupation (refer to section 4.04.05)
Radio, television and other communication towers and antennas (refer to section 4.04.06)
C.
Requirements for certain uses. The following uses shall have the requirements as ascribed to them in this subsection.
1.
Limited Home Occupations:
(a)
There shall be no exterior evidence of the home occupation, including but not limited to any type of identifying signs.
(b)
No article, product or service used or sold in connection with such activity shall be other than those normally found on the premises.
(c)
No mechanical equipment shall be used for such occupation except such equipment as is customary for purely household and hobby purposes.
(d)
Such use shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling unit, and only persons living in the dwelling unit shall be employed in such occupation.
(e)
No more than 25 percent of the dwelling unit may be used for the operation.
(f)
No materials, equipment or business vehicles may be stored or parked on the premises, except that one business vehicle, used exclusively by the resident may be parked in a carport, garage, or rear or side yard.
(g)
The off-site employees of the resident shall not congregate on the premises for any purpose concerning the business of the home occupation.
(h)
There shall be no deliveries of supplies for use in the home occupation or pickups of the items produced by the occupant by commercial carriers.
(i)
No clients or customers are allowed on the premises on a regular basis.
(j)
The limited home occupation shall not create a nuisance.
2.
Designated Recycling Collection Locations:
(a)
Must be maintained in a safe, clean, neat, and sanitary fashion;
(b)
Such location shall be visually screened and maintained;
(c)
Such location shall be within the building setbacks unless otherwise approved by the zoning administrator or his/her designee due to topography, safety, internal traffic flow, site distance, or for other site-related circumstances not created by the property owner.
3.
Temporary Uses:
(a)
An approved temporary use shall not exceed 30 days and may be renewed for not more than one additional 30-day period.
(b)
Adequate off-street parking shall be provided.
(c)
Application for a temporary use shall be made with the City Business License division.
D.
Dimensional standards for Development. Setback shall be measured from the property line of the parcel. The property with shortest amount of road frontage shall be the front setback for determining other setbacks (major side, side, rear).
1.
Minimum lot size: 80,000 square feet.
2.
Maximum density: 12 units per acre.
3.
Minimum floor area:
(a)
450 square feet: efficiency.
(b)
600 square feet: one bedroom.
(c)
750 square feet: two bedroom.
(d)
900 square feet: three bedroom.
4.
Minimum lot width at front setback line: 75 feet.
5.
Minimum public road frontage: 75 feet.
6.
Maximum cover: 35%.
7.
Maximum building height: 40 feet.
8.
Minimum width between buildings: 15 feet.
9.
Basement: A basement shall be counted as a story if the ceiling is six feet or more above the grade and is either subdivided or used for dwelling or business purposes. A basement is a portion of the building partly underground which has more than one-half of its height measured from finished floor to finished ceiling above the average grade of the adjoining ground.
10.
Minimum building setbacks:
(a)
Front yard as measured from arterial: 50 feet.
(b)
Front yard as measured from collector: 40 feet.
(c)
Front yard as measured from local: 30 feet.
(d)
Side yard (aka minor side yard): 10 feet (if not interior portion of development); 15 feet (if interior portion of development).
(e)
Rear yard: 30 feet.
(f)
Major side: 25.
11.
Measuring building setbacks: The number and type of setbacks is determined based on the number and type of public road frontages for the lot as follows and as shown on the following diagram:
(a)
One public road frontage: The front yard setback is measured from the one public road frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the other two yards are side yards.
(b)
Two public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The major side yard setback is measured from the road with the longer frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the yard opposite the major side yard is the minor side yard.
(c)
Three public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The two major side yard setbacks are measured from the other two road frontages (arterial, collector, or local). The remaining yard is a minor side yard.
(d)
Building setbacks apply to both principal and accessory buildings and structure except where it explicitly states otherwise.
(e)
Irregular shaped lots: The Planning and Zoning Administrator will determine setbacks for irregular shaped lots adhering to the spirit and intent of this section.
(f)
Interior shall be considered the portion which does not abut an exterior property boundary.
2.01.03.14 The regulations for the Multifamily residential district (sixteen units per acre) RM-16 residential district (80,000-square-foot lot size) are as follows:
A.
Purpose and intent. The RM-16 multi-family residential district is established to provide locations for multifamily residential uses or residentially compatible institutional and recreational uses at high densities as defined under the City of Kennesaw Comprehensive Land Use Plan, and as may be amended from time to time, with access to both public water and sewerage.
B.
Uses. Any use not permitted as of right, or not permitted by Special Exception, or not permitted by land use permit is prohibited. To the extent there is a conflict between the permitted use table and this subsection, this section shall control for purposes of determining whether the use is allowed. See Section 4.04.01 for standards associated with Special Exception uses. Any conflict between the standards set forth in this district and those set forth in Section 4.04.01, the standards in Section 4.04.01 shall control for purposes of developing a Special Exception use.
The following uses are permitted:
Community fairs
Designated recycling collection locations
Executive golf courses
Fraternity and sorority houses and residence halls
Fruit trees, nuts and vegetables for personal consumption (not for commerce)
Golf courses (18-hole regulation, public and private)
Golf courses (Par 3)
Limited home occupation
Multi family dwelling units
Nonprofit (seasonal use) fishing lakes
Nonprofit riding stables
Recreation grounds other than tennis courts and golf courses
Religious assemblies
Single family dwelling units (attached), not to exceed six units per acre
Single family dwelling units (detached), not to exceed six units per acre
Temporary uses
The following uses are permitted by special exception (refer to section 4.04.01):
Cemeteries
Private community centers
Private schools of general and special education
The following uses are permitted by land use permit or special land use permit:
Home occupations (refer to section 4.04.05)
Radio, television and other communication towers and antennas (refer to section 4.04.06)
C.
Requirements for certain uses. The following uses shall have the requirements as ascribed to them in this subsection.
1.
Limited Home Occupations:
(a)
There shall be no exterior evidence of the home occupation, including but not limited to any type of identifying signs.
(b)
No article, product or service used or sold in connection with such activity shall be other than those normally found on the premises.
(c)
No mechanical equipment shall be used for such occupation except such equipment as is customary for purely household and hobby purposes.
(d)
Such use shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling unit, and only persons living in the dwelling unit shall be employed in such occupation.
(e)
No more than 25 percent of the dwelling unit may be used for the operation.
(f)
No materials, equipment or business vehicles may be stored or parked on the premises, except that one business vehicle, used exclusively by the resident may be parked in a carport, garage, or rear or side yard.
(g)
The off-site employees of the resident shall not congregate on the premises for any purpose concerning the business of the home occupation.
(h)
There shall be no deliveries of supplies for use in the home occupation or pickups of the items produced by the occupant by commercial carriers.
(i)
No clients or customers are allowed on the premises on a regular basis.
(j)
The limited home occupation shall not create a nuisance.
2.
Designated Recycling Collection Locations:
(a)
Must be maintained in a safe, clean, neat, and sanitary fashion;
(b)
Such location shall be visually screened and maintained;
(c)
Such location shall be within the building setbacks unless otherwise approved by the zoning administrator or his/her designee due to topography, safety, internal traffic flow, site distance, or for other site-related circumstances not created by the property owner.
3.
Temporary Uses:
(a)
An approved temporary use shall not exceed 30 days and may be renewed for not more than one additional 30-day period.
(b)
Adequate off-street parking shall be provided.
(c)
Application for a temporary use shall be made with the City Business License division.
D.
Dimensional standards for Development. Setback shall be measured from the property line of the parcel. The property with shortest amount of road frontage shall be the front setback for determining other setbacks (major side, side, rear).
1.
Minimum lot size: 80,000 square feet.
2.
Maximum density: 16 units per acre or 6 units per acre for single family dwelling (attached or detached).
3.
Minimum floor area:
(a)
450 square feet: efficiency.
(b)
600 square feet: one bedroom.
(c)
750 square feet: two bedroom.
(d)
900 square feet: three bedroom.
4.
Minimum lot width at front setback line: 75 feet.
5.
Minimum public road frontage: 75 feet.
6.
Maximum cover: 45%.
7.
Maximum building height: 40 feet (three and four stories).
8.
Minimum width between buildings: 15 feet.
9.
Basement: A basement shall be counted as a story if the ceiling is six feet or more above the grade and is either subdivided or used for dwelling or business purposes. A basement is a portion of the building partly underground which has more than one-half of its height measured from finished floor to finished ceiling above the average grade of the adjoining ground.
10.
Minimum building setbacks:
(a)
Front yard as measured from arterial: 50 feet.
(b)
Front yard as measured from collector: 50 feet.
(c)
Front yard as measured from local: 35 feet.
(d)
Side yard (aka minor side yard): 35 feet (if not interior portion of development); 15 feet (if interior portion of development).
(e)
Rear yard: 40 feet.
(f)
Major side: 35.
11.
Measuring building setbacks: The number and type of setbacks is determined based on the number and type of public road frontages for the lot as follows and as shown on the following diagram:
(a)
One public road frontage: The front yard setback is measured from the one public road frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the other two yards are side yards.
(b)
Two public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The major side yard setback is measured from the road with the longer frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the yard opposite the major side yard is the minor side yard.
(c)
Three public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The two major side yard setbacks are measured from the other two road frontages (arterial, collector, or local). The remaining yard is a minor side yard.
(d)
Building setbacks apply to both principal and accessory buildings and structure except where it explicitly states otherwise.
(e)
Irregular shaped lots: The Planning and Zoning Administrator will determine setbacks for irregular shaped lots adhering to the spirit and intent of this section.
(f)
Interior shall be considered the portion which does not abut an exterior property boundary.
2.01.03.15 The regulations for the Fee-simple townhouse (FST) (multifamily) residential district (80,000-square-foot lot size) are as follows:
A.
Purpose and intent. The FST fee-simple townhouse district is intended to provide suitable areas for single-family attached or detached dwellings at high densities as defined by the City of Kennesaw Comprehensive Land Use Plan, and as may be amended from time to time, of two (2) to twelve (12) dwelling units per acre with access to both public water and sewerage. Each unit shall be individually metered. Each attached dwelling unit shall be separated by a fire wall from foundation to roof decking.
B.
Uses. Any use not permitted as of right, or not permitted by Special Exception, or not permitted by land use permit is prohibited. To the extent there is a conflict between the permitted use table and this subsection, this section shall control for purposes of determining whether the use is allowed. See Section 4.04.01 for standards associated with Special Exception uses. Any conflict between the standards set forth in this district and those set forth in Section 4.04.01, the standards in Section 4.04.01 shall control for purposes of developing a Special Exception use.
The following uses are permitted:
Community fairs
Designated recycling collection locations
Executive golf courses
Fruit trees, nuts and vegetables for personal consumption (not for commerce)
Golf courses (Par 3)
Golf courses (18-hole regulation; private and public)
Group homes
Limited home occupations
Linen and diaper services
Nonprofit riding stables
Nonprofit (seasonal use) fishing lakes
Private parks
Recreation grounds other than tennis courts and golf courses
Religious assemblies
Single family dwelling units (attached)
Single family dwelling units (detached)
Temporary uses
Townhouse dwelling units
Two family dwelling units
The following uses are permitted by special exception (refer to section 4.04.01):
Cemeteries
Private community centers
Private schools of general and special education
The following uses are permitted by land use permit or special land use permit:
Cottage Food Operators (refer to section 4.04.05 Standards for Home Occupation)
Home occupation (refer to section 4.04.05)
Radio, television and other communication towers and antennas (refer to section 4.04.06)
C.
Requirements for certain uses. The following uses shall have the requirements as ascribed to them in this subsection.
1.
Cottage Food Operators:
(a)
Cottage food operators shall adhere to all rules and regulations imposed by the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
(b)
There shall be no signage or other exterior evidence of the cottage food operator.
(c)
Deliveries of specialty ingredients such as herbs and spices, etc., limited to those made by the United States Postal Service or other carrier (FedEx, United Parcel Service, etc.) that routinely deliver mail/internet order products to residents.
(d)
No cottage food products prepared by the cottage food operator may be picked up by a commercial carrier.
(e)
There shall be no employees parking on the site unless approved by the Mayor and City Council in accordance with Section 4.04.05.
(f)
A home occupation land use permit shall be required.
2.
Limited Home Occupations:
(a)
There shall be no exterior evidence of the home occupation, including but not limited to any type of identifying signs.
(b)
No article, product or service used or sold in connection with such activity shall be other than those normally found on the premises.
(c)
No mechanical equipment shall be used for such occupation except such equipment as is customary for purely household and hobby purposes.
(d)
Such use shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling unit, and only persons living in the dwelling unit shall be employed in such occupation.
(e)
No more than 25 percent of the dwelling unit may be used for the operation.
(f)
No materials, equipment or business vehicles may be stored or parked on the premises, except that one business vehicle, used exclusively by the resident may be parked in a carport, garage, or rear or side yard.
(g)
The off-site employees of the resident shall not congregate on the premises for any purpose concerning the business of the home occupation.
(h)
There shall be no deliveries of supplies for use in the home occupation or pickups of the items produced by the occupant by commercial carriers.
(i)
No clients or customers are allowed on the premises on a regular basis.
(j)
The limited home occupation shall not create a nuisance.
3.
Designated Recycling Collection Locations:
(a)
Must be maintained in a safe, clean, neat, and sanitary fashion;
(b)
Such location shall be visually screened and maintained;
(c)
Such location shall be within the building setbacks unless otherwise approved by the zoning administrator or his/her designee due to topography, safety, internal traffic flow, site distance, or for other site-related circumstances not created by the property owner.
4.
Group Home:
(a)
A group home shall be shared by four or fewer persons, excluding resident staff;
(b)
The group home must provide the City of Kennesaw with a copy of its scheduled activity plan, a copy of the group home rules, and, if applicable, evidence of active enforcement under the Georgia Association of Recovery Residence standards;
(c)
The group home must be under the direction and guidance of a designated managing caregiver that resides at the group home;
(d)
The designated managing caregiver or his or her designee shall be available on a 24-hour basis in the event of emergencies or complaints; and
(e)
A group home must submit to random inspections by the City Code Enforcement.
(f)
A group home shall comply with all applicable regulations by the Board of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities and the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities.
5.
Temporary Uses:
(a)
An approved temporary use shall not exceed 30 days and may be renewed for not more than one additional 30-day period.
(b)
Adequate off-street parking shall be provided.
(c)
Application for a temporary use shall be made with the City Business License division.
D.
Dimensional standards for Development. Setback shall be measured from the property line of the parcel. The property with shortest amount of road frontage shall be the front setback for determining other setbacks (major side, side, rear).
1.
Minimum lot size: 80,000 square feet. The Zoning Administrator shall not be authorized to recommend a variance for more than 25 percent of the minimum lot size.
2.
Minimum floor area: 900 square feet for 1 bedroom unit; 1,000 square feet for 2 bedroom unit.
3.
Minimum lot width at front setback line: 20 feet; for end unit: 30 feet.
4.
Minimum public road frontage: 70 feet; cul-de-sac, 35 feet.
5.
Maximum cover: 35%
6.
Maximum building height: two story.
7.
Maximum density per building: 6 units per building footprint.
8.
Maximum dwelling units per acre: 12
9.
A basement shall be counted as a story if the ceiling is six feet or more above the grade and is either subdivided or used for dwelling or business purposes. A basement is a portion of the building partly underground which has more than one-half of its height measured from finished floor to finished ceiling above the average grade of the adjoining ground.
10.
Minimum building setbacks:
(a)
Front yard as measured from arterial: 50 feet.
(b)
Front yard as measured from collector: 40 feet.
(c)
Front yard as measured from local: 35 feet.
(d)
Side yard (aka minor side yard): 20 feet between buildings.
(e)
Rear yard: 30 feet.
(f)
Major side: 25 feet.
11.
Measuring building setbacks: The number and type of setbacks is determined based on the number and type of public road frontages for the lot as follows and as shown on the following diagram:
(a)
One public road frontage: The front yard setback is measured from the one public road frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the other two yards are side yards.
(b)
Two public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The major side yard setback is measured from the road with the longer frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the yard opposite the major side yard is the minor side yard.
(c)
Three public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The two major side yard setbacks are measured from the other two road frontages (arterial, collector, or local). The remaining yard is a minor side yard.
(d)
Building setbacks apply to both principal and accessory buildings and structure except where it explicitly states otherwise.
(e)
Irregular shaped lots: The Planning and Zoning Administrator will determine setbacks for irregular shaped lots adhering to the spirit and intent of this section.
2.01.03.16 The regulations for the Mobile Home Park residential district MHP are as follows:
A.
Purpose and intent. The MHP district is established to provide locations for affordable single family mobile homes or manufactured homes with access to both public water and sewerage for high density residential classifications as defined under the City of Kennesaw Comprehensive Land Use Plan, and as may be amended from time to time.
B.
Uses. Any use not permitted as of right, or not permitted by Special Exception, or not permitted by land use permit is prohibited. To the extent there is a conflict between the permitted use table and this subsection, this section shall control for purposes of determining whether the use is allowed. See Section 4.04.01 for standards associated with Special Exception uses. Any conflict between the standards set forth in this district and those set forth in Section 4.04.01, the standards in Section 4.04.01 shall control for purposes of developing a Special Exception use.
The following uses are permitted:
Community Fairs
Designated recycling collection locations
Limited home occupations
Manufactured home
Mobile home
Private parks
Religious assemblies
The following uses are permitted by land use permit or special land use permit:
Cottage Food Operators (refer to section 4.04.05 Standards for Home Occupation)
Home occupation (refer to section 4.04.05)
Radio, television and other communication towers and antennas (refer to section 4.04.06)
C.
Requirements for certain uses. The following uses shall have the requirements as ascribed to them in this subsection.
1.
Cottage Food Operators:
(a)
Cottage food operators shall adhere to all rules and regulations imposed by the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
(b)
There shall be no signage or other exterior evidence of the cottage food operator.
(c)
Deliveries of specialty ingredients such as herbs and spices, etc., limited to those made by the United States Postal Service or other carrier (FedEx, United Parcel Service, etc.) that routinely deliver mail/internet order products to residents.
(d)
No cottage food products prepared by the cottage food operator may be picked up by a commercial carrier.
(e)
There shall be no employees parking on the site unless approved by the Mayor and City Council in accordance with Section 4.04.05.
(f)
A home occupation land use permit shall be required.
2.
Limited Home Occupations:
(a)
There shall be no exterior evidence of the home occupation, including but not limited to any type of identifying signs.
(b)
No article, product or service used or sold in connection with such activity shall be other than those normally found on the premises.
(c)
No mechanical equipment shall be used for such occupation except such equipment as is customary for purely household and hobby purposes.
(d)
Such use shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling unit, and only persons living in the dwelling unit shall be employed in such occupation.
(e)
No more than 25 percent of the dwelling unit may be used for the operation.
(f)
No materials, equipment or business vehicles may be stored or parked on the premises, except that one business vehicle, used exclusively by the resident may be parked in a carport, garage, or rear or side yard.
(g)
The off-site employees of the resident shall not congregate on the premises for any purpose concerning the business of the home occupation.
(h)
There shall be no deliveries of supplies for use in the home occupation or pickups of the items produced by the occupant by commercial carriers.
(i)
No clients or customers are allowed on the premises on a regular basis.
(j)
The limited home occupation shall not create a nuisance.
3.
Designated Recycling Collection Locations:
(a)
Must be maintained in a safe, clean, neat, and sanitary fashion;
(b)
Such location shall be visually screened and maintained;
(c)
Such location shall be within the building setbacks unless otherwise approved by the zoning administrator or his/her designee due to topography, safety, internal traffic flow, site distance, or for other site-related circumstances not created by the property owner.
D.
Dimensional standards for Development. Setback shall be measured from the property line of the parcel. The property with shortest amount of road frontage shall be the front setback for determining other setbacks (major side, side, rear).
1.
Minimum acreage: 10 acres.
2.
Maximum dwelling units per acre: 6.
3.
Minimum lot width at front setback line: 40 feet; cul-de-sac, 60 feet.
4.
Minimum public road frontage: 70 feet; cul-de-sac, 35 feet.
5.
Maximum cover: 35%.
6.
Maximum building height: one story.
7.
A basement shall be counted as a story if the ceiling is six feet or more above the grade and is either subdivided or used for dwelling or business purposes. A basement is a portion of the building partly underground which has more than one-half of its height measured from finished floor to finished ceiling above the average grade of the adjoining ground.
8.
Minimum building setbacks:
(a)
Front yard as measured from arterial: 40 feet.
(b)
Front yard as measured from collector: 40 feet.
(c)
Front yard as measured from local: 40 feet.
(d)
Side yard (aka minor side yard): at least 10 feet between units.
(e)
Rear yard: 20 feet.
(f)
Major side: 25 feet.
9.
Measuring building setbacks: The number and type of setbacks is determined based on the number and type of public road frontages for the lot as follows and as shown on the following diagram:
(a)
One public road frontage: The front yard setback is measured from the one public road frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the other two yards are side yards.
(b)
Two public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The major side yard setback is measured from the road with the longer frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the yard opposite the major side yard is the minor side yard.
(c)
Three public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The two major side yard setbacks are measured from the other two road frontages (arterial, collector, or local). The remaining yard is a minor side yard.
(d)
Building setbacks apply to both principal and accessory buildings and structure except where it explicitly states otherwise.
(e)
Irregular shaped lots: The Planning and Zoning Administrator will determine setbacks for irregular shaped lots adhering to the spirit and intent of this section.
( Ord. No. 2020-09 , § 2(Exh. A), 8-17-20; Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 2(Exh. B1), 6-21-21)
2.01.04 - Commercial, Office and Institutional Districts
The following commercial, office and institutional districts are established:
A.
OI, Office/Institutional district. The OI Office/Institutional district is established to provide locations for nonretail commercial uses such as offices and financial institutions. The OI district is designed primarily to provide for four story and smaller office developments, office uses, motels, hotels, banking and professional offices that complement and provide step down nodal zoning away from more intensive commercial uses.
B.
NS, Neighborhood Shopping district. The NS district is established to provide locations for specialized and/or limited low intensity shopping facilities which are on properties delineated within a neighborhood activity center, community activity center, or regional activity center as defined and shown on the City of Kennesaw Comprehensive Plan, and as may be amended from time to time. These convenience shopping facilities should have low intensity retail commercial uses that have a neighborhood-oriented market and which supply necessities that usually require purchasing with a minimum of consumer travel.
Areas zoned for the NS district are appropriately located at or adjacent to intersections as opposed to the edge of a NAC. The NS district may also be used to provide step down nodal zoning away from more intensive commercial uses within a community activity center or a regional activity center. The scope at which properties are developed within the NS district should reflect their relatively small neighborhood service area. Additionally, properties developed within the NS should be architecturally compatible with other nonresidential uses permitted within an NS district as defined by the comprehensive plan and the neighborhood residences they serve.
C.
NRC, Neighborhood Retail Commercial district. The NRC neighborhood retail commercial district is established to provide locations for retail commercial and service uses which are designed and oriented to Neighborhood Activity Center as defined by the City of Kennesaw Comprehensive Land Use Plan, and as may be amended from time to time.
D.
CRC, Community Retail Commercial district. The CRC community retail commercial district is established to provide locations for retail commercial and service uses which are designed and oriented to serve several neighborhoods making up a community. The CRC district is aimed to provide for planned developments, one destination shopping and service locations to serve the community and to minimize traffic congestion.
E.
GC, General Commercial district. The GC district is established to provide locations for retail commercial and service uses which are oriented toward diverse range businesses that are service and product intensive with a need for major road access and visibility.
F.
HGB, Highway General Business district. The HGB highway general business district is established to provide locations for commercial and service uses which are oriented toward general and specialty service businesses and interstate and state highway travelers.
G.
UVC, Urban Village Commercial district. The UVC urban village commercial district is established to provide locations for planned mixed-use development of low intensity, low scale commercial, office, and residential uses not subdivided into customary streets and lots and which will not be subdivided.
H.
PVC, Planned Village Community district. The PVC planned village community district is established to provide locations and encourage flexible site plans and building arrangements under a unified plan of development rather than a lot by lot regulation for retail commercial and service uses which are designed and oriented to be self-sufficient neighborhoods making up a community. The developer benefits from better land utilization and economy in the provision of roads and utilities and overall site design.
Projects within the PVC should be designed to compact unified retail centers within the center of the community. Projects developed within the PVC should occupy a quadrant of an intersection and only ingress and egress from a major or collector street or state highway. Additionally, the desired quadrant location will provide for planned developments, one destination shopping, and service locations to serve [the] community, and to minimize traffic congestion.
I.
PSC, Planned Shopping Center district. The PSC planned shopping center district is established to provide locations for retail commercial and service uses which are designed and oriented to serve several neighborhoods making up a community. The PSC district is aimed to provide for planned developments, one destination shopping and service locations to serve the community and to minimize traffic congestion.
2.01.05 - Industrial Zoning Districts
The following Industrial zoning districts are established:
2.01.05.01 LI Light Industrial district:
A.
Purpose and Intent: The LI light industrial district is established to provide locations for light industrial uses such as low intensity automobile repair and service, commercial greenhouses, distribution centers, warehouse and storage, transportation terminals. When located on the perimeter of an industrial node, the LI district should provide for uses that are low in intensity and scale such to ensure compatibility with surrounding properties.
B.
Uses. Any use not permitted, or not permitted by Special Exception, or not permitted by Land Use Permit is prohibited. To the extent there is a conflict between the Table of Land Uses and this district as set forth herein, this district shall control for purposes of determining whether and how the use is allowed. See Section 4.04.01 for standards associated with Special Exception uses. Any conflict between the standards set forth in this district and those set forth in Section 4.04.01 (as amended from time to time), the standards in Section 4.04.01 (as amended from time to time) shall control for purposes of allowing a Special Exception use. Certain uses marked with an asterisk (*) must ascribe to the specific regulations as set forth in this district. Particular uses may need to comply with a combination of special regulations (*), special exception regulations, and special land use permit requirement.
The following uses are permitted:
Accessory retail sales and services
Agriculture produce stands
Ambulance services
Ambulance services, if accessory to hospitals or funeral homes
Amphitheaters
Ancillary retail sales
Animal hospitals
Appliance repair (major)
Assembly halls
Automotive paint and body repair services
Automotive parking lots and garages
Automotive repair and maintenance facilities
Automotive upholstery shops
Aviation airports (private)
Boat sales and service establishments
Breeding and boarding kennels
Building materials stores
Bus stations
Bus stations for freight
Car washes
Clinics
Clubs or lodges (noncommercial)
Colleges and universities (private), including but not limited to research and training facilities
Commercial greenhouses and plant nurseries
Commercial indoor recreation uses
Commercial outdoor recreation uses
Community fairs
Contractors (general, heavy, special) (office/warehouse)
Corporate or administrative offices for any permitted use
Dairies
Designated recycling collection locations*
Dry cleaning plants
Electrical supply stores
Emissions/inspection stations
Executive golf courses
Exterminating facilities (insect and/or rodent)
Farm and garden supply stores
Farm equipment stores/repair
Fast food restaurant
Freight terminals
Fuel and ice dealers
Full service gasoline stations
Funeral homes
Golf courses (Par-3)
Golf courses (18-hole regulation; private and public)
Group homes*
Halfway houses
Heavy automotive repair establishments
Helicopter landing areas
Hospitals
Laundry and dry cleaning pick-up establishments
Light automotive repair
Light manufacturing establishments
Linen and diaper services
Livestock sales pavilions
Machine shops
Medical and dental laboratories, provided that no chemicals are manufactured on site
Mobile food vending unit
Newspaper publishing facilities
Nonautomotive repair service establishments
Nonprofit riding stables
Office service and supply establishments
Other service establishments
Outdoor golf driving ranges
Pain management clinic
Parking for vehicles
Plumbing and/or heating equipment dealers
Poultry hatcheries
Printing, publishing, and lithography establishments
Pro shops (accessory to driving ranges/golf courses)
Professional offices
Radio and television stations
Rail stations (commuter)
Railroad car classification yards
Railroad stations
Recreation grounds other than tennis courts and golf courses
Religious assemblies
Medical research centers
Research testing laboratories
Re-upholstery and furniture repair establishments
Sawmills (temporary)
Self-service storage facilities
Sexually Oriented Businesses*
Shelters (homeless)*
Taxi stands and dispatching agencies
Temporary Uses*
Tire retreading and recapping facilities
Transportation equipment storage and maintenance facilities
Truck terminals
Utility facilities (private)
Vending machine sales, service, rental, or repair establishments
Vocational schools (commercial)
Warehouse and storage facilities
Wholesale sales offices
Wholesale trade and distribution facilities
Wholesale trade offices in conjunction with office showrooms
Zoos
The following uses are permitted by special exception:
Amusement centers
Automobile, truck, and trailer lease and rental facilities (accessory use)
Automobile, truck, and trailer lease and rental facilities (principal use)
Automobile and truck sales and service facilities
Automotive storage yards and wrecker service
Cemeteries
Crematories, human or animal
Drive in theaters
Flea markets
Mausoleums
Motorcycles, ATV, and three-wheel vehicle sales and service facilities (need SE standards)
Private community centers
Private schools of general and special education
The following uses are permitted only by special land use permit:
Coliseums, stadiums, and conventions centers (privately owned) (SLUP)
Radio, television and other communication towers and antennas (SLUP)
Wireless telecommunications facilities (SLUP)
C.
Requirements for certain uses. The following uses shall have the requirements as ascribed to them in this subsection.*
1.
Designated Recycling Collection Locations:
(a)
Must be maintained in a safe, clean, neat, and sanitary fashion;
(b)
Such location shall be visually screened and maintained;
(c)
Such location shall be within the building setbacks unless otherwise approved by the zoning administrator or his/her designee due to topography, safety, internal traffic flow, site distance, or for other site-related circumstances not created by the property owner.
2.
Group Home:
(a)
A group home shall be shared by four or fewer persons, excluding resident staff;
(b)
the group home must provide the City of Kennesaw with a copy of its scheduled activity plan, a copy of the group home rules, and, if applicable, evidence of active enforcement under the Georgia Association of Recovery Residence standards;
(c)
the group home must be under the direction and guidance of a designated managing caregiver that resides at the group home;
(d)
the designated managing caregiver or his or her designee shall be available on a 24-hour basis in the event of emergencies or complaints; and
(e)
a group home must submit to random inspections by the City Code Enforcement.
3.
Halfway House:
(a)
Halfway Houses shall not be located within 1,000 feet of any day care center, school, religious assembly, school bus stop, public or private playground, park or swimming pool, or 'areas where minors congregate' as defined in O.C.G.A. § 42-1-12(a)(3).
(b)
Measurement: For the purpose of measuring the distance required under this subparagraph, measurement shall be made in a straight line in all directions without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the primary point of pedestrian entry of the structure in which the applicant is located to the primary point of pedestrian entry of the structure of the sensitive use. If there is no structure on the parcel comprising the sensitive use, then the point of measurement is to the closest point on a boundary line of any parcel comprising the sensitive use.
4.
Temporary Uses:
(a)
An approved temporary use shall not exceed 30-days and may be renewed for not more than one additional 30-day period.
(b)
Adequate off-street parking shall be provided.
(c)
Application for a temporary use shall be made with the City Business License division.
5.
Shelters (homeless):
(a)
Adequate showers and restroom facilities must be provided at the location to meet the needs of the overnight guests;
(b)
Beds must be provided for all overnight guests excluding staff and volunteer workers;
(c)
No shelter shall be located closer than 1,000 feet to the nearest single-family residence;
(d)
Guests of the shelter shall be required to leave the shelter premises no later than 7:00 a.m.;
(e)
All premises shall be maintained in a clean, safe, and sanitary fashion;
(f)
Adequate provisions for transporting and parking guests shall be submitted to and approved by the zoning administrator or his/her designee.
6.
Sexually oriented business:
(a)
Measurement. For the purpose of measuring the distance required under this subparagraph, measurement shall be made in a straight line in all directions without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the primary point of pedestrian entry of the structure in which the applicant is located to the primary point of pedestrian entry of the structure of the sensitive use. If there is no structure on the parcel comprising the sensitive use, then the point of measurement is to the closest point on a boundary line of any parcel comprising the sensitive use.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to establish, operate, or cause to be operated a sexually oriented business in the city, unless said sexually oriented business is at least 250 feet from another sexually oriented business.
(c)
It shall be unlawful to establish, operate, or cause to be operated a sexually oriented business in the city, unless same is at least 500 feet from a religious assembly building, school building, governmentally owned and operated building, library building, civic center building, public park, hospital building, community club building, prison building or any residence (sensitive uses).
(d)
It shall be unlawful to establish, operate, or cause to be operated a sexually oriented business in the city, unless said sexually oriented business is at least 500 feet from a business licensed to sell alcohol on the premises (sensitive use).
(e)
Sexually oriented businesses are also subject to licensing requirements as set forth in Chapter 22 of the Kennesaw City Code, as may be amended from time to time.
D.
Dimensional standards for Development. Setback shall be measured from the property line of the parcel. The property with the shortest amount of road frontage shall be the front setback for determining other setbacks (major side, side, rear).
1.
Minimum lot size: 40,000 square feet
2.
Minimum lot width at front setback line: 75 feet
3.
Maximum height: 50 feet (4 stories maximum)
4.
A basement shall be counted as a story if the ceiling is six feet or more above the grade and is either subdivided or used for dwelling or business purposes. A basement is a portion of the building partly underground which has more than one-half of its height measured from finished floor to finished ceiling above the average grade of the adjoining ground.
5.
Minimum building setbacks:
(a)
Front yard as measured from arterial: 50 feet.
(b)
Front yard as measured from collector: 50 feet.
(c)
Front yard as measured from local: 50 feet.
(d)
Side yard (aka minor side yard): 20 feet.
(e)
Rear yard: 40 feet.
(f)
Major side: 25 feet.
6.
Maximum cover: 80%
7.
Measuring building setbacks: The number and type of setbacks is determined based on the number and type of public road frontages for the lot as follows and as shown on the following diagram:
(a)
One public road frontage: The front yard setback is measured from the one public road frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the other two yards are side yards.
(b)
Two public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The major side yard setback is measured from the road with the longer frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the yard opposite the major side yard is the minor side yard.
(c)
Three public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The two major side yard setbacks are measured from the other two road frontages (arterial, collector, or local). The remaining yard is a minor side yard.
(d)
Building setbacks apply to both principal and accessory buildings and structure except where it explicitly states otherwise.
(e)
Irregular shaped lots: The Planning and Zoning Administrator will determine setbacks for irregular shaped lots adhering to the spirit and intent of this section.
E.
Landscape buffer and screening requirements. Unless otherwise noted within this district's requirements, any property within an LI district which abuts a residentially zoned property shall have a minimum 50-foot landscaped screening buffer adjacent to all residentially zoned property. The buffer shall be subject to approval by City staff. The City discourages locating LI districts and developments adjacent to single-family residential districts, unless in a planned mixed use project. Required buffers may be included within required setbacks; however, in such case that the required buffer is greater than the required setback, the required buffer shall be adhered to. Additionally, necessary private utilities and access drives may be allowed through, over or across a landscaped buffer. Any such uses which are proposed through, over or across a designated undisturbed buffer must be approved pursuant to an original site plan or site plan modification as set forth in the UDC.
1.
Objectives. Undisturbed, planted landscape buffers and berms shall be implemented in connection with a permitted project and shall address the following objectives:
(a)
Screening to enhance aesthetic appeal;
(b)
Control or direction of vehicular and pedestrian movement;
(c)
Reduction of glare;
(d)
Buffering of noise; and
(e)
Establishment of privacy.
2.
Standards. Buffers and berms shall be required when an LI district is located adjacent to a residential district; a minimum 50-foot buffer is required.
(a)
Buffers. Landscape buffers are subject to review and approval by the Zoning Administrator in accordance with the following standards:
(i)
Plantings are to be a mix of evergreen trees and shrubs.
(ii)
Species are to be ecologically compatible to the site and appropriate for the design situation.
(iii)
Unless public safety concerns dictate otherwise, buffers should provide a 100 percent visual barrier to a height of six feet within two years of planting.
(iv)
Minimum height of plant materials at installation is five feet for trees and two feet for shrubs.
(v)
Fencing or walls are to be a minimum of six feet in height.
(vi)
Trees included in buffer plantings may be counted toward site density calculations as required by Chapter 3 of the UDC pertaining to tree preservation and replacement, subject to review and approval of the Zoning Administrator.
(vii)
Buffers shall be regularly maintained by the property owner to ensure that the objectives and standards set out in this subsection are met.
(viii)
When topography and existing conditions allow, the required twenty-foot buffer should be an undisturbed buffer.
(ix)
Any appeals from a determination by the Zoning Administrator shall be to the Mayor and City Council.
(b)
Berms. Berms are subject to review and approval by the Zoning Administrator in accordance with the following standards:
(i)
Berms shall be utilized when consistent with surrounding property features.
(ii)
Berms shall be stabilized.
(iii)
Where possible, berms shall be constructed to be consistent with natural or proposed drainage patterns.
(iv)
Berms shall be regularly maintained by the property owner.
F.
Floodplain, wetlands preservation, and water supply and watershed requirements. Any development must meet all state and federal requirements relating to floodplains and wetlands. The Mayor and City Council encourage preservation of wetland areas. Development and design shall first take into account the protection of environmental and natural resources as set forth in Chapter 3 regarding floodplain, soil erosion and sedimentation control, water supply and watersheds, river corridors, and stream buffers. Any development shall comply with Chapter 46 of the Kennesaw Code of Ordinance. Any development shall be designed to avoid unnecessary impervious surface cover; provide adequate access to lots and sites; avoid adverse effects of shadow glare, noise, odor, traffic, drainage, and utilities on surrounding property. No floodplains and/or wetlands may be used in calculating the overall density of the development.
G.
Chattahoochee River Tributary Protection: Any property located within the "protection area" as defined and established to be the stream channel and all the land within the 1st Class stream boundary and 2nd Class stream boundary of all 1st class and 2nd class flowing tributaries of the Chattahoochee River downstream from Buford Dam and upstream from Peachtree Creek as indicated on the Chattahoochee Tributary Map shall comply with Chapter 3.06.1 of the UDC, and as amended.
H.
Landscaping and Tree Requirements: Any development must meet the landscaping and tree requirements and specifications as set forth in Section 3.07.00, and as amended.
I.
Site Design standards: Any development must meet the applicable site design standards, including but not limited to site design standards for specific uses, conventional subdivision, and architectural design standards as set forth in Section 4.00.00, and as amended.
J.
Accessory and temporary structures: Any development must meet the accessory and temporary structure requirements and specifications as set forth in Section 5.00.00, and as amended.
K.
Signs: Standards for signs used as accessory structures or principal use on a parcel are regulated in Section 5.03.00, and as amended.
L.
Wireless Telecommunication Facilities: Standards for wireless telecommunication facilities, which may be located on a lot or parcel with a principal use, are located in Section 5.04.00, and as amended.
M.
Infrastructure requirements: Any development must comply with all applicable infrastructure requirements as set forth in Chapter 6 of the UDC, and as amended from time to time, including but not limited to those requirements and standards relating to streets, transportation, parking facilities, street lights, major thoroughfares, access, off-street parking facilities, parking lot design and driveway standards, sidewalks and pathways, bus shelters, easements, storm drainage systems, water and sewer, fences, buffers and berms, mailboxes, and irrigations systems, structural retaining walls, dams, cemeteries, utilities, condominiums and gated communities.
N.
Special land use permits: Any development that requires a special land use permit must meet the specifications as set forth in Section 4.04.06 of the UDC, and as amended.
O.
Use limitations:
1.
Maximum floor area ratio is .50 for office uses and 0.75 for industrial uses
2.
All refuse collection and designated recycling collection location facilities must be contained within completely enclosed facilities.
3.
No uses that exceed state and federal guidelines for allowable emissions and discharge of effluents into the air, water and soil are permitted.
4.
No uses that create an unabated noise creating a nuisance as defined under state law are permitted.
5.
If potentially hazardous material or chemicals are used on the premises or pollutants result from the operation under this section, a spill containment plan shall be approved by City staff.
6.
Any outside storage shall be set back a minimum of 35 feet from any public right-of-way. In other cases, the setbacks as required for accessory buildings, structures, uses and decks shall apply.
7.
No drive-in establishments are permitted.
8.
No uses that emit noxious odors, fumes or sounds are permitted.
9.
No outside runs are permitted with any veterinary office use permitted within this district.
10.
Maximum impervious surfaces (80%-RAC, 70%-CAC and NAC) shall be established within activity centers as identified by the City of Kennesaw Comprehensive Plan, as may be amended from time to time.
2.01.05.02 HI Heavy Industrial district:
A.
Purpose and intent. The HI heavy industrial district is established to provide locations for heavy industrial uses such as intensive automobile repair and service, heavy manufacturing, chemical manufacturing and storage, petroleum and petrochemical storage, warehousing. When located on the perimeter of an industrial node, the HI district should provide for uses that are lower in intensity and scale such to ensure compatibility with surrounding properties.
B.
Uses. Any use not permitted, or not permitted by Special Exception, or not permitted by Land Use Permit is prohibited. To the extent there is a conflict between the Table of Land Uses and this district as set forth herein, this district shall control for purposes of determining whether and how the use is allowed. See Section 4.04.01 for standards associated with Special Exception uses. Any conflict between the standards set forth in this district and those set forth in Section 4.04.01 (as amended from time to time), the standards in Section 4.04.01 (as amended from time to time) shall control for purposes of allowing a Special Exception use. Certain uses marked with an asterisk (*) must ascribe to the specific regulations as set forth in this district. Particular uses may need to comply with a combination of special regulations (*), special exception regulations, and special land use permit requirement.
The following uses are permitted:
Agriculture produce stands
Ambulance services
Ambulance services, if accessory to hospitals or funeral homes
Ancillary retail sales
Animal hospitals
Assembly halls
Automotive paint and body repair services
Automotive parking lots and garages
Automotive repair and maintenance facilities
Automotive upholstery shops
Aviation airports (private)
Boat sales and service establishments
Breeding and boarding kennels
Building materials stores
Bus stations
Bus stations for freight
Car washes
Clinics
Clubs or lodges (noncommercial)
Colleges and universities (private), including but not limited to research and training facilities
Commercial greenhouses and plant nurseries
Community fairs
Consumer fireworks retail sales facility
Contractors (general, heavy, special) (office/warehouse)
Corporate or administrative offices for any permitted use
Dairies
Designated recycling collection locations*
Dry cleaning plants
Electrical supply stores
Emissions/inspection stations
Executive golf courses
Exterminating facilities (insect and/or rodent)
Farm equipment stores/repair
Freight terminals
Fuel and ice dealers
Full service gasoline stations
Golf courses (Par-3)
Golf courses (18-hole regulation; private and public)
Halfway houses
Heavy automotive repair establishments
Heavy repair service and trade shops
Helicopter landing areas
Laundry and dry cleaning pick-up establishments
Light automotive repair
Light manufacturing establishments
Linen and diaper services
Machine shops
Medical and dental laboratories, provided that no chemicals are manufactured on site
Newspaper publishing facilities
Nonautomotive repair service establishments
Nonprofit riding stables
Office service and supply establishments
Outdoor golf driving ranges
Parking for vehicles
Plumbing and/or heating equipment dealers
Printing, publishing, and lithography establishments
Private parks
Pro shops (accessory to driving ranges/ golf courses)
Radio and television stations
Rail stations (commuter)
Railroad car classification yards
Railroad stations
Recreation grounds other than tennis courts and golf courses
Religious assemblies
Medical research centers
Research testing laboratories
Re-upholstery and furniture repair establishments
Sawmills (temporary)
Self-service storage facilities
Sexually Oriented Businesses*
Shelters (homeless)*
Taxi stands and dispatching agencies
Temporary uses*
Tire retreading and recapping facilities
Transportation equipment storage and maintenance facilities
Truck terminals
Utility facilities (private)
Vending machine sales, service, rental, or repair establishments
Vocational schools (commercial)
Warehouse and storage facilities
Wholesale sales offices
Wholesale trade and distribution facilities
Wholesale trade offices in conjunction with office showrooms
Zoos
The following uses are permitted by special exception:
Amusement centers
Asphalt plants
Automobile, truck, and trailer lease and rental facilities (accessory use)
Automobile, truck, and trailer lease and rental facilities (principal use)
Automobile and truck sales and service facilities
Automotive storage yards and wrecker service
Biomedical waste transfer and disposal facilities
Cemeteries
Chemical plants or storage facilities
Coliseums, stadiums, and conventions centers (privately owned)
Composting plants*
Concrete plants
Crematories, human or animal
Drive in theaters
Hazardous waste sites
Heavy manufacturing establishments
Landfills (private)*
Mausoleums
Mining operations*
Outdoor commercial racing (motorcycle, automobile, truck, tractor and motorized vehicles)
Motorcycles, ATV, and three-wheel vehicle sales and service facilities
Petroleum or bulk storage stations*
Private community centers
Private schools of general and special education
Quarry or mining operation
Recycling centers*
Waste transfer station
The following uses are permitted only by special land use permit:
Asphalt plants
Automotive salvage and wrecking yards
Biomedical waste transfer and disposal facilities
Chemical plants or storage facilities
Coliseums, stadiums, and conventions centers (privately owned)
Composting plants
Concrete plants
Hazardous waste sites
Landfills (private)
Outdoor commercial racing (motorcycle, automobile, truck, tractor and motorized vehicles)
Petroleum or bulk storage stations
Quarry or mining operation
Radio, television and other communication towers and antennas
Recycling centers
Waste transfer station
Wireless telecommunications facilities
C.
Requirements for certain uses. The following uses shall have the requirements as ascribed to them in this subsection.
1.
Designated Recycling Collection Locations:
(a)
Must be maintained in a safe, clean, neat, and sanitary fashion;
(b)
Such location shall be visually screened and maintained;
(c)
Such location shall be within the building setbacks unless otherwise approved by the zoning administrator or his/her designee due to topography, safety, internal traffic flow, site distance, or for other site-related circumstances not created by the property owner.
2.
Temporary Uses:
(a)
An approved temporary use shall not exceed 30-days and may be renewed for not more than one additional 30-day period;
(b)
Adequate off-street parking shall be provided;
(c)
Application for a temporary use shall be made with the City Business License division.
3.
Shelters (homeless):
(a)
Adequate showers and restroom facilities must be provided at the location to meet the needs of the overnight guests;
(b)
Beds must be provided for all overnight guests excluding staff and volunteer workers;
(c)
No shelter shall be located closer than 1,000 feet to the nearest single-family residence;
(d)
Guests of the shelter shall be required to leave the shelter premises no later than 7:00 a.m.;
(e)
All premises shall be maintained in a clean, safe, and sanitary fashion;
(f)
Adequate provisions for transporting and parking guests shall be submitted to and approved by the zoning administrator or his/her designee.
4.
Sexually oriented businesses:
(a)
Measurement. For the purpose of measuring the distance required under this subparagraph, measurement shall be made in a straight line in all directions without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the primary point of pedestrian entry of the structure in which the applicant is located to the primary point of pedestrian entry of the structure of the sensitive use. If there is no structure on the parcel comprising the sensitive use, then the point of measurement is to the closest point on a boundary line of any parcel comprising the sensitive use.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to establish, operate, or cause to be operated a sexually oriented business in the city, unless said sexually oriented business is at least 250 feet from another sexually oriented business.
(c)
It shall be unlawful to establish, operate, or cause to be operated a sexually oriented business in the city, unless same is at least 500 feet from a religious assembly building, school building, governmentally owned and operated building, library building, civic center building, public park, hospital building, community club building, prison building or any residence (sensitive uses).
(d)
It shall be unlawful to establish, operate, or cause to be operated a sexually oriented business in the city, unless said sexually oriented business is at least 500 feet from a business licensed to sell alcohol on the premises (sensitive use).
(e)
Sexually oriented businesses are also subject to licensing requirements as set forth in Chapter 22 of the Kennesaw City Code, as may be amended from time to time.
5.
Mining
(a)
Removal or extraction of dirt, sand and soil is subject to the following: (1) the removal area shall be completely enclosed with a fence not less than six feet in height when considered necessary by the Zoning Administrator; (2) Drainage plans and a plan for the development of the site when the removal is completed shall be submitted with the application for a development permit; (3) such uses shall not be established within 500 feet of a residential use or 200 feet of any other use; (4) this subsection shall not prohibit the removal of earth and rock and filling and grading in any district done for land development purposes.
(b)
Removal of extraction of rock and gravel is subject to the following: (1) The removal area shall be sealed by fencing or grading or some other device from general public access; (2) all entrances shall be fenced and locked during nonbusiness hours; (3) drainage plans and plan for development of the site when the removal is completed shall be submitted with the application for a development permit; (4) the operational and removal area of such uses shall not be established within 4,000 feet of a residential use or 2,000 feet of any other use.
(c)
No mining shall be allowed except after notice of a public hearing and public hearing by the Mayor and City Council for the purposes of evaluating and considering the adverse effects and impacts (if any) that may result to surrounding property owners and whether or not a nuisance, as defined by state law, would be created by allowing the use.
6.
Petroleum or bulk storage facilities or chemical plants or storage facilities
(a)
A special land use permit is required
(b)
Compliance with all applicable state and federal laws is required
(c)
All necessary state and federal permits shall be obtained
(d)
A spill containment plan shall be approved by City staff
(e)
Minimum acreage is five acres
(f)
No use shall be located closer than 1,000 feet to any residential dwelling or school building
(g)
Hours of operation shall be limited to daylight hours
(h)
Noise abatement and air pollution abatement plans shall be approved by City staff
(i)
A fire prevention, evacuation and safety plan shall be approved by the County fire marshal
7.
Private landfills, composting centers or recycling centers
(a)
A special land use permit is required
(b)
All necessary state and federal permits shall be obtained
(c)
Compliance with all applicable state and federal laws is required
(d)
Such facilities shall only be allowed in heavy industrial zoning district, provided that the Mayor and City Council may grant a variance for filling of a specific natural land depression provided such fill shall not include garbage or other material subject to decomposition
(e)
Such facilities shall be approved by the Mayor and City Council after public hearing. Both a development permit from the community development department and written approval of the County health department shall be issued before any landfill operation may begin
(f)
Such facilities shall be allowed only in areas incapable of development without landfill operations as determined by the community development department
(g)
No hazardous wastes as defined by state and federal law shall be disposed or discharged into a landfill site
(h)
No garbage shall be disposed of within 2,000 feet of the public highway, a residence, or any gathering place unless approved by the Mayor and City Council
(i)
Truck traffic routes and entrances to the facility shall be approved by a traffic engineer
(j)
The sanitary landfill site must be accessible without travel through properties developed for residential use
(k)
All sanitary landfills shall have and keep on their premises in good working order a crawler-type tractor equipped with either a straight blade bulldozer, an angel blade bulldozer, a scraper (eight cubic yards or larger), a front end loader, a bull clam, or other attachments of a similar nature. The combined weight of such tractor and accessories as set forth in this subsection shall be not less than 18,000 pounds.
(l)
All sanitary landfills hereafter established or operated shall be enclosed with a fence at least six feet high with openings therein not more than those in two-inch mesh wire, or some other similar fencing materials or device. Such fencing shall be adequate to prevent paper and similar or related refuse from blowing from the landfill onto neighboring property
(m)
All sanitary landfills shall have an operator in attendance at all times when the fill is in use, and such fill must be barricaded when closed to the public
(n)
Any changes in the normal drainage of the property upon which the sanitary fill is located shall be accommodated by storm sewers as necessary to properly care for drainage. Such storm sewers shall be installed at the expense of the user
(o)
All operators of sanitary landfills must pack and cover daily all materials placed thereon with at least six inches of earth in such a manner as to prevent fires and meet any and all other requirements of the fire code. All completed landfills must be covered with a least two feet of earth. Burning of any kind of refuse on the landfill is prohibited
(p)
This section shall not prohibit the dumping for disposal by burial of dry waste building materials concurrently with and on the same property as a structure under construction. Such waste shall be covered with at least two feet of earth before occupancy of the structure, but no such waste may be buried within 20 feet of any structure, drainage easement or drain field.
D.
Dimensional standards for Development. Setback shall be measured from the property line of the parcel. The property with the shortest amount of road frontage shall be the front setback for determining other setbacks (major side, side, rear).
1.
Minimum lot size: 40,000 square feet
2.
Minimum lot width at front setback line: 75 feet
3.
Maximum height: 50 feet (4 stories)
4.
A basement shall be counted as a story if the ceiling is six feet or more above the grade and is either subdivided or used for dwelling or business purposes. A basement is a portion of the building partly underground which has more than one-half of its height measured from finished floor to finished ceiling above the average grade of the adjoining ground.
5.
Minimum building setbacks:
(a)
Front yard as measured from arterial: 50 feet.
(b)
Front yard as measured from collector: 50 feet.
(c)
Front yard as measured from local: 50 feet.
(d)
Side yard (aka minor side yard): 20 feet.
(e)
Rear yard: 40 feet.
(f)
Major side: 25 feet.
6.
Maximum cover: 80%
7.
Measuring building setbacks: The number and type of setbacks are determined based on the number and type of public road frontages for the lot.
(a)
One public road frontage: The front yard setback is measured from the one public road frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the other two yards are side yards.
(b)
Two public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The major side yard setback is measured from the road with the longer frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The yard opposite the front yard is the rear yard and the yard opposite the major side yard is the minor side yard.
(c)
Three public road frontages: The front yard setback is measured from the road with the shortest frontage (arterial, collector, or local). The two major side yard setbacks are measured from the other two road frontages (arterial, collector, or local). The remaining yard is a minor side yard.
(d)
Building setbacks apply to both principal and accessory buildings and structure except where it explicitly states otherwise.
(e)
Irregular shaped lots: The Planning and Zoning Administrator will determine setbacks for irregular shaped lots adhering to the spirit and intent of this section.
E.
Landscape buffer and screening requirements. Unless otherwise noted within this district's requirements, any property within an HI district which abuts a residentially zoned property shall have a minimum 50-foot landscaped screening buffer adjacent to all residentially zoned property. The buffer shall be subject to approval by City staff. The City discourages locating HI districts and developments adjacent to single-family residential districts, unless in a planned mixed use project. Required buffers may be included within required setbacks; however, in such case that the required buffer is greater than the required setback, the required buffer shall be adhered to. Additionally, necessary private utilities and access drives may be allowed through, over or across a landscaped buffer. Any such uses which are proposed through, over or across a designated undisturbed buffer must be approved pursuant to an original site plan or site plan modification as set forth in the UDC.
1.
Objectives. Undisturbed, planted landscape buffers and berms shall be implemented in connection with a permitted project and shall address the following objectives:
(a)
Screening to enhance aesthetic appeal;
(b)
Control or direction of vehicular and pedestrian movement;
(c)
Reduction of glare;
(d)
Buffering of noise; and
(e)
Establishment of privacy.
2.
Standards. Buffers and berms shall be required when an LI district is located adjacent to a residential district; a minimum 50-foot buffer is required.
(a)
Buffers. Landscape buffers are subject to review and approval by the Zoning Administrator in accordance with the following standards:
(i)
Plantings are to be a mix of evergreen trees and shrubs.
(ii)
Species are to be ecologically compatible to the site and appropriate for the design situation.
(iii)
Unless public safety concerns dictate otherwise, buffers should provide a 100 percent visual barrier to a height of six feet within two years of planting.
(iv)
Minimum height of plant materials at installation is five feet for trees and two feet for shrubs.
(v)
Fencing or walls are to be a minimum of six feet in height.
(vi)
Trees included in buffer plantings may be counted toward site density calculations as required by Chapter 3 of the UDC pertaining to tree preservation and replacement, subject to review and approval of the Zoning Administrator.
(vii)
Buffers shall be regularly maintained by the property owner to ensure that the objectives and standards set out in this subsection are met.
(viii)
When topography and existing conditions allow, the required twenty-foot buffer should be an undisturbed buffer.
(ix)
Any appeals from a determination by the Zoning Administrator shall be to the Mayor and City Council.
(b)
Berms. Berms are subject to review and approval by the Zoning Administrator in accordance with the following standards:
(i)
Berms shall be utilized when consistent with surrounding property features.
(ii)
Berms shall be stabilized.
(iii)
Where possible, berms shall be constructed to be consistent with natural or proposed drainage patterns.
(iv)
Berms shall be regularly maintained by the property owner.
F.
Floodplain, wetlands preservation, and water supply and watershed requirements. Any development must meet all state and federal requirements relating to floodplains and wetlands. The Mayor and City Council encourage preservation of wetland areas. Development and design shall first take into account the protection of environmental and natural resources as set forth in Chapter 3 regarding floodplain, soil erosion and sedimentation control, water supply and watersheds, river corridors, and stream buffers. Any development shall comply with Chapter 46 of the Kennesaw Code of Ordinance. Any development shall be designed to avoid unnecessary impervious surface cover; provide adequate access to lots and sites; avoid adverse effects of shadow glare, noise, odor, traffic, drainage, and utilities on surrounding property. No floodplains and/or wetlands may be used in calculating the overall density of the development.
G.
Chattahoochee River Tributary Protection: Any property located within the "protection area" as defined and established to be the stream channel and all the land within the 1st Class stream boundary and 2nd Class stream boundary of all 1st class and 2nd class flowing tributaries of the Chattahoochee River downstream from Buford Dam and upstream from Peachtree Creek as indicated on the Chattahoochee Tributary Map shall comply with Chapter 3.06.1 of the UDC, and as amended.
H.
Landscaping and Tree Requirements: Any development must meet the landscaping and tree requirements and specifications as set forth in Section 3.07.00, and as amended.
I.
Site Design standards: Any development must meet the applicable site design standards, including but not limited to site design standards for specific uses, conventional subdivision, and architectural design standards as set forth in Section 4.00.00, and as amended.
J.
Accessory and temporary structures: Any development must meet the accessory and temporary structure requirements and specifications as set forth in Section 5.00.00, and as amended.
K.
Signs: Standards for signs used as accessory structures or principal use on a parcel are regulated in Section 5.03.00, and as amended.
L.
Infrastructure requirements: Any development must comply with all applicable infrastructure requirements as set forth in Chapter 6 of the UDC, and as amended from time to time, including but not limited to those requirements and standards relating to streets, transportation, parking facilities, street lights, major thoroughfares, access, off-street parking facilities, parking lot design and driveway standards, sidewalks and pathways, bus shelters, easements, storm drainage systems, water and sewer, fences, buffers and berms, mailboxes, and irrigations systems, structural retaining walls, dams, cemeteries, utilities, condominiums and gated communities.
M.
Special land use permits. Any development that requires a special land use permit must meet the specifications as set forth in Section 4.04.06 of the UDC, and as amended.
N.
Wireless Telecommunication Facilities. Standards for wireless telecommunication facilities, which may be located on a lot or parcel with a principal use, are located in Section 5.04.00, and as amended.
O.
Use limitations:
1.
Maximum floor area ratio is .50 for office uses and 0.75 for industrial uses
2.
All refuse collection and designated recycling collection location facilities must be contained within completely enclosed facilities.
3.
No uses that exceed state and federal guidelines for allowable emissions and discharge of effluents into the air, water and soil are permitted.
4.
No uses that create an unabated noise creating a nuisance as defined under state law are permitted.
5.
If potentially hazardous material or chemicals are used on the premises or pollutants result from the operation under this section, a spill containment plan shall be approved by City staff.
6.
Any outside storage shall be set back a minimum of 35 feet from any public right-of-way. In other cases, the setbacks as required for accessory buildings, structures, uses and decks shall apply.
7.
No drive-in establishments are permitted.
8.
No uses that emit noxious odors, fumes or sounds are permitted.
9.
No outside runs are permitted with any veterinary office use permitted within this district.
10.
Maximum impervious surfaces (80%-RAC, 70%-CAC and NAC) shall be established within activity centers as identified by the City of Kennesaw Comprehensive Plan, as may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. No. 2018-24, § 2(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
2.01.06 - Special Districts
The following special zoning districts are established:
A.
HIS, Historic District. The historical and architectural heritage of Kennesaw is among its most valued and important assets. The purpose of the Kennesaw Historic District (HIS) is to promote the cultural, economic and general welfare of the city, and the preservation and protection of the old, historic or architecturally worthy structures in quaint areas or neighborhoods which impact a distinct aspect of the city and which serve as visible reminders of the cultural, social, economic and architectural heritage of the city, the state, and the nation.
1.
Boundary. The boundary of the historic properties shall be those specific properties as specified by the Kennesaw Historic Preservation Commission and so designated by ordinances adopted by the Mayor and Council, or designated on state or national registers, pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. §44-10-26 (the Georgia Historic Preservation Act—Acts 1980, pages 1723—1729). All historic properties shall be designated on a map entitled "Official Historic Properties Map of the City of Kennesaw," which shall be as adopted by the Mayor and Council, and the same required boundaries to be shown on the "Official Zoning Map of the City of Kennesaw."
2.
Relationship to Zoning District.
a)
All that tract and parcel of land delineated on the historical district map of historic properties for the City of Kennesaw, dated May 19, 1978, presented on August 20, 1979, by Phil Secrist (Chairman of the Kennesaw Historical Society), and approved by Georgia Department of Natural Resources in October, 1979, and approved for the National Historic Register in April, 1980, which map is hereby incorporated by reference, shall be classified for zoning purposes as KHD (Kennesaw Historical District) and shall be designated as being a part of zoning district KHD (Kennesaw Historical District). Such zoning classification and designation shall be in addition to and not in lieu of the zoning classification and zoning designation applicable to such property at the time such property is designated as being a part of the historic district or is designated as historic property.
b)
If a conflict exists with regard to a use which is available to property having more than one zoning classification or zoning district designation, then the more liberal or less restrictive use shall apply to such property; however, the minimum dimensional requirements applicable to such property shall be those requirements applicable to zoning district HIS (Historic Kennesaw District).
3.
Classification of historic properties and development standards.
a)
The Historic Preservation Commission shall evaluate all properties as designated on the Official Historic Properties Map of the City of Kennesaw, and the Official Zoning Map of the City of Kennesaw. All properties so designated shall be classified as one of the following categories:
i.
Historic: More than 50 years old and contributing to the community's historic character;
ii.
Historic-obscured: More than 50 years old but not contributing to the historical character of the community due to unsympathetic but not irreparable alterations;
iii.
Non-historic: Less than 50 years old and contributing to the historic character of the community by possessing architectural character;
iv.
Intrusion: Structures of any age which detract from the historic character of the district; and
v.
Vacant.
b)
All historic, historic-obscured, non-historic, and intrusion property classifications in the Kennesaw Historic District shall be shown on the Official Historic Properties Map of the City of Kennesaw, and the Official Zoning Map of the City of Kennesaw. In the event a question arises over the classification of the property, the property owner may file an appeal stating the reason(s) for the appeal with the zoning administrator. On such appeal, the commission shall reconsider their original finding and classify the property based on their current evaluation. If such appeal has not been remedied, the commission shall submit a report to the Mayor and Council indicating the reason(s) for their classification of the individual property. After considering the appeal as requested by the individual property owner on the classification of his property, the Mayor and Council may reclassify the property or any portion thereof as they determine.
Refer to Chapter 10 of this UDC for information regarding the appeals process.
B.
HPV, Historic Preservation Village. The HPV district is established to set aside certain properties for the purpose of providing an area that will be designed and used as a historic village. It is encouraged that resourcefulness and ingenuity will be used to assure that the property will meet the goals of the master plan of the City of Kennesaw as adopted by the Mayor and Council in June, 1995. The classification is primarily intended for properties located within Land Lot 138, 20th District, 2nd Section, and is bounded on the North by Cherokee Street and Big Shanty Road, on the east by Sardis Street, on the South by Old Highway 41, and on the West by CSX Railroad, and more particularly, Parcels 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 173 and 201.
C.
CBD, Central Business District. The CBD is established in order to preserve and protect the cultural and historic aspects of downtown Kennesaw and simultaneously provide for the stimulation and enhancement of the vitality and economic growth of this special area. The classification is primarily intended for a focal point for upscale retail trade, tourism, and financial and public uses. The intent of the CBD is to develop a compact core to encourage and facilitate pedestrian movement and provide convenient access to the amenities of Historic Downtown Kennesaw. The CBD is designed to achieve the following:
1.
Create an environment where residents and visitors can live, work, meet, and play.
2.
Promote a balanced mix of retail, office-professional, entertainment, residential, civil, and cultural uses in the core downtown area.
3.
Allow for growth of a healthy economic business district.
4.
Incorporate aesthetically compatible design from gateway points to the core of the city to improve the aesthetics of street and built environments.
5.
Ensure compatibility with the historic district to achieve architectural and design integrity and consistency.
6.
Provide accessible and sufficient parking that is unobtrusive by encouraging shared, underground, and deck parking and alternative modes of transportation including pedestrian and bicycles.
7.
Promote a pedestrian environment though sidewalk-oriented buildings and attractive street-facing façades that encourage pedestrian activity.
8.
Provide safe and accessible parks and public and private open space.
D.
Conservation Subdivision/Open Space development. The purposes of the Conservation Subdivision/Open Space development are:
1.
To provide for the preservation of greenspace as a nonstructural stormwater runoff and watershed protection measure.
2.
To provide a residential zoning district that permits flexibility of design in order to promote environmentally sensitive and efficient uses of the land.
3.
To preserve in perpetuity unique or sensitive natural resources such as groundwater, floodplains, wetlands, streams, steep slopes, woodlands and wildlife habitat.
4.
To permit clustering of houses and structures on less environmentally sensitive soils, which will reduce the amount of infrastructure, including paved surfaces and utility easements, necessary for residential development.
5.
To reduce erosion and sedimentation by minimizing land disturbance and removal of vegetation in residential development.
6.
To promote interconnected greenways and corridors throughout the community.
7.
To promote contiguous greenspace with adjacent jurisdictions.
8.
To encourage interaction in the community by clustering houses and orienting them closer to the street, providing public gathering places and encouraging use of parks and community facilities as focal points in the neighborhood.
9.
To encourage street designs that reduces traffic speeds and reliance on main arteries.
10.
To promote construction of convenient landscaped walking trails and bike paths both within the subdivision and connected to neighboring communities, businesses, and facilities to reduce reliance on automobiles.
11.
To conserve scenic views and reduce perceived density by maximizing the number of houses with direct access to and views of open space.
12.
To preserve important historic and archaeological sites.
13.
To encourage the development of residential communities designed to preserve and protect environmental resources, scenic vistas, and natural and cultivated landscapes.
14.
To reduce infrastructure impact as a result of efficient community design.
E.
SLO, Senior Living Overlay district. The purpose of this overlay zoning district is:
1.
Establish high quality living standards for senior oriented housing
2.
Create a self sufficient development that addresses transportation and service delivery issues specific to the area.
3.
Create a unique site plan design that accomplishes the housing goals as adopted under the City of Kennesaw Comprehensive Plan.
F.
Civilian Airport Hazard District
1.
Definitions and Acronyms—The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
a.
Above Ground Level ("AGL") means a reference of elevation above ground level.
b.
Airport means Cobb County Airport-McCollum Field and Fulton County Airport - Charlie Brown Field and other civilian use public-owned airfields, including heliports as recognized by the State of Georgia.
c.
Airport Manager means the administrative representative of each Airport.
d.
Runway Elevation means height limitations originate from the nearest Airport's runway Mean Sea Level. Runway Elevations are documented in the Airport's Master Plan.
e.
Airport Impact Zones means the Six (6) areas closest to Airport under which Airport operations regularly occur, as shown on the Airport Impact Zones Land Use Map.
f.
Airport Operations means take off, climb out, approach, landing, and traffic pattern operations that may vary for each aircraft.
g.
Airport Impact Zones Land Use Map means map describing compatible land uses within the vicinity of each Airport.
h.
Airspace Surfaces means the same areas as stated in the Federal Aviation Regulations ("FAR") Part 77 Airspace Surfaces as amended from time-to-time.
i.
Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA") means the federal agency titled "Federal Aviation Administration" which is charged with oversight and regulation of civil aviation to promote safety, including that of most publicly-owned airports.
j.
Federal Aviation Regulations ("FAR") Part 77 Airspace Surfaces means regulated airspace surfaces promulgated in 14 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 77, Objects Affecting Navigable Airspace.
k.
TERPS means Terminal Instrument Procedures, which is the standard instrument approach procedures and takeoff minimums and obstacle departure procedures based on the criteria contained in FAA Order 8260.3 U.S. Standard for Terminal Instrument Procedures
l.
Mean Sea Level ("MSL") means the elevation reference for objects above sea level.
m.
Non-conforming Use means any structure, natural growth or use of land which does not conform to a regulation prescribed in this chapter or an amendment thereto, as of the effective date of such regulations.
n.
Obstruction to Air Navigation means an object of greater height than any of the heights or surfaces presented in Federal Aviation Regulations Part 77 Airspace Surfaces. (Obstructions to air navigation are presumed to be hazards to air navigation until an FAA aeronautical study has determined otherwise.)
o.
Hazard to Air Navigation means an object which, as a result of an aeronautical study, the FAA determines will have a substantial adverse effect upon the safe and efficient use of navigable airspace by aircraft, operation of air navigation facilities, or existing or potential airport capacity.
p.
Runway means an airport's paved or cleared strip on which planes land and take off.
2.
Height Zoning—Height limitation zoning applies to structures and natural growth objects within the airspace as defined by the Federal Aviation Regulations Part 77 Airspace Surfaces and TERPS.
a.
Construction or Alteration Requiring Notice to the FAA. Except for construction less than Twenty-five (25) feet AGL or as provided in FAR Part 77.15, any construction or alteration that meets or exceeds the height criteria established in FAR Part 77.13 as amended from time to time, shall complete the FAA notification process as provided in FAR Part 77.17 as amended from time-to-time, using the FAA Notice of Proposed Construction or Alteration form 7460-1 as amended from time-to-time.
b.
Height Limitation. The Civilian Airport Hazard District Ordinance does not preclude approval of obstructions to air navigation with heights in excess of those height limitations prescribed in FAR Part 77 and/or TERPS, if either of the following is met:
i.
A determination of "No Hazard to Air Navigation" is issued from a FAA Airspace Study resulting from the Notice Requirement of FAR part 77.17 and the Airport Manager supports the determination.
ii.
A variance is granted when such action is considered advisable to effectuate the purposes of this section and reasonable in the circumstances when considering the results of the determination of an FAA Airspace Study and the input from the Airport Manager.
3.
Land Use Zoning Recommendations—Land use zoning recommendations prescribes land uses and zoning designations that are deemed compatible within the Airport Operations areas, as shown on the Airport Impact Zones Land Use Map. Table 1 presents recommended conforming land uses within each Airport Impact Zone.
TABLE 1
AIRPORT IMPACT ZONES LAND USE RECOMMENDATIONS
EXPAND
Land Usage Runway Protection Zone Inner Safety Zone Turning Zone Outer Safety Zone Side Line Safety Zone Traffic Pattern Zone
Residential N N Y (1) Y N Y
Commercial N N Y Y N Y
Industrial N Y Y Y N Y
Schools/Institutional N N N N N Y
Day Care Center or Child Care Learning Center N N N N N Y
Place of Worship N N N N N Y
Parks/Open Space N N N N N Y
Passive Parks Y Y Y Y Y Y
Nursing Home N N N N N Y
Hospital N N N N N Y
Solid Waste Landfill N N N N N N
  a.
Low density residential
i.
Generally. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no use may be made of land within the zones listed in this section in such a manner as to create electrical interference with radio communication between the Airport and any aircraft, make it difficult for flyers to distinguish between airfield lights and other lights, result in glare in the eyes of flyers using the airfield, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airfield, attract birds, or otherwise endanger the landing, takeoff or maneuvering of any aircraft.
4.
Existing Non-Conforming Uses or Heights. This ordinance shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, change or alteration of any previously-approved nonconforming use or structure, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of any previously-approved nonconforming use or structure, except as otherwise provided by this section, including those previously-approved nonconforming uses or structures under construction.
a.
Nothing in this Section shall contradict the limitations placed on Non-conforming Uses of a building, structure or land as described in Section 134-31 of the City Ordinances—Non-conforming Uses.
i.
Notwithstanding the preceding section, this ordinance shall provide the right to require the owner of any existing nonconforming structure to mark and/or light any structure as deemed necessary by Cobb County.
ii.
Notwithstanding the preceding section, no existing non-conforming natural growth may become higher, or become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on the effective date of this ordinance.
5.
Conflicting Regulations. In case of conflict between the regulations of this Chapter and other regulations, unless otherwise stated, the more stringent regulations shall control.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12; Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 3(Exh. B2), 6-21-21)
2.02.00 - LAND USES PERMITTED IN EACH ZONING DISTRICT

2.02.01 - Generally
The tables describe those uses that are permissible in each base zoning district. Buildings, structures, or land shall be occupied or used only in conformity with all of the regulations set forth herein for the district in which they are located. The zoning districts for the City of Kennesaw are shown on the "Official Zoning Map, City of Kennesaw, Georgia."
2.02.02 - How to Read the Table of Uses
A.
The table is provided for the convenience of the user; however, please consult the permitted uses (P) or special exception use (SE) sections of the specific zoning district(s) for possible use limitations for specific permitted uses or special exception uses.
B.
Within the following table the letter "P" indicates that the land use is permissible, subject to compliance with the standards of the zoning district.
C.
The letters "SE" indicates that the land use is permissible as a special exception use, subject to compliance with the standards of the zoning district, and the supplemental standards specified for the use. Supplemental standards are contained in Chapter 4.
D.
A blank cell indicates the land use is prohibited.
E.
Any land use that is not identified in the table is prohibited unless it is found to be substantially similar by the Planning and Zoning Administrator.
1.
A requested use shall be considered substantially similar when the characteristics of the requested use are equivalent in type, intensity, degree, or impact when compared to a use named in the table. Such characteristics include, but are not limited to:
a.
Typical hours of operation;
b.
Use of outdoor storage;
c.
Trip generation rates;
d.
Generation of noise, light pollution, odor, smoke, electromagnetic interference, or vibration; and
e.
Customary functions of the use.
2.
The administrative interpretation shall be subject to appeal, as set forth in Chapter 10 of the UDC.
2.02.03 - Table of Land Uses — Residential Districts
CBD - Central Business District Uses to be found under Chapter 4.02.03(C)
EXPAND
TYPE OF
USE HPV CBD R-40 R-30 R-20 R-15 R-12 R-10 PUD-R RA-4 RA-5 RA-6 RM-8 PBSH RM-12 RM-16 FST MHP PVC SLO
Accessory retail sales and service P
Agricultural produce stands
Ambulance Services
Ambulance Services if accessory to hospitals and funeral homes P
Amphitheaters P P
Amusement Park
Ancillary retail sales P
Animal hospitals P P
Appliance Repair (major)
Arcades
Asphalt plants
Assembly halls
Associated low intensity and limited retail uses P
Athletic and health clubs P P
Automobile, truck, and trailer lease and rental facilities (accessory use)
Automobile, truck, and trailer lease and rental facilities (principal use)
Automobile and truck sales and service facilities
Automotive paint and body repair shops
Automobile parking lots or garages P
Automotive repair and maintenance facilities
Automotive salvages and wrecking yards
Automotive storage yards and wrecker service
Automotive upholstery shops
Aviation airports (private) P
Banks/Financial institutions with drive-in establishments and/or automated transfer machines P
Bar P
Billiards and pool halls
Biomedical waste transfer and disposal facilities
Boat sales and service establishments
Breeding and boarding kennels
Building materials stores P
Buildings of historic significance P P
Bus Stations
Bus stations for freight
Car washes P
Cemeteries SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE
Check cashing establishments
Chemical plants or storage facilities
Cigar, smoke shops, tobacco stores
Clinics P
Clubs or lodges (noncommercial) P P P P P P P P
Coliseums, stadiums and convention centers (privately owned)
Colleges and universities (private), including but not limited to research and training facilities P
Commercial greenhouses and plant nurseries P
Commercial indoor recreation uses P
Commercial outdoor recreation uses P
Commercial recreation restaurant
Community fairs P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Community retail uses
Composting plants
Concrete plants
Condo-
miniums P
Consumer fireworks retail sales facility
Contractors (general, heavy, special) (office/warehouse)
Convenience food stores with self-service fuel sales
Corporate or administrative offices for any permitted use P
Cottage Food Operator LUP LUP LUP LUP LUP LUP LUP LUP LUP LUP LUP LUP
Crematories, human or animal
Cultural facilities (private) P
Dairies
Designated recycling collection locations P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Drive in theaters
Dry cleaning plants
Eating and drinking establishments (including drive in fast food restaurants) P
Electric supply stores
Emission/inspection stations (not to exceed five months)
Executive golf courses P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Exterminating facilities (insect or rodent)
Family child care learning home LUP LUP LUP LUP LUP LUP LUP LUP
Farm and garden supply stores
Farm equipment stores/repair facilities
Farmers markets (fully enclosed) P
Fast food restaurants P
Field crops
Film developing and printing facilities P
Flea markets
Fraternity and sorority houses and residence halls P P P P P
Freight terminals
Fruit stores, markets
Fruit trees, nuts and vegetables P P P P P
Fuel and ice dealers
Full service gasoline stations
Funeral homes
Golf courses (Par-3) P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Golf courses (18-hole regulation; private and public) P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Growlers P
Group homes P P P P P P P P P P
Halfway houses
Hazardous waste sites
Heavy automotive repair establishments
Heavy manufacturing establishments
Heavy repair service and trade shops
Helicopter landing areas P
Hookah bar
High rise apartments
Home occupation LUP LUP LUP LUP LUP LUP LUP LUP LUP LUP LUP LUP LUP LUP LUP LUP LUP LUP
Hospitals P
Hotels P
Instant cash loan establishments
Landfills (private)
Laundry and dry cleaning pick-up establishments P
Light automotive repair establishments
Limited home occupations P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Light manufacturing establishments
Limited retail uses
Livestock, nondomestic and wild animals, and poultry
Livestock sales pavilions
Machine shops
Manufactured homes P P P P P P P P P
Massage therapy
Massage therapy associated with medical, chiropractic and sports medicine establishments P
Mausoleums SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE
Medical and dental laboratories, provided that no chemicals are manufactured on site
Mining operations
Mobile home P
Mobile food vending unit
Motels P
Motorcycle, ATV, and three-wheel vehicle sales and service facilities
Multifamily dwelling units P P P P P
Museums P P
Neighborhood retail uses P
Newspaper publishing facilities
Nightclubs
Nonautomotive repair service establishments P
Nonprofit riding stables P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Nonprofit (seasonal use) fishing lakes P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Nursery schools and child day care centers P
Offices not elsewhere classified
Office service and supply establishments P
Other service establishments
Outdoor commercial racing (motorcycle, automobile, truck, tractor and motorized vehicles)
Outdoor golf driving ranges
Overnight travel trailer parks
Pain management clinic
Parking for vehicles P P
Pawn shops
Payday loan establishments
Petroleum or bulk storage stations
Photography studios P
Plumbing and/or heating equipment dealers
Poultry hatcheries
Printing, publishing and lithography establishments P
Private community centers SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE
Private parks P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Private schools of general and special education SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE
Pro shops (accessory to driving ranges/golf courses) P
Professional offices P
Pub P
Purpose built student housing P
Quarry or mining operation
Radio and televisions stations
Radio, television and other communication towers and antennas SLUP SLUP SLUP SLUP SLUP SLUP SLUP SLUP SLUP SLUP SLUP SLUP SLUP SLUP SLUP SLUP
Rail stations (commuter)
Railroad car classification yards
Railroad stations for freight
Recreation grounds other than tennis courts and golf courses P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Recycling centers
Regional shopping center
Religious assembles P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Research and development centers
Medical research centers
Research testing laboratories
Rest/personal care/convalescent homes P
Restaurants - sit down dining P P
Re-upholstery and furniture repair establishments
Rooming houses and boarding houses
Sawmills (temporary)
Self-service laundry facilities P
Self-service storage facilities
Shelters (homeless)
Signs and outdoor advertising facilities (not sure if this should be on the chart at all)
Sports/medical physical therapy
Take out restaurant P
Sexually oriented businesses
Single-family dwelling units (attached) P P P P P P P P P P P
Single-family dwelling units (detached) P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Studios and supplies
Tattoo business
Taxi stands and dispatching agencies
Telephone business offices
Temporary uses P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Theaters (movies, live performing arts)
Title loan establishments
Tire retreading and recapping facilities
Townhouse dwelling units (attached) P P P
Trailer salesrooms and sales lots
Transpiration equipment storage and maintenance facilities
Truck terminals
Two-family dwelling units Utility facilities (private) P P P P P
Vending machine sales, service, rental, or repair establishments
Vocational schools (commercial)
Warehouse and storage facilities
Waste transfer station
Wholesale sales offices
Wholesale trade and distribution facilities
Wholesale trade offices in conjunction with office showrooms
Wireless telecommunication facilities
Zoos
  This chart is provided for the convenience of the user; however, please consult the permitted uses (P) or special exception use (SE) sections of the specific zoning district(s) for possible use limitations for specific permitted uses or special exception uses.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12; Ord. No. 2015-05, § 2, 4-20-15; Ord. No. 2020-09 , § 3, 8-17-20; Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 4(Exh. B3), 6-21-21)
2.02.04 - Table of Land Uses — Non-Residential Districts
CBD - Central Business District Uses to be found under Chapter 4.02.03(C)
EXPAND
TYPE OF USE CBD** OI NS NRC PSC GC HGB CRC UVC PVC LI HI
Accessory retail sales and services P P P
Agricultural produce stands P P
Ambulance services P P P P
Ambulance services, if accessory to hospitals or funeral homes P P P P P P P P
Amphitheaters P P P P
Amusement centers SE SE SE SE
Ancillary retail sales P P P
Animal hospitals P P P P P P P P
Appliance repair (major) P
Arcades SE SE SE SE
Asphalt plants SLUP/SE
Assembly halls P P P P P P
Associated low intensity offices and limited retail uses P
Athletic and health clubs P P P P P P P
Automobile, truck, and trailer lease and rental facilities (accessory use) SE SE SE SE
Automobile, truck, and trailer lease and rental facilities (principal use) SE SE SE SE
Automobile and truck sales and service facilities SE SE SE SE
Automotive paint and body repair shops P P P P
Automotive parking lots or garages P P P P P P P P P P
Automotive repair and maintenance facilities P P P P
Automotive salvage and wrecking yards SLUP
Automotive storage yards and wrecker service SE SE
Automotive upholstery shops P P P P P
Aviation airports (private) P P P
Banks/financial institutions with drive-in establishments and/or automated transfer machines P P P P P P P P P P
Bar P P P P P P
Billiards and pool halls SE SE SE SE SE
Biomedical waste transfer and disposal facilities SLUP/SE
Boat sales and service establishments P P P
Breeding and boarding kennels P P P
Building materials stores P P P P P P P
Bus stations P P P P
Bus stations for freight P P
Car washes P P P P P P P P
Cemeteries SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE
Check cashing establishments P P
Chemical plants or storage facilities SLUP/SE
Cigar, smoke shops, tobacco stores SLUP SLUP SLUP
Clinics P P P P P P P P P P
Clubs or lodges (noncommercial) P P P P P P P P P
Coliseums, stadiums, and convention centers (privately owned) SLUP/SE SLUP/SE SLUP/SE SLUP/SE
Colleges and universities (private), including but not limited to research and training facilities P P P P P P P
Commercial greenhouses and plant nurseries P P P P P P P
Commercial indoor recreation uses P P P P P P
Commercial outdoor recreation uses P P P P P P
Commercial recreation restaurant P P P
Community fairs P P P P P P P P P P P P
Community retail uses P P P P
Composting plants SLUP/SE
Concrete plants SLUP/SE
Condominiums
Consumer fireworks retail sales facility P P P
Contractors (general, heavy, special) (office/warehouse) P P
Convenience food stores with self-service fuel sales P P
Corporate or administrative offices for any permitted uses P P P P P P
Crematories, human or animal SE SE SE SE SE
Cultural facilities (Private) P P P P P P P P P P
Dairies P P
Designated recycling collection locations P P P P P P P P P P P P
Drive-in theaters SE SE SE SE
Dry cleaning plants P P
Eating and drinking establishments P P P P P P P
Electrical supply stores P P P P
Emissions/inspection stations P P P P P
Executive golf courses P P P P P P P P
Exterminating facilities (insect and/or rodent) P P P P
Farm and garden supply stores P P P P P
Farm equipment stores/repair facilities P P P P
Farmers markets (fully enclosed) P P P P
Fast food restaurant P P P P P
Film developing and printing facilities P P P P P P P P
Flea markets SE SE SE SE
Fraternity and sorority houses/residence halls P P P P P P P
Freight terminals P P
Fruit stores, markets P P P P P
Fuel and ice dealers P P
Full service gasoline stations P P P P P
Funeral homes P P P P P
Golf courses (par 3) P P P P P P P P P
Golf courses (18-hole regulation; private and public) P P P P P P P P P
Group Homes P P P
Growlers P P P P P P P P
Halfway Houses P P P P
Hazardous waste sites SLUP/SE
Heavy automotive repair establishments P P
Heavy manufacturing establishments SE
Heavy repair service and trade shops P
Helicopter landing areas P P P P P P P
Hookah Bar P P P
Hospitals P P P P P P P
Hotels P P P P P P
Instant cash loan establishments P P
Landfills (private) SLUP/SE
Laundry and dry cleaning pick-up establishments P P P P P P P P
Light automotive repair establishments P P P P
Light manufacturing establishments P P
Limited retail uses P P P
Linen and diaper services P P P P
Livestock sales pavilions P
Machine shops P P
Manufactured homes
Massage Therapy P P P P
Massage Therapy associated with medical, chiropractic and sports medicine establishments P P P
Mausoleums SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE
Medical and dental laboratories, provided that no chemicals are manufactured on site P P P P P P P
Mining operations SE
Mobile food vending unit P P P P P
Motels P P P P P P
Motorcycle, ATV, and three-wheel vehicle sales and service facilities SE SE SE
Multifamily dwelling units P P P
Museums P P P P P P
Neighborhood retail uses P P P P P P* P
Newspaper publishing facilities P P P P
Nightclub P P
Nonautomotive repair service establishments P P P P P P P P
Nonprofit riding stables P P P
Nonprofit (seasonal use) fishing lakes P P P P P P P P P
Nursery schools and child day care centers P P P P P P P P P
Office service and supply establishments P P P P P P P P P
Other service establishments P P P P
Outdoor commercial racing (motorcycle, automobile, truck, tractor and motorized vehicles) SLUP/SE
Outdoor golf driving ranges P P P P
Overnight travel trailer parks P
Pain Management Clinic P P P P
Parking for vehicles P P P P P P P P P P P P
Pawn shops P P
Payday loan establishments P P
Petroleum or bulk storage stations SLUP/SE
Photography studios P P P P P
Plumbing and/or heating equipment dealers P P
Poultry hatcheries P
Printing, publishing, and lithography establishments P P P P P P P
Private community centers SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE
Private parks P P P P P P P P P P P
Private schools of general and special education SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE
Pro shops (accessory to driving ranges/golf courses) P P P P P P P
Professional offices P P P P P P P P P P P
Pub P P P P P P
Quarry or mining operation SLUP/SE
Radio and television stations P P P P P P
Radio, television, and other communication towers and antennas SLUP SLUP SLUP SLUP SLUP SLUP SLUP SLUP SLUP SLUP SLUP
Rail stations (Commuter) P P P P P
Railroad car classification yards P P
Railroad stations for freight P P
Recreation grounds other than tennis courts and golf courses P P P P P P P P
Recycling centers SLUP/SE
Regional shopping center P P P
Religious Assemblies P P P P P P P P P P P P
Medical Research Centers P P P P P P
Research testing laboratories P P P
Rest/personal care/convalescent homes P P P P P P P P P
Restaurant P P P P P P P P
Re-upholstery and furniture repair establishments P P P P P
Rooming houses and boardinghouses P P
Sawmills (temporary) P P
Self-service laundry facilities P P P P P P P
Self-service storage facilities P P P P P
Sexually Oriented Business P
(subject to 22-393, as may be amended from time to time) P
(subject to 22-393 as may be amended from time to time)
Shelters (homeless) P P P P
Sports/Medical Physical Therapy P P
Take-Out Restaurant P P P P P
Tattoo Business P P
Taxi stands and dispatching agencies P P P P
Theaters (movies, live performing arts) P P P P P
Tire retreading and recapping facilities P P
Title loan establishments P P
Townhouse dwelling units (attached) P
Trailer salesrooms and sales lots P P
Transportation equipment storage and maintenance facilities P P
Truck terminals P P
Utility facilities (private) P P
Vending machine sales, service, rental, or Repair establishments P P P
Vocational schools (commercial) P P P P P
Warehouse and storage facilities P P
Waste Transfer Station SLUP/SE
Wholesale sales offices P P
Wholesale trade and distribution facilities P P
Wholesale trade offices in conjunction with office showrooms P P P
Wireless Telecommunications Facilities SLUP SLUP
Zoos P P P
  (Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12; Ord. No. 2012-15, § 1, 12-17-12; Ord. No. 2015-05, § 3, 4-20-15; Ord. No. 2015-07, § 3, 8-17-15; Ord. No. 2015-11, 11-16-15; Ord. No. 2016-05, 3-7-16; Ord. No. 2016-18, § 5, 8-15-16; Ord. NO. 2018-24, §§ 3, 4(Exh. C), 10-15-18)
2.03.00 - PUBLIC ART EXHIBITS

2.03.01 - Purpose
It is the intent of the City of Kennesaw to permit and encourage public art exhibits on a content-neutral basis. Public art exhibits are a unique medium of expression which serves the public interest. Public art exhibits have purposes distinct from signs and confer different benefits, including improved aesthetics; avenues for original artistic expression; public access to original works of art; community participation in the creation of original works of art; and community building through the presence of and identification with original works of art, particularly those of cultural, historic or social significance.
(Ord. No. 2013-15, 9-16-13; Ord. No. 2015-03, 2-16-15)
2.03.02 - Definitions
City of Kennesaw Art and Culture Commission ("Commission"). Comprised of seven (7) individuals that are appointed by the mayor and council whose duty is to provide review and regulatory oversight over all public art exhibits submitted for approval to the City of Kennesaw.
Murals. For purposes of this section, an original art mural exhibit means an original work of visual art which is tiled or painted directly upon or affixed directly to an exterior wall of a building. A mural is not a "sign" as defined by and regulated by the City of Kennesaw Sign Regulations.
Public Art Exhibits ("The Exhibit"). Visual art which can be in the form of sculptured works, paintings, wall murals and any art arrangement located on public or private property that can be viewed by the general public on a permanent or temporary basis.
(Ord. No. 2013-15, 9-16-13; Ord. No. 2014-09, 7-21-14; Ord. No. 2015-03, 2-16-15)
2.03.03 - General Regulations
1.
Permitted locations: Public Art Exhibits are allowed in all zoning districts within the corporate limits of the City of Kennesaw as well as publicly owned buildings and property approved by the city.
2.
Public art exhibits are subject to any and all additional zoning regulations in the district in which the exhibit will be located.
(Ord. No. 2013-15, 9-16-13; Ord. No. 2014-09, 7-21-14; Ord. No. 2015-03, 2-16-15)
2.03.04 - Artist/Sponsor Acknowledgements and Title of Work
An incorporate image or attached plaque identifying the artist, financial sponsor(s) and title of work of the public art exhibit will be allowed. The plaque or image of acknowledgements and titles will be an appropriate scale to the public art exhibit, shall not exceed 6"x6" and will not be incorporated into the artwork.
(Ord. No. 2013-15, 9-16-13; Ord. No. 2014-09, 7-21-14; Ord. No. 2015-03, 2-16-15)
2.03.05 - Review and approval process of public art exhibits
A.
All public art exhibits shall be required to submit a written application on forms provided by the City of Kennesaw Planning and Zoning Department for a site plan permit. A complete permit application will include an artist rendering or visual representation of the art work proposed, owners affidavits, photos of existing conditions on the property including location on permanent structures or buildings, description of materials to be used in association with art work, maintenance agreement and schedules of maintenance, a rendering or visual representation of the plaque or image of acknowledgements and titles, and permit fee as adopted in the City of Kennesaw fee schedule. A complete application packet will be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Administrator or designee.
B.
The Planning and Zoning Administrator or designee will process the application and forward for review to the City of Kennesaw Art and Culture Commission on their prepared agenda within thirty days of receipt of application. The Planning and Zoning Administrator upon receipt of application, will review property for issues dealing with traffic issues and other city ordinances prior to processing for Art and Culture meeting agenda. The Planning and Zoning Administrator or designee will implement the following procedures for public notification: 1) Post a sign at the property at least ten days before the first public meeting alerting public of the time, date and location of the meeting where application will be considered; 2) Post application information and meeting information on the City of Kennesaw website; 3) Mailing of letters at least ten days prior to the first public meeting to property owners listed on the Cobb County Tax assessors records whose property are adjacent or abut the property that is referenced on the application. Said letter will provide application information, time, date and location of the Art and Culture Commission and Mayor and Council meetings. After the application has been reviewed, a written recommendation is rendered by the Art and Culture Commission. The application will then be forwarded to the Mayor and Council for final review and action by vote.
C.
The commission will review and render written recommendations to the Mayor and Council by vote on all submitted site plan permit applications during a scheduled meeting. The property owner(s) or an official representative must be present at all meetings. The commission will provide a findings document in the form of minutes that will provide the basis of decisions. Permit applications will reflect the recommendation of the commission to the Mayor and Council with the appropriate signature from the chairperson of said commission.
D.
Any proposed locations in the Central Business District, Historic Preservation District or other historic districts will require a written recommendation from the Historic Preservation Commission.
E.
The applicant shall be required to attend all scheduled meetings of the commission and all scheduled meetings of the Mayor and Council.
F.
All approved site plan permits for permanent art exhibits will be in effect for seven years from the date of approval. The commission will accept a renewal application if art exhibit is to continue.
G.
All site plan permits for temporary and rotating exhibits shall have expiration dates based on the time period scheduled for the exhibit.
H.
All proposed changes to public art exhibits, including acknowledgement and titles, shall be submitted to the commission for review and approval.
(Ord. No. 2013-15, 9-16-13; Ord. No. 2014-09, 7-21-14; Ord. No. 2015-03, 2-16-15; Ord. No. 2017-08, 6-19-17)
2.03.06 - Denial of site plan permit applications
A.
In any instance where the application is denied by the Mayor and Council, the applicant may file an appeal to the Superior Court.
B.
When an application for a permit under this chapter is denied by the Mayor and Council, the city shall not accept or consider an application for a permit under this chapter from that applicant or for the same exhibit within ninety (90) days of the denial.
(Ord. No. 2013-15, 9-16-13; Ord. No. 2014-09, 7-21-14; Ord. No. 2015-03, 2-16-15)
2.03.07 - City of Kennesaw Art and Culture Commission
A.
Duties
1.
Provide review, recommendations and regulatory oversight over all public art exhibits submitted for approval to the City of Kennesaw Mayor and Council.
2.
Provide recommendations to Mayor and Council, city departments and boards regarding programs and community outreach activities that promote local cultural and artistic awareness and education.
B.
Structure
The commission will be comprised of seven (7) individuals appointed by Mayor and Council. The members will include:
1.
A practicing architect licensed in the State of Georgia;
2.
An active participant in local or state art councils or member of art/cultural foundations with professional background in art programs or art culture education;
3.
An active student or professor from a college, university, technical school or other educational institution;
4.
A business owner within the city limits of Kennesaw;
5.
A current Cobb County resident; and
6.
Of the seven (7) members, four shall be residents of the City of Kennesaw.
C.
The commission will have staggered term limits as approved by the Mayor and Council. The commission will have annual elections to elect a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson and Secretary. All meetings will follow the Roberts Rules of Order latest edition.
(Ord. No. 2013-15, 9-16-13; Ord. No. 2014-09, 7-21-14; Ord. No. 2015-03, 2-16-15)
2.03.08 - Prohibited public art exhibits
Prohibited public art exhibits include:
A.
A "sign" as defined and regulated by the City of Kennesaw adopted sign ordinance.
B.
The exhibit contains sexually explicit conduct or sexually explicit nudity, as defined in the Code of Ordinances, Article XIV, section 22-393.
C.
The exhibit contains gang affiliation symbols.
D.
The exhibit contains content or images which violate the criminal laws of the State of Georgia.
E.
The exhibit is distracting enough to create a public safety issue by impeding traffic flow.
F.
The exhibit incorporates materials that are not weather resistant or may be toxic in any way that may endanger the general public.
G.
The exhibit incorporates any materials in violation of the citywide architectural standards or the historic district standards.
H.
Art objects that are mass produced of standard design such as playground equipment, benches, statuary objects or fountains.
I.
Reproductions of original works of art.
J.
Existing works of art offered for sale or donation to the City which does not have an established and recognized significance as public art among art professionals and art appraisers.
K.
Logos or corporate identity.
(Ord. No. 2013-15, 9-16-13; Ord. No. 2014-09, 7-21-14; Ord. No. 2015-03, 2-16-15)
2.03.09 - Items not applicable to this ordinance
A.
Decorative or functional elements or architectural details, which are designed solely by the building architect as opposed to an artist commissioned for this purpose working individually or in collaboration with the building architect.
B.
Decorative displays located on single family attached and detached zoning districts including Planned Unit Development districts.
C.
Landscape architecture and landscape gardening except where these elements are designed by an artist and are an integral part of the work of art by the artist.
(Ord. No. 2013-15, 9-16-13; Ord. No. 2014-09, 7-21-14; Ord. No. 2015-03, 2-16-15)
2.03.10 - Non-Conforming exhibits
A.
All exhibits that are in existence at the time of the adoption of this ordinance that meet the definitions of this chapter shall continue until there are improvements or physical change in the exhibit of 50% or more or if deterioration is identified as per section 2.03.11.
B.
All exhibits that do not meet the definitions of this chapter shall be reviewed for further action as set forth in section 2.03.11.
(Ord. No. 2013-15, 9-16-13; Ord. No. 2014-09, 7-21-14; Ord. No. 2015-03, 2-16-15)
2.03.11 - Maintenance and violations
A.
The Planning and Zoning Department shall be charged with authority to order the painting, repair, alteration or removal of public art exhibits which violate the requirements of this chapter, become dilapidated or are abandoned. A public art exhibit shall be deemed to be dilapidated when 25% or more of the display surface area contains peeling or flaking paint, deteriorated components or parts, or is otherwise not preserved in the manner in which it was originally created.
B.
Violation of this ordinance will result in the City of Kennesaw issuing a written notice to address the violation of this chapter. Notice of violation will be sent certified mail to the applicant and property owner of record. The applicant and property owner shall be granted 30 days from the date of said notice to comply with this ordinance or remove the exhibit. Failure to comply with this ordinance shall result in the revocation of the approved site plan permit requiring the removal of the approved art exhibit at the applicant and the property owner's expense.
C.
If the public art exhibit is not brought into compliance or removed, the public art exhibit in violation shall be deemed a nuisance under section 46-31 and enforcement procedures defined under sections 46-32, 46-33 and 46-34 of the Code of Ordinances of Kennesaw. Abatement of the nuisance may involve the painting, repair, alteration or removal of the public art exhibit at the applicant and property owner's expense. The property owner shall be responsible for any and all costs and fees associated with the painting, repair, alteration or removal of the public art exhibit as set forth in section 46-33.
D.
All costs and fees, including reasonable attorney fees, shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred in the same manner as set forth in section 46-33.
(Ord. No. 2013-15, 9-16-13; Ord. No. 2014-09, 7-21-14; Ord. No. 2015-03, 2-16-15)
Chapter 3 - PROTECTION OF NATURAL FEATURES AND RESOURCES
3.00.00 - GENERALLY
A.
The provisions set forth in Chapter 3 are intended to protect the natural features and natural resources within The City of Kennesaw, and to implement policies in the Comprehensive Plan. The natural features and natural resources included in Chapter 3 are the floodplain, soil erosion and sedimentation control, water supply and watersheds, wetlands, river corridors, and stream buffers.
B.
Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
Accessory Structure or Facility: A structure which is on the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the primary structure.
Addition (to an existing building): Any walled and roofed expansion to the perimeter or height of a building in which the addition is connected by a common load-bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition which is connected by a firewall or is separated by an independent perimeter load-bearing wall shall be considered New Construction.
Appeal: A request for a review of the City of Kennesaw's interpretation of or decision with respect to any provision of an ordinance or code to the applicable appeals body.
Area of Shallow Flooding: A designated "AO", "AH", "AR/AO", "AR/AH" zone on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a one percent or greater annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
Area of Special Flood Hazard: the land subject to one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. This includes all floodplain and flood prone areas at or below the base flood elevation (including A, A1-30, A-00, AE, AE, AH, and AR on the FHBM or the FIRM), all floodplain and flood prone areas as referenced in Section 3.01.01 D. All streams with a drainage area of 100 acres or greater shall have the area of special flood hazard delineated.
Base Flood: The flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year, also known as the 100-year flood.
Base Flood Elevation: The highest water surface elevation anticipated at any given point during the base flood.
Basement: Any area of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all sides.
Building: See definition of "structure".
City of Kennesaw: A municipal corporation chartered pursuant to the laws of the State of Georgia, any department, board, or commission of such city, any elected or appointed official, or any employee or designee thereof.
Development: Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, clearing, grubbing, grading, paving, any other installation of impervious cover, excavation or drilling operations or storage of equipment or materials.
Elevated Building: A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated floor raised above the ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
Existing construction: Any structure for which the "start of construction" commenced before August 1, 1980.
Existing Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision: A manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before August 1, 1980.
Expansion to an Existing Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision: Refers to the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads.
FEMA: The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
Flood or Flooding: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from: (1) The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or (2) The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM): An official map of a community, issued by the Federal Insurance Administration, delineating the areas of special flood hazard and/or risk premium zones applicable to the community.
Flood Insurance Study (FIS): The official report by the Federal Insurance Administration evaluating flood hazards and containing flood profiles and water surface elevations of the base flood.
Floodplain or Flood-prone Area: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any source (see definition of "flooding").
Floodproofing: Any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents.
Floodway or Regulatory Floodway: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated height.
Functionally Dependent Use: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing facilities.
Future-conditions Flood: The flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year based on future-conditions hydrology. Also known as the 100-year future-conditions flood.
Future-conditions Flood Elevation: The highest water surface elevation anticipated at any given location during the future-conditions flood.
Future-conditions Floodplain: Any land area susceptible to flooding by the future conditions flood.
Future-conditions Hydrology: The flood discharges associated with projected land-use conditions based on a community's zoning maps, comprehensive land-use plans, and/or watershed study projections, and without consideration of projected future construction of stormwater management (flood detention) structures or projected future hydraulic modifications within a stream or other waterway, such as a bridge and culvert construction, fill, and excavation.
Highest Adjacent Grade: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface, prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed foundation of a building.
Historic Structure: any structure that is: (a) Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National Register; (b) Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district; (c) Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and determined as eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or (d) Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and determined as eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either: (1) by an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior, or; (2) directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.
Local permitting authority: The City of Kennesaw to include without limitation, individuals from public works, zoning, or building departments, environmental specialist or code enforcement as applicable.
Lowest Floor: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other than a basement, is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of other provisions of this ordinance.
Manufactured Home: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term manufactured home does not include a recreational vehicle.
Mean Sea Level: The datum to which base flood elevations shown on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) are referenced. For purposes of this ordinance the term is synonymous with National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) and/or the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988.
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) as corrected in 1929 is a vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain.
New Construction: For floodplain management purposes, any structure for which the "start of construction" commenced after August 1, 1980 and includes any subsequent improvements to the structure.
New manufactured home park or subdivision: A manufactured home park or subdivision for the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after August 1, 1980.
North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 is a vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain.
Owner: The legal or beneficial owner of a site, including but not limited to, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, receiver, executor, trustee, lessee or other person, firm or corporation in control of the site.
Permit: The permit issued by the City of Kennesaw to the applicant which is required prior to undertaking any development activity under this ordinance.
Recreational Vehicle: A vehicle which is:
(a)
Built on a single chassis;
(b)
400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection;
(c)
Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by light duty truck; and
(d)
Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
Site: The parcel of land being developed, or the portion thereof on which the development project is located.
Start of Construction: (for other than new construction or substantial improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348)), includes substantial improvement, and means the date the permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of the structure on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings, installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation, or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include initial land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
Structure: For floodplain management purposes, a structure is a walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
Subdivision: The division of a tract or parcel of land resulting in one or more new lots or building sites for the purpose, whether immediately or in the future, of sale, other transfer of ownership or land development, and includes divisions of land resulting from or made in connection with the layout or development of a new street or roadway or a change in an existing street or roadway.
Substantial Damage: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
Substantial Improvement: Any combination of repairs, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure prior to the "start of construction" of the improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial damage" regardless of the actual amount of repair work performed. The term does not, however, include either (1) any project improvements of a structure to correct existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living condition; (2) any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure.
Substantially Improved Existing Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision: Where the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets, utilities and pads equals or exceeds 50 percent of the value of the streets, utilities and pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
Variance: A grant of relief from the requirements of this ordinance.
Violation: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure or other development without the elevation certificate, other certificates, or other evidence of compliance required in this ordinance is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
(Ord. No. 2018-20, 8-20-18; Ord. No. 2020-13 , § 1(Exh. A), 11-16-20)
3.01.00 - FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2018-20, adopted Aug. 20, 2018, amended § 3.01.00 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former § 3.01.00 pertained to similar subject matter.

3.01.01 - Generally
A.
Purpose and Intent. The purpose of this ordinance is to protect, maintain and enhance the public health, safety, environment and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in flood hazard areas, as well as to protect the beneficial uses of floodplain areas for water quality protection, streambank and stream corridor protection, wetlands preservation and ecological and environmental protection by provisions designed to:
1.
Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction or upon being rebuilt;
2.
Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and property due to flooding or erosion hazards, or which increase flood heights, velocities, or erosion outside the standards set forth herein;
3.
Control filling, grading, dredging and other development, which may increase flood velocities, flood damage or erosion;
4.
Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other lands;
5.
Limit the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood waters; and,
6.
Protect the stormwater management, water quality, streambank protection, stream corridor protection, wetland preservation and ecological functions of natural floodplain areas.
B.
Applicability. This ordinance shall be applicable to all FEMA's Special Flood Hazard Areas, future conditions floodplains, areas hydraulically adjacent to the future conditions and basins 100 square acres or more.
C.
Designation of Ordinance Administrator. The Public Works Director or his/her designee is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions of this ordinance.
D.
Basis for area of special flood hazard—Flood area maps and studies. For the purposes of this ordinance, the following is adopted and incorporated herein by reference:
1.
The Flood Insurance Study (FIS), dated October 5, 2018 with accompanying maps and other supporting data and any revision thereto are hereby adopted by reference. For those lands acquired by the City of Kennesaw through annexation, the current effective FIS and data for Cobb County, Georgia, dated October 5, 2018 with accompanying maps and other supporting data and any revision thereto are hereby adopted by reference.
2.
Other studies, which may be relied upon for the establishment of the base flood elevation or delineation of the base floodplain with the approval of the City of Kennesaw.
E.
Compatibility with other regulations. This ordinance is not intended to modify or repeal any other ordinance, rule, regulation, statute, easement, covenant, deed restriction or other provision of law. The requirements of this ordinance are cumulative of and in addition to the requirements of any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law, and where any provision of this ordinance imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law, whichever provision is more restrictive or impose higher protective standards for human health or the environment shall control and be applicable.
F.
Severability. The Mayor and Council of the City of Kennesaw hereby declare their intention to be that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this ordinance be severable, and in any section, paragraph, sentence, clause and phrase of this ordinance shall be judged, decreed, or declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unconstitutional, such judgment shall not affect or invalidate any of the remaining sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases of this ordinance since the remainder of this ordinance would have been adopted and enacted by the Mayor and City Council without the inclusion of any such unconstitutional or invalid section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase.
G.
Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection required by this ordinance is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and will occur; flood heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This ordinance does not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted will be free from flooding or flood damages. This ordinance shall not create nor impose liability on the part of the City of Kennesaw nor on any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from adherence to or reliance on this ordinance or any administrative decision lawfully rendered hereunder.
(Ord. No. 2018-20, 8-20-18; Ord. No. 2020-13 , § 1(Exh. A), 11-16-20)
3.01.02 - Permit Procedures and Requirements
A.
Permit Application Requirements. No owner or developer shall perform any development activities on a site where an Area of Special Flood Hazard is located without first meeting the requirements of this ordinance prior to commencing the proposed activity.
Unless specifically excluded by this ordinance, any landowner or developer desiring a permit for a development activity shall submit to the City of Kennesaw a permit application on a form provided by the City of Kennesaw for that purpose.
No permit will be approved for any development activities that do not meet the requirements, restrictions and criteria of this ordinance.
B.
Floodplain Management Plan Requirements. An application for a development project with any Area of Special Flood Hazard located on the site will be required to include a floodplain management/flood damage prevention plan. This plan shall include the following items:
1.
Site plan drawn to scale, which includes but is not limited to:
(a)
Existing and proposed elevations of the area in question and the nature, location and dimensions of existing and/or proposed structures, earthen fill placement, amount and location of excavation material, and storage of materials or equipment;
(b)
For all proposed structures, spot ground elevations at building corners and 20-foot or smaller intervals along the foundation footprint, or one foot contour elevations throughout the building site;
(c)
Proposed locations of water supply, sanitary sewer, and utilities;
(d)
Proposed locations of drainage and stormwater management facilities;
(e)
Proposed grading plan;
(f)
Base flood elevations and regulatory flood elevations;
(g)
Boundaries of the base flood floodplain and regulatory floodplain;
(h)
If applicable, the location of the floodway; and
(i)
Certification of the above by a registered professional engineer or surveyor.
2.
Building and foundation design detail, including but not limited to:
(a)
Elevation in relation to mean sea level (or highest adjacent grade) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all proposed structures;
(b)
Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-residential structure will be flood-proofed;
(c)
Certification that any proposed non-residential flood-proofed structure meets the criteria in Sections 3.01.06 B.2.b. and 3.01.06 E.2;
(d)
For enclosures below the base flood elevation, location and total net area of foundation openings as required in Section 3.01.06 A. 5.
(e)
Design plans certified by a registered professional engineer or architect for all proposed structure(s).
3.
Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the proposed development;
4.
Hard copies and digital files of computer models, if any, copies of work maps, comparison of pre-and post-development conditions base flood elevations, regulatory flood elevations, flood protection elevations, Special Flood Hazard Areas and regulatory floodway widths, flood profiles and all other computations and other information similar to that presented in the FIS;
5.
Copies of all applicable State and Federal permits necessary for proposed development; and
6.
All appropriate certifications required under this ordinance.
7.
The approved floodplain management/flood damage prevention plan shall contain certification by the applicant that all development activities will be done according to the plan or previously approved revisions. Any and all development permits and/or use and occupancy certificates or permits may be revoked at any time if the construction and development activities are not in strict accordance with approved plans.
(Ord. No. 2018-20, 8-20-18; Ord. No. 2020-13 , § 1(Exh. A), 11-16-20)
3.01.03 - Construction Stage Submittal Requirements
A.
For all new construction and substantial improvements on sites with a floodplain management/flood damage prevention plan, the permit holder shall provide to the City of Kennesaw a certified as-built Elevation Certificate or Flood-proofing Certificate for non-residential construction including the lowest floor elevation or flood-proofing level immediately after the lowest floor or flood-proofing is completed. A final Elevation Certificate shall be provided after completion of construction including final grading of the site. Any lowest floor certification made relative to mean sea level shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same. When flood-proofing is utilized for non-residential structures, said certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a licensed professional engineer or architect and certified by same using FEMA Floodproofing Certificate. This certification shall also include the design and operation/maintenance plan to assure continued viability of the flood-proofing measures.
B.
Any work undertaken prior to approval of these certifications shall be at the permit holder's risk. The City of Kennesaw shall review the above referenced certification data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further work being allowed to proceed. Failure to submit certification or failure to make the corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop work order for the project.
(Ord. No. 2018-20, 8-20-18; Ord. No. 2020-13 , § 1(Exh. A), 11-16-20)
3.01.04 - Duties and Responsibilities of the Administrator
Duties of the City of Kennesaw shall include, but shall not be limited to:
1.
Review all development applications and permits to assure that the requirements of this ordinance have been satisfied and to determine whether proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding;
2.
Require that copies of all necessary permits from governmental agencies from which approval is required by Federal or state law, including but not limited to Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972,33 U.S.C. 1334, be provided and maintained on file;
3.
When Base Flood Elevation data or floodway data have not been provided, then the City of Kennesaw shall require the applicant to obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a Federal, state or other sources in order to meet the provisions of Sections 3.01.05 and 3.01.06.
4.
Review and record the actual elevation in relation to mean sea level (or highest adjacent grade) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new or substantially improved structures;
5.
Review and record the actual elevation, in relation to mean sea level to which any substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed;
6.
When flood-proofing is utilized for a non-residential structure, the City of Kennesaw shall obtain certification of design criteria from a registered professional engineer or architect;
7.
Notify affected adjacent communities and the Georgia Department of Natural Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA);
8.
Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries of the Areas of Special Flood Hazard (e.g., where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions) the City of Kennesaw shall make the necessary interpretation. Any person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in this ordinance. Where floodplain elevations have been defined, the floodplain shall be determined based on flood elevations rather than the area graphically delineated on the floodplain maps;
9.
All records pertaining to the provisions of this ordinance shall be maintained in the office of the City of Kennesaw and shall be open for public inspection.
10.
Coordinate all FIRM revisions with the GA DNR and FEMA, and
11.
Review variance applications and make recommendations to the Mayor and City Council.
12.
Review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been received from those governmental agencies from which approval is required by Federal or State law, including but not limited to Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, Amendment 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334.
(Ord. No. 2018-20, 8-20-18; Ord. No. 2020-13 , § 1(Exh. A), 11-16-20)
3.01.05 - Standards for Development
A.
Definition of Floodplain Boundaries
1.
Studied "A" zones, as identified in the FIS, shall be used to establish base flood elevations whenever available.
2.
For Special Flood Hazards Areas and flood prone areas, the regulatory flood elevations shall be determined by a registered professional engineer or registered land surveyor using the most current FEMA data.
B.
Definition of Floodway Boundaries
1.
The width of a floodway shall be determined from the FIS or FEMA approved flood study.
2.
Following a pre-development conference with the Public Works Director or his/her designee, the boundaries or limits of the floodway shall be shown on both the development and stormwater management site plans containing existing topographic information.
C.
General Standards
1.
No construction or structures, including grading, filling, cutting or displacement of earth shall be allowed within the regulatory floodplain that could result in any of the following:
a.
Raising the regulatory flood elevation beyond the boundaries of the ownership of the property being developed unless contained in a drainage easement obtained by the developer;
b.
Reducing the regulatory flood storage capacity. All compensation for storage capacity shall occur either within the boundaries of ownership of the property being developed, or within a permanent, recorded flood control easement, and shall be within a reasonable proximity to the location of the encroachment. Acceptable means of providing required compensation include: lowering of natural ground elevations within the floodplain; or, lowering of adjoining land areas to create additional floodplain; or raising of the regulatory flood elevation within the boundaries of ownership of the property being developed. All cut areas are to be graded to a slope of no less than 1.0 percent. In no case shall any required compensation be provided via bottom storage or by excavating below the elevation of the top of the natural (pre-development) stream channel unless such excavation results from the widening or relocation of the stream channel. A hydrological analysis will be required by the owner or developer to determine the volume of flood storage created by raising the regulatory flood elevation;
c.
Changing the flow characteristics of the waters of the regulatory flood as they pass both the upstream and the downstream boundaries of the property. Verification shall be provided via a step-backwater analysis; or
d.
Creating hazardous or erosion-producing velocities, or resulting in excessive sedimentation. In all cases effective transitions must be provided such that flow velocities occurring on both upstream and downstream properties are not increased or decreased.
2.
All proposed development or redevelopment shall have public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water system located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
3.
Any significant changes or revisions to the flood data adopted herein and shown on the FIRM shall be submitted as a Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) or Conditional Letter of Map Amendment (CLOMA), whichever is applicable. The CLOMR submittal shall be subject to approval by the City of Kennesaw using the community consent forms (FEMA) before forwarding the submittal package to FEMA for final approval. The responsibility for forwarding the CLOMR to FEMA and for obtaining the CLOMR approval shall be the responsibility of the applicant. Within six months of the completion of construction, the applicant shall submit as built surveys, which demonstrate general conformance to the approved designs as submitted in the CLOMR application. A Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) or Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) must be issued by FEMA before the final plat can be approved or a certificate of occupancy can be issued. Significant changes or revisions shall be defined as any change to the FIRM easily observed when plotted at a scale of 1 inch = 1,000 feet. The changes or revisions may be due to, but are not limited to, more current and/or superior topographic information or compensatory cut and fill grading done as a part of the development.
D.
Engineering Study Requirements for Floodplain Encroachments. An engineering study is required, appropriate to the proposed development activities on the site, whenever a development proposes to disturb the regulatory floodplain. This study shall be prepared by a currently registered Professional Engineer in the State of Georgia and made a part of the application for a permit. This information shall be submitted to and approved by the Public Works Director or his/her designee, prior to the approval of any permit, which would authorize the disturbance of land located within the floodplain. Such study shall include:
1.
Description of the extent to which any watercourse or floodplain will be altered or relocated as a result of the proposed development;
2.
Step-backwater analysis, using a method approved by the City of Kennesaw. Cross-sections submitted by the applicant and flow information will be obtained whenever available. Computations will be shown duplicating FIS results and will then be rerun with the proposed modifications to determine the new base flood and regulatory flood profiles;
3.
Floodplain storage calculations based on cross-sections (at least one every 100 feet) showing existing and proposed floodplain conditions to show that regulatory floodplain storage capacity would not be diminished by the development;
4.
If changes to the regulatory flood elevation are proposed, profiles of the channel showing the existing and proposed regulatory flood elevations must be provided; and,
5.
The study shall include a preliminary plat, grading plan, or site plan, as appropriate, which shall clearly define all floodplain encroachments, and the location, method, and time frame for proposed mitigation.
E.
Floodway Encroachments. Located within areas of special flood hazard are areas designated as floodway. A floodway may be an extremely hazardous area due to velocity floodwaters, debris or erosion potential. In addition, floodways must remain free of encroachment in order to allow for the discharge of the base flood without increased flood heights. Therefore the following provisions shall apply:
1.
Encroachments are prohibited, including earthen fill, new construction, substantial improvements or other development within the regulatory floodway, except when required for the construction of bridges, culverts, roadways and utilities-including communication lines, water, sanitary sewer, stormwater sewer, natural gas and electrical utilities-provided it is demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the encroachment for bridges, culverts, roadways and utilities shall not result in any increase to the pre-project base flood elevations, floodway elevations, or floodway widths during the regulatory or base flood discharge. A registered professional engineer must provide supporting technical data and certification thereof; and,
2.
If the applicant proposes to revise the floodway boundaries, no permit authorizing the encroachment into or an alteration of the floodway shall be issued by the City of Kennesaw until an affirmative conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) or conditional letter of map amendment (CLOMA), whichever is applicable, is issued by FEMA.
F.
Maintenance Requirements. Any development or redevelopment platted after adoption of this ordinance will be required to submit a flood plain management plan to the Planning and Zoning Administrator or his/her designee. The property owner shall be responsible for continuing maintenance as may be needed within an altered or relocated portion of a floodplain on his property so that the flood-carrying or flood storage capacity is not diminished. The City of Kennesaw may direct the property owner or successor-in-title at no cost to the City of Kennesaw, to restore the flood-carrying or flood storage capacity of the floodplain if the owner has not performed maintenance as required by the approved floodplain management plan on file with the City of Kennesaw.
G.
Floodplain Compensation. To be determined by the Public Works Director or his/her designee.
(Ord. No. 2018-20, 8-20-18; Ord. No. 2020-13 , § 1(Exh. A), 11-16-20)
3.01.06 - Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
A.
General Standards. In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions apply:
1.
New construction of principal buildings (residential or non-residential), including manufactured homes, shall not be allowed within the limits of the floodplain;
2.
Substantial improvements of existing structures shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
3.
Substantial improvements of existing structures shall be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
4.
Substantial improvements of existing structures shall be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
5.
Elevated buildings. All new construction and substantial improvements of existing structures that include any fully enclosed area located below the lowest floor formed by foundation and other exterior walls shall be designed so as to be an unfinished or flood resistant enclosure. The enclosure shall be designed to equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the automatic entry and exit of floodwater.
a.
Designs for complying with this requirement must either be certified by a currently licensed professional engineer in the state of Georgia or currently licensed architect in the state of Georgia or meet the following minimum criteria:
i.
Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
ii.
The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above grade; and,
iii.
Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwater in both directions.
b.
So as not to violate the "lowest floor" criteria of this ordinance, the unfinished or flood resistant enclosure shall only be used for parking of vehicles, limited storage of maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises, or entry to the elevated area; and,
c.
The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
6.
All heating and air conditioning equipment and components, all electrical, ventilation, plumbing, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding;
7.
Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in addition to and consistent with applicable State requirements for resisting wind forces;
8.
All proposed development shall include adequate drainage and stormwater management facilities per the requirements of the City of Kennesaw to reduce exposure to flood hazards;
9.
New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
10.
New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters;
11.
On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
12.
Other public utilities such as gas and electric systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them, or public safety hazards from them, during flooding;
13.
Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a structure which is not compliant with the provisions of this ordinance, shall be undertaken only if the non-conformity is not furthered, extended or replaced; and
14.
If the proposed development is located in multiple flood zones, or multiple base flood elevations cross the proposed site, the higher or more restrictive base flood elevation or future-condition elevation and development standards shall take precedence.
B.
Building Standards For Structures And Buildings Within The Future-Conditions Floodplain.
1.
Residential buildings.
a.
New construction. New construction of principal residential structures shall not be allowed within the limits of the future-conditions floodplain unless all requirements of Paragraphs C, D and E of Section 3.01.05 have been met. If all of the requirements of Paragraphs C, D and E of Section 3.01.05 have been met, all new construction shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated no lower than three (3) feet above the base flood elevation or one (1) foot above the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate the structure, openings sufficient to automatically equalize the hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls shall be provided in accordance with standards of Section 3.01.06 A.5.a.
b.
Substantial improvements. Substantial improvement of any principal residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated no lower than three (3) feet above the base flood elevation or one (1) foot above the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to automatically equalize the hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls shall be provided in accordance with standards of Section 3.01.06 A.5.a.
2.
Non-residential buildings.
a.
New construction. New construction of principal non-residential structures shall not be allowed within the limits of the future-conditions floodplain unless all requirements of Paragraphs C, D and E of Section 3.01.05 have been met. If all of the requirements of Paragraphs C, D and E of Section 3.01.05 have been met, all new construction shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated no lower than one (1) foot above the base flood elevation or at least as high as the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate the structure, openings sufficient to automatically equalize the hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls shall be provided in accordance with standards of Section 3.01.06 A.5.a. New construction that has met all of the requirements of Paragraphs C, D and E of Section 3.01.05 may be floodproofed in lieu of elevation. The structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, must be designed to be watertight to one (1) foot above the base flood elevation, or at least as high as the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. A licensed professional engineer or architect shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice for meeting the provisions above, and shall provide such certification to the City using the FEMA Flood-proofing Certificate along with the design and operation/maintenance plan.
b.
Substantial improvements. Substantial improvement of any principal non-residential structure located in A1-30, AE, or AH zones, may be authorized by the City to be elevated or floodproofed. Substantial improvements shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated no lower than one (1) foot above the level of the base flood elevation or at least as high as the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate the structure, openings sufficient to automatically equalize the hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls shall be provided in accordance with the standards of subsection 3.01.06 A5. Substantial improvements may be flood-proofed in lieu of elevation. The structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, must be designed to be water tight to one (1) foot above the base flood elevation, or at least as high as the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, and structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. A licensed professional engineer or architect shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice for meeting the provisions above, and shall provide such certification to the City of Kennesaw using the FEMA Flood-proofing Certificate along with the design and operation/maintenance plan.
3.
Accessory structures and facilities. Accessory structures and facilities (i.e., barns, sheds, gazebos, detached garages, recreational facilities and other similar non-habitable structures and facilities) which meet the requirements of Paragraphs C, D and E of Section 3.01.05 and are permitted to be located within the limits of the future-conditions floodplain shall be constructed of flood-resistant materials and designed to provide adequate flood openings in accordance with Section 3.01.06 A.5.a. and be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse and lateral movement of the structure.
4.
Standards for recreational vehicles. All recreational vehicles placed on sites must either:
a.
Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is licensed, on its wheels or jacking system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached structures or additions);
b.
Meet all the requirements for Residential Buildings - Substantial Improvements Section 3.01.06 B.1.a., including the anchoring and elevation requirements.
c.
No recreational vehicle may be used for long-term or permanent residential housing.
5.
Standards for Manufactured Homes.
a.
New manufactured homes shall not be allowed to be placed within the limits of the future-conditions floodplain unless all requirements of Paragraphs C, D and E of Section 3.01.05 have been met. If all the requirements of Paragraphs C, D and E of Section 3.01.05 have been met, all new construction and substantial improvement shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated no lower than three (3) feet above the base flood elevation or one (1) foot above the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate the structure, openings sufficient to automatically equalize the hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls shall be provided in accordance with standards of Section 3.01.06 A.5.a.
b.
Manufactured homes placed and/or substantially improved in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision shall be elevated so that either:
(i)
The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower than three (3) feet above the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher; or
(ii)
The manufactured home chassis is elevated and supported by reinforced piers (or other foundational elements of at least an equivalent strength) of no less than 36 inches in height above grade.
c.
All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement in accordance with standards of Section 3.01.06 A.(7).
C.
Building Standards For Structures And Buildings Authorized Adjacent To The Floodplain
1.
Residential buildings. For new construction and substantial improvement of any principal residential building or manufactured home, the elevation of the lowest floor, including basement and access to the building, shall be at least three (3) feet above the base floor elevation or one (1) foot above the regulatory flood elevation, whichever is higher. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate the structure, openings sufficient to automatically equalize the hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls shall be provided in accordance with the standards of subsection 3.01.06 A5., "Elevated Buildings."
2.
Non-residential buildings. For new construction or substantial improvement of any principal non-residential building, the elevation of the lowest floor, including basement and access to the building, shall be at least one (1) foot above the level of the base flood elevation or at least as high as the regulatory flood elevation, whichever is higher. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate the structure, openings sufficient to automatically equalize the hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls shall be provided in accordance with standards of subsection 3.01.06 A5., "Elevated Buildings."
D.
Building Standards for Residential Single-Lot Developments on Streams Without Established Base Flood Elevations and Floodway (A-Zones). For a residential single-lot development not part of a subdivision that has Areas of Special Flood Hazard, where streams exist but no base flood data have been provided (A-Zones), the City shall review and reasonably utilize any available scientific or historic flood elevation data, base flood elevation and floodway data, or future-conditions flood elevation data available from a Federal, State, or local or other source, in order to administer the provisions and standards of this ordinance. If data are not available from any of these sources, the following provisions shall apply:
1.
No encroachments, including structures or fill material, shall be located within an area equal to twice the width of the stream or fifty (50) feet from the top of the bank of the stream, whichever is greater.
2.
In special flood hazard areas without base flood or future-conditions flood elevation data, new construction and substantial improvements shall have the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement) elevated no less than three (3) feet above the highest adjacent grade at the building site. Flood openings sufficient to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided for flood prone enclosures in accordance with Section 3.01.06 A.5.a.
E.
Building Standards For Streams Without Established Base Flood Elevations And/or Floodway (A-Zones). Located within the areas of special flood hazard, where streams exist but no base flood data has been provided (A-Zones) -or- where base flood data has been provided but a floodway has not been delineated, the City of Kennesaw shall review and reasonably utilize any available scientific or historic base flood elevation or regulatory flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions and standards of this section. If sufficient data is not available from these sources, then the City of Kennesaw may accept a hydrologic assessment performed and sealed by a registered professional engineer to determine the regulatory flood and floodway elevations. If further assessment is deemed necessary by the City of Kennesaw, it shall be carried out by a city approved engineer at applicant's expense.
F.
Building Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (AO-Zones). Areas of special flood hazard may include designated "AO" shallow flooding areas. These areas have base flood depths of one to three feet above ground, with no clearly defined channel. In these areas the following provisions apply:
1.
All new construction and substantial improvements of residential and non-residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the flood depth number specified on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM), above the highest adjacent grade. If no flood depth number is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be elevated at least three feet above the highest adjacent grade. Flood openings sufficient to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided in accordance with the standards of Section 3.01.06 A.5.a.;
2.
New construction and substantial improvement of a non-residential structure may be flood-proofed in lieu of elevation. The structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, must be designed to be water tight to the specified FIRM flood level plus one foot above the highest adjacent grade, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, and structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. A licensed professional engineer or licensed architect in the state of Georgia shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted current standards of practice, and shall provide such certification to the City using the FEMA Floodproofing Certificate along with the design and operation/maintenance plan; and
3.
Drainage paths shall be provided to guide floodwater around and away from any proposed structure and shall be shown on all construction documents.
G.
Standards for Subdivisions and other development.
1.
All subdivision proposals shall identify the special flood hazard area and provide base flood and regulatory flood elevation data;
2.
All subdivision plans will provide the elevation of proposed structure(s) and pad(s). If the site is filled above the base flood or regulatory flood elevation, the lowest flood and pad elevations shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the City of Kennesaw;
3.
All subdivision proposals shall be designed in such a manner as to be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage;
4.
All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage; and
5.
All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
H.
Standards for Utilities
1.
All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewerage systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate:
a.
Infiltration of flood waters into the systems; and
b.
Discharges from the systems into flood waters.
2.
On-site waste disposal systems (e.g. septic systems) shall be located outside the floodplain to avoid impairment to them, or contamination from them during flooding.
I.
Standards For Dam Break Flood Zone. No occupied structure shall be allowed to be constructed within the dam break flood zone as identified in the inundation map of the Emergency Action Plan (EAP).
(Ord. No. 2018-20, 8-20-18; Ord. No. 2020-13 , § 1(Exh. A), 11-16-20)
3.01.07 - Variance Procedures
The following variance and appeals procedures shall apply to an applicant who has been denied a permit for a development activity, or to an owner or developer who has not applied for a permit because it is clear that the proposed development activity would be inconsistent with the provisions of this ordinance. A request for a variance may be submitted by an applicant who has been denied a permit by the City of Kennesaw, or by an owner or developer who has not previously applied for a permit for the reasons stated herein above.
1.
Requests for variances from the requirements of this ordinance shall be submitted to the City of Kennesaw. All such requests shall be heard and decided in accordance with procedures to be published in writing by the City of Kennesaw. At a minimum, such procedures shall include notice to all affected parties and the opportunity to be heard.
2.
Any person adversely affected by any decision of the City of Kennesaw shall have the right to appeal such decision to the Mayor and Council as established by the City of Kennesaw in accordance with procedures to be published in writing by the Mayor and Council. At a minimum, such procedures shall include notice to all affected parties and the opportunity to be heard.
3.
To the extent provided by law, any person aggrieved by the decision of the Mayor and Council may appeal such decision to the Superior Court of Cobb County, as provided in Section 5-4-1 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
4.
Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of Historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an Historic structure, and the variance issued shall be the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
5.
Variances may be issued for development necessary for the conduct of a functionally dependent use, provided the criteria of this Section are met, no reasonable alternative exists, and the development is protected by methods that minimize flood damage during the base flood and create no additional threats to public safety.
6.
Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
7.
In reviewing such requests, the City of Kennesaw and Mayor and Council shall consider all technical evaluations, relevant factors, and all standards specified in this and other sections of this ordinance.
8.
Conditions for Variances:
(a)
A variance shall be issued only when there is:
(i)
a finding of good and sufficient cause;
(ii)
a determination that failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship; and,
(iii)
a determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, or the creation of a nuisance.
(b)
The provisions of this ordinance are minimum standards for flood loss reduction; therefore, any deviation from the standards must be weighed carefully. Variances shall only be issued upon determination that the variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief; and, in the instance of a Historic structure, a determination that the variance is the minimum necessary so as not to destroy the historic character and design of the building.
(c)
Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the elevation of the proposed lowest floor and stating that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk to life and property resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation.
(d)
The City Clerk of the City of Kennesaw shall maintain the records of all appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency upon request.
9.
Any applicant requesting a variance shall, from the time of the request until the time the request is acted upon, submit such information and documentation as the City of Kennesaw and Mayor and Council shall deem necessary to the consideration of the request.
10.
Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of this ordinance, the City of Kennesaw and the Mayor and Council may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as they deem necessary or appropriate, consistent with the purposes of this ordinance.
11.
Variances shall not be issued "after the fact."
(Ord. No. 2018-20, 8-20-18; Ord. No. 2020-13 , § 1(Exh. A), 11-16-20)
3.01.08 - Violations, Enforcement and Penalties
Any action or inaction which violates the provisions of this ordinance or the requirements of an approved stormwater management plan or permit, may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in this Section. Any such action or inaction which is continuous with respect to time is deemed to be a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of any of the penalties described below shall not prevent such equitable relief.
A.
Notice of Violation: If the City determines that an applicant or other responsible person has failed to comply with the terms and conditions of a permit, an approved stormwater management plan or the provisions of this ordinance, it shall issue a written notice of violation to such applicant or other responsible person. Where a person is engaged in activity covered by this ordinance without having first secured a permit therefor, the notice of violation shall be served on the owner or the responsible person in charge of the activity being conducted on the site. The notice of violation shall contain:
1.
The name and address of the owner or the applicant or the responsible person;
2.
The address or other description of the site upon which the violation is occurring;
3.
A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
4.
A description of the remedial measures necessary to bring the action or inaction into compliance with the permit, the stormwater management plan or this ordinance and the date for the completion of such remedial action;
5.
A statement of the penalty or penalties that may be assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed; and
6.
A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed to the Cobb County Superior Court by filing a written notice of appeal within thirty (30) days after the notice of violation.
B.
Penalties: In the event the remedial measures described in the notice of violation have not been completed by the date set forth for such completion in the notice of violation, any one or more of the following actions or penalties may be taken or assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation was directed. Before taking any of the following actions or imposing any of the following penalties, the City shall first notify the applicant or other responsible person in writing of its intended action, and shall provide a reasonable opportunity, of not less than ten (10) days (except, that in the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, 24 hours' notice shall be sufficient) to cure such violation. In the event the applicant or other responsible person fails to cure such violation after such notice and cure period, the City may take any one or more of the following actions or impose any one or more of the following penalties.
1.
Stop Work Order — The City may issue a stop work order which shall be served on the applicant or other responsible person. The stop work order shall remain in effect until the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violation or violations described therein, provided the stop work order may be withdrawn or modified to enable the applicant or other responsible person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such violation or violations.
2.
Withhold Certificate of Occupancy — The City may refuse to issue a certificate of occupancy for the building or other improvements constructed or being constructed on the site until the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein.
3.
Suspension, Revocation or Modification of Permit — The City may suspend, revoke or modify the permit authorizing the development project. A suspended, revoked or modified permit may be reinstated after the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein, provided such permit may be reinstated (upon such conditions as the City may deem necessary) to enable the applicant or other responsible person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such violations.
4.
Civil Penalties — In the event the applicant or other responsible person fails to take the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or otherwise fails to cure the violations described therein within ten (10) days, or such greater period as the City shall deem appropriate (except, that in the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, 24 hours' notice shall be sufficient) after the City has taken one or more of the actions described above, the City may impose a penalty not to exceed $1,000 (depending on the severity of the violation) for each day the violation remains un-remedied after receipt of the notice of violation.
5.
Criminal Penalties — For intentional and flagrant violations of this ordinance, the City may issue a citation to the applicant or other responsible person, requiring such person to appear in the Municipal Court to answer charges for such violation. Upon conviction, such person shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000 or imprisonment for 60 days or both. Each act of violation and each day upon which any violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense.
( Ord. No. 2020-13 , § 1(Exh. A), 11-16-20)
3.02.00 - SOIL EROSION, SEDIMENTATION AND POLLUTION CONTROL ORDINANCE
Title
Now, therefore, be it ordained, by the City of Kennesaw, this ordinance will be known as the City of Kennesaw "Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution Control Ordinance."

3.02.01 - Definitions
A.
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of this ordinance, unless otherwise specifically stated:
1.
Best Management Practices (BMPs): These include sound conservation and engineering practices to prevent and minimize erosion and resultant sedimentation, which are consistent with, and no less stringent than, those practices contained in the 'Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia' published by the Commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted.
2.
Board: The Board of Natural Resources.
3.
Buffer: The area of land immediately adjacent to the banks of state waters in its natural state of vegetation, which facilitates the protection of water quality and aquatic habitat.
4.
Certified Personnel: A person who has successfully completed the appropriate certification course approved by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
5.
City: Shall mean the city of Kennesaw, Georgia.
6.
Coastal Marshlands: Shall have the same meaning as in O.C.G.A. 12-5-282.
7.
Commission: The Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission (GSWCC).
8.
CPESC: Certified Professional in Erosion and Sediment Control with current certification by EnviroCert, Inc., which is also referred to as CPESC or CPESC, Inc.
9.
Cut: A portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation; the depth below original ground surface to the excavated surface. Also known as excavation.
10.
Department: The Georgia Department of Natural Resources (DNR).
11.
Design Professional: A professional licensed by the State of Georgia in the field of: engineering, architecture, landscape architecture, forestry, geology, or land surveying; or a person that is a Certified Professional in Erosion and Sediment Control (CPESC) with a current certification by EnviroCert, Inc. Design Professionals shall practice in a manner that complies with applicable Georgia law governing professional licensure.
12.
Director: The Director of the Environmental Protection Division, City of Kennesaw, or its/their designee or authorized representative.
13.
District: The Cobb County Soil and Water Conservation District, or its designee.
14.
Division: The Environmental Protection Division (EPD) of the Department of Natural Resources.
15.
Drainage Structure: A device composed of a virtually nonerodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water from one place to another by intercepting the flow and carrying it to a release point for storm water management, drainage control, or flood control purposes.
16.
Erosion: The process by which land surface is worn away by the action of wind, water, ice or gravity.
17.
Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution Control Plan: A plan required by the Erosion and Sedimentation Act, O.C.G.A. Title 12, Chapter 7, that includes, as a minimum protections at least as stringent as the State General Permit, best management practices, and requirements in Chapter 3.02.03(C) of this ordinance.
18.
Fill: A portion of land surface to which soil or other solid material has been added; the depth above the original ground surface or an excavation.
19.
Final Stabilization: All soil disturbing activities at the site have been completed, and that for unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent structures and areas located outside the waste disposal limits of a landfill cell that has been certified by EPD for waste disposal, 100% of the soil surface is uniformly covered in permanent vegetation with a density of 70% or greater, or landscaped according to the Plan (uniformly covered with landscaping materials in planned landscape areas), or equivalent permanent stabilization measures as defined in the Manual (excluding a crop of annual vegetation and seeding of target crop perennials appropriate for the region). Final stabilization applies to each phase of construction.
20.
Finished Grade: The final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting or filling and conforming to the proposed design.
21.
Grading: Altering the shape of ground surfaces to a predetermined condition; this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling and shaping or any combination thereof and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
22.
Ground Elevation: The original elevation of the ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
23.
Land-Disturbing Activity: Any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land but not including agricultural operations as described in Chapter 3.02.02(A)(5).
24.
Larger Common Plan of Development or Sale: A contiguous area where multiple separate and distinct construction activities are occurring under one plan of development or sale. For the purposes of this paragraph, "plan" means an announcement; piece of documentation such as a sign, public notice or hearing, sales pitch, advertisement, drawing, permit application, zoning request, or computer design; or physical demarcation such as boundary signs, lot stakes, or surveyor markings, indicating that construction activities may occur on a specific plot.
25.
Local Issuing Authority: The governing authority of any county or municipality which is certified pursuant to subsection (a) O.C.G.A. 12-7-8.
26.
Metropolitan River Protection Act (MRPA): A state law referenced as O.C.G.A. 12-5-440 et. seq., which addresses environmental and developmental matters in certain metropolitan river corridors and their drainage basins.
27.
Natural Ground Surface: The ground surface in its original state before any grading, excavation or filling.
28.
Nephelometric Turbidity Units (NTU): Numerical units of measure based upon photometric analytical techniques for measuring the light scattered by finely divided particles of a substance in suspension. This technique is used to estimate the extent of turbidity in water in which colloidally dispersed or suspended particles are present.
29.
NOI: A Notice of Intent form provided by EPD for coverage under the State General Permit.
30.
NOT: A Notice of Termination form provided by EPD to terminate coverage under the State General Permit.
31.
Operator: The party or parties that have: (A) operational control of construction project plans and specifications, including the ability to make modifications to those plans and specifications; or (B) day-to-day operational control of those activities that are necessary to ensure compliance with an erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan for the site or other permit conditions, such as a person authorized to direct workers at a site to carry out activities required by the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan or to comply with other permit conditions.
32.
Outfall: The location where storm water in a discernible, confined and discrete conveyance, leaves a facility or site or, if there is a receiving water on site, becomes a point source discharging into that receiving water.
33.
Permit: The authorization necessary to conduct a land-disturbing activity under the provisions of this ordinance.
34.
Person: Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, state agency, municipality or other political subdivision of the State of Georgia, any interstate body or any other legal entity.
35.
Phase or Phased: Sub-parts or segments of construction projects where the sub-part or segment is constructed and stabilized prior to completing construction activities on the entire construction site.
36.
Project: The entire proposed development project regardless of the size of the area of land to be disturbed.
37.
Properly Designed: Designed in accordance with the design requirements and specifications contained in the "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia" (Manual) published by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted and amendments to the Manual as approved by the Commission up until the date of NO! submittal.
38.
Roadway Drainage Structure: A device such as a bridge, culvert, or ditch, composed of a virtually nonerodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic, or other such material that conveys water under a roadway by intercepting the flow on one side of a traveled roadway consisting of one or more defined lanes, with or without shoulder areas, and carrying water to a release point on the other side.
39.
Sediment: Solid material, both organic and inorganic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by wind, water, ice, or gravity as a product of erosion.
40.
Sedimentation: The process by which eroded material is transported and deposited by the action of water, wind, ice or gravity.
41.
Soil and Water Conservation District Approved Plan: An erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan approved in writing by the Cobb County Soil and Water Conservation District, or its designee.
42.
Stabilization: The process of establishing an enduring soil cover of vegetation by the installation of temporary or permanent structures for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the erosion process and the resultant transport of sediment by wind, water, ice or gravity.
43.
State General Permit: The National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) general permit or permits for storm water runoff from construction activities as is now in effect or as may be amended or reissued in the future pursuant to the state's authority to implement the same through federal delegation under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. Section 1251, et seq., and subsection (f) of Code Section 12-5-30.
44.
State Waters: Any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of Georgia which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation.
45.
Structural Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution Control Practices: Practices for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purpose of either changing the surface of the land or storing, regulating or disposing of runoff to prevent excessive sediment loss. Examples of structural erosion and sediment control practices are riprap, sediment basins, dikes, level spreaders, waterways or outlets, diversions, grade stabilization structures and sediment traps, etc. Such practices can be found in the publication Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
46.
Trout Streams: All streams or portions of streams within the watershed as designated by the Wildlife Resources Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources under the provisions of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A, 12-5-20, in the rules and regulations for Water Quality Control, Chapter 391-3-6 at www.epd.georeia.gov. Streams designated as primary trout waters are defined as water supporting a self-sustaining population of rainbow, brown or brook trout. Streams designated as secondary trout waters are those in which there is no evidence of natural trout reproduction, but are capable of supporting trout throughout the year. First order trout waters are streams into which no other streams flow except springs.
47.
Vegetative Erosion and Sedimentation Control Measures: Measures for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by covering the soil with:
a.
Permanent seeding, sprigging or planting, producing long-term vegetative cover, or
b.
Temporary seeding, producing short-term vegetative cover; or
c.
Sodding, covering areas with a turf of perennial sod-forming grass.
Such measures can be found in the publication Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
48.
Watercourse: Any natural or artificial watercourse, stream, river, creek, channel, ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine, or wash in which water flows either continuously or intermittently and which has a definite channel, bed and banks, and including any area adjacent thereto subject to inundation by reason of overflow or floodwater.
49.
Wetlands: Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
(Ord. No. 2018-09, Exh. A, 6-4-18)
3.02.02 - Exemptions
This ordinance shall apply to any land-disturbing activity undertaken by any person on any land except for the following:
1.
Surface mining, as the same is defined in O.C.G.A. 12-4-72, "The Georgia Surface Mining Act of 1968";
2.
Granite quarrying and land clearing for such quarrying;
3.
Such minor land-disturbing activities as home gardens and individual home landscaping, repairs, maintenance work, fences, and other related activities which result in minor soil erosion;
4.
The construction of single-family residences, when such construction disturbs less than one (1) acre and is not a part of a larger common plan of development or sale with a planned disturbance of equal to or greater than one (1) acre and not otherwise exempted under this paragraph; provided, however, that construction of any such residence shall conform to the minimum requirements as set forth in O.C.G.A. 12-7-6 and this paragraph.
a.
For single-family residence construction covered by the provisions of this paragraph, there shall be a buffer zone between the residence and any state waters classified as trout streams pursuant to Article 2 of Chapter 5 of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act. In any such buffer zone, no land-disturbing activity shall be constructed between the residence and the point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action from the banks of the trout waters.
b.
For primary trout waters, the buffer zone shall be at least 50 horizontal feet, and no variance to a smaller buffer shall be granted. For secondary trout waters, the buffer zone shall be at least 50 horizontal feet, but the Director may grant variances to no less than 25 feet. Regardless of whether a trout stream is primary or secondary, for first order trout waters, which are streams into which no other streams flow except for springs, the buffer shall be at least 25 horizontal feet, and no variance to a smaller buffer shall be granted.
c.
The minimum requirements of subsection (b) of O.C.G.A. 12-7-6 and the buffer zones provided by this paragraph shall be enforced by the Local Issuing Authority;
5.
Agricultural operations as defined in O.C.G.A. 1-3-3, "definitions", to include raising, harvesting or storing of products of the field or orchard; feeding, breeding or managing livestock or poultry; producing or storing feed for use in the production of livestock, including but not limited to cattle, calves, swine, hogs, goats, sheep, and rabbits or for use in the production of poultry, including but not limited to chickens, hens and turkeys; producing plants, trees, fowl, or animals; the production of aqua culture, horticultural, dairy, livestock, poultry, eggs and apiarian products; farm buildings and farm ponds;
6.
Forestry land management practices, including harvesting; provided, however, that when such exempt forestry practices cause or result in land-disturbing or other activities otherwise prohibited in a buffer, as established in paragraphs (15) and (16) of Chapter 3.02.03(C) of this ordinance, no other land-disturbing activities, except for normal forest management practices, shall be allowed on the entire property upon which the forestry practices were conducted for a period of three (3) years after completion of such forestry practices;
7.
Any project earned out under the technical supervision of the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) of the United States Department of Agriculture;
8.
Any project involving less than one (1) acre of disturbed area; provided, however, that this exemption shall not apply to any land-disturbing activity within a larger common plan of development or sale with a planned disturbance of equal to or greater than one (1) acre or within 200 feet of the bank of any state waters, and for purposes of this paragraph, "State Waters" excludes channels and drainage ways which have water in them only during and immediately after rainfall events and intermittent streams which do not have water in them year-round; provided, however, that any person responsible for a project which involves less than one (1) acre, which involves land-disturbing activity, and which is within 200 feet of any such excluded channel or drainage way, must prevent sediment from moving beyond the boundaries of the property on which such project is located and provided, further, that nothing contained herein shall prevent the Local Issuing Authority from regulating any such project which is not specifically exempted by paragraphs (A)(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (9), (10) or (11) of this Chapter;
9.
Construction or maintenance projects, or both, undertaken or financed in whole or in part, or both, by the Department of Transportation, the Georgia Highway Authority, or the State Road and Tollway Authority; or any road construction or maintenance project, or both, undertaken by any county or municipality; provided, however, that construction or maintenance projects of the Department of Transportation or the State Road and Tollway Authority which disturb one or more contiguous acres of land shall be subject to provisions of O.C.G.A. 12-7-7.1; except where the Department of Transportation, the Georgia Highway Authority, or the State Road and Tollway Authority is a secondary permittee for a project located within a larger common plan of development or sale under the state general permit, in which case a copy of a notice of intent under the state general permit shall be submitted to the Local Issuing Authority, the Local Issuing Authority shall enforce compliance with the minimum requirements set forth in O.C.G.A. 12-7-6 as if a permit had been issued, and violations shall be subject to the same penalties as violations by permit holders;
10.
Any land-disturbing activities conducted by any electric membership corporation or municipal electrical system or any public utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission, any utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, any cable television system as defined in O.C.G.A. 36-18-1, or any agency or instrumentality of the United States engaged in the generation, transmission, or distribution of power; except where an electric membership corporation or municipal electrical system or any public utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission, any utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, any cable television system as defined in O.C.G.A. 36-18-1, or any agency or instrumentality of the United states engaged in the generation, transmission, or distribution of power is a secondary permittee for a project located within a larger common plan of development or sale under the state general permit, in which case the Local Issuing Authority shall enforce compliance with the minimum requirements set forth in O.C.G.A. 12-7-6 as if a permit had been issued, and violations shall be subject to the same penalties as violations by permit holders; and
11.
Any public water system reservoir.
(Ord. No. 2018-09, Exh. A, 6-4-18)
3.02.03 - Minimum Requirements for Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution Control Using Best Management Practices
A.
General Provisions. Excessive soil erosion and resulting sedimentation can take place during land-disturbing activities if requirements of the ordinance and the NPDES General Permit are not met. Therefore, plans for those land-disturbing activities which are not exempted by this ordinance shall contain provisions for application of soil erosion, sedimentation and pollution control measures and practices. The provisions shall be incorporated into the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plans. Soil erosion, sedimentation and pollution control measures and practices shall conform to the minimum requirements of Chapter 3.02.03(B) and (C) of this ordinance. The application of measures and practices shall apply to all features of the site, including street and utility installations, drainage facilities and other temporary and permanent improvements. Measures shall be installed to prevent or control erosion, sedimentation and pollution during all stages of any land- disturbing activity in accordance with requirements of this ordinance and the NPDES General Permit.
B.
Minimum Requirements/BMPs.
1.
Best management practices as set forth in Chapter 3.02.03(B) and (C) of this ordinance shall be required for all land-disturbing activities. Proper design, installation, and maintenance of best management practices shall constitute a complete defense to any action by the Director, LIA, or to any other allegation of noncompliance with paragraph (2) of this subsection or any substantially similar terms contained in a permit for the discharge of storm water issued pursuant to subsection (f) of O.C.G.A. 12-5-30, the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act". As used in this subsection the terms "proper design" and "properly designed" mean designed in accordance with the hydraulic design specifications contained in the "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia" specified in O.C.G.A. 12-7-6 subsection (b).
2.
A discharge of storm water runoff from disturbed areas where best management practices have not been properly designed, installed, and maintained shall constitute a separate violation of any land-disturbing permit issued by a Local Issuing Authority or of any state general permit issued by the Division pursuant to subsection (f) of O.C.G.A. 12-5-30, the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act", for each day on which such discharge results in the turbidity of receiving waters being increased by more than twenty-five (25) nephelometric turbidity units for waters supporting warm water fisheries or by more than ten (10) nephelometric turbidity units for waters classified as trout waters. The turbidity of the receiving waters shall be measured in accordance with guidelines to be issued by the Director. This paragraph shall not apply to any land-disturbance associated with the construction of single-family homes which are not part of a larger common plan of development or sale unless the planned disturbance for such construction is equal to or greater than five (5) acres.
3.
Failure to properly design, install, or maintain best management practices shall constitute a violation of any land disturbing permit issued by a Local Issuing Authority or of any state general permit issued by the Division pursuant to subsection (f) of Code Section 12-5-30, the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act", for each day on which such failure occurs.
4.
The Director may require, in accordance with regulations adopted by the Board, reasonable and prudent monitoring of the turbidity level of receiving waters into which discharges from land disturbing activities occur.
5.
The LIA may set more stringent buffer requirements than stated in Chapter 3.02.03(C)(15), (16) and (17), in light of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6 (c).
C.
The rules and regulations, ordinances, or resolutions adopted pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et. seq. for the purpose of governing land-disturbing activities shall require, as a minimum, protections at least as stringent as the state general permit; and best management practices, including sound conservation and engineering practices to prevent and minimize erosion and resultant sedimentation, which are consistent with, and no less stringent than, those practices contained in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia published by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted, as well as the following:
1.
Stripping of vegetation, regrading and other development activities shall be conducted in a manner so as to minimize erosion;
2.
Cut-till operations must be kept to a minimum;
3.
Development plans must conform to topography and soil type so as to create the lowest practicable erosion potential;
4.
Whenever feasible, natural vegetation shall be retained, protected and supplemented;
5.
The disturbed area and the duration of exposure to erosive elements shall be kept to a practicable minimum;
6.
Disturbed soil shall be stabilized as quickly as practicable;
7.
Temporary vegetation or mulching shall be employed to protect exposed critical areas during development;
8.
Permanent vegetation and structural erosion control practices shall be installed as soon as practicable;
9.
To the extent necessary, sediment in run-off water must be trapped by the use of debris basins, sediment basins, silt traps, or similar measures until the disturbed area is stabilized. As used in this paragraph, a disturbed area is stabilized when it is brought to a condition of continuous compliance with the requirements of O.C.G.A. 12-7-1 et. seq.;
10.
Adequate provisions must be provided to minimize damage from surface water to the cut face of excavations or the sloping of fills;
11.
Cuts and fills may not endanger adjoining property;
12.
Fills may not encroach upon natural watercourses or constructed channels in a manner so as to adversely affect other property owners;
13.
Grading equipment must cross flowing streams by means of bridges or culverts except when such methods are not feasible, provided, in any case, that such crossings are kept to a minimum;
14.
Land-disturbing activity plans for erosion, sedimentation and pollution control shall include provisions for treatment or control of any source of sediments and adequate sedimentation control facilities to retain sediments on-site or preclude sedimentation of adjacent waters beyond the levels specified in Chapter 3.02.03(B)(2) of this ordinance;
15.
Except as provided in paragraph (16) and (17) of this subsection, there is established a 25 foot buffer along the banks of all state waters, as measured horizontally from the point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action, except where the Director determines to allow a variance that is at least as protective of natural resources and the environment, or where otherwise allowed by the Director pursuant to O.C.G.A. 12-2-8, where a drainage structure or a roadway drainage structure must be constructed, provided that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated in the project plans and specifications, and are implemented; or where bulkheads and sea walls are installed to prevent shoreline erosion on Lake Oconee and Lake Sinclair; or along any ephemeral stream. As used in this provision, the term 'ephemeral stream 1 means a stream: that under normal circumstances has water flowing only during and for a short duration after precipitation events; that has the channel located above the ground-water table year round; for which ground water is not a source of water; and for which runoff from precipitation is the primary source of water flow, unless exempted as along an ephemeral stream, the buffers of at least 25 feet established pursuant to part 6 of Article 5, Chapter 5 of Title 12, the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act", shall remain in force unless a variance is granted by the Director as provided in this paragraph.
a.
The City mandates an additional 25 feet of undisturbed natural vegetative buffer as measured horizontally beyond the end of the state mandated 25 feet (a combined 50 feet as measured from both stream banks).
b.
In addition, the City mandates, an additional area setback be maintained of 25 feet, measured horizontally, beyond the undisturbed natural vegetative buffer (a combined 75 feet as measured from both stream banks), in which all impervious cover shall be prohibited. Within this additional setback area, grading, filling and earthmoving shall be limited to hand tool work to minimize disruption within the setback. Use of other equipment within the setback requires prior written approval of the City of Kennesaw.
16.
The following requirements shall apply to any such buffer as referenced in 15(a) above:
a.
No land-disturbing activities shall be conducted within a buffer and a buffer shall remain in its natural, undisturbed state of vegetation until all land disturbing activities on the construction site are completed.
b.
Once the final stabilization of the site is achieved, a buffer may be thinned or trimmed of vegetation as long as a protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the stream bed; provided, however, that any person constructing a single-family residence, when such residence is constructed by or under contract with the owner for his or her own occupancy, may thin or trim vegetation in a buffer at any time as long as protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the stream bed; and
c.
The buffer shall not apply to the following land-disturbing activities, provided that they occur at an angle, as measured from the point of crossing, within 25 degrees of perpendicular to the stream; cause a width of disturbance of not more than 50 feet within the buffer; and adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and are implemented:
(i)
Stream crossings for water lines; or
(ii)
Stream crossings for sewer lines; and
(iii)
There is established a 50 foot buffer as measured horizontally from the point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action, along the banks of any state waters classified as "trout streams" pursuant to Article 2 of Chapter 5 of Title 12, the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act", except where a roadway drainage structure must be constructed ; provided, however, that small springs and streams classified as trout streams which discharge an average annual flow of 25 gallons per minute or less shall have a 25 foot buffer or they may be piped, at the discretion of the landowner, pursuant to the terms of a rule providing for a general variance promulgated by the Board, so long as any such pipe stops short of the downstream landowner's property and the landowner complies with the buffer requirement for any adjacent trout streams.
17.
The Director may grant a variance from such buffer to allow land-disturbing activity, provided that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated in the project plans and specifications and are implemented.
a.
The following requirements shall apply to such buffer: No land-disturbing activities shall be conducted within a buffer and a buffer shall remain in its natural, undisturbed, state of vegetation until all land-disturbing activities on the construction site are completed.
b.
Once the final stabilization of the site is achieved, a buffer may be thinned or trimmed of vegetation as long as a protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the stream bed: provided, however, that any person constructing a single—family residence, when such residence is constructed by or under contract with the owner for his or her own occupancy, may thin or trim vegetation in a buffer at any time as long as protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the stream bed; and
c.
The buffer shall not apply to the following land-disturbing activities, provided that they occur at an angle, as measured from the point of crossing, within 25 degrees of perpendicular to the stream; cause a width of disturbance of not more than 50 feet within the buffer; and adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and are implemented:
(i)
Stream crossings for water lines; or
(ii)
Stream crossings for sewer lines; and Ponds.
d.
When a pond, either new or existing, is incorporated into a development, the developer shall note on the plans if the pond is to be used for sediment control and/or retention during construction. If the pond is to be used for sediment control, the developer will be required to dredge, clean and grass the pond upon completion of construction of the project. Further, sediment control devices shall be required to protect downstream property during construction. If the pond is not completely contained on the owner's property, then it cannot be used to trap sediment.
e.
Lakes, either new or existing, incorporated into a development shall not be used for sediment control and will be classified and used as adjacent property; siltation thereof will be treated as a violation of this article.
f.
Hazardous sediment basins and floodwater retention structures shall be fenced and posted to avoid danger to life or property.
(Ord. No. 2018-09, Exh. A, 6-4-18)
3.02.04 - Maintenance
A.
All erosion and sedimentation control measures, whether temporary or permanent, shall be maintained by the permittee or exempted person until the areas affected by such measures are permanently stabilized.
B.
Other requirements. Nothing contained in this article shall prevent the city from adopting rules and regulations, ordinances, or resolutions that contain stream buffer requirements which exceed the minimum requirements of this Chapter.
C.
Coastal Marshlands.
1.
There is established a 25 foot buffer along coastal marshlands, as measured horizontally from the coastal marshland-upland interface, as determined in accordance with Chapter 5 of Title 12 of this title, the "Coastal Marshlands Protection Act of 1970." And the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, except where the director determines to allow a variance that is at least as protective of natural resources and the environment, where otherwise allowed by the director pursuant to Code Section 12-2-8, where an alteration within the buffer area has been authorized pursuant to Code Section 12-5-286, for maintenance of any currently serviceable structure, landscaping, or hardscaping, including bridges, roads, parking lots, golf courses, golf cart paths, retaining walls, bulkheads, and patios; provided, however, that if such maintenance requires any land- disturbing activity, adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented, where a drainage structure or roadway drainage structure is constructed or maintained; provided, however, that if such maintenance requires any land-disturbing activity, adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented, on the landward side of any currently serviceable shoreline stabilization structure, or for the maintenance of any manmade storm-water detention basin, golf course pond, or impoundment that is located entirely within the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation; provided, however, that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented.
2.
For the purposes of this paragraph maintenance shall be defined as actions necessary or appropriate for retaining or restoring a currently serviceable improvement to the specified operable condition to achieve its maximum useful life. Maintenance includes emergency reconstruction of recently damaged parts of a currently serviceable structure so long as it occurs within a reasonable period of time after damage occurs. Maintenance does not include any modification that changes the character, scope or size of the original design and serviceable shall be defined as usable in its current state or with minor maintenance but not so degraded as to essentially require reconstruction.
D.
No land-disturbing activities shall be conducted within a buffer and a buffer shall remain in its natural, undisturbed, state of vegetation until all land-disturbing activities on the construction site are completed. Once the final stabilization of the site is achieved, a buffer may be thinned or trimmed of vegetation as long as a protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat; provided, however, that any person constructing a single-family residence, when such residence is constructed by or under contract with the owner for his or her own occupancy, may thin or trim vegetation in a buffer at any time as long as protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat; and
1.
The buffer shall not apply to crossings for utility lines that cause a width of disturbance of not more than 50 feet within the buffer, provided, however, that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented.
2.
The buffer shall not apply to any land-disturbing activity conducted pursuant to and in compliance with a valid and effective land-disturbing permit issued subsequent to April 22, 2014, and prior to December 31, 2015; provided, however, that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented or any lot for which the preliminary plat has been approved prior to December 31, 2015 if roadways, bridges, or water and sewer lines have been extended to such lot prior to the effective date of this Act and if the requirement to maintain a 25 foot buffer would consume at least 18 percent of the high ground of the platted lot otherwise available for development; provided, however, that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented.
E.
Activities where the area within the buffer is not more than 500 square feet or that have a "Minor Buffer Impact" as defined in 391-3-7-.01(r), provided that the total area of buffer impacts is less than 5,000 square feet are deemed to have an approved buffer variance by rule. Bank stabilization structures are not eligible for coverage under the variance by rule and notification shall be made to the Division at least 14 days prior to the commencement of land disturbing activities.
F.
Nothing contained in O.C.G.A. 12-7-1 et. seq. shall prevent any Local Issuing Authority from adopting rules and regulations, ordinances, or resolutions which contain stream buffer requirements that exceed the minimum requirements in Chapter 3.02.03(B) and (C) of this ordinance.
G.
The fact that land-disturbing activity for which a permit has been issued results in injury to the property of another shall neither constitute proof of nor create a presumption of a violation of the standards provided for in this ordinance or the terms of the permit.
(Ord. No. 2018-09, Exh. A, 6-4-18)
3.02.05 - Application/Permit Process
A.
General.
1.
The property owner, developer and designated planners and engineers shall design and review, before submittal, the general development plans and detailed plans with the city that affect the tract to be developed and the area surrounding it. The Local Issuing Authority shall review the tract to be developed and the area surrounding it.
2.
The property owner, developer and designated planners and engineers shall consult the zoning ordinance, storm water management ordinance, subdivision ordinance, flood damage prevention ordinance, this ordinance, and any other ordinances, rules, regulations or permits, which regulate the development of land within the jurisdictional boundaries of the Local Issuing Authority. However, the owner and/or operator are the only parties who may obtain a permit.
B.
Application requirements.
1.
No person shall conduct any land-disturbing activity within the jurisdictional boundaries of the City without first obtaining a permit from the City to perform such activity and providing a copy of Notice of Intent submitted to EPD if applicable.
2.
The application for a permit shall be submitted to the City of Kennesaw Planning and Zoning Department and must include the applicant's erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan with supporting data, as necessary. Said plans shall include, as a minimum, the data specified in Chapter 3.02.05(C) of this ordinance. Erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plans, together with supporting data, must demonstrate affirmatively that the land disturbing activity proposed will be carried out in such a manner that the provisions of Chapter 3.02.03(B) and (C) of this ordinance will be met. Applications for a permit will not be accepted unless accompanied by an electronic and Three (3) paper copies, each on 24x36 inch paper, of the applicant's erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plans. All applications shall contain a certification stating that the plan preparer or the designee thereof visited the site prior to creation of the plan in accordance with EPD Rule 391-3-7.10.
3.
In addition to the local permitting fees, a fee, in an amount determined by the mayor and council, but not to exceed Eighty Dollars ($80.00) will be charged for a land disturbance permit. In addition to the local permitting fees, fees will also be assessed pursuant to paragraph (5) subsection (a) of O.C.G.A. 12-5-23, provided that such fees shall not exceed $80.00 per acre of land-disturbing activity, and these fees shall be calculated and paid by the primary permittee as defined in the state general permit for each acre of land-disturbing activity included in the planned development or each phase of development. All applicable fees shall be paid prior to issuance of the land disturbance permit, hi a jurisdiction that is certified pursuant to subsection (a) of O.C.G.A. 12-7-8(a) half of such fees levied shall be submitted to the Division; except that any and all fees due from an entity which is required to give notice pursuant to paragraph (9) or (10) of O.C.G.A. 12-7-17(9)—(10) shall be submitted in full to the Division, regardless of the existence of a Local Issuing Authority in the jurisdiction.
4.
Immediately upon receipt of an application and plan for a permit, the Local Issuing Authority shall refer the application and plan to the District for its review and approval or disapproval concerning the adequacy of the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan. The District shall approve or disapprove a plan within 35 days of receipt. Failure of the District to act within 35 days shall be considered an approval of the pending plan. The results of the District review shall be forwarded to the Local Issuing Authority. No permit will be issued unless:
a.
The plan has been approved by the District, and any variances required by Chapter 3.02.03(C)(15),(16) and (17) have been obtained;
b.
All fees have been paid; and
c.
Bonding, if required as per Chapter 3.02.05(B)(6), has been obtained.
Such review will not be required if the Local Issuing Authority and the District have entered into an agreement which allows the Local Issuing Authority to conduct such review and approval of the plan without referring the application and plan to the District. The Local Issuing Authority with plan review authority shall approve or disapprove a revised Plan submittal within 35 days of receipt. Failure of the Local Issuing Authority with plan review authority to act within 35 days shall be considered an approval of the revised Plan submittal.
5.
If a permit applicant has had two or more violations of previous permits, this ordinance Chapter, or the Erosion and Sedimentation Act, as amended, within three years prior to the date of filing the application under consideration, the Local Issuing Authority may deny the permit application.
6.
The Local Issuing Authority may require the permit applicant to post a bond in the form of government approved surety, cash, irrevocable letter of credit, or any combination thereof in a minimum of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) up to, but not exceeding, Three Thousand Dollars ($3,000.00) per acre or fraction thereof of the proposed land-disturbing activity, prior to issuing the permit. If the applicant does not comply with this Chapter or with the conditions of the permit, after issuance, the Local Issuing Authority may call the bond or any part thereof to be forfeited and may use the proceeds to hire a contractor to stabilize the site of the land-disturbing activity and bring it into compliance with the provisions of this Chapter and the terms of the permit. These provisions shall not apply unless there is in effect an ordinance or statute specifically providing for hearing and judicial review of any determination or order of the Local Issuing Authority with respect to alleged permit violations.
7.
In the event permitee is not the owner of property for which the permit is sought, the property owner shall be required to sign the permit application indicating the property owner's agreement to be bound by all permissions, terms, and conditions contained in the permit.
C.
Plan requirements.
1.
Plans must be prepared to meet the minimum requirements as contained in Chapter 3.02.03(B) and (C) of this ordinance, or through the use of more stringent, alternate design criteria which conform to sound conservation and engineering practices. The Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia is hereby incorporated by reference into this ordinance as though fully set forth herein, and except as amended hereby or by subsequent ordinance shall provide the minimum standards for the City. The plan for the land-disturbing activity shall consider the interrelationship of the soil types, geological and hydrological characteristics, topography, watershed, vegetation, proposed permanent structures including roadways, constructed waterways, sediment control and storm water management facilities, local ordinances and State laws. Maps, drawings and supportive computations shall bear the signature and seal of the certified design professional. Persons involved in land development design, review, permitting, construction, monitoring, or inspections or any land disturbing activity shall meet the education and training certification requirements, dependent on his or her level of involvement with the process, as developed by the Commission and in consultation with the Division and the Stakeholder Advisory Board created pursuant to O.C.G.A. 12-7-20.
2.
Data Required for Site Plan shall include all the information required from the appropriate Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution Control Plan Review Checklist established by the Commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted.
D.
Permits.
1.
Permits shall be issued or denied as soon as practicable but in any event not later than forty-five (45) days after receipt by the Local Issuing Authority of a completed application, providing variances and bonding are obtained, where necessary and all applicable fees have been paid prior to permit issuance. The permit shall include conditions under which the activity may be undertaken.
2.
No permit shall be issued by the Local Issuing Authority unless:
a.
The erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan has been approved by the District pursuant to Chapter 3.02.05(B)(4) of this ordinance.
b.
The Local Issuing Authority has affirmatively determined that the plan is in compliance with this ordinance;
c.
Any variances required by Chapter 3.02.03(C)(15),(16) and (17) are obtained;
d.
Bonding requirements, if necessary, as per Chapter 3.02.05(B)(6) are met; and
e.
All ordinances and rules and regulations in effect within the jurisdictional boundaries of the Local Issuing Authority are met.
3.
If the permit is denied or requested to be resubmitted the reason for denial or request to resubmit shall be furnished in writing to the applicant within ten (10) business days of the denial or of a request to resubmit, as applicable.
4.
Any land-disturbing activities by a local issuing authority shall be subject to the same requirements of this ordinance, and any other ordinances relating to land development, as are applied to private persons and the division shall enforce such requirements upon the local issuing authority.
5.
If the tract is to be developed in phases, then a separate permit shall be required for each phase.
6.
The permit may be suspended, revoked, or modified by the Local Issuing Authority, as to all or any portion of the land affected by the plan, upon finding that the holder or his successor in the title is not in compliance with the approved erosion and sedimentation control plan or that the holder or his successor in title is in violation of this ordinance. A holder of a permit shall notify any successor in title to him as to all or any portion of the land affected by the approved plan of the conditions contained in the permit.
7.
The LIA may reject a permit application if the applicant has had two or more violations of previous permits or the Erosion and Sedimentation Act permit requirements within three years prior to the date of the application, in light of O.C.G.A. 12-7-7 (f)(1).
8.
A permit issued by the LIA shall specify any special conditions under which the land-disturbing permit may be undertaken.
9.
No permit shall be issued unless the applicant provides a statement by Cobb County Tax Commissioner or their designee, certifying that all ad valorem taxes levied against the property and due and owing have been paid.
(Ord. No. 2018-09, Exh. A, 6-4-18)
3.02.06 - Inspection and Enforcement
A.
The Public Works Director, or its designee, will periodically inspect the sites of land-disturbing activities for which permits have been issued to determine if the activities are being conducted in accordance with the plan and if the measures required in the plan are effective in controlling erosion and sedimentation. Also, the Local Issuing Authority shall regulate primary, secondary and tertiary permittees as such terms are defined in the state general permit. Primary permittees shall be responsible for installation and maintenance of best management practices where the primary permittee is conducting land-disturbing activities. Secondary permittees shall be responsible for installation and maintenance of best management practices where the secondary permittee is conducting land-disturbing activities. Tertiary permittees shall be responsible for installation and maintenance where the tertiary permittee is conducting land-disturbing activities. If, through inspection, it is deemed that a permitee engaged in land-disturbing activities as defined herein has failed to comply with the approved plan, with permit conditions, or with the provisions of this ordinance, a written notice to comply shall be served upon that permitee. The notice shall set forth the measures necessary to achieve compliance and shall state the time within which such measures must be completed. If the permitee engaged in the land-disturbing activity fails to comply within the time specified, the permitee shall be deemed in violation of this ordinance.
B.
The Local Issuing Authority must amend its ordinances to the extent appropriate within twelve (12) months of any amendments to the Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975.
C.
The Public Works Department shall have the power to conduct such investigations as it may reasonably deem necessary to carry out duties as prescribed in this ordinance, and for this purpose to enter at reasonable times upon any property, public or private, for the purpose of investigation and inspecting the sites of land-disturbing activities.
D.
No person shall refuse entry or access to any authorized representative or agent of the Local Issuing Authority, the Commission, the District, or Division who requests entry for the purposes of inspection, and who presents appropriate credentials, nor shall any person obstruct, hamper or interfere with any such representative while in the process of carrying out his/her official duties.
E.
The District or the Commission or both shall semi-annually review the actions of counties and municipalities which have been certified as Local Issuing Authorities pursuant to O.C.G.A. 12-7-8 (a). The District or the Commission or both may provide technical assistance to any county or municipality for the purpose of improving the effectiveness of the county's or municipality's erosion, sedimentation and pollution control program. The District or the Commission shall notify the Division and request investigation by the Division if any deficient or ineffective local program is found.
F.
The Division may periodically review the actions of counties and municipalities which have been certified as Local Issuing Authorities pursuant to Code Section 12-7-8 (a). Such review may include, but shall not be limited to, review of the administration and enforcement of a governing authority's ordinance and review of conformance with an agreement, if any, between the district and the governing authority. If such review indicates that the governing authority of any county or municipality certified pursuant to O.C.G.A. 12-7-8 (a) has not administered or enforced its ordinances or has not conducted the program in accordance with any agreement entered into pursuant to O.C.G.A. 12-7-7(e), the Division shall notify the governing authority of the county or municipality in writing. The governing authority of any county or municipality so notified shall have 90 days within which to take the necessary corrective action to retain certification as a Local Issuing Authority. If the county or municipality does not take necessary corrective action within 90 days after notification by the division, the division shall revoke the certification of the county or municipality as a Local Issuing Authority.
(Ord. No. 2018-09, Exh. A, 6-4-18)
3.02.07 - Penalties and Incentives
A.
Failure to obtain a permit for land-disturbing activity. If any person commences any land-disturbing activity requiring a land-disturbing permit as prescribed in this ordinance without first obtaining said permit, the person shall be subject to revocation of his business license, work permit or other authorization for the conduct of a business and associated work activities within the jurisdictional boundaries of the Local Issuing Authority.
B.
Stop-work orders.
1.
For the first and second violations of the provisions of this ordinance, the Director or the Local Issuing Authority shall issue a written warning to the violator. The violator shall have three (3) days to correct the violation. If the violation is not corrected within three (3) days, the Director or the Local Issuing Authority shall issue a stop work order requiring that all work on the site be stopped until the stop work order is lifted or rescinded by the Director or the Local Issuing Authority; provided, however, that, if the violation presents an imminent threat to public health or waters of the state or if the land-disturbing activities are conducted without obtaining the necessary permit, the Director or the Local Issuing Authority shall issue an immediate stop-work order in lieu of a warning;
2.
For a third and each subsequent violation, the Director or the Local Issuing Authority shall issue an immediate stop work order; and;
3.
All stop work orders shall be effective immediately upon issuance and shall be in effect until the stop work order is lifted or rescinded by the Director or the Local Issuing Authority.
4.
When a violation in the form of taking action without a permit, failure to maintain a stream buffer, or significant amounts of sediment, as determined by the Local Issuing Authority or by the Director or his or her Designee, have been or are being discharged into state waters and where best management practices have not been properly designed, installed, and maintained, a stop work order shall be issued by the Local Issuing Authority or by the Director or his or her designee. All such stop work orders shall be effective immediately upon issuance and shall be in effect until the stop work order is lifted or rescinded by the Director or the Local Issuing Authority,
5.
Stop work orders referenced herein shall apply to all work activity on the site with the exception of the installation and maintenance of temporary or permanent erosion and sediment controls.
C.
Bond forfeiture. If, through inspection, it is determined that a permitee engaged in land-disturbing activity has failed to comply with the approved soil erosion sedimentation and pollution control plan, a written notice to comply shall be served upon that permitee. The notice shall set forth the measures necessary to achieve compliance with the plan and shall state the time within which such measures must be completed. If the permitee engaged in the land- disturbing activity fails to comply within the time specified, he shall be deemed in violation of this ordinance and, in addition to other penalties, shall be deemed to have forfeited his performance bond, if required to post one under the provisions of Chapter 3.02.05(B)(6). The Local Issuing Authority may call the bond or any part thereof to be forfeited and may use the proceeds to hire a contractor to stabilize the site of the land- disturbing activity and bring it into compliance.
D.
Monetary penalties.
1.
Any person who violates any provisions of this ordinance, or any permit condition or limitation established pursuant to this ordinance, or who negligently or intentionally fails or refuses to comply with any final or emergency order of the Director or Local Issuing Authority issued as provided in this ordinance shall be liable for a civil penalty not to exceed $2,500.00 per day for each violation, plus any surcharges or additional costs and/or fees. For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this ordinance, notwithstanding any provisions in any City charter to the contrary, the municipal court shall be authorized to impose a penalty not to exceed $2,500.00 for each violation. Each day during which violation or failure or refusal to comply continues shall be a separate violation. The monetary penalty set forth herein is not exclusive and is cumulative to other remedies available under the laws of Georgia or City ordinance.
2.
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter, there shall be a minimum penalty of $250.00 per day for each violation involving the construction of a single-family dwelling by or under contract with the owner for their own occupancy,
3.
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter, there shall be a minimum penalty of $ 1,000 per day for each violation involving land-disturbing activities.
(Ord. No. 2018-09, Exh. A, 6-4-18)
3.02.08 - Education and Certification
A.
Persons involved in land development design, review, permitting, construction, monitoring, or inspection or any land-disturbing activity shall meet the education and training certification requirements, dependent on their level of involvement with the process, as developed by the commission in consultation with the division and the stakeholder advisory board created pursuant to O.C.G.A. 12-7-20.
B.
For each site on which land-disturbing activity occurs, each entity or person acting as either a primary, secondary, or tertiary permittee, as defined in the state general permit, shall have as a minimum one person who is in responsible charge of erosion and sedimentation control activities on behalf of said entity or person and meets the applicable education or training certification requirements developed by the Commission present on site whenever land-disturbing activities are conducted on that site. A project site shall herein be defined as any land-disturbance site or multiple sites within a larger common plan of development or sale permitted by an owner or operator for compliance with the state general permit.
C.
Persons or entities involved in projects not requiring a state general permit but otherwise requiring certified personnel on site may contract with certified persons to meet the requirements of this ordinance.
D.
If a state general permittee who has operational control of land-disturbing activities for a site has met the certification requirements of paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of O.C.G.A. 12-7-19, then any person or entity involved in land-disturbing activity at that site and operating in a subcontractor capacity for such permittee shall meet those educational requirements specified in paragraph (4) of subsection (b) of O.C.G.A 12-7-19 and shall not be required to meet any educational requirements that exceed those specified in said paragraph,
(Ord. No. 2018-09, Exh. A, 6-4-18)
3.02.09 - Administrative Appeal and Judicial Review
A.
Administrative remedies.
1.
The suspension, revocation, modification or grant with condition of a permit by the Local Issuing Authority upon finding that the holder is not in compliance with the approved erosion, sediment and pollution control plan; or that the holder is in violation of permit conditions; or that the holder is in violation of any ordinance; shall entitle the permittee submitting the plan or the permitee to a hearing before the Mayor and City Council of the City of Kennesaw within thirty (30) days after receipt by the Local Issuing Authority of written notice of appeal.
2.
Variances involving the first twenty-five feet (25') of undisturbed natural vegetative buffer, as measured horizontally from both stream banks, can only be granted by EPD. Appeals must be directed to that office with a copy provided to the Director and LIA.
3.
Variances involving the second twenty-five feet (25'), which is between twenty-five feet (25') to fifty feet (50'), of undisturbed natural vegetative buffer as measured horizontally from both stream banks, and activity within the third 25-foot buffer (area where no impervious cover may be installed) can be granted by the mayor and city council of the City of Kennesaw. Variances will only be considered in cases of practical difficulty or necessary hardships as outlined in the Chapter 9.02.00 et seq., variance procedures. All requirements described in Chapter 9.02.00 et seq. variance procedures must be met and the request filed with the Planning and Zoning Department to be heard by mayor and city council.
B.
Judicial review. Any person, aggrieved by a decision or order of the Local Issuing Authority, after exhausting his administrative remedies as set forth in Chapter 3.02.09, shall have the right to appeal denovo to the Superior Court of Cobb County.
(Ord. No. 2018-09, Exh. A, 6-4-18)
3.02.10 - Effectivity, Validity and Liability
A.
Effectivity. This ordinance shall become effective on the 4 th day of June 2018.
B.
Validity. If any section, paragraph, clause, phrase, or provision of this ordinance shall be adjudged invalid or held unconstitutional, such decisions shall not affect the remaining portions of this ordinance.
C.
Liability.
1.
Neither the approval of a plan under the provisions of this ordinance, grant of a permit, nor the compliance with provisions of this ordinance shall relieve any person from the responsibility for damage to any person or property otherwise imposed by law nor impose any liability upon the Local Issuing Authority or District for damage to any person or property.
2.
The fact that a land-disturbing activity for which a permit has been issued results in injury to the property of another shall neither constitute proof of nor create a presumption of a violation of the standards provided for in this ordinance or the terms of the permit.
3.
No provision of this ordinance shall permit any persons to violate the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975, and as amended, the Georgia Water Quality Control Act or the rules and regulations promulgated and approved thereunder or pollute any Waters of the State as defined thereby.
(Ord. No. 2018-09, Exh. A, 6-4-18)
3.03.00 - WATER SUPPLY AND WATERSHEDS (CHAPTER 46 OF THE CITY CODE OF ORDINANCE)
3.04.00 - WETLANDS (CHAPTER 46 OF THE CITY CODE OF ORDINANCE)
3.05.00 - STREAM BUFFER PROTECTION (CHAPTER 46 OF THE CITY CODE OF ORDINANCE)
3.06.00 - CHATTAHOOCHEE RIVER TRIBUTARY PROTECTION

3.06.01 - Intent and Purpose
The intent of this article is to provide procedures and standards for review and approval of use of all land which is in the drainage basin of any tributary which flows into the Chattahoochee River. It is the purpose of this ordinance to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to erosion, reduction of stream quality and vitality, or changes in hydraulic characteristics in specific areas by provisions designed to:
1.
Restrict or prohibit land disturbing activities, adjacent to tributary streams, which lead to increases in erosion or to increased flood heights and velocities;
2.
Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural protective barriers;
3.
Preserve and protect water and land resources in the Chattahoochee River watershed by protecting fish and wildlife habitats, water quality, preventing erosion of stream banks or siltation of streams, and maintaining cool water temperatures and adequate food supplies;
4.
Protect, conserve, and promote the orderly and efficient development of water and land resources.
This section is adopted pursuant to the requirements of O.C.G.A. § 12-5-453(a).
3.06.02 - Establishment of a Tributary Protection Area
The "Chattahoochee River Tributary Protection Area" hereinafter referred to as the "protection area;" is defined and established to be the stream channel and all the land within the 1st Class stream boundary and 2nd Class stream boundary of all 1st Class and 2nd Class flowing tributaries of the Chattahoochee River downstream from Buford Dam and upstream from Peachtree Creek as indicated on the Chattahoochee Tributary Map.
3.06.03 - Permit
No person shall engage in any land disturbing activity or otherwise alter the hydraulic or vegetative characteristics of a protection area within a 1st Class stream boundary or a 2nd Class stream boundary of any 1st Class or 2nd Class stream as identified on the Chattahoochee Tributary Map without first having obtained a development permit from the zoning administrator.
3.06.04 - Exceptions
The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
1.
Any public agency or its contractor exempted by law from the application of this ordinance;
2.
Any person performing work within a right-of-way of any public agency pursuant to a permit issued by such public agency;
3.
Emergency work necessary to preserve life or property. When emergency work is performed under this section the person performing it shall report the pertinent facts relating to the work to the zoning administrator within three days after commencement of the work and shall thereafter obtain a development permit and perform such work as may be determined to be reasonably necessary to correct any impairment such emergency work may have caused to the water quality, stability, or water conveyance capacity of the protection area;
4.
Work consisting of the operation, repair or maintenance of any lawful use of land existing on the date of adoption of this ordinance or January 1, 1984, whichever is earlier;
5.
Any project which had a development plan approved by any officer, department, board or bureau of the City of Kennesaw on or before January 1, 1984.
3.07.00 - LANDSCAPING AND TREE REQUIREMENTS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2015-14, Att., adopted Dec. 21, 2015, repealed the former § 3.07.00, and enacted a new section as set out herein. The former § 3.07.00 pertained landscaping, buffers, and tree conservation and replacement.

3.07.01 - Purpose
The purposes of this chapter are to:
1.
Protect and maintain the urban forest by managing the impact of development.
2.
Preserve the environmental and aesthetic assets of the community by requiring tree planting and landscaping for development.
3.
Provide protection from removal for all trees, without a permit, within the city unless exempted.
4.
Provide the necessary information to facilitate development project design, plan review, and enforcement processes in order that the provisions of the ordinance are administered in the most effective, efficient and economical manner.
(Ord. No. 2015-14, Att., 12-21-15)
3.07.02 - Application
The terms, provisions and standards of this Chapter shall apply to any activity, private and/or governmental, on real property, which requires the issuance of a land disturbance permit or creates a land disturbance through the use of motorized vehicles within the City of Kennesaw. (Chapter 46, Article III)
(Ord. No. 2015-14, Att., 12-21-15)
3.07.03 - Definitions
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Buffer. Any visual buffer or screening required by this chapter or any other pertinent section of the city zoning regulations.
City or the words "the city" means the City of Kennesaw, Georgia or any designated employee thereof.
Critical Root Zone (CRZ) means the minimum area beneath a tree which must be left undisturbed in order to preserve a sufficient root mass to give a tree a reasonable chance of survival. The CRZ will typically be represented by a concentric circle centering on the tree's trunk with a radius equal in feet to one and one-half times the number of inches of the trunk diameter.
Clearing. The removal of trees or other vegetation of two inches dbh or greater.
Diameter at Breast Height (DBH). The diameter or width of the main stem of a tree as measured 4.5 feet above the natural grade at its base. Whenever a branch, limb, defect or abnormal swelling of the trunk occurs at this height, the diameter at breast height (dbh) shall be measured at the nearest point above or below 4.5 feet at which a normal diameter occurs.
Director means the Director of Public Works or his/her designee.
Existing Density Factor (EDF) means density of existing trees to be conserved on a site.
Landscape Plan. A map and supporting documentation which describes for a particular site where vegetation is to be retained or provided in compliance with the requirements of this chapter. The landscape plan shall include any required buffer elements.
Pervious Area means an area of a parcel that allows the penetration, percolation or soaking of rain water into the ground. Also known as "Green Area" or "Green Space".
Street Yard means an area of a lot which lies between the street right-of-way line and the actual front wall line of the building, as such building wall line extends from the outward corners of the building, parallel to the street, until such imaginary extensions of such front building wall lines intersect the side property lines. In determining the actual building wall of the building for the purposes of this definition, steps and unenclosed porches shall be excluded, but such building wall line shall follow and include the irregular indentations of the building. A front building wall is a building wall fronting on a street. On corner lots the street yard shall consist of all the area of such lot between all abutting street right-of-way lines and their corresponding actual front building wall lines, as such lines are extended in the manner provided in this definition. When there are multiple buildings on a lot, the street yard shall consist of all the area of the lot between the street right-of-way line and an imaginary line beginning at one side of the property line, running parallel to the street, connecting to the front most corner of the building wall fronting the street and nearest such side property line, then following and connecting the front most walls of all buildings fronting on the street, and then extending to the other side property line, running parallel to the street. If a building has a rounded front, the front building wall corners shall be the points closest to the side boundaries; provided, however, that isolated buildings (e.g., fast food restaurants in a shopping center, photo processing drop-offs, bank drive-through, etc.) shall not be considered in delineating the street yard. Notwithstanding all of the foregoing, on land used only for parking purposes or only as a commercial or private parking lot, the street yard shall consist of the area between the street right-of-way line and the back property line.
Tree Density Factor (TDF) means the minimum number of trees required to be maintained on a developed site.
(Ord. No. 2015-14, Att., 12-21-15)
3.07.04 - General Provisions Tree Removal and Permit Requirements
1.
A Tree Removal Permit shall be obtained prior to the removal of any tree (DEAD or ALIVE) from all residential and/or commercial property located within the city limits.
a.
A Permit Application is available on-line from the City Website or can be picked up at the Public Works Department.
b.
Properties within the Historic District shall comply with Chapter 4.02.01 in addition the requirements outlined in this Section.
i.
Applicants shall be required to pay an application fee for a Certificate of Appropriateness when applying for a permit within the Historic District in an amount as set forth by the city.
ii.
All applications shall be reviewed by the Historic Preservation Committee.
2.
Removal of Trees on Residential Properties.
a.
A permit is required for the removal of any tree five (5) inches in diameter and larger (measured at 4.5 feet above the ground). Trees smaller than 5 inches in circumference (measured at 4.5 feet above the ground) are not regulated.
b.
Removal of trees within common areas of residential neighborhoods such as clubhouses, tennis courts, pools, neighborhood entrances, etc. will be treated as commercial properties.
3.
Removal of Trees on Commercial Sites
a.
A permit shall be secured prior to the commencement of any planting, removal, trimming, or cutting of trees subject to this chapter. For purposes of this subsection, a landscape plan approved in writing by the City constitutes a permit.
b.
No land disturbance permit for full site development shall be issued without it being determined that the proposed development is in compliance with the provisions of these regulations and Chapter 46, Article III.
c.
The City shall have the authority to review all requests for permits to grant or deny permits or attach reasonable conditions to the permits.
d.
Permits are not required for city, county and state department of transportation projects so long as tree preservation and protection requirements are included in the project.
(Ord. No. 2015-14, Att., 12-21-15)
3.07.05 - Landscape Plan Required
1.
Landscape plans shall be provided for all projects that exceed one (1) acre. The landscaping plan shall be prepared by, and bear the seal of, a landscape architect or professional engineer licensed to practice in the State of Georgia prior to the issuance of a building permit.
2.
The landscape plan shall:
a.
Be drawn to scale and include property boundaries, north arrow, graphic scale, and date.
b.
Include a vegetation survey, including an aerial photograph which outlines the subject site, provided at the same scale as the landscape plan.
c.
Delineate existing and proposed structures, parking spaces, driveways and other vehicular use areas, sidewalks, utilities, easements, height and voltage of power lines on the property or adjacent property.
d.
Critical layout dimensions for trees, plant beds and landscape features.
e.
Method(s) to protect and relocate trees and native plant communities during construction.
f.
Indicate the common and scientific name and quantity of plants to be installed.
g.
Identify all landscape features and non-living landscape materials.
h.
Show all areas of vegetation required to be preserved by law, including but not limited to trees, specimen trees, native plant species, native habitats and wetlands.
i.
Illustrate geologic, historic and archeological features to be preserved.
j.
Depict stormwater retention/detention areas and areas excluded from maximum permitted lawn area.
k.
Irrigation system details, if irrigation is provided.
(Ord. No. 2015-14, Att., 12-21-15)
3.07.06 - Vegetation and Tree Survey
1.
A vegetation survey shall be provided for all sites at the same scale as the landscape plan. The vegetation survey shall be accompanied by an aerial photograph which outlines the subject site without obscuring its features.
2.
All trees that are to be counted toward meeting density requirements must be inventoried. Trees in other protected zones; such as stream buffers and flood plains need not be inventoried.
3.
Sampling methods may be used to determine tree densities for large forested areas, subject to prior written approval of the City. Written guidelines for performing sample inventories can be obtained from the Director.
4.
Accurate locations for specimen trees shall be shown on the plan with an indication of whether they are to be retained or removed.
5.
Delineate all ground cover types (including pasture or forest) on the site and a general description of the types of trees and range of tree sizes in each forest-cover type [e.g. mixed pine and upland hardwoods 12 to 20 inches DBH].
(Ord. No. 2015-14, Att., 12-21-15)
3.07.07 - Density Factor Analysis
A.
Overview
1.
A basic requirement of this Chapter is that all applicable sites maintain a minimum number of trees on the developed site, based on pervious (green) area.
2.
The Tree Density requirement shall be met independent of whether a site had trees prior to development. The density may be achieved by counting existing trees to be conserved, planting new trees or some combination of the two.
B.
Tree Density Factor
1.
The tree density factor is dependent on the pervious area available based on the following equation: Tree Density Factor = Pervious Area (in square feet) ÷ 2750.
C.
Existing Density Factor (EDF)
1.
Trees that exist in any 100-year flood plain, stream buffers, wetland, or utility easements, cannot be counted toward meeting tree density requirements. These areas shall not be included in the "Pervious Area".
2.
The EDF is calculated by dividing the diameter of each tree by 12, i.e., a 12-inch tree has a value of one (1) tree, a 24-inch tree has a value of two (2) trees. No trees less than 5 inches in diameter shall be counted as an existing tree.
3.
Specimen Trees
a.
Some trees on a site warrant special consideration and encouragement for conservation. These trees are referred to as specimen trees.
b.
The following criteria shall be used to identify specimen trees. Both the size and condition criteria must be met for a tree to qualify.
i.
Over story hardwoods and non-pine softwoods: seventeen (17) inch diameter or larger;
ii.
Over story pines: thirty (30) inch diameter or larger;
iii.
Understory trees: eight (8) inch diameter or larger.
c.
Condition criteria
i.
Life expectancy of greater than fifteen (15) years;
ii.
Relatively sound and solid trunk with no extensive decay;
iii.
No more than one (1) major and several minor dead limbs (hardwoods only);
iv.
No major insect or pathological problem.
d.
Conservation. In order to encourage the conservation of specimen trees and the incorporation of these trees into the design of projects, additional density credit will be given for specimen trees which are successfully saved by a design feature specifically designated for such purpose. Credit for any specimen tree thus saved would be one and one-quarter (1¼) times the assigned unit value for existing trees.
e.
Removal and Replacement.
i.
If a specimen tree is to be removed, a plan or written document indicating the reason for the removal shall be submitted to the Director for approval.
ii.
Specimen trees must be replaced by species with comparable growth rate and potential for comparable size and quality.
iii.
Any specimen tree removed without the required review and approval of the Director shall be replaced by trees with a total density equal to three (3) times the unit value of the tree removed. If a tree is removed without approval and there is no evidence of its condition, size alone will determine whether the tree was of specimen quality. The CRZ of the specimen tree shall remain pervious.
D.
Replacement Density Factor
1.
Additional (Tree) Density Factor (ADF) is the number of new trees to be planted on a site.
2.
Calculate the ADF by subtracting the EDF from the TDF (ADF= TDF - EDF).
3.
All replacement trees shall be, at a minimum, from 3-inches to 4-inches in diameter.
4.
Any number or combination of transplant-sized trees can be used as long as the total Tree Density Factor units will equal or exceed the TDF, the trees are included on the attached list, and the species mix is acceptable to the City.
E.
Additional Density Requirements
1.
Subdivision and multi-family developments
a.
Every lot in a subdivision shall have a minimum number of trees:
i.
Lot Area Less than 0.20 acres: 2 trees
ii.
Lot Area Larger than 0.2 acres: No. of Trees = area of lot (acres to one decimal point) × 10
b.
These trees can be counted as part of the required trees (TDF).
c.
At least twenty (20) percent of the required trees, and a minimum of one tree, must be planted in the front street yard area.
d.
This requirement shall apply to the owner/developer or homebuilder, whoever is responsible for obtaining the certificate of occupancy for the individual lot.
e.
Subdivision amenity/recreation areas shall meet all tree ordinance density requirements as part of the overall subdivision.
2.
Commercial and Industrial Developments
a.
A sufficient number of trees must be planted in interior portions of parking lots to achieve a minimum ratio of one (1) tree per twelve (12) parking spaces.
b.
In addition, every parking space must be within fifty (50) feet of the trunk of a tree to assure uniform distribution of trees throughout the parking area.
c.
Any redevelopment project which results in the removal and resurfacing of fifteen (15) percent or more of an existing parking lot (other than sealing or patching), must retrofit the entire parking lot to meet the tree planting standard in the previous paragraph.
d.
All street yards shall be planted with one tree for each thirty-five (35) linear feet exclusive of driveways, access ways and sight distance triangles. Trees planted to meet the parking lot and street yard requirements must meet or exceed the minimum standards specified under this section, but there may be an additional requirement if the TDF requirement is met elsewhere on the site.
3.
Out parcels that are part of larger shopping or commercial centers shall meet all tree density requirements separate from the overall shopping center.
4.
Grading only permits
a.
Grading projects, for which no full site plans have been submitted for review by the City, are subject to the same buffer requirements as development or redevelopment projects.
b.
The grading plan shall conform to the review requirements as set forth in the UDC Chapter 10.
c.
An estimated completion date must be noted on the plan. Buffer areas that must be landscaped shall be planted at the completion of the grading projects or postponed to an appropriate planting season, provided that appropriate performance security arrangements are made in accordance with Chapter 10.10.04. Planted buffers are subject to maintenance inspection procedures.
5.
Speculative grading may be postponed for up to six months provided that appropriate performance security arrangements are made in accordance with this Section.
6.
Tree Density requirements for additions to existing projects may be met in one of the following ways:
a.
Calculate the area of any new land disturbance and/or improvements and add replacement trees based on that area (existing trees elsewhere on the site may not be counted with this option); or,
b.
Base density requirements on the total site area and count any existing trees on the site (subject to all restrictions noted elsewhere in these standards).
7.
Phased projects.
a.
If a tract is to be developed in phases, a separate permit shall be required for each phase as appropriate.
b.
Density calculations must be based on a site area established for each phase line or construction limit line. Existing trees to be counted toward meeting the density requirements must be within the limits of the phase line.
c.
Time limit on approval. A permit shall be valid for 12 months. In the event the permittee has not begun the permitted work within 12 months, the permit shall lapse and a new permit must be obtained before work can begin. Once work is begun under a valid permit the permittee may continue the permitted work until the work is completed. Any permit, including grandfathered projects, will automatically lapse after 12 months of inactivity, unless the developer has obtained an extension from the director.
(Ord. No. 2015-14, Att., 12-21-15)
3.07.08 - Conservation of Mature Trees
A.
Developers shall make all reasonable efforts to protect retained mature trees' critical root zones on the site using tree save fence or other approved method during the construction within the development site and abutting properties according to the following guidelines:
1.
On lots and subdivisions of one (1) acre or more,
a.
The applicant shall identify environmentally sensitive areas as part of the site plan design.
b.
Such areas shall include wetlands, flood plains, permanent and intermittent streams with associated buffers, mature stands of trees and other significant aspects of the natural environment on the site.
c.
Limits of disturbance to these areas shall be established and detailed on the site plan.
d.
In order to protect the more environmentally sensitive areas, development shall be confined to the portion of the lot required for the intended construction.
e.
These limits also to apply to priority trail and green space corridors as defined by the greenway and trail plan established by the City.
2.
On lots and subdivisions of less than one (1) acre,
a.
Root save areas shall be established in the setback and required yard areas to preserve mature trees in those areas.
b.
Grading, trenching, or other land disturbance in these areas shall be limited to necessary storm drainage improvements, erosion control measures and access to streets, sidewalks, driveways, utility connections (power, water, cable) or other features required by code.
3.
A maximum of ten (10%) percent of the trees in a designated 100-year flood plain, but outside applicable stream buffer zones, may be approved for removal or destruction. Recompense to the tree bank for trees removed or destroyed in designated wetlands or flood plain shall be calculated separately and multiplied by a factor of five (5) before being added to the recompense for other areas of the site.
(Ord. No. 2015-14, Att., 12-21-15)
3.07.09 - Maintenance of Trees
A.
The city requires a surety for landscape performance and maintenance related to development or redevelopment of property. These requirements are defined in Section 80-184 of the City of Kennesaw Code of Ordinances.
B.
The developer shall be responsible for maintaining the health of all replacement trees and landscape vegetation for a period of one (1) year from the date of the last certificate of occupancy issued for the subdivision or project.
C.
The developer shall replace any tree that dies, becomes significantly deformed in growth, or becomes diseased during this time period.
(Ord. No. 2015-14, Att., 12-21-15)
3.07.10 - Tree Conservation Standards
A.
Tree Inventories and Surveys
1.
All trees that are to be counted toward meeting density requirements shall be inventoried. Trees in other protected zones; such as stream buffers and flood plains need not be inventoried.
2.
Sampling methods may be used to determine tree densities for large forested areas, subject to prior approval of the City. Written guidelines for performing sample inventories can be obtained from the Director.
3.
Specimen trees shall be shown on the plan with an indication of whether they are to be retained or removed. Accurate locations are requested when the conservation of a specimen tree is questionable or when a site design alteration is feasible. Approximate locations are acceptable otherwise.
4.
Projects over one (1) acre must provide a landscape plan delineating all ground cover types (including pasture or forest) on the site and a general description of the types of trees and range of tree sizes in each forest-cover type [e.g. mixed pine and upland hardwoods 12 to 20 inches DBH].
5.
Any specimen tree that has a surveyed location shown on the plan will receive one and one-quarter (1¼) the normal unit value credit if there is to be no construction activity in that tree's CRZ. These trees must be represented on the plan by a circle the size of the CRZ.
(Ord. No. 2015-14, Att., 12-21-15)
3.07.11 - Buffer Zones
1.
All properties zoned commercial, office institutional, and industrial zoned shall establish a buffer along any property line that abuts a residential district. This standard also applies to screening from residential property separated by right-of-way and transmission easements.
2.
All properties zoned mixed use and multi-family shall establish a buffer zone along any property line abutting a single family residential district. This standard also applies to screening from single family residential property that is separated by right-of-way and transmission easements.
3.
Buffer zones shall incorporate tree specimens that will provide total screening of activity from property lines.
4.
Combination of berms, hedges and tree installation to accomplish the intent of these standards shall be approved by the Director. Installation height for trees in these zones shall be at least five feet and be of an evergreen variety.
5.
Landscaping buffer zones will meet the following minimum widths for each district:
3.07 LI and HI - 50 feet
3.08 PVC, PSC, HGB, GC - 40 feet
3.09 CRC, NRC - 35 feet
3.10 RM-8, RM-12, MHP - 25 feet
3.11 OI, NS - 20 feet
3.12 PUD-RRA-4, FST, HPV, UVC - 10 feet
3.13 SLO - 10 feet
3.14 HIS See historic district regulations
6.
For subdivisions, all buffers shall be delineated on the final plat and identified as tree conservation easements. Final plats shall also identify any individual lots with other tree conservation and/or planting requirements. These lots shall be identified on the plat with a symbol and a corresponding note indicating the homebuilder's responsibility for such tree conservation and/or planting requirements.
Protection of Trees during Construction
1.
Developers shall make all reasonable efforts to protect retained trees during the construction process, including, but not limited to, the following measures:
a.
Placing protective barriers around trees, and marking such areas with "tree save area" signs;
b.
Not grading, excavating, or locating utilities within the trees' critical root zone (CRZ);
c.
Maintaining the CRZ as a pervious surface; and,
d.
Maintaining the topsoil in the CRZ and preventing siltation.
2.
Tree protection devices shall be installed prior to the issuance of a land use permit for any clearing and/or grading. Tree protection shall consist of chain link fencing, orange laminated plastic fencing supported by posts, rail fencing, or other equivalent restraining material. Tree protection devices shall remain in functioning condition throughout all phases of development and shall be subject to inspection by the Director. (See Figure).
(Ord. No. 2015-14, Att., 12-21-15; Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 6(Exh. C), 6-21-21)
3.07.12 - Tree Replacement Standards
A.
Tree replacement plans should be prepared with appropriate consideration given to the function of trees in the urban landscape. Every effort should be made to maximize the environmental benefit of the plant material.
B.
Planting Specifications.
1.
Trees selected for planting must be free from injury, pests, disease, nutritional disorders, or root defects, and must be of good vigor in order to ensure a reasonable expectation of survival.
2.
Standards for transplanting shall be in keeping with those established in the International Society of Arboriculture publication, Tree and Shrub Transplanting Manual, or similar publication. Reference the American Association of Nurserymen publication, American Standard for Nursery Stock (ANSI Z60, 1973), for plant material quality specifications. Reference the Manual of Woody Landscape Plants (Michael Dirr, 1983 Castle Books), or similar publication, for information on tree species site requirements.
C.
Species.
1.
Species must be selected from the "Kennesaw Tree Species Selection List" shown in Appendix A. All trees shall be quality specimens and ecologically compatible with the intended growing site.
2.
Flowering ornamental species are typically not acceptable for use in meeting density requirements.
3.
When less than ten (10) trees are shown to be planted on a project, one (1) species of tree may be specified. When ten (10) to fifty (50) trees are shown, a minimum of three (3) species of trees is required. When more than fifty (50) trees are shown, a minimum of five (5) species of trees is required.
4.
Where summer shading is required or recommended, the use of deciduous over story tree species is necessary.
D.
Parking Lots and Street Yards.
1.
All root zones must be a minimum of eight (8) feet in width (measured from back-of-curb where curbing is installed or edge or pavement otherwise).
2.
The root zone for over story trees must be a minimum of 200 square feet. If that area is shared with other trees, add 100 square feet for each additional tree.
3.
The root zone for understory trees must be a minimum of 100 square feet. If that area is shared with other understory trees, add fifty (50) square feet for each additional tree.
4.
Parking lot islands, peninsulas and medians must have clean, cultivated soil to a total depth of two and one-half (2½) feet. Native subsoil, free of construction debris and litter, is acceptable in parking lot islands, peninsulas and medians if the entire area is amended with appropriate soil improvements and thoroughly tilled. Otherwise, loamy topsoil is required.
5.
Parking lot islands, peninsulas and medians must be mulched with four (4) inches of suitable mulch material, replaced as needed. To discourage soil compaction from pedestrian traffic, these areas may be planted with low evergreen shrubs but not with grass.
6.
Light poles are prohibited in parking lot islands, peninsulas and medians unless a plan is submitted by the lighting contractor showing minimum impact to the root zone.
7.
No fastigiated (narrow-crowned) varieties of trees are permissible in parking lots.
8.
Trees planted to meet parking lot and street yard requirements must be over story trees, a minimum of three (3) inches in diameter.
9.
The use of at-grade planting areas in parking lots to promote storm water runoff and to supplement irrigation needs is encouraged, provided that the trees planted there will not be adversely impacted and that the system is designed by a licensed, professional civil engineer.
10.
Where street yard trees will be planted near the edge of pavement of a public street with a design speed of forty-five (45) mph or higher, or in areas beneath overhead utility lines, the use of an understory species is required.
E.
Root Barriers. Root barriers are required in parking lot islands, peninsulas, medians and alongside sidewalks. Root barriers must be commercially produce for the purpose of deflecting tree roots downward. Root barriers are typically made of polypropylene, polyethylene, or polystyrene, at least 0.060 inches thick, with vertical root guides every six (6) inches. Root barrier products should specify use as a tree root barrier.
F.
Irrigation. Newly planted trees and existing trees subjected to construction impacts, typically need supplemental watering when rainfall is inadequate. Commercial project applicants should be prepared to discuss how trees are to be watered during their establishment or transition period, and may be required to submit a maintenance schedule. Their plan should indicate the method of irrigation that is proposed.
G.
Public Streets Rights-of-Way.
1.
No Trees may be planted within publicly-maintained street rights-of-way.
H.
Subdivisions.
1.
Trees shown to be planted in common areas within a subdivision (outside of amenity areas) shall be planted by the subdivision owner/developer. These trees must be in place before the final plat is approved.
2.
Trees shown to be planted on individual lots must be planted by the owner/homebuilder. These trees must be in place before the certificate of occupancy for the affected lot is approved.
(Ord. No. 2015-14, Att., 12-21-15)
3.07.13 - Alternative Compliance
1.
In situations where the tree conservation and replacement requirements cannot be met because a project site will not bear the required density of trees, a request for alternative compliance may be submitted to the Director. In no instance shall more than fifty (50) percent of the required site density factor be met through alternative compliance.
2.
Parking Lot and Street Yard Requirements.
a.
If sufficient cause is demonstrated that the parking lot and street yard planting requirements cannot be met, a request for alternative compliance which is equal to (or exceeds) the minimum requirements may be submitted to the Director.
b.
Sufficient cause is deemed to be when enforcing any of the parking lot or street yard requirements would cause the applicant to violate any state or federal law or any City ordinance or zoning stipulation specific to the applicant.
c.
A land disturbance permit will only be issued after the Director has approved and received the necessary documentation and funds if required.
3.
Alternative compliance methods include the following.
a.
Off-site Planting.
•
The off-site location, if at all possible, should be in the same area of the city as the project site and shall be on public property.
•
A tree replacement plan, meeting all applicable standards in these guidelines, must be reviewed and approved by the Director before any work is started.
•
The following note must be shown on the approved plan: "A tree replacement plan addendum for this project shall be submitted to the Director at least thirty (30) days prior to requesting a final inspection. This plan shall include the species, size and location of trees to be planted off-site to meet the tree density deficit shown. Release of this project is subject to approval of this plan as well as verification of the installation of the trees."
b.
City Tree Bank Fund. The City will accept contributions to the tree bank fund which will be used for the sole purpose of planting trees and landscaping material on public property. The locations of plantings will be determined by the Director. Calculating contribution amounts are as follows:
i.
Contribution calculations are based on a tree unit value of $400.00 each, representing material costs, labor, maintenance and guarantee for trees planted.
ii.
To determine the appropriate contribution, first calculate the tree density factor deficit (TFD) or unit value that cannot be planted-on site then multiply by $400.00 per tree.
iii.
Fund administration. The City Tree Bank fund will be administered by the City.
(Ord. No. 2015-14, Att., 12-21-15)
3.07.14 - Public Tree Protection and Care
A.
Except as hereinafter provided, no person except a public utility shall cut, prune, injure or remove any living tree on or in a public highway, right-of-way, public park, public place, triangle, sidewalk, or other public property; or cut or disturb or interfere in any way with the roots of any tree on public property; or spray with any chemical insecticide or herbicide or other oils or whitewash any tree on public property; or place any wire, rope, sign, poster, barricade, or other fixture on a tree or tree guard on public property; or injure, misuse or remove any device placed to protect any such tree, or for any entity, utility, citizen, or tree care company or government to trench, cut, grade, clear, or fill within the critical root zone of any public tree without the expressed written consent of the Director.
B.
It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or government entity/department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from this provision of this ordinance by receipt of written consent of the Director for each instance allowing such actions.
C.
The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees, plants and shrubs within the rights-of-way of all streets, parks, squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary to insure public safety and wellbeing.
D.
All tree work taking place on public property being conducted by contractors, sub-contractors, or county/city employees will conform to International Society of Arboriculture and ANSI 300 and Z-133 arboricultural standards for tree work.
E.
It may become necessary, from time to time for emergency crews to prune or remove trees to provide for public safety or restore phone or electrical service. Such an action may be conducted by government, emergency or public utility crews without permit so as to allow immediate action to prevent damage or correct a condition which may pose a hazard to life or property. The Director shall be notified of any such action within 24 hours of the action being initiated, by the entity taking such action, for each instance of action.
(Ord. No. 2015-14, Att., 12-21-15)
3.07.15 - Notification and Penalties for Damaging Trees on Public Property
A.
Any person who shall injure, damage or destroy any public tree situated upon the public right-of-way of any street, alley, sidewalk, park or other public property within the city shall promptly notify the Director of such fact and shall, within such reasonable time as specified by the Director, repair or replace the same to the satisfaction of the Director.
B.
Should the person fail or refuse to repair or replace the damaged or destroyed trees or plants within such reasonable time, the Director shall do or cause to be done the necessary repairing or replacement, and the costs of this work shall be recovered from the person responsible for the damage or destruction by, a proper action of law. In any such action, "The Guide for Establishing Values of Trees and Other Plants," published by the Council of Trees and Landscape Appraisers, current edition, shall form the basis for establishing any monetary damages due for damage or destruction to the tree. In addition, the City may recover any other damages or losses to which it is entitled by law.
(Ord. No. 2015-14, Att., 12-21-15)
City of Kennesaw Tree Species Selection List
EXPAND
Species/Name Size Class
1 Ash, Green Large
2 Bald Cypress Medium
3 Basswood, American Large
4 Beech, American Large
5 Birch, River Medium
6 Black Gum, Tupelo Medium
7 Buckthorn, Carolina Medium
8 Catalpa, Southern Medium
9 Cedar, Deodar Medium
10 Cedar, Lebanon Medium
11 Cherry Laurel, Carolina Medium
12 Elm, American Large
13 Elm, Winged Large
14 Hickory (spp.) Large
15 Hornbeam, American Medium
16 Locust, Black (seedless) Medium
17 Magnolia, Southern Large
18 Magnolia, Southern "Little Gem" Medium
19 Maple, Red Medium
20 Maple, Southern Sugar Medium
21 Maple, Sugar Large
22 Oak, Black Large
23 Oak, Chestnut Large
24 Oak, Darlington Large
25 Oak, Laurel Large
26 Oak, Northern Red Large
27 Oak, Nuttall Large
28 Oak, Overcup Large
29 Oak, Post Large
30 Oak, Sawtooth Large
31 Oak, Scarlet Large
32 Oak, Shumard Large
33 Oak, Southern Red Large
34 Oak, Water Large
35 Oak, White Large
36 Oak, Willow Large
37 Pecan Large
38 Pine, Virginia Medium
39 Popular, Tulip Large
40 Red Cedar, Eastern Medium
41 Redwood, Dawn Medium
42 Sassafras Medium
43 Silver Bell, Carolina Medium
44 Sourwood Medium
45 Sweet Gum, Fruitless Large
46 Sycamore, American Large
47 Tupelo, Swamp Large
48 Walnut, Black Large
49 Yellowwood, American Medium
  Chapter 4 - SITE DESIGN STANDARDS
4.00.00 - GENERALLY

4.00.01 - Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to provide design standards applicable to all development activity within the City of Kennesaw. This chapter also provides design standards applicable in specific situations, such as development within overlay districts or development of specific uses that require additional standards to address potential impacts.
4.00.02 - Principles of Site Design and Development
Development design shall first take into account the protection of environmental and natural resources as set forth in Chapter 3. All development shall be designed to avoid unnecessary impervious surface cover; to provide adequate access to lots and sites; and to avoid adverse effects of shadow, glare, noise, odor, traffic, drainage, and utilities on surrounding properties.
4.00.03 - Applicability
The design standards set forth in this chapter apply to all development in the City of Kennesaw.
4.01.00 - SITE DESIGN STANDARDS FOR BASE ZONING DISTRICTS

4.01.01 - Application of Regulations
A.
Use. No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no building or structure or part hereof shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered in nonconformity with the regulations of this ordinance or amendments thereto, for the district in which it is located.
B.
Height and density. Unless a proper variance is granted, no building shall hereafter be erected or altered so as:
1.
To exceed the height limits;
2.
To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
3.
To occupy a greater percentage of lot area; or
4.
To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards, courtyards or other open spaces, than herein required; or in any other manner contrary to the provisions of this ordinance.
C.
Lot size. Unless a proper variance is granted, no lot, even though consisting of one or more adjacent lots of record, shall be reduced in size so that the lot width or depth, front, side or rear yards, lot area per family or other criteria of this ordinance are not maintained. This section shall not apply when a portion of a lot is acquired for a public purpose.
D.
Yard use limitations. Unless a proper variance is granted, no part of a yard, other open space, off-street parking or loading space required about any building for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this ordinance shall be included as a part of the yard, off-street parking or loading space required for another building.
E.
Annexed land. Any parcel or parcels of land annexed to the City of Kennesaw in the future shall follow rezoning procedures and be rezoned to a City of Kennesaw zoning category. If the zoning designation is the same as Cobb County's the fee for application shall be waived.
F.
Use prohibited when not specified. If not otherwise stated, any use not specifically permitted in a use district as provided under this UDC Chapter, shall be prohibited in that district.
G.
Double frontage lot. Where an existing double frontage lot faces a residential district on one side and nonresidential district on the opposite side, such a lot when zoned UVC, CRC, GC, HI, or LI shall have vehicular access only from the major thoroughfare; and all signs and advertising, if permitted in the UVC, CRC, GC, HI, and LI district, shall face the major thoroughfare.
H.
Buffer required.
1.
A buffer shall be required for the following:
a.
All property zoned for commercial, office-professional, and industrial uses shall have a buffer along any rear and side property lines abutting a residential district or a front property line abutting a public street across from a residential district.
b.
All property zoned for multifamily and mixed uses shall have a buffer along any rear and side property lines abutting a single-family residential district or a front property line abutting a public street across from a single-family residential district.
c.
All commercial, office-professional and industrial property in the mixed use district shall have a buffer along any rear and side property line abutting a multifamily use or district or a front property line abutting a public street across from a multifamily use or district.
2.
All buffers shall consist of a landscaped open space area and, if required by this section, screening. All landscaped open space areas and screening shall be established in accordance with the following requirements:
a.
Landscaped open space areas shall be established and maintained along required property lot lines in accordance with general landscaping policies, standards and specifications established and approved by the City Council.
b.
Landscaped open space areas shall meet the following minimum width requirements for each district where abutting residential district; single-family:
i
LI, HI, - Fifty (50) feet.
ii
PVC, PSC, HGB, GC, and Mixed Use (except for multifamily uses) - Forty (40) feet.
iii
CRC, NRC - thirty-five (35) feet.
iv
RM-8, RM-12, RM-16, MHP, and multifamily uses in the mixed district - twenty-five (25) feet.
v
OI, NS, - twenty (20) feet.
vi
PUD-R, RA-4, FST, HPV, and UVC - ten (10) feet.
vii
HIS — See historic district regulations.
c.
Landscape buffers are subject to review and approval by Plan Review Committee and applicable city staff in accordance with the following standards:
i.
Plantings are to be a mix of evergreen trees and shrubs;
ii.
Species are to be ecologically compatible to site and appropriate for design situation;
iii.
Unless public safety concerns dictate otherwise, buffer should maximize visual barrier to height of six (6) feet within two (2) years of planting;
iv.
Minimum height of plant materials at installation is to be five (5) feet for trees and two (2) feet for shrubs:
v.
Fencing or walls are to be minimum six (6) feet in height;
vi.
Trees included in buffer plantings may be counted toward site density calculations as required by the tree preservation ordinance;
vii.
Buffers shall be regularly maintained by the property owner(s) to ensure that the above objectives and standards are met; and
viii.
When topography and existing conditions allow, the required buffer should be an undisturbed buffer.
d.
Berms are subject to review and approval by city staff in accordance with the following standards:
i
Berms shall be utilized when consistent with surrounding property features;
ii
Berms shall be stabilized;
iii
Berms shall be constructed to be consistent with natural or proposed drainage patterns; and
iv
Berms shall be regularly maintained by the property owner.
3.
The City of Kennesaw Plan Review Committee and staff may require additional screening outside required landscaped area for purposes of obscuring features, such as parking lots, rear entrances, utility and maintenance structures, loading facilities, swimming pools and recreation areas within any multifamily, commercial, office-professional, light industrial and multiuse district.
4.
The screening requirements of this section may be waived or varied by the Mayor and City Council, if and only if:
a.
It can be clearly demonstrated that existing topography and/or vegetation achieve the purpose and intent of this section.
b.
It can be clearly demonstrated in a specific instance, that for topographic reasons, a fence, wall and/or other screening device required herein could not possibly screen activities conducted on ground level from view from the normal level of a first story window on any lot in a residential district abutting the use.
5.
All buffers shall be designated on the property plat and recorded as a permanent buffer.
( Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 7(Exh. D1), 6-21-21)
4.01.02 - Dimensional Standards for Development
Dimensional standards for each zoning district are provided in Table 4.01.02 below:
Table 4.01.02: District Dimensional Regulations
EXPAND
District Desig-
nation Min. Lot Area (sq. ft.) Min./Mx
Acreage Required Max. DUA Per Acre/FAR Min. Floor Area (sq. ft.) Min. Lot Width at Front Setback (feet) Minimum Front Yard
Setback 1 (feet) Major Side Yard 2 (feet) Min. Side Yard (feet) Min. Rear Yard (feet) Max. Cover (%) Max Hgt.
Arterial
Collector
Local
Historic HIS See District Regulations
Historic Preservation Village HPV 20,000 2 acres N/A N/A 60 50 40 40 20 20 30 N/A 3 sty.
40 ft.
Single-Family Detached:
1 acre R-40 40,000 1,600 75/60 50 50 45 25 12 40 35 35 ft.
3/4 acre R-30 30,000 1.1 1,600 60 50 50 40 25 10 40 35 35 ft.
1/2 acre R-20 20,000 1.75 1,500 75/60 at ROW 40 40 35 25 10 35 35 35 ft.
1/3 acre R-15 15,000 2.1 1,400 75/60 at ROW 40 40 35 25 10 30 35 35 ft.
1/3.5 acre R-12 12,000 3.0 1,200 75/60 at ROW 40 40 35 25 10 20 30 35 ft.
1/4 acre R-10 10,000 4.0 1,050 75/60 at ROW 40 40 35 25 10 20 30 35 ft.
Planned Unit Development-Residential PUD-R
Single-Family, Attached or Detached: (if single-family residences are attached, there must be 30 feet between units)
Residential RA-4 7,000 80,000/
20 acres max 4 1,000 60/60 at ROW 50 50 40 25 10 30 35 35 ft.
Residential RA-5 7,000 80,000/
20 acres max 5 1,000 60/50 50 50 40 25 10 30 35 35 ft.
Residential RA-6 6,200 80,000/
20 acres max 6 1,000 60/60 50 50 40 25 10 30 35 35 ft.
Other Residential:
Multiple-Family (8 units per acre) RM-8 80,000 8 1—600
2—750
3—900
E—450 75 75 50 50 35 35 40 25 2 sty.
35 ft.
Multiple-Family (12 units per acre) RM-12 80,000 12 1—600
2—750
3—900
E—450 75 50 40 30 25 10 30 35 4 sty.
40 ft.
Multiple Family (16 units per acre) RM-16 80,000 16 1—600
2—750
3—900
E—450 75 50 50 35 35 35 40 45 4 sty. 40 ft.
Fee Simple Townhouse (Maximum 6 per row) FST 80,000 12 1 BR—
900
2 BR—
1,000 20 ft./
End Unit
30 ft. 50 40 35 25 Maximum six units per building footprint. 20 between buildings 30 35 2 sty.
35 ft.
SLO Refer to underlying base zoning district standards
Mobile Home Park MHP NA Minimum ten acres required 6 DUA N/A 40 40 40 40 25 10 between trailers 20 35 One story
Commercial:
Office Institutional OI 20,000 N/A N/A N/A 60 50 40 40 25 15 30 60 2 sty.
35 ft.
Neighborhood Shopping NS 20,000 N/A 5,000 N/A 60 50 40 40 25 15 30 60 2 sty.
35 ft.
Neighborhood Retail Commercial NRC 20,000 N/A N/A N/A 60 50 40 40 25 15 30 65 2 sty.
35 ft.
Community Retail Commercial CRC 20,000 N/A N/A
.5 office
.25 retail N/A 75 50 40 40 25 10 30 70 4 sty.
50 ft.
Commercial (General) GC 20,000 N/A N/A N/A 60 50 40 40 25 10 30 70 4 sty.
50 ft.
Highway General Business HGB 20,000 N/A N/A N/A 60 50 40 40 25 or 35 10 30 75 4 sty.
50 ft.
CBD N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Urban Village Commercial UVC 20,000 N/A N/A Per approved site plan 60 50 40 40 25 or 35 10 30 75 3 sty.
40 ft.
Planned Village Commercial PVC N/A 5 N/A Per approved site plan 75 50 40 40 25 or 35 15 30 75 6 sty.
75 ft.
Planned Shopping Center PSC N/A 5 N/A N/A 75 100 100 50/40 25 or 50 40 75 6 sty.
75 ft.
Light Industrial LI 40,000 N/A N/A N/A 75 50 50 50 25 20 40 80 4 sty.
50 ft.
Heavy Industrial HI 40,000 N/A N/A N/A 75 50 50 50 25 20 40 80 4 sty.
50 ft.
  ( Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 8(Exh. D2), 6-21-21)
4.02.00 - SITE DESIGN STANDARDS FOR OVERLAY DISTRICTS

4.02.01 - General Regulations and Design Standards for Historic Districts
A.
Purpose and Intent. The historical and architectural heritage of Kennesaw is among its most valued and important assets. The purpose of the Kennesaw Historic District (KHD) is to promote the cultural, economic and general welfare of the city, and the preservation and protection of the old, historic or architecturally worthy structures in quaint areas or neighborhoods which impact a distinct aspect of the city and which serve as visible reminders of the cultural, social, economic and architectural heritage of the city, the state, and the nation.
B.
Creation of Historic Preservation Commission. See Section 8.03.02 of this UDC for creation of the Kennesaw Historic Preservation Commission.
C.
Boundaries.
1.
The boundary of the historic properties shall be those specific properties as specified by the Kennesaw Historic Preservation Commission and so designated by ordinances adopted by the Mayor and City Council, or designated on state or national registers, pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 44-10-26 (the Georgia Historic Preservation Act—Acts 1980, pages 1723—1729). All historic properties shall be designated on a map entitled "Official Historic District Map of the City of Kennesaw," which shall be as adopted by the Mayor and City Council, and the same required boundaries to be shown on the "Official Zoning Map of the City of Kennesaw."
2.
Any amendment to the boundary of historic properties or the "Official Historic Properties Map of the City of Kennesaw" shall be recommended by the Historic Preservation Commission and adopted by the Mayor and City Council. The Historic Preservation Commission and the Mayor and Council will each hold public hearings before taking action of any proposed district changes in accordance with appropriate State Historic Preservation Office approval.
3.
Notice of the public hearing held by the Mayor and City Council and the public hearing held by the commission shall be advertised in accordance with Chapter 10 of this UDC, and the following:
a.
An advertisement providing notice of the hearing shall be published at least two times in the principal newspaper of general circulation within the municipality.
b.
The commission shall cause written notice of the hearing to be mailed to all owners and occupants of the property(ies) proposed to be designated.
c.
All written notices to property owners or occupants of property(ies) shall be mailed not less than ten (10) nor more than twenty (20) days prior to the date set for the public hearing before the commission and again for the public hearing before the Mayor and City Council.
d.
At least one (1) published notice shall appear in the principal newspaper of general circulation within the municipality not less than fifteen (15) days nor more than twenty (20) days prior to the date set for the public hearing before the Historic Preservation Commission and Mayor and City Council.
4.
The commission shall make or cause to be made an investigation and shall report on the historic, cultural, architectural, or aesthetic significance of each place, district, site, building, structure, or work of art proposed for designation or acquisition. This report shall be submitted to the historic preservation section of the Department of Natural Resources or its successor at least thirty (30) days prior to any public hearing held to designate any property or any amendment thereto as a historic property.
D.
Relationship to zoning district.
1.
All that tract and parcel of land delineated on the historical district map of historic properties for the City of Kennesaw, dated May 19, 1978, presented on August 20, 1979, by Phil Secrist (Chairman of the Kennesaw Historical Society), and approved by Georgia Department of Natural Resources in October, 1979, and approved for the National Historic Register in April, 1980, which map is hereby incorporated by reference, shall be classified for zoning purposes as KHD (Kennesaw Historical District) and shall be designated as being a part of zoning district KHD (Kennesaw Historical District). Such zoning classification and designation shall be in addition to and not in lieu of the zoning classification and zoning designation applicable to such property at the time such property is designated as being a part of the historic district or is designated as historic property.
2.
If a conflict exists with regard to a use which is available to property having more than one zoning classification or zoning district designation, then the more liberal or less restrictive use shall apply to such property; however, the minimum dimensional requirements applicable to such property shall be those requirements applicable to zoning district KHD (Kennesaw Historic District).
E.
Classification of historic properties and development standards.
1.
The commission shall evaluate all properties as designated on the Official Historic Properties Map of the City of Kennesaw, and the Official Zoning Map of the City of Kennesaw.
2.
All properties so designated shall be classified as one of the following categories:
a.
Historic. More than fifty (50) years old and contributing to the community's historic character;
b.
Historic-obscured. More than fifty (50) years old but not contributing to the historical character of the community due to unsympathetic but not irreparable alterations;
c.
Non-historic. Less than fifty (50) years old and contributing to the historic character of the community by possessing architectural character;
d.
Intrusion. Structures of any age which detract from the historic character of the district; and
e.
Vacant
3.
All historic, historic-obscured, non-historic, and intrusion property classifications in the Kennesaw Historic District shall be shown on the Official Historic Properties Map of the City of Kennesaw, and the Official Zoning Map of the City of Kennesaw. In the event a question arises over the classification of the property, the property owner may file an appeal stating the reason(s) for the appeal with the Zoning Administrator. On such appeal, the commission shall reconsider their original finding and classify the property based on their current evaluation. If such appeal has not been remedied, the commission shall submit a report to the Mayor and City Council indicating the reason(s) for their classification of the individual property. After considering the appeal as requested by the individual property owner on the classification of the property, the Mayor and City Council may reclassify the property or any portion thereof as they determine.
F.
Development standards and general regulations of historic properties. Design Review Guidelines as adopted by the Mayor and City Council and incorporated hereto.
1.
A building or structure classified as historic, historic-obscured, or non-historic, or any part thereof, or any appurtenance element related thereto shall only be moved, reconstructed, altered or maintained in a manner that will preserve the historical and/or architectural character of the building, structure or appurtenance element thereto.
2.
Any change materially affecting the external architectural appearance of any historic property will be compatible with other buildings and structures within the historic district and particularly buildings classified as historic and with historic squares and places to which it is visually related.
3.
On any building classified as historic, historic-obscured, or non-historic where the commission fails to approve the issuance of a Certificate of Appropriateness, such building or structure shall not be demolished or in any way altered unless specific approval is granted by the Mayor and City Council upon an appeal of the commission's decision.
4.
A historic building shall not be relocated onto another site unless it is shown that the preservation on its existing site is not consistent with the purpose(s) of this section.
5.
In the review of the application for a Certificate of Appropriateness for any structure, the commission shall not consider interior arrangement or interior use having no effect on exterior architectural features.
6.
On any historic property where a Certificate of Appropriateness has been issued, any change to the property shall be completed in accordance with the approved application material.
7.
All historic property shall be maintained in such manner to ensure no destruction, deterioration or other harmful effect by virtue of neglect occurs. Any such structure or property determined by the commission to be affected by neglect of maintenance shall be restored by the property owner to such condition as specified by the building official within the time period prescribed by him.
8.
Any historic property wherein destruction, deterioration, or other harmful effect has been determined by the commission to exist due to neglect, accident or intentional damage, the commission at its discretion may require the property to be restored to its original condition prior to such change resulting from the neglect, accident or intentional damage or impose other conditions as appropriate. If restoration is required, such action taken by the commission shall be recorded as a matter of record with the office of the clerk of the Superior Court of Cobb County or other appropriate agency.
G.
General landscaping requirements. An application for Certificate of Appropriateness shall be required to submit a landscaping plan which is designed to be consistent with the structures proposed and designed in accordance with the Kennesaw Historic District Design Standards, the adopted Landscaping Ordinance as part of the UDC amended from time to time.
H.
Duties, responsibilities, and powers of the Historic Preservation Commission. The duties responsibilities and powers of the Kennesaw Historic Preservation Commission are provided in Chapter 8 of this UDC.
I.
Certificate of Appropriateness required.
1.
A Certificate of Appropriateness issued by the Zoning Administrator after approval by the commission shall be required before any of the following conditions occur within the boundary of a designated historic property:
a.
Any new construction of a principal building or accessory building or structure;
b.
Any change in the exterior architectural appearance of existing buildings by additions, reconstruction, alteration or maintenance, including exterior color changes;
c.
Demolition of a historic building or structure classified by the commission as historic, historic-obscured, or non-historic under Section 4.02.01(E).
d.
Moving of a historic building or structure classified by the Commission as historic, historic-obscured, or non-historic under Section 4.02.01(E), and
e.
Any change in external environmental features.
2.
After the designation by ordinance of a historic property or of a historic district, no material change in the appearance of the historic property or of a structure, site or work of art within the historic district shall be made or permitted to be made by the owner or occupant thereof unless and until all requirements of this ordinance are met.
J.
Application for Certificate of Appropriateness. An application for a Certificate of Appropriateness shall be made in the office of the Zoning Administrator. See Chapter 10 of the UDC (10.3.13) for procedural requirements.
K.
Exclusions. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the ordinary maintenance and/or repair of any exterior elements of any building, structure or property nor shall anything in this section be construed to prevent the construction, reconstruction, alteration or demolition of any such element which any authorized public official shall certify as required by public health or safety. Nothing in this section shall be construed to void any plan(s) or permit(s) having received approval from any appropriate officer, board or commission of the city for a project prior to the enactment of this section. The Zoning Administrator shall determine the validity of any prior approval of any plan(s) or permit(s) as applied in this section.
L.
Undue hardship. Where, by reason of unusual circumstances, the strict application of any provision of this section would result in an exceptional and practical difficulty or undue hardship upon any owner of a specific property, the Mayor and City Council, in passing upon any application, shall have the power to vary or modify strict adherence to said provisions, or to interpret the meaning of said provisions, so as to relieve such difficulty or hardship; provided such variances, modifications or interpretations shall remain in harmony with the general purpose and intent of said provisions, so that the architectural or historical integrity, or character of the property shall be conserved and substantial justice done. In granting variances to this section, the Mayor and City Council may impose such reasonable and additional stipulations and conditions as will, in their judgment, best fulfill the purpose of this ordinance. A situation of the person's own making shall not be considered an undue hardship.
M.
Administrative Approvals for Certificate of Appropriateness
1.
Authority. The Director for Museum and Preservation Services or a designated City of Kennesaw staff member qualified in Historic Preservation may issue certificates of appropriateness for minor works projects that otherwise meets all requirements. Minor works projects are limited to the following:
a.
Alteration or removal of existing accessory structures or buildings.
b.
Additions to existing accessory structures or buildings with a total additional floor area not exceeding 300 square feet
c.
New accessory structures or buildings less than 300 square feet
d.
Alterations, additions or removal of existing awnings, canopies or shutters
e.
Installation of new awnings, canopies or shutters
f.
Alteration, addition or removal of existing decks with a maximum height of 42 inches that do not require the removal or alteration of the existing building or structure and provided that the proposed deck is not visible from the street
g.
Construction of new decks with a maximum height of 42 inches that do not require removal or alteration of the existing building or structure and provided that the proposed deck is not visible from the street
h.
Alteration, addition or removal of exterior doors
i.
Installation of new exterior doors
j.
Installation, alteration or removal of storm doors
k.
Construction of new fences, walls, hedges or other screen plantings with a maximum height of 42 inches
l.
Removal of existing fences, walls, hedges or other screen plantings with a maximum height of 42 inches
m.
Alteration of exposed foundations
n.
Installation addition or removal of gutters and downspouts
o.
Installation of house numbers and mail boxes
p.
Pruning of shrubbery, limbs of trees eight inches in diameter and greater measured 4.5 feet from the ground level
q.
Removal of dead, diseased or dangerous trees
r.
Installation, alteration or removal of exterior lighting fixtures
s.
Installation of mechanical equipment such as heating and air conditioning units provided that all units are provided with appropriate screening
t.
Installation of window mounted air conditioning units
u.
Alteration, addition or removal of existing patios provided the patio is not visible from the right-of-way
v.
Construction of new patios provided the patio is not visible from City right-of-way
w.
Installation, removal or alteration of signs
x.
Replacement of roof coverings when proposed materials are similar to existing materials and the roof pitch or slope is not being altered
y.
Installation of satellite dishes or television antennae
z.
Alteration, addition or removal of exterior stairs and steps that do not require the removal or alteration of the existing building or structure and provided that the proposed stairs and steps are not visible from the street
aa.
Construction of new exterior stairs and steps that do not require the removal or alteration of the existing building or structure and provided that the proposed stairs and steps are not visible from the street
bb.
Renewal of expired certificates of appropriateness provided there are no changes to the original approved certificate
cc.
Emergency installation of temporary features or repair measures to protect a historic resource or structure that do not permanently alter the structure or resource. Temporary features are limited to a maximum of twelve months.
N.
Removal or destruction of documented historic structures in violation of Section 4.02.00
1.
The City of Kennesaw after confirming that a historic structure was removed from historic property or demolished destroyed or partially dismantled without following the approval process specified in this chapter and UDC will be determined to be in violation of this code.
2.
The City of Kennesaw will issue citations through the Municipal Court of the City of Kennesaw and assess the replacement value of the structure removed, damaged, partially dismantled or demolished.
3.
The Building Official of the City Kennesaw will be required to provide to the Municipal Court of Kennesaw and all parties an estimate of the replacement value of subject structure.
4.
The City of Kennesaw shall impose a fine equal to the replacement value assessed for the replacement of the structure removed, demolished, destroyed or partially dismantled without approval by the City of Kennesaw. The assessments shall be determined by estimates submitted by the Building Official of Kennesaw and official values on record of the Cobb County Tax Assessors office whichever is higher. The City of Kennesaw shall submit these estimates for determination of replacement value to the municipal court and all appropriate court jurisdictions for resolution of the violation.
4.02.02 - Design Standards for the Historic Preservation Village Overlay (HPV) District
A.
Purpose and Intent.
1.
The HPV district is established to set aside certain properties for the purpose of providing an area that will be designed and used as a historic village. It is encouraged that resourcefulness and ingenuity will be used to assure that the property will meet the goals of the master plan of the City of Kennesaw as adopted by the Mayor and City Council in June, 1995.
2.
The classification is primarily intended for properties located within Land Lot 138, 20th District, 2nd Section, and is bounded on the north by Cherokee Street and Big Shanty Road, on the east by Sardis Street, on the south by Old Highway 41, and on the west by CSX Railroad, and more particularly, Parcels 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 173 and 201.
Within any HPV district, the following uses shall be permitted:
a.
Buildings of historical significance either on the historic register or eligible for placement on the historic register.
b.
Museums by their nature that would lend themselves to the historic character of the area.
c.
Outbuildings and structures that by their nature would lend to the historic character of the area.
d.
Associated low intensity office and limited retail uses.
e.
Hotels consistent with the historic and cultural era of the surrounding site.
f.
Religious Assemblies.
B.
Special exception uses. Within any HPV district, the following uses shall be permitted by special exception:
1.
Cemeteries.
2.
Mausoleums.
3.
Other facilities for disposal of the deceased.
4.
Private community centers.
5.
Private schools of general and special education.
6.
Religious Assemblies' accessory cemeteries and schools.
C.
Use limitations. Within any HPV district, the following use limitations apply:
1.
Must meet design review guidelines, and as may be amended from time to time.
2.
No adult entertainment.
D.
Lighting requirements. Any project permitted within the HPV district which proposes a lighted facility must have an approved lighting plan consistent with lighting styles from the Civil War (1860-65) era.
E.
Conditions.
1.
Minimum lot size: Two acres or more;
2.
Minimum public road frontage of 100 feet;
3.
Overall parking and landscape plan for entire site to be approved by the Kennesaw Historic Preservation Commission; and
4.
One paved parking space shall be provided for every person lawfully permitted within the structure at one time, plus one per employee. In the absence of designated assembly areas, one paved space per 300 square feet of gross floor area.
F.
Landscape buffer/screening requirements.
1.
Unless otherwise noted within this district's requirements, any property within an HPV district which abuts a residentially zoned property shall have a minimum thirty (30) feet landscaped, screening buffer adjacent to all residentially zoned property will be subject to review and approval by the Kennesaw Historic Preservation Commission.
2.
Required buffers may be included within required setbacks, however, in such case that the required buffer is greater than the required setback, the required buffer shall be adhered to.
3.
Additionally, necessary private utilities and/or access drives may be allowed through, over or across a landscaped buffer. Any such uses which are proposed through, over, or across a designated, undisturbed buffer must be approved pursuant to an original site plan or site plan modification.
4.
Objectives. Undisturbed, planted landscape buffers and berms shall be implemented in connection with a permitted project and shall address the following objectives:
a.
Screening to enhance aesthetic appeal;
b.
Control or direct vehicular and pedestrian movement;
c.
Reduce glare;
d.
Buffer noise; and
e.
Establish privacy.
5.
Standard. Buffers and/or berms shall be required when a HPV district is located adjacent to a more restrictive residential district; minimum ten (10) feet buffer.
a.
Landscaped buffers are subject to review and approval by the Kennesaw Historic Preservation Commission in accordance with the following standards:
i.
Plantings are to be a mix of evergreen trees and shrubs;
ii.
Species are to be ecologically compatible to site and appropriate for design situation;
iii.
Unless public safety concerns dictate otherwise, buffer should maximize visual barrier to height of six (6) feet within two (2) years of planting;
iv.
Minimum height of plant materials at installation is to be five (5) feet for trees and two (2) feet for shrubs;
v.
Fencing or walls are to be minimum six (6) feet in height as approved by city staff;
vi.
Trees included in buffer plantings may be counted toward site density calculations as required by the Kennesaw Tree Preservation and Replacement Ordinance, subject to review and approval by staff;
vii.
Buffers shall be regularly maintained by the property owner(s) to ensure that the above objectives and standards are met;
viii.
When topography and existing conditions allow, the required thirty (30) feet buffer should be an undisturbed buffer; and
ix.
Any appeals from a determination by Kennesaw Historic Preservation Commission shall be to the Mayor and City Council.
b.
Berms are subject to review and approval by city staff in accordance with the following standards:
i.
Berms shall be utilized when consistent with surrounding property features;
ii.
Berms shall be stabilized;
iii.
Where possible, berms shall be constructed to be consistent with natural or proposed drainage patterns; and
iv.
Berms shall be regularly maintained by the property owner.
G.
Parking requirements.
1.
Individual buildings located within the HPV district will not be required to provide on-site parking. The building and its site must, however, provide for a clearly identified easement/walkway to the common areas as recommended by the master plan. Total square footage of the building and its estimated parking needs will be deducted from the total number of spaces as shown on the master plan.
2.
See section 6.02.05 for off-street parking requirements.
(Ord. No. 2015-05, § 4, 4-20-15)
4.02.03 - Site Design Standards for the Central Business District
A.
Purpose and intent.
1.
The Central Business District (CBD) is established in order to preserve and protect the cultural and historic aspects of downtown Kennesaw and simultaneously provide for the stimulation and enhancement of the vitality and economic growth of this special area.
2.
The classification is primarily intended for a focal point for upscale retail trade, tourism, and financial and public uses. The intent of the Central Business District (CBD) is to develop a compact core to encourage and facilitate pedestrian movement and provide convenient access to the amenities of Historic Downtown Kennesaw.
3.
The CBD is designed to achieve the following:
a.
Create an environment where residents and visitors can live, work, meet, and play.
b.
Promote a balanced mix of retail, office-professional, entertainment, residential, civil, and cultural uses in the core downtown area.
c.
Allow for growth of a healthy economic business district.
d.
Incorporate aesthetically compatible design from gateway points to the core of the city to improve the aesthetics of street and built environments.
e.
Ensure compatibility with the historic district to achieve architectural and design integrity and consistency.
f.
Provide accessible and sufficient parking that is unobtrusive by encouraging shared, underground, and deck parking and alternative modes of transportation including pedestrian and bicycles.
g.
Promote a pedestrian environment though sidewalk-oriented buildings and attractive street-facing façades that encourage pedestrian activity.
h.
Provide safe and accessible parks and public and private open space.
B.
Lot size, setback and building height requirements. Within the CBD the following lot size and setback requirements shall apply.
1.
Minimum lot size, widths and depths: None. It is the intent that each enterprise or use be located on a site commensurate with its use and sufficient to meet the requirements of off-street parking, loading and unloading, and setback requirements, where applicable.
2.
Maximum lot coverage: Not more than eighty-seven (87) percent of the area of any lot may be covered by buildings structures or storm water facilities.
3.
Minimum setbacks:
a.
Front - Established to "build-to-line" which equals the averaged distance from the property lines measured from existing structures along right-of-way adjoining properties as measured from existing structures.
b.
Side - None, except when abutting a residential zoning district where there is no intervening right-of-way, the setbacks requirement is ten feet. Where alleys exist between districts, the setbacks shall be five feet from the property line/alley right-of-way.
c.
Rear - None, except when abutting a residential district where there is no intervening right-of-way the setback requirement is 25 feet.
d.
Where an alley exists between districts, the setback shall be five feet from the property line/alley right-of-way.
4.
Maximum building height: Subject to the Historic District Design Guidelines
5.
Maximum floor area ratio (FAR) - 1.10
Calculations for FAR: Floor Area/Lot Area = FAR
C.
Permitted uses. Within the CBD, the following uses shall be permitted:
1.
General retail uses:
a.
Antiques
b.
Animal hospitals
c.
Appliance store
d.
Arts and crafts
e.
Bakery
f.
Bicycles shop
g.
Book store
h.
Butcher
i.
Carpet and floor covering
j.
Cosmetics
k.
Draperies and slipcovers
l.
Fabric store
m.
Farmers market (fully enclosed and open-air)
n.
Flower shop
o.
Food
p.
Fraternity and sorority houses/residence halls (must be university authorized dwellings)
q.
Fruit/vegetable stand
r.
Garden supplies
s.
Gift shop/glassware
t.
Growler establishments
u.
Hardware store
v.
Home/office furnishings
w.
Ice cream shop
x.
Jewelry store
y.
Leather goods/luggage
z.
Massage therapy establishments
aa.
Massage therapy associated with the following uses:
•
As part of a salon service establishment
•
As part of a medical, chiropractic or sports medicine establishment
bb.
Medical and surgical equipment
cc.
Music shop
dd.
Nautical supplies
ee.
Office supplies
ff.
Pets and pet supplies
gg.
Pharmacy
hh.
Photographic equipment/supplies
ii.
Spa and salon establishments
jj.
Sporting goods
kk.
Toy store
2.
Services and professional uses:
a.
Banks/financial institutions limited to one drive-through and/or automated transaction machines
b.
Interior decorating establishments
c.
Medical and dental clinics
d.
Medical and dental laboratories
e.
Photographic studios
f.
Printing and publishing
g.
Professional offices
h.
Sports medical physical therapy
3.
Services and facilities:
a.
Auction
b.
Barber/beauty shops and salons
c.
Bed and breakfast inn and residential-type inns
d.
Broadcast studios
e.
Butcher shops
f.
Caterers
g.
Dry cleaning and laundry pick-up stations limited to off-site processing for customer pick-up.
h.
Exercise facilities e.g. gyms and clubs
i.
Galleries
j.
Alternative wireless communications facilities (Special land use approval required)
k.
Government facilities including but not limited to the following:
i.
Government offices
ii.
Public works facilities
iii.
Community centers
iv.
Public parks, clubhouses
v.
Amphitheaters
l.
Hotels
m.
Laundromats limited to self-service facilities
n.
Libraries
o.
Motels
p.
Museums
q.
Newsstands
r.
Outdoor cafes
s.
Parking lot and garages (commercial or public)
t.
Pet grooming
u.
Religious assemblies
v.
Restaurant excluding drive-in and drive through
w.
Rest/personal care/convalescent homes
x.
Small item repair
y.
Tailoring
z.
Tobacconist
aa.
Taverns/cocktail lounges
bb.
Vocational schools some examples being: arts and crafts, business, beauty, dancing, driving, gymnastics, photography, modeling and karate-judo.
4.
Residential uses:
a.
Condominiums
b.
Mixed use residential/commercial
c.
Single family detached
d.
Townhomes
5.
The permitted uses under this section shall be allowed in such a way as to promote a diverse mixture of the uses so as to avoid concentrations of such uses within close proximity of which may cumulatively create a nuisance, safety or health hazard or parking problem that may negatively affect the overall financial stability of surrounding uses.
All retail and professional uses varied in nature that meet the CBD vision and adopted comprehensive plan and all other adopted planning studies for the City of Kennesaw that is not listed as a prohibited use under Section 4.02.03E.
D.
Special exception uses. Within the CBD the following uses shall be permitted by special exception as per Section 4.04.01.
1.
Cemeteries
2.
Private community centers
3.
Private schools of general and special education
4.
Religious assemblies' accessory cemeteries and schools.
E.
Use limitations. Within the CBD the following use limitations apply:
1.
All projects located within the historic district shall meet the City of Kennesaw design review guidelines as may be amended from time to time.
2.
No (new or used) car lots
3.
No car repair shops to be established
4.
No sexually oriented businesses as defined in the Kennesaw Code of Ordinances Business Licenses shall be allowed.
5.
No overnight outside storage shall be allowed.
6.
No more than five percent of total store inventory may be displayed outside.
7.
All items stored outside shall be moveable to indoor without compromising accessibility to the building.
8.
No items shall be displayed on paved areas or parking lots, except for temporary permits for special sales events not to exceed seven days more than four times per calendar year.
9.
Items may be displayed on porches or adjacent to primary structures only in non-paved areas.
10.
Sidewalk/yard sales shall only be conducted after issuance of the proper permit.
11.
All abandoned or disposed items including recycling and trash shall be removed within three days.
12.
No chemical manufacturing, storage or distribution shall be allowed.
13.
No enameling, plating or paint (except for artist studios) shall be allowed.
14.
No detention centers or halfway houses shall be allowed.
15.
No tire shredding or recycling centers shall be allowed.
16.
No manufacture or disposal of hazardous or radioactive waste materials shall be allowed.
17.
No scrap yards shall be allowed.
18.
No manufactured/mobile homes shall be allowed.
19.
No commercial sand, gravel or other mineral extraction shall be allowed.
20.
No indoor or outdoor shooting ranges shall be allowed.
21.
No tattoo parlors shall be allowed.
22.
No body piercing facilities, as a primary use shall be allowed.
23.
No extended stay hotels/motels shall be allowed.
24.
No chain link fences shall be permitted.
25.
No overnight parking of commercial vehicles (except for mini-vans or cars) shall be allowed.
26.
No uses that emit noxious odors, fumes or sounds shall be allowed.
27.
No outside animal runs with any veterinary office or kennel shall be allowed.
28.
No detention or retention or wet weather ponds allowed.
29.
No gas stations to be established. The wholesale and retail sale of all fuel sources are governed by this restriction.
30.
No automobile, truck, motorcycle or recreational vehicle rental facilities to be established
31.
No drive-through amenity to be established in association with any eating and drinking establishments located within the Central Business District.
32.
No funeral homes allowed.
F.
Gateway corridors:
1.
Cherokee Street
2.
Watts Drive
3.
North Main Street (Old Hwy 41)
4.
South Main Street (Old Hwy 41)
5.
Summer Street
G.
Residential development standards:
1.
Condominiums: Minimum floor area for all units - 1,000 square feet
2.
Mixed use retail/residential with residential on second floor
a.
The non-residential portion of the development shall obtain a certificate of completion before the issuance of the certificates of occupancy for the last 20 percent of residential units for the residential portion.
b.
The gross floor area occupied by residential uses shall not exceed seventy-five (75) percent of the total gross floor area of the buildings or individual structures.
c.
Minimum floor area for all residential units—1,000 square feet
3.
Single family, detached: The minimum floor area of residential dwellings shall be 1,100 square feet.
4.
Townhouses: The minimum floor area of all residential units—1,000 square feet
5.
For-Rent Residential Apartment units:
a.
To be allowed only in mixed use residential/commercial projects
b.
Rental apartment units will be allowed subject to specific development agreement conditions as part of the Central Business District project approval process as per UDC Section 4.02.03(H).
c.
Minimum floor area for all residential units in mixed use residential project to average 1,000 sq feet.
d.
Units with a floor plan totaling the minimum of 850 square feet can be utilized for no more than 30 percent of the total apartment units for the project.
H.
Approval process for projects. Projects to be processed in the following order:
1.
City of Kennesaw staff shall conduct a minimum of one consultation with applicant to review project concept and factors to consider in the planning and design phase prior to initial site plan and architectural review.
2.
Conceptual site plan and architectural review by City of Kennesaw staff
3.
Submittal to the Kennesaw Downtown Development Authority (KDDA) for review and comment only.
4.
Submittal to the Historic Preservation Commission (HPC) for certificate of appropriateness approval if within a historic district. If subject property is not in the historic district then concept approval will be required.
5.
Site Plan review and approval by City of Kennesaw staff required.
6.
Final plan approval by Mayor and Council
I.
The site plan of the project shall be consistent with the City of Kennesaw adopted Comprehensive Plan, Depot Master Plan and LCI study.
J.
The project shall be designed as to provide a proper transition, land use and design so as not to negatively affect surrounding properties.
K.
The site plan of the project shall incorporate public space architectural and urban features consistent with the City wide Architectural Design Standards and the City of Kennesaw Historic District Design Standards including fountains, gardens, squares, courtyards, lighting, signage, and paving that blend the mixed uses.
L.
Each applicant shall submit a business plan which contains at a minimum the following information:
1.
Type of business
2.
Projected market targeted
3.
Projected customer generation
4.
Plan on traffic control for ingress/egress of property
5.
Study on similar uses in area
6.
Projected economic impact to City of Kennesaw
M.
General requirements:
1.
Compliance to downtown redevelopment plan vision
2.
A balanced mixture of uses to meet downtown redevelopment plan vision
3.
Positive economic development impact
4.
Architectural design and quality shall be consistent with City of Kennesaw Design Guidelines and compatible with the city's architectural heritage.
5.
Pedestrian and vehicular connectivity shall be incorporated into site design.
6.
The height of fences and walls located between the building façade and a street shall not exceed forty (40) inches and in other areas shall not exceed six (6) feet.
7.
No barbed wire, razor wire, chain link or similar elements shall be visible from any street, public park, sidewalk, public or private open space or outdoor dining area.
8.
Loading docks and dumpsters shall be entirely screened from view with vertically enclosed opaque walls.
9.
Utilities shall be placed underground.
10.
Building mechanical and accessory features:
a.
Shall be located to the side or rear of the principal structure or on rooftops and shall not be visible from any public open space or sidewalk area.
b.
When located on rooftops shall be incorporated in the design of the building and screened with materials similar to the building.
11.
Any project permitted within the CBD which proposes a lighted facility including signs, parking lots, and entrance ways shall have an approved lighting plan consistent with lighting styles utilized in the downtown streetscape design and approved under the City of Kennesaw Historic Design Standards and Citywide Design Guidelines.
12.
All sign locations located within historic district will be subject to review and approval by the HPC.
a.
City staff will review and process the sign permit application as per design standards as set forth in Chapter 5.03.00 of the sign ordinance after review and approval from HPC.
b.
All temporary signs will be regulated as per Chapter 5.03.00.
N.
Parking, road and access requirements. Overall parking plans for the entire project site shall be approved by city staff through the plan review process. All parking requirements can be provided off-site. No alley parking is permitted.
1.
Angled on-street parking on both sides shall be permitted dependent upon site plan review and approval.
2.
Rear access shall be provided to townhouse and multifamily garages, single-family dwelling garages, and commercial loading and service areas, where such access is feasible.
3.
Bicycle or moped parking spaces are required as follows: All new non-residential uses shall provide one (1) such space for every twenty (20) automobile spaces but not less than one (1) space and new residential uses shall provide one (1) such space for every five (5) units. Such spaces shall be located a maximum distance of 100 feet from the primary pedestrian entrance.
O.
Incentive/zoning bonuses.
1.
Common access drives and access curb cuts: All projects incorporating common access drives for multiple parcels along the identified gateway corridors in this section will be granted an increase of floor area ratio by .10, subject to all other limitations.
2.
Pedestrian linkage: All projects that promote pedestrian/bicycle pathways and inter-parcel access will be granted an increase of floor area ratio by .10
P.
Landscaping design guidelines. All CBD project applications will include a landscape plan that has location and type for benches, waste receptacles, lighting, paving material, bicycle racks, newspaper stands, plant material, fencing, private open space, internal sidewalks and trails. The following components will be incorporated into the plan:
1.
Use of sod on yard areas facing public right-of-way
2.
Compliance to tree ordinance in UDC chapter three
(Ord. No. 2012-15, § 1, 12-17-12; Ord. No. 2015-05, § 5, 4-20-15; Ord. No. 2016-06, 3-7-16; Ord. No. 2016-07, 3-7-16; Ord. No. 2016-21, 9-6-16)
4.02.04 - Design Standards for the Senior Living Overlay District (SLO)
A.
Purpose and intent. The Senior Living Overlay (SLO) District is established to promote development of senior citizen housing products and/or services pursuant to the identified market demand for senior housing products. Any zoning district plot developed or used pursuant to SLO regulations shall not thereafter be used for any purpose other than the provisions of Senior Living unless and until the Zoning Administrator, or his or her designee, has certified in writing that the alternate use satisfies all applicable land use regulations pertaining to the underlying zoning district classification. It is the purpose of the Senior Living Overlay District to provide a process by which housing policies identified in the Comprehensive Plan may be executed.
B.
Lands Subject to SLO District Classification. The SLO District classification is available as an overlay in the following zoning districts: CBD, R-40, R-30, R-20, R-15, R-12, R-10, PUD-R, RD, RA-4, RA-5, RA-6, RM-8, RM-12, RM-16 and FST. Applications shall comply with all other provisions of this UDC and all other applicable laws. In the event of a conflict between the requirements of the SLO District and this UDC, the stricter standard shall apply.
C.
Permitted Uses. The following uses are permitted in the Senior Living Overlay District:
1.
Non-Supportive Senior Living Facilities
2.
Supportive Senior Living Facilities
D.
Senior Living Development Criteria.
1.
Non-Supportive Uses. Non-supportive Senior Living development projects may be introduced under the SLO District, when the proposed use meets all of the following criteria:
a.
Residential occupancy shall promote senior citizens 55 years of age or older as defined by the Fair Housing Act as amended from time to time.
b.
The impact of the use will be equivalent to those impacts produced by uses otherwise allowed for land development within the underlying zoning classification, with considerations being given to the type of living units, number of living units, the probable number of residents and the generated demand on public facilities and services.
c.
The location, size, design, and operating characteristics of the use will be compatible with, and will not adversely affect, the livability or appropriate development of adjacent properties and surrounding neighborhoods, with consideration to scale, size, coverage, and density; to the availability of civic facilities and utilities; to the generation of traffic and the capacity of surrounding streets; and to any other relevant impacts of the use.
d.
The location, design, and site planning of the use will provide a convenient, safe, attractive, walkable, and functional live, work and play community.
e.
The use will be so located as to provide residents easy pedestrian and vehicular access to community amenities such as transit, shopping, services (including medical), parks, recreational facilities, and social and educational activities or facilities.
f.
Housing shall be specifically designed for senior citizens and include facilities generally associated with the needs and interests of this age group. Such facilities shall include common meeting rooms, recreation facilities and outdoor open space, secure parking areas, safety bars and rails in units, emergency signal systems, adequate exterior lighting for security, ramps and other provisions required for elderly persons by state law or federal regulation.
g.
Portions of projects should incorporate applicable accessibility and "easy living" standards (as administered and copyrighted by a coalition of Georgia citizens including AARP of Georgia, Atlanta Regional Commission, Concrete Change, Georgia Department of Community Affairs, Governor's Council on Developmental Disabilities, Home Builders Association of Georgia, Shepherd Center and the Statewide Independent Living Council of Georgia).
h.
A minimum of 1.25 parking spaces per unit shall be provided. Overall parking plans for the entire project site shall be in accordance with Chapter 6 of this UDC.
i.
If property is located within a locally designated historic district, a Certificate of Appropriateness will be required by the Historic Preservation Commission.
2.
Supportive Uses. Supportive Senior Living development projects may be introduced under the SLO District, when the proposed use meets all of the following criteria:
a.
All Supportive Uses will follow the criteria set forth in this section of the UDC.
b.
Each facility may include a centralized kitchen with dining facilities sufficient to serve all occupants. However, this shall not preclude kitchenette facilities within each unit.
c.
A minimum of 0.75 spaces per residential unit shall be provided. Parking plans must include provisions for adequate shuttle services or other public transportation services to serve each facility. Overall parking plans for the project site shall be in accordance with Chapter 6 of this UDC. If property is located within a locally designated historic district, a Certificate of Appropriateness will be required by the Historic Preservation Commission.
E.
Use Limitations. Subject to underlying base zoning district standards.
F.
Lot size and setback requirements.
1.
For all underlying Residential zoning classifications:
a.
Minimum lot size: 3 acres
b.
For minimum lot widths, road frontage, and setback distances refer to standards for base zoning district
2.
For the underlying CBD zoning classification:
a.
Minimum lot size: 3 acres
3.
For minimum lot widths, road frontage, and setback distances refer to Sections 4.01.01. The referenced minimums may be decreased by the city staff upon proper showing that such is necessary to provide compatibility with adjacent land uses.
4.
Density bonuses may be allowed where necessary to incorporate a unique design feature such as rear parking, gardens and courtyards or architectural features.
G.
For underlying, residential zoning classifications, refer to table 4.01.02 that specifies the site standards for underlying base zoning districts.
H.
Landscape Buffers and Screening Requirements.
1.
Landscape Buffers. Refer to Sections 3.07.00, for guidelines by Base Zoning District.
2.
Screening Requirements
a.
Unless otherwise noted within this overlay district's requirements, any property within the SLO district which abuts a more restrictive residentially zoned property shall have a minimum 20-foot (for Non-Supportive uses) or 40-foot (for Supportive uses) landscaped screening or maintained natural buffer adjacent to all residential property. Minimum buffers may be increased by city staff based on existing conditions such as tract size or topographic conditions in order to provide compatibility with adjacent residential uses. When abutting a non-residentially zoned property, a minimum 10-foot landscaped screening or maintained natural buffer is required subject to approval by city staff.
b.
Refer to UDC Chapter 4 for guidelines by Base Zoning District.
I.
Environmental Requirements. Any development must meet all federal, state and local requirements relating to flood plains, wetlands, river corridor protection and stream buffers subject to the provisions in Chapter 3. No flood plain and/or wetlands may be used in calculating the overall density of the development.
J.
Building and Structure Requirements. Building and Structure Requirements shall meet the requirements of this UDC unless otherwise addressed in this section.
K.
Accessory Buildings, Structures, Uses and Decks. Building and Structure Requirements shall meet the requirements of this UDC unless otherwise addressed in this section.
( Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 9(Exh. D3), 6-21-21)
4.03.00 - CONSERVATION SUBDIVISIONS

4.03.01 - Purposes
A.
To provide for the preservation of greenspace as a nonstructural stormwater runoff and watershed protection measure.
B.
To provide a residential zoning district that permits flexibility of design in order to promote environmentally sensitive and efficient uses of the land.
C.
To preserve in perpetuity unique or sensitive natural resources such as groundwater, floodplains, wetlands, streams, steep slopes, woodlands and wildlife habitat.
D.
To permit clustering of houses and structures on less environmentally sensitive soils, which will reduce the amount of infrastructure, including paved surfaces and utility easements, necessary for residential development.
E.
To reduce erosion and sedimentation by minimizing land disturbance and removal of vegetation in residential development.
F.
To promote interconnected greenways and corridors throughout the community.
G.
To promote contiguous greenspace with adjacent jurisdictions.
H.
To encourage interaction in the community by clustering houses and orienting them closer to the street, providing public gathering places and encouraging use of parks and community facilities as focal points in the neighborhood.
I.
To encourage street designs that reduces traffic speeds and reliance on main arteries.
J.
To promote construction of convenient landscaped walking trails and bike paths both within the subdivision and connected to neighboring communities, businesses, and facilities to reduce reliance on automobiles.
K.
To conserve scenic views and reduce perceived density by maximizing the number of houses with direct access to and views of open space.
L.
To preserve important historic and archaeological sites.
M.
To encourage the development of residential communities designed to preserve and protect environmental resources, scenic vistas, and natural and cultivated landscapes.
N.
To reduce infrastructure impact as a result of efficient community design.
4.03.02 - General Regulations
A.
Applicability of Regulations.
1.
Compliance with this conservation subdivision ordinance is available as an overlay in the following zoning districts: R-40, R-30, R-20, R-15, R-12, R-10, PUD-R, RA-4, RA-5, RA-6, RM-8, RM-12, RM-16 and FST.
2.
The overlay district shall be a use by right as of the effective date of the adoption of this article.
3.
Applicant shall comply with all other provisions of the zoning code and all other applicable laws, except those that are incompatible with the provisions outlined in herein.
4.
Any conflict between these standards and the code of ordinance, the more stringent will apply.
B.
Ownership of development site. The tract of land to be subdivided may be held in single and separate ownership or in multiple ownership. If held in multiple ownership, however, the site shall be developed according to a single plan with common authority and common responsibility.
C.
Lot density determination.
1.
The maximum number of lots in the conservation subdivision is based on the net highest yield of developable lots as allowed under the underlying zoning district. Density is defined under Chapter 1.
2.
The design must be capable of being constructed given site features and all applicable regulations.
D.
Procedure for approval. Site plan shall be submitted by the owner or developer for review and approval in accordance with the requirement and procedures of the development regulations.
E.
Variance.
1.
The Planning and Zoning Administrator shall have authority to grant an administrative variance under Section 9.04.01 of the UDC.
2.
Any other variance outside the scope of Section 9.04.01 shall require a variance before the Mayor and City Council.
( Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 9(Exh. D3), 6-21-21)
4.03.03 - Application Requirements
A.
Site Plan Required. The applicant must submit a site plan that is sealed by a registered engineer, landscape architect, or land surveyor which contains, at a minimum, the following features:
1.
Property boundaries;
2.
All streams, rivers, lakes, wetlands, 100-year floodplains and other hydrologic features;
3.
Topographic contours of no less than five-foot intervals;
4.
All primary and secondary conservation areas labeled by type, as described in this ordinance;
5.
General vegetation characteristics including tree lines, woodlands, open fields, and meadows;
6.
General soil types;
7.
The planned location of protected open space;
8.
Existing roads, easements and structures;
9.
Potential connections with existing greenspace and trails or proposed trails or greenways identified on the Kennesaw Trail Network Plan, when adopted;
10.
A complete tree survey and inventory as described in the UDC, Chapter 3 tree preservation standards;
11.
Identify steep slope areas greater than twenty-five (25) percent;
12.
Provide distance/directional chart to open spaces in adjacent developments;
13.
Provide certification statement of any existing archaeological sites and cemeteries.
B.
Open space management plan required. An open space management plan, as described in Section 4.03.05, shall be prepared and submitted prior to the issuance of a land disturbance permit.
C.
Instrument of permanent protection required. An instrument of permanent protection, as described in Section 4.03.05, shall be prepared and submitted prior to the issuance of a land disturbance permit.
4.03.04 - Development Requirements
Development in this overlay district shall meet the requirements of the underlying zoning district, development standards, and this ordinance. The city reserves the right to require an archaeological survey prior to plan approval. Plan approval by the Plan Review Committee will be required.
4.03.05 - Open Space
A.
Definition. Open space is the portion of the conservation subdivision that has been set aside for permanent protection. Activities within the Open Space are restricted in perpetuity through the use of an approved legal instrument.
B.
Standards to determine open space.
1.
The minimum restricted Open Space shall comprise at least forty (40) percent of the gross tract area.
2.
The following are considered primary conservation areas and are required to be included within the open space.
a.
The regulatory 100-year floodplain;
b.
Buffer zones of at least seventy-five (75) feet width along all perennial and intermittent streams;
c.
Slopes above twenty-five (25) percent of at least 5,000 square feet contiguous area;
d.
Wetlands that meet the definition used by the Army Corps of Engineers pursuant to the Clean Water Act regardless of whether such wetlands are jurisdictional under said Act;
e.
Populations of endangered or threatened species, or habitat for such species;
f.
Archaeological sites, civil war entrenchments, cemeteries and burial grounds; and,
g.
Perennial and intermittent streams.
3.
The following are considered secondary conservation areas and should be included within the open space to the maximum extent feasible.
a.
Historic sites, a site is the location of a significant event, a prehistoric or historic occupation or activity, or building or structure, whether standing, ruined, or vanished, where the location itself possesses historic, cultural, or archeological value regardless of the value of any existing structure (habitation sites, funerary sites, rock shelters, village sites, hunting and fishing sites, ceremonial sites, petroglyphs, rock carvings, gardens grounds, battlefields, ruins of historic buildings and structures, campsites, trails, areas of land, cemeteries, designed landscapes, and natural features, such as springs and rock formations, and land areas having cultural significance);
b.
Existing healthy, native forests of at least one acre contiguous area;
c.
Individual existing healthy trees greater than eight inches caliper, as measured from their outermost drip line;
d.
Other significant natural features and scenic view sheds such as ridge lines, peaks and rock outcroppings, particularly those that can be seen from public roads;
e.
Prime agricultural lands of at least five acres contiguous area;
f.
Greenspace that connects to neighboring greenspace areas that may be candidates for future open space or proposed trails for greenways identified on the Kennesaw Trail Network Plan, when adopted; and
g.
Recognized wildlife habitats and scenic vistas as identified by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
4.
Above-ground utility rights-of-way and limited small areas (less than 400 square feet) of impervious surface not related to active recreation may be included within the protected open space but cannot be counted towards the forty (40) percent minimum area requirement (exception: historic structures and existing trails may be counted). Large areas (400 square feet or greater) of impervious surface not related to active recreation shall be excluded from the open space.
5.
At least seventy-five (75) percent of the open space shall be in a contiguous tract, the common open area. The common open space should adjoin any neighboring areas of open space, other protected areas, and non-protected natural areas that would be candidates for inclusion as part of a future area of protected open space.
6.
The common open space shall be directly accessible to the largest practicable number of lots within the subdivision. Non-adjoining lots shall be provided with safe, convenient access to the open space.
C.
Permitted uses of open space. Uses of open space may include the following:
1.
Conservation of natural, archeological or historical resources;
2.
Meadows, woodlands, wetlands, wildlife corridors, game preserves, or similar conservation-oriented areas;
3.
Walking or bicycle trails, provided they are constructed of porous paving materials;
4.
Passive recreation areas;
5.
Active recreation areas, provided that they are limited to no more than 10 percent of the total open space and are not located within primary conservation areas. Active recreation areas in excess of this limit must be located outside of the protected open space;
6.
Agriculture, horticulture, silviculture or pasture uses, provided that all applicable best management practices are used to minimize environmental impacts, and such activities are not conducted within primary conservation areas;
7.
Nonstructural stormwater management practices;
8.
Easements for drainage, access, and underground utility lines, as described in "The Georgia Stormwater Management Manual", 2004 Edition; or
9.
Other conservation-oriented uses compatible with the purposes of this ordinance.
D.
Prohibited uses of open space. In addition to other uses of open space not included herein, uses of open space may never include:
1.
Golf courses;
2.
Roads, parking lots and impervious surfaces, except as specifically authorized in the previous sections;
3.
Agricultural and forestry activities not conducted according to accepted best management practices; and,
4.
Other prohibited activities as determined by the applicant and recorded on the legal instrument providing for permanent protection.
E.
Ownership and management of open space.
1.
Ownership of open space.
a.
The applicant must identify the owner of the open space who is responsible for maintaining the open space and facilities located thereon.
b.
If a Homeowners Association is the owner, membership in the association shall be mandatory and automatic for all homeowners of the subdivision and their successors.
c.
If a Homeowners Association is the owner, the Homeowners' Association shall have lien authority to ensure the collection of dues from all members.
d.
The responsibility for maintaining the Open Space and any facilities located thereon shall be borne by the owner.
2.
Management plan. Applicant shall submit a plan for management of open space and common facilities ("plan") that:
a.
Allocates responsibility and guidelines for the maintenance and operation of the open space and any facilities located thereon, including provisions for ongoing maintenance and for long-term capital improvements;
b.
Estimates the costs and staffing requirements needed for maintenance and operation of, and insurance for, the open space and outlines the means by which such funding will be obtained or provided;
c.
Provides that any changes to the plan be approved by the appropriate party of the City of Kennesaw; and,
d.
Provides for enforcement of the plan.
3.
In the event the party responsible for maintenance of the open space fails to maintain all or any portion in reasonable order and condition, the City of Kennesaw may assume responsibility for its maintenance and may enter the premises and take corrective action, including the provision of extended maintenance. The costs of such maintenance may be charged to the owner, Homeowner's Association, or to the individual property owners that make up the Homeowner's Association, and may include administrative costs and penalties. Such costs shall become a lien on all subdivision properties.
F.
Legal instrument for permanent protection.
1.
The open space shall be protected in perpetuity by a binding legal instrument that is recorded with the deed. The instrument shall be one that is consistent with the methods of permanent protection provided under the State of Georgia's Greenspace Program or, if such program is no longer functioning in the state, then one of the following:
a.
A permanent conservation easement in favor of either:
i
A land trust or similar conservation-oriented non-profit organization with legal authority to accept such easements. The organization shall be bona fide and in perpetual existence and the conveyance instruments shall contain an appropriate provision for retransfer in the event the organization becomes unable to carry out its functions; or
ii
A governmental entity with an interest in pursuing goals compatible with the purposes of this ordinance.
iii
If the entity accepting the easement is not the City of Kennesaw, then a third right of enforcement favoring the City of Kennesaw shall be included in the easement;
b.
A permanent restrictive covenant for conservation purposes in favor of a governmental entity; or,
c.
An equivalent legal tool that provides permanent protection, if approved by the City of Kennesaw.
2.
The instrument for permanent protection shall include clear restrictions on the use of the open space. These restrictions shall include all restrictions contained in this ordinance, as well as any further restrictions the applicant chooses to place on the use of the open space.
4.04.00 - SUPPLEMENTAL STANDARDS FOR SPECIFIC USES

4.04.01 - Special Exception Uses
A.
Those uses which, with the proper scrutiny and conditions, may be appropriately located within certain specified zoning districts.
B.
Authorization. The Zoning Administrator or his or her designee shall issue a certificate of special exception to an applicant when the conditions related to the special exception uses listed herein are met.
C.
Standards.
1.
Any other facility for the disposal of the dead provided all requirements by the cemetery have been satisfied.
2.
Cemeteries for human or animal interment with the following minimum requirements:
a.
Minimum lot size of ten (10) acres;
b.
Minimum public road frontage of 100 feet;
c.
When abutting any residential property line, a fifty (50) feet natural/landscaped buffer shall be approved by city staff (see Landscaping Standards);
d.
Permanent public ingress/egress shall be provided;
e.
Compliance with all State of Georgia requirements; and
f.
Overall parking and landscaping plan to be approved by city staff.
3.
Religious Assemblies' accessory cemeteries and schools with the following minimum requirements:
a.
A religious assembly may have an accessory cemetery with the following minimum requirements:
i.
Minimum lot size of two (2) acres for cemetery;
ii.
When abutting any residential property line a fifty (50) feet natural landscaped buffer shall be approved by city staff (see Landscape Standards);
iii.
Permanent public ingress/egress shall be provided;
iv.
Compliance with all State of Georgia requirements; and
v.
Overall parking and landscaping plan to be approved by city staff.
b.
A religious assembly may have an accessory school with the following minimum requirements:
i.
Minimum lot size of five (5) acres;
ii.
Minimum public road frontage of 100 feet;
iii.
Overall parking and landscape plan for entire site to be approved by city staff; and
iv.
One (1) paved parking space per every one (1) full-time employee of the accessory school in addition to required parking for the principal religious assembly use.
4.
Mausoleums: when used in conjunction with a cemetery provided that all requirements for the cemetery have been satisfied.
5.
Private community center: A place, structure, area, or other private or non-publicly owned facility used for and providing religious, fraternal, social, and/or recreational programs generally open to the public and designed to accommodate and serve significant segments of the community.
a.
Minimum of three (3) acres;
b.
Structures associated with said use to be located a minimum of thirty-five (35) feet from any property line;
c.
Structures associated with said use to be limited to forty-five (45) feet in height;
d.
When abutting any residential property line a twenty-five (25) feet landscaped, screening buffer shall be approved by city staff (see landscaping requirements);
e.
Overall parking and landscape plan for entire site to be approved by planning and zoning staff and city staff (see Landscaping Standards);
f.
One paved parking space shall be provided for every person lawfully permitted within the assembly areas at one time, plus one per employee. In the absence of designated assembly areas, one paved space per 300 square feet of gross floor area; and
g.
Lighting plan to be approved by the Zoning Administrator.
6.
Private schools of general and special education with the following minimum requirements:
a.
Minimum lot size of five (5) acres;
b.
Minimum public road frontage of 100 feet;
c.
Overall parking and landscape plan for entire site to be approved by city staff; and
d.
One paved parking space shall be provided for every person lawfully permitted within the assembly areas at one time, plus one per employee. In the absence of designated assembly areas, one paved space per 300 square feet of gross floor area.
7.
Bed and breakfast establishment: A private owner-occupied single-family residence, with a maximum of five guestrooms rented for a daily fee, which is subordinate to the primary residence.
a.
Allowable districts: HPV, NS, NRC, PVC, CBD, and UVC
b.
A minimum of 2,000 square feet of heated living area in the structure to be used as the bed and breakfast is required.
c.
The bed and breakfast shall be owner occupied.
d.
Parking requirements shall be one (1) space per guest room in addition to a required one (1) space per employee plus one (1) space per three (3) seats in assembly areas for functions.
i.
Parking spaces shall be screened from all adjoining residential properties with a solid fence, of a minimum of six (6) feet in height, or evergreen trees and shrubs densely planted which will provide a visual screen height of six (6) feet within two (2) years of planting.
e.
One identification sign shall be allowed on each street frontage. All signs must adhere to the City of Kennesaw Sign Ordinance.
f.
Per state regulations, food service is limited to registered guests and must be included in the price of the overnight accommodations. Food service may be provided to outside guests only in the event of a special function. In this case, an outside vendor may be permitted to provide food service. Appropriate licensing will be required for food and beverage service.
g.
Special events such as parties, weddings and meetings shall be permitted.
h.
Individual rooms that are rented shall not contain cooking facilities, nor shall any food preparation or cooking for guests be conducted within any bedroom made available for rent.
i.
The bed and breakfast establishment must comply with the required minimum lot area for existing uses and underlying zoning district, conform to all codes and regulations of the City of Kennesaw, Cobb County where applicable, and the State of Georgia laws.
j.
The resident owner shall keep a current guest register including names, addresses and dates of occupancy of all guests.
k.
Maximum length of stay for any guests shall not exceed fourteen (14) days.
l.
The resident owner shall comply with all business license and Hotel-Motel excise tax and revenue collection laws of the City of Kennesaw, Cobb County and the State of Georgia.
8.
Extended stay facilities.
a.
Extended stay hotel or motels shall be defined as any hotel or motel in which fifty percent or greater of all guest rooms have facilities for both the storage and preparation of food and which are designed or utilized for weekly or monthly occupancy.
b.
Extended stay hotel and motels are permitted within the Highway General Business District (HGB) zoning districts, subject to a special land use permit, and shall comply with the following restrictions:
i.
All guest rooms that have facilities for both the storage and preparation of food and have less than 300 square feet of floor area are limited to a maximum of two persons per such room; however, for all such guest rooms greater than 300 square feet, one additional person shall be allowable per each additional seventy-five (75) square feet of floor area up to and including a maximum of four (4) persons.
ii.
No more than ten percent of individual guests shall register, reside in, or occupy any room or rooms within the same licensed facility for more than a ninety (90) day period.
iii.
An indoor or fenced outdoor active recreation area shall be provided. The size of each recreation area shall be calculated at a ratio of five (5) square feet per room with a minimum provision of 750 square feet. All recreation areas must be approved by the Planning and Zoning Director prior to development to ensure that all applicable safety specifications and standards are met.
iv.
No permanent business license shall be issued for the conduct of any business from any guest room of the facility.
v.
No hotel or motel under this section is to be converted to or used as an apartment or condominium without zoning approval of the City Council. Any hotel or motel converted to such use must meet all applicable state and local codes, including zoning standards.
vi.
Each guest room must be protected with a sprinkler system approved by the fire marshal or the fire marshal's designee.
vii.
Each guest room having a stove-top unit or other type burner unit shall be required to also include a maximum sixty (60) minute automatic power off timer for each such unit.
viii.
A hard-wired smoke detector shall be provided, installed, and operation at all times in each guest room.
ix.
No outside storage or permanent parking or equipment or vehicles shall be allowed.
x.
All such facilities shall provide a fifty (50) feet undisturbed buffer from any property zoned for multi-family residential purposes and/or a 100 feet undisturbed buffer from any property zoned for single-family residential purposes.
xi.
No building may be placed within 300 feet of any residentially zoned property, inclusive of the required buffer.
xii.
These restrictions shall apply to all facilities permitted or expanded after the date of enactment of this ordinance.
xiii.
All extended stay facilities shall have a maximum density of seventy-five (75) guest units per gross acre of development.
9.
Automobile, truck and trailer lease and rental facilities (principal and accessory uses) with the following minimum requirements:
a.
Minimum lot size of two acres
b.
Utilization of permanent structures as defined in UDC and building codes for construction
c.
Compliance of city wide architectural standards.
10.
Automobile and truck sales and service facilities with the following minimum requirements:
a.
Minimum lot size of two acres
b.
Utilization of permanent structures as defined in UDC and adopted building codes for construction
c.
Compliance of city wide architectural standards
11.
Automotive storage yards and wrecker service establishments with the following minimum requirements:
a.
Minimum lot size of four acres
b.
Screening of storage and parking areas with a consistent landscaping buffer with a width of twenty feet around perimeter of storage areas
c.
Secured entry to storage areas with utilization of fencing and automated devices
d.
Compliance with all other standards that apply to this use under the UDC
e.
Utilization of permanent structures as defined in the UDC and adopted building codes for construction
12.
Billiards and pool halls meeting the following requirements:
a.
Compliance with all State and local codes for business license and fire safety codes
b.
Use not to cause a nuisance as defined by the City of Kennesaw Code of Ordinances
13.
Motorcycle, ATV and three wheel vehicle sales and service facilities must meet the following requirements:
a.
Minimum lot size two acres
b.
Permanent structures to be utilized as defined by the UDC and building code standards
c.
Compliance with city wide architectural standards
d.
Compliance with all other applicable chapters in the UDC
14.
Asphalt/concrete plants subject to the following minimum standards:
a.
Special land use approval
b.
Compliance with all applicable state and federal laws
c.
All necessary state and federal permits
d.
Spill containment plan to be approved by the City of Kennesaw
e.
Minimum lot size five acres
f.
No use or activity shall be closer than 1,000 feet from any property line of residentially zoned property.
g.
Hours of operation will be limited to daylight hours as defined in the City of Kennesaw Code of Ordinances
h.
Compliance with State and Federal guidelines for pollution and noise abatement
15.
Bio-medical waste disposal facility and hazardous waste facility subject to the following minimum requirements:
a.
Special land use permit approval
b.
All use and activity shall not be located closer than 1,000 feet from any property line of residentially zoned property
c.
Spill containment plan to be approved by the City of Kennesaw
d.
No outside storage of materials. All activity to be conducted within an enclosed building
e.
Compliance with all State and Federal laws
f.
Minimum of five acres required
g.
Must meet all State and Federal environmental laws
16.
Heavy Manufacturing establishments subject to the following minimum requirements:
a.
All uses and activity will not be located closer than 500 feet from any property line of any residentially zoned property
b.
All activity to be conducted inside an enclosed building with no outside storage except for vehicles used in conjunction with operation
c.
Compliance with State and Federal laws
d.
Subject to City of Kennesaw noise abatement laws
17.
Petroleum/bulk storage and chemical plan facilities subject to the following minimum standards:
a.
Special land use permit
b.
Minimum acreage to be five acres
c.
No use or activity to be located closer than 1,000 feet from any property line of residentially zoned property or from any property line where a school is located
d.
Hours of operation shall be limited to daylight hours
e.
Spill containment plan to be approved by the City of Kennesaw
18.
Private Landfills/composting facilities subject to the following minimum requirements:
a.
Minimum ten acres required
b.
Special land use permit approval
c.
No hazardous waste defined by State and Federal law to be disposed or discharged into the landfill
d.
Site to be accessible without travel on residential streets near residential neighborhoods
e.
All operations to meet the State and Federal laws regarding the use and containment of materials
f.
All uses and activity will not be located closer than 2,000 yards of a public highway, residence, school, public or private parks or any gathering place
19.
Recycling Centers subject to the following minimum requirements:
a.
Minimum lot size of two acres required
b.
All activity to be conducted within an enclosed building
c.
There will be no exterior storage of material
d.
Special land use permit approval
20.
Waste Transfer Station subject to the following minimum requirements:
a.
Minimum lots size of five acres required
b.
All operations and uses to be located no closer than 1,000 feet from any property line of residentially zoned property, schools and parks
c.
Special land use permit approval
d.
Noise and odor abatement plan to be approved by the City of Kennesaw
e.
Compliance with all State and Federal laws
21.
Coliseums, stadiums and convention centers subject to the following requirements:
a.
Minimum lot size of ten acres required
b.
Traffic and parking plan to be approved by the City of Kennesaw
c.
Special land use permit approval
22.
Quarries or mining operations subject to the following requirements:
a.
A lot size requirement of ten acres minimum
b.
All activity and uses are to be located no closer than 1,000 feet from a property line of residentially zoned property
c.
Noise and pollution abatement plan to be approved by the City of Kennesaw.
d.
Special land use permit approval
e.
Compliance with all State and Federal Laws
23.
Flea Market establishment subject to the following requirements:
a.
Indoor flea markets subject to Plan Review Committee review and approval for safety compliance
b.
Outdoor flea market establishment requires three acre minimum lot size
c.
All structures utilized for this use must meet City standards for permanent structures and meet city wide architectural standards
24.
Automobile Storage and wrecker service
a.
Should be enclosed by a fence or wall not less than 8 feet, which provides visual screening
b.
No dismantling, repair, or other such activity shall be conducted
c.
Such use shall be located at least 40 feet from any residential district or use
d.
Such automobiles shall not be held longer than provided by State and City law
25.
Amusement Centers:
a.
Minimum acreage is five acres;
b.
Such use shall not be located closer than 500 feet to any school property line;
c.
Such use shall not be located closer than 200 feet to any residential property line;
d.
An overall parking and landscape plan shall be approved by City staff. The plan will provide for safe and efficient vehicle and pedestrian circulation taking into consideration aesthetics and public safety.
26.
Crematories:
a.
Minimum lot size is two acres;
b.
When abutting any residential property line, a 50-foot natural or landscaped buffer shall be approved by City staff pursuant to the buffer requirements of the district.
27.
Drive-in Theaters:
a.
Minimum acreage is two acres.
b.
Driving and parking areas shall be paved.
c.
The theater screen, projection, booth or other buildings shall be set back not less than 50 feet from any property line (unless the front setback is greater).
d.
The theater screen shall not be visible from an expressway, arterial or major collector roadway.
e.
No damaged, confiscated or unlicensed vehicles shall be stored on site.
28.
Outdoor commercial racing (motorcycle, automobile, truck tractor, and motorized vehicles).
a.
A special land use permit is required as provided in Section 4.04.06.
b.
All necessary state and federal permits, if any, shall be obtained.
c.
A traffic impact study must be submitted with the application.
d.
No damaged vehicles shall be stored on site for more than seven days.
e.
A noise abatement plan and air pollution abatement plan shall be approved by City staff.
29.
Fast Food Restaurant situated on at least 1½ acres:
a.
Must have separated parking and internal traffic flow which provides adequate stacking for at least 10 vehicles at one time;
b.
Bypass lanes for drive-through is not required;
c.
Detached (freestanding) or attached metal canopy structure allowed to serve drive-through lane;
d.
Safety plan for managing drive through traffic lanes, delivery vehicles and delivery personnel, dine-in pedestrian traffic in parking lot and outside employee stations (to include signage, cross walks, spacing etc.).
(Ord. No. 2015-05, § 6, 4-20-15; Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 9(Exh. D3), 6-21-21)
4.04.02 - Reserved
4.04.03 - Standards for Self Service Storage Facilities and Climate Controlled Storage Facilities
A.
Establish minimum standards for use, site development, construction and placement of self service storage facilities and allow service conveniences that satisfy the needs of the citizens of the City of Kennesaw.
B.
Self-Service Storage Facilities (SSSF) shall be permitted within the following districts with a minimum of 1 acre required.
1.
Heavy Industrial
2.
Light Industrial
3.
General Commercial
4.
CRC-Community Retail Commercial
C.
General regulations.
1.
The only commercial activities permitted exclusively on the site of SSSF shall be rental of storage bays, pick-up and delivery of goods or property in dead storage. Storage bays shall not be used to manufacture, fabricate, or process goods, service or repair vehicles, boats, small engines or electrical equipment or to conduct similar repair activities, conduct garage sales or retail sales of any kind; rehearsing or practice utilizing band instruments or conversion to an apartment or dwelling unit; or conduct any other commercial or industrial activities on the site.
2.
The SSSF shall be enclosed by a six (6) foot high minimum fence or wall. Said fence or wall shall be constructed of either brick, stone, masonry units, wood, chain link, cyclone or other similar materials to be approved by the Zoning Administrator or his designee. Said fence or wall shall be set back a minimum of twenty (20) feet from the side and rear property lines, fences and walls shall adhere to the required front yard setback.
3.
Individual storage bays within a SSSF shall not be considered a premise for the purpose of assigning a legal address in order to obtain an occupational license or any other governmental permit or licenses to do business.
4.
Except as provided all property stored on site shall be entirely within enclosed buildings. Storage of flammable liquids, highly combustible or explosive materials, or hazardous chemicals are prohibited.
5.
Minimum lot size. Not withstanding any other provisions of this code, the minimum lot size of a SSSF shall be one acre.
6.
Outside storage. Open storage of recreational vehicles and dry storage of pleasure boats of the type customarily maintained by private individuals for their personal use shall be permitted within a SSSF provided the following conditions are met:
a.
Such storage shall take place only within a designated area. The area so designated shall be clearly delineated upon the site plan submitted for approval by the City Council when applying for a special land use permit.
b.
The storage area shall not exceed thirty (30) percent of the total buildable area of the site.
c.
The storage area shall be entirely screened from view from adjacent residential and office areas and public streets by a building or by the installation of a six (6) or eight (8) foot high wall or fence. If existing vegetation or topography provides the required screening, then this wall or fence requirement may be eliminated upon approval by the Zoning Administrator or his/her designee.
d.
Vehicles shall not be stored within the area set aside for minimum building setbacks.
e.
No vehicles maintenance, washing or repair shall be permitted on site. Pleasure boats stored on site shall be stored upon wheeled trailers. No dry stacking of boats shall be permitted on site.
D.
Development regulations.
1.
Separation between storage buildings. If separate buildings are constructed, there shall be a minimum of ten (10) foot separations between individual buildings. Buildings shall be situated or screened so that overhead access doors are not visible from public roads residentially or office and institutionally zoned property.
2.
Maximum bay size. The maximum size of a storage bay shall be 450 square feet.
E.
Exterior architectural elements to comply with the City Wide Architectural Standards.
F.
Parking requirements.
1.
Designated customer parking is not required, however a minimum of five (5) parking spaces shall be provided adjacent to the facilities leasing office, if a leasing office is located on site.
G.
Signage.
1.
Maximum number. One (1) free-standing sign shall be allowed for each lot frontage on which a SSSF has access to a public dedicated street. In addition, one (1) flat wall mounted sign may be utilized.
2.
Maximum height. The maximum height of a free-standing sign shall not exceed twenty (20) feet in height.
3.
Maximum sign area. The maximum total sign structure area for a freestanding or wall mounted sign shall not exceed one hundred (100) square feet. If a ground base sign is utilized, the maximum total sign area may be increased to 120 square feet.
4.
Prohibited signs. The following types of signs are prohibited on the site:
a.
Off-premise signs;
b.
General outdoor advertising signs;
c.
Signs placed on the doors of individual storage bays;
d.
Roof mounted signs;
e.
Signs attached to a required wall or fence are also prohibited, but may be approved by the Zoning Administrator or his/her designee and a sign ordinance enforcement officer.
H.
Outdoor lighting. All outdoor lights shall be shielded to ensue that light and glare are limited to the premises and are directed away from adjacent properties. Lights shall be low-intensity. If a SSSF abuts a residentially zoned property, outdoor lighting shall be limited to a maximum height of fifteen (15) feet.
I.
No exterior loud speakers or paging equipment shall be permitted on the site.
( Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 9(Exh. D3), 6-21-21)
4.04.04 - Standards for Manufactured Homes and Factory Built Buildings
A.
Manufactured homes, Class I.
1.
Zoning. No manufactured home, Class I, shall be installed, used, parked or occupied on any site in Kennesaw except one zoned MHP or on a site for which a land-use permit for such has been issued by the city, except that such units may be located for sale upon a site properly zoned to a commercial classification which allows such activity.
2.
Notification of purchaser. It shall be the duty and responsibility of any seller of a unit of this class to notify any potential purchaser, prior to completion of any sale, of the zoning requirements of paragraph (a) above, and this notification shall be evidenced by a statement signed by each purchaser at the time of any sale that such notification was made prior to completion of the sale. Such signed statement shall be retained by the seller for a minimum of three years from the date of sale and shall be produced for inspection by Kennesaw at any time during the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays established by the city, through any authorized agent appointed by the city manager for the city, upon request by the city of inspection.
B.
Manufactured homes, Class II.
1.
Zoning and permits. No manufactured home of this class shall be installed, used, parked or occupied on any site in Kennesaw except one zoned MHP or on a site for which a land-use permit for such use has been obtained from the city, (except that such units may be located for sale upon property properly zoned to a commercial classification which allows such activity), unless the following requirements are met:
a.
An application shall be filed with the city, through the zoning department, for a permit from the City Council to allow such installation, use and occupancy for single-family purposes on any site zoned for single-family use and permit must be obtained prior to transportation to such site. Such application shall be on forms specified by the city and shall include such information as is reasonably necessary for evaluation of the application.
b.
The following, as a minimum, shall be filed with the application:
i.
Complete set of design plans as approved by ICC which should also include a drawing depicting each elevation of the exterior appearance of the unit.
ii.
Plat of the proposed site prepared by a registered surveyor showing at a minimum the exterior boundaries of the site, proposed location of the unit upon the site, and side, front and rear setbacks of the unit as proposed to be located, as measured from the exterior boundaries of the lot.
iii.
A fee in an amount determined by the City Council and on file in the office of the zoning department and with the clerk of the city.
iv.
A certificate from an inspector selected or approved by the city certifying that the unit was manufactured in accordance with the ICC approved plans and the building codes in effect for the city at the time of filing the application for a permit (for example, building, heating and air conditioning, plumbing, electrical or other codes)
c.
The permit herein required shall be in addition to all other permits or requirements of the ordinances, rules and regulations of the city.
d.
No action on a request for permit shall be considered by the City Council until (1) a sign is posted on the proposed site for a period of not less than ten (10) days stating the requested action and the date, time and place for hearing and (2) a hearing is conducted by the City Council.
e.
No such permit shall be granted unless the unit, when completely installed as a single family dwelling unit, will be compatible with the adjacent and surrounding area, especially in size, exterior appearance, front, rear and side setbacks, and will have no adverse effect upon the value of adjacent property and the surrounding area and will not otherwise be detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of the citizens of the city.
f.
No unit shall be installed upon any site unless and until any permit herein required is granted and unless and until all permits for any on-site work to be performed (site preparation, utility and service connections, foundation or any other on-site work) have been obtained from the city. The applicant for any such permits shall pay to the city, at the time of application, its fee for those inspections required for on-site work. Such fees shall not exceed the amount charged for similar inspections and/or permits on conventionally-built structures.
g.
In addition to obtaining the above permit, and prior to occupancy, every such unit which is installed shall be installed on a permanent foundation, which is permanently enclosed, and shall have all wheels, axles and hitches removed.
h.
No unit shall be installed upon any lot or parcel of land which forms a part of a platted subdivision for which a plat has been approved by the City of Kennesaw and recorded in the office of the Clerk of Cobb Superior Court.
2.
Notification to purchaser. It shall be the duty and responsibility of any seller of a unit of this class to notify any potential purchaser, prior to completion of any sale, of the requirements of zoning or the necessity to obtain a permit as set forth in the preceding paragraph 1. This notification shall be evidenced by a statement signed by each purchaser at the time of closing that such notification was made prior to completion of the sale. Such signed statement shall be retained by the seller and subject to inspection in the same manner as such statements are required to be retained for Class I units.
C.
Industrialized buildings.
1.
Permits required. No industrialized building shall be installed upon any site unless and until all permits for any on-site work to be performed (site preparation, utility and service connections, foundation, or any other on-site work) have been obtained from the city.
2.
Permit fees. The applicant for any such permits shall pay to the city, at the time of application, its fee for those inspections and/or permits on conventionally-built structures.
3.
Insignia requirements. No industrialized building shall be installed or occupied in the City of Kennesaw unless it bears an insignia of the Department of Community Affairs of the State of Georgia indicating Georgia state approval pursuant to the Acts of the General Assembly.
4.
Zoning. No industrialized building shall be erected upon any site in the city, nor used for any purpose, unless the site is properly zoned for the intended use or a land-use permit has been obtained for the intended use and unless all other requirements of zoning (setback requirement, building size, etc.,) and other ordinances of the city are met which are applicable to the zoning classification for the site or for the installation.
5.
Other ordinances. This ordinance does not eliminate the necessity of complying with any ordinance, rule or regulation of the city which relate to matter addressed, investigated and approved by the State of Georgia through its Department of Community Affairs resulting in the issuance of its insignia.
6.
It shall be the duty and responsibility of any seller of any industrialized building to notify any potential purchaser, prior to completion of any sale, of these requirements. This notification shall be evidenced by a statement signed by each at the time of completion of a sale that such notification was made prior to completion of the sale. Such signed statement shall be retained and open for inspection the same as for a Manufactured Home, Class I, above.
D.
Violations. Any violation of the provisions of this ordinance shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.00 or imprisonment for a term not to exceed six months, or loss of business license of any seller. In addition, any manufactured home or industrialized building erected, constructed, parked, occupied or used in violation of the terms of this ordinance shall be termed a nuisance and a continuing nuisance so long as such violation may be continued, and such violation may be subject to abatement as a nuisance as provided by the laws of this state and the industrialized building or manufactured home shall be instantly removed from the site. In addition, the terms of this ordinance may be enforced by the city, or proper city authority authorized by the City of Kennesaw, by injunction or otherwise. This right to injunctive relief is cumulative and is not to be construed as curtailing the right of any person, firm or corporation, resident, property owner or other enforcement of this ordinance or of such rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the city in pursuance of this ordinance.
4.04.05 - Standards for Home Occupations
A.
The Mayor and City Council may permit land use permits for the operations of home occupations or professions in areas and districts where the zoning regulations would otherwise prohibit such operations. "Home occupation" is hereby defined as being those occupations which can ordinarily be carried on out of a residence or other structure without having any significant effect on the neighborhood or area from which such home occupation is carried on.
B.
In addition thereto, the Mayor and City Council is hereby authorized to grant land use permits for occupations or businesses compatible with the neighborhood from which such business or occupation is operated and where no nuisance as defined in Georgia law or other significant adverse effect would result to the area or district zoned.
C.
All applications for land use permits shall require all applicable information for processing as per Chapter 10 of the UDC and be advertised in the same manner as applications for rezoning and that public hearings will be held thereon in the same manner as applications for rezoning are so conducted.
D.
In no event shall the Mayor and City Council grant a land use permit for a period of time in excess of 24 months except on re-application, re-advertisement, and public hearing.
E.
Standards for decision. The Mayor and City Council shall consider, at a minimum, the following in its determination of whether or not to grant a land use permit:
1.
Safety, health, welfare, and moral concerns involving the surrounding neighborhood;
2.
Parking and traffic considerations;
3.
Number of nonrelated employees;
4.
Number of commercial and business deliveries;
5.
The city's general presumption that residential neighborhoods should not allow non-compatible business uses;
6.
Compatibility of the business use to the neighborhood;
7.
Hours of operation;
8.
Existing business uses in the vicinity;
9.
Effect on property values of surrounding property;
10.
Circumstances surrounding neighborhood complaints;
11.
Intensity of the proposed business use; and
12.
Location of use within the neighborhood.
F.
A land use permit is a privilege permit and may be revoked by the Mayor and City Council following notice and hearing should the use be deemed to be a nuisance or create a safety hazard.
4.04.06 - Standards for Special Land Use Permits
A.
A special land use permit shall be required for the following types of uses of property regardless of the zoning classification of district:
1.
Asphalt Plants;
2.
Automotive salvage and wrecking yards;
3.
Biomedical Waste transfer and disposal facilities;
4.
Chemical Plants and Storage facilities;
5.
Cigar, smoke shops, tobacco stores;
6.
Coliseums, stadiums and convention centers (privately owned);
7.
Composting plants;
8.
Concrete plants;
9.
Extended Stay Hotel and Motel;
10.
Hazardous Waste Site;
11.
Landfills (private);
12.
Outdoor commercial racing (motorcycle, automobile, tuck, tractor and motorized vehicles);
13.
Petroleum or bulk storage stations;
14.
Quarry or mining operation;
15.
Radio, television and other communication or cell towers and antennas;
16.
Recycling centers;
17.
Waste Transfer Station;
18.
Wireless Telecommunication Facilities.
B.
The Mayor and City Council may grant special land use permits for the enumerated uses in areas and districts where zoning regulations would otherwise prohibit such operations or uses.
C.
All applications for special land use permits shall require all applicable information for processing as per Chapter 10 and be advised in the same manner as applications for rezoning and that public hearings will be held thereon in the same manner as application for rezoning are so conducted.
D.
The Mayor and City Council may grant a special land use permit for any period of time in the discretion of the governing authority.
E.
Standards for decision. In addition to general district, the Mayor and City Council shall consider, at a minimum, the following in its determination of whether or not to grant a special land use permit:
1.
Whether or not there will be a significant adverse effect on the neighborhood or area in which the proposed use will be located;
2.
Whether or not the use is otherwise compatible with the neighborhood; safety, health, welfare, and moral concerns involving the surrounding neighborhood;
3.
Whether or not the use proposed will result in a nuisance as defined under Georgia law;
4.
Whether or not quiet enjoyment of surrounding property will be adversely affected;
5.
Whether or not property values of surrounding property will be adversely affected;
6.
Whether or not adequate provisions are made for parking and traffic considerations;
7.
Whether or not the site or intensity of use is appropriate;
8.
Whether or not special or unique conditions overcome the governing authority's general presumption that residential neighborhoods should not allow non-compatible business uses;
9.
Whether or not adequate provisions are made regarding hours of operation;
10.
Whether or not adequate controls and limits are placed on commercial and business deliveries;
11.
Whether or not adequate landscape plans are incorporated to ensure appropriate transition; and
12.
Whether or not the public health, safety, welfare, or moral concerns of the surrounding neighborhood will be adversely affected.
( Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 9(Exh. D3), 6-21-21)
4.04.07 - Standards for Temporary Mobile Home Occupancy Permit
A.
In all classifications there may be established a use for the temporary location of a mobile home or a temporary land use only upon [issuance of] a temporary land use permit which may be issued by the governing authority upon the following conditions:
1.
Application for a use permit shall be filed and shall meet all the requirements of an application for zoning as provided by the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Kennesaw. Such application shall have attached thereto a separate statement of the applicant that he recognizes that the use permit, if granted, is for a temporary time only and that [the] applicant shall cause the removal of said mobile home or the removal of all property on the termination of the use permit; or upon applicant's failure to do so irrevocably grants the governing authority the right to remove the mobile home or property from the premises at the expense of the applicant for which the applicant agrees to pay.
2.
Use permits may be issued for a period of not more than twenty-four (24) calendar months other than medical hardships and construction hardship permits which shall be not more than twelve (12) months and shall terminate automatically unless reissued. Any such use for a period of more than twelve (12) months shall necessitate applying for a new permit or renewal.
B.
The governing authority may permit [the following]:
1.
A mobile home may be parked and occupied in all residential or commercial districts where a building permit has been applied for and obtained from the proper department of the City of Kennesaw for the construction of either a home or a place of business.
2.
A mobile home to be parked and occupied in any residential area where a medical hardship exists. "Medical hardship" is hereby defined as a person whose health or mental condition necessitates attention and supervision from the occupants of the dwelling located on the lot on which it is desired to have the mobile home parked and occupied and in no case shall such a use be allowed unless it is shown by the Cobb County Health Department or other appropriate medical evidence that the person to occupy the mobile home falls within the provisions herein provided for and, provided further that it is satisfactorily shown that the dwelling on the premises does not contain sufficient facilities to accommodate the proposed occupant of the mobile home. (In addition, the application shall contain an affidavit or certified statement of a physician showing that present facilities are inadequate and [stating that] a hardship condition requiring the use of a mobile home for the health care of a member of the immediate family or the occupant of the premises [exists].)
3.
A mobile home to be parked and occupied in any commercial or industrial district where a building permit or permits have been applied for and where its primary function is that of an office or for storage or related purposes.
4.
A mobile home to be parked and occupied in any district on property owned or leased by a religious assembly or a school for a period not to exceed 12 months where its primary function is that of an office or classroom or for storage or related proposes; provided that not more than one mobile home for each two acres of vacant land may be located thereon.
5.
In all residential classifications, the Zoning Administrator may grant a use permit for the temporary use of one of the homes or for the parking of a mobile home to be used as a real estate sales office for sale of the lots for new homes built and developed within the boundaries of the development provided that final plans have been approved therefore by all required authorities. The specific location of said mobile home shall be subject to the approval of the building official.
6.
In all classifications, the Mayor and Council may grant a temporary use permit for the use of the land itself under the same ordinance governing mobile home use.
7.
Be it further provided that in all instances where an application for a mobile home permit has been applied for, that the governing authority shall take into consideration the need for such permit, the aesthetic effect that it may have on the neighborhood, the location on the property of the mobile home and may in its discretion grant or refuse a permit, and the grant or refusal shall not be mandatory, but in all instances, shall be permissible depending on the finding of the Mayor and Council as to the conditions stated herein and any other lawful criteria.
C.
Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of this ordinance either without obtaining a permit or for causing said mobile home to be parked or occupied for a period in excess of that granted by the governing authority of the City of Kennesaw, shall be deemed to have violated this ordinance and be subject to all remedies provided under the ordinances of the City of Kennesaw.
D.
For purposes of this ordinance only, "mobile home" is defined to include both mobile structures designed to function as residences and mobile structures designed to function as classrooms, offices, and storage buildings.
E.
Any violation of this ordinance or the cessation of the need for a use permit shall be grounds for revocation of such permit by the Mayor and Council in addition to all other remedies provided by law.
(Ord. No. 2015-05, § 7, 4-20-15)
4.04.08 - Standards for Pawnshops, Title Loan, Check Cashing and Payday Loan Establishments
All check cashing establishments will be subject to the following standards:
•
1,000 feet minimum distance from another check cashing establishment measured from property line to property line.
•
500 feet minimum distance from residentially zoned property measured from building to building.
All pawnshops will be subject to the following standards:
•
1,000 feet minimum distance from another pawnshop measured from property line to property line.
•
500 feet minimum distance from residentially zoned property measured from building to building.
All payday loan establishments will be subject to the following standards:
•
1,000 feet minimum distance from another payday loan establishment measured from property line to property line.
•
500 feet minimum distance from residentially zoned property measured from building to building.
All title loan establishments will be subject to the following standards:
•
1,000 feet minimum distance from another title loan establishment measured from property line to property line.
•
500 feet minimum distance from residentially zoned property measured from building to building.
(Ord. No. 2015-07, § 2, 8-17-15)
4.05.00 - CONVENTIONAL SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS

4.05.01 - Generally
A.
Jurisdiction of chapter. This chapter shall govern the use of all land and developments thereof within the corporate limits of the city.
B.
Purpose of chapter. The purpose of this chapter shall be to promote the public health, safety, morals and general welfare and to require the harmonious, orderly and progressive development of land within the jurisdiction of the city. Further, the purposes of the regulation of the subdivision of land are to, among others:
1.
Encourage the development of economically sound and stable communities;
2.
Assure the provision of required streets, utilities and other facilities and services to new land developments;
3.
Assure the adequate provision of safe and convenient traffic access and circulation, both vehicular and pedestrian, in new land developments;
4.
Assure the provision of needed open spaces and building sites in new land developments through the dedication or reservation of public land for recreational, educational and other public purposes; and
5.
Assure, in general, the wise development of new areas in harmony with the comprehensive plan of the city.
C.
Conformance with zoning regulations. No subdivision shall be accepted for review which does not conform with the zoning regulations applicable to the land for which it is proposed.
D.
Conformance with chapter. Any sub-divider of land within the corporate limits of the city shall submit to the Planning Commission plats of the subdivision which shall conform to all requirements set forth in this chapter.
E.
Approval required prior to construction. No sub-divider shall proceed with any construction work on the proposed subdivision, including grading, before obtaining preliminary plat approval from the Planning Commission, as certified thereon, and approval of plans and profiles by the city engineer.
F.
Installation of improvements. Improvements may be made in a subdivision as are depicted on the preliminary plat previously approved by the Planning Commission, with final plat approval to be obtained in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 10 of the UDC.
G.
Final approval prior to subdividing. No land dedicated as a public street or other public purpose shall be opened, extended or accepted as a public street or for any other purpose, and no subdivision of land shall be made, or subdivision plat, or part thereof, shall be recorded before obtaining final approval from the Mayor and Council; and such approval shall be entered on the final plat.
H.
Issuance of building permits.
1.
No building permit shall be issued for and no building or other structure shall be erected on any lot within the incorporated area of the city unless the street giving access to the lot upon which such building is proposed to be placed shall be accepted or opened as, or shall have otherwise received the legal status of, a public street prior to that time. Provided, however, the Mayor and Council, meeting in regular session, may, in their discretion, issue building permits for the purpose of model homes, up to five (5) percent of the total number of lots in the phase unit of the subdivision approved by the Mayor and Council in the preliminary plat, after the bonds specified in this chapter have been posted by the owner or sub-divider and after all final engineering plans have been completed and before the actual installation of curbs, gutters and base and binder of the streets therein, where such street corresponds in its location and lines with a street shown on the preliminary subdivision plat as approved by the Mayor and Council or on a street located and accepted by the city. However, if the percentage is equal to less than two (2) building permits, then two (2) permits may be issued. Provided, however, that private streets and other private access ways may be approved under the terms of those rules and regulations in group development plans, condominium projects, apartment projects, townhouses, commercial developments, shopping centers or other development.
2.
If permits are issued prior to street acceptance, it shall be the sole responsibility of the sub-divider/developer to ensure that all setback requirements as well as all other requirements as specified in this Code are upheld.
I.
Approval by individual agencies. No subdivision plat shall be recorded with the clerk of superior court of the county without the plat having first been submitted to and approved by the Mayor and Council. The Mayor and Council shall not approve any subdivision plat without such plat having first been reviewed and approved by the city engineer and the health department to the extent that each has jurisdiction.
J.
Fees.
1.
Fees are hereby established to cover the cost of administration expenses. All required fees and charges are specified by other ordinances and resolutions by the Mayor and Council. The schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the city clerk and may be altered or amended only by the Mayor and Council.
2.
Upon the submission of any preliminary plat, final plat or other regulatory plan or plat required to be reviewed or approved under this chapter, any person who submits such plan shall deposit and pay to the city the required fees as noted in the City Wide Master Fee Schedule. After the approval of any plat or plan required to be approved under this chapter, the actual cost of engineering and approval of the plan shall be determined, and any person submitting such plat or plan shall pay the fee under the City Wide Master Fee Schedule or 120 percent of the actual cost of the engineering services for the approval of such plat or plan. The initial deposit shall be credited against the total cost determined in this subsection. This section shall also apply to plans for all commercial and industrial developments and shall be in addition to all other charges required by this Code.
K.
Administration of Chapter. This chapter shall be administered by the Planning and Zoning Administrator. The Planning Commission may from time to time issue instructions and operating procedures to be followed in the administration of this chapter to inform the public and expedite plat approvals.
L.
Amendments; hearings; variances.
1.
The Mayor and Council shall have the authority to amend this chapter after a public hearing thereon.
2.
Notice of the time and place of such public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation at least three days prior to such meeting.
3.
In cases of undue hardship under this chapter, any property owner may petition the Planning Commission for relief. The Planning Commission shall prepare and forward to the Mayor and Council any recommended amendments for the Mayor and Council's consideration. In cases where the Planning Commission fails to recommend amendments due to individual hardships, the property owner may then appeal to the Mayor and Council for relief.
M.
Violation of chapter; penalty.
1.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in section 1-11 of the Code of Ordinances. Each day's continuance of a violation shall be considered a separate offense. The owner of any lands or parts thereof, where anything in violation of this chapter shall be placed or shall exist, and any person who may have assisted in the commission of any such violation, shall be guilty of a separate offense.
2.
In any case in which any land is or is proposed to be used in violation of this chapter or amendment thereto adopted by the Mayor and Council, the legal counsel of the city or any owner of real estate within the district in which such land is situated, may, in addition to other remedies provided by law, institute injunction, abatement, or any appropriate action or proceeding to prevent, enjoin or abate the unlawful use.
4.05.02 - General Principles of Design
A.
Access.
1.
Every subdivision and every lot within shall be served by a publicly-dedicated street.
2.
When land is subdivided into larger parcels than ordinary building lots, such parcels shall be arranged and designed so as to allow for the opening of future streets and to provide access to those areas not presently served by streets.
3.
No subdivision shall be designed so as to completely eliminate street access to adjoining parcels of land.
B.
Conformance to the master plan.
1.
All proposed subdivisions shall conform to the master plan and development policies in effect at the time of submission to the Planning Commission.
2.
All highways, streets and other features of the master plan shall be platted by the sub-divider in the location and to the dimension indicated on the master plan. In subdivisions related to or affecting any state or federally numbered highway, the approval of the State Department of Transportation may be required by the Planning Commission.
3.
Where features of the master plan (other than minor streets and collector streets) such as school sites, parks, arterial streets, major thoroughfares and other public spaces are located in whole or in part in a proposed subdivision, or when these features have not been anticipated by the master plan and planning policy, but are considered essential by the Planning Commission, such features shall be dedicated. The Planning Commission shall require the dedication of recreational areas, school sites and/or open space as deemed appropriate for the size and type of development.
4.
The Planning Commission may waive the platting and reservation requirements mentioned in this section whenever the public body responsible for land acquisition executes a written release stating that such a planned feature is not required.
5.
The Planning Commission shall disapprove plats when such planned features, as specified by the master plan, are not incorporated into the plat.
6.
Whenever the plat proposes the dedication of land to public use and the Planning Commission or the appropriate agency finds that such land is not required or suitable for public use, the Planning Commission may either refuse to approve the plat or it may require the prearrangement of lots to include such land.
C.
Discrepancy between chapter and zoning and other regulations. Whenever there is a discrepancy between minimum standards of dimensions noted in this article and those contained in the zoning ordinance, building code or other official regulations or ordinances, the most restrictive shall apply.
D.
Group development projects. The standards and requirements of this chapter may be modified in the case of a plan and program for group development projects or neighborhood unit or planned unit development which is not divided into customary lots, blocks and streets, which in the judgment of the Planning Commission provides adequate public spaces and improvements for the circulation, recreation, light, air and service needs of the tract when fully developed and populated, provided zoning density standards for the entire tract are not exceeded, and which also provides such covenants or other legal procedures as will assure conformity to and achievement of the plan. Plans for such developments shall be submitted to and approved by the Planning Commission whether or not such plat is to be recorded and no building permits shall be issued until such approval has been given. Prior to processing such a planned unit development, the sub-divider shall indicate his willingness to increase processing time specified in Chapter 10 of the UDC.
1.
Modifications of the provisions set forth in this chapter may be authorized by the Planning Commission in specific cases when, in its opinion, undue hardships may result from strict compliance; provided any such determination shall be based fundamentally on the fact that unusual topographical and other exceptional conditions require such modifications, and that the granting of the modifications will not adversely affect the general public or nullify the intent of this chapter; provided further that any such modification granted by the Planning Commission shall be made in writing to the sub-divider and also made a part of the Planning Commission's records and the plat.
2.
Application for any modifications must be filed in writing with necessary supporting documents with the Planning Commission by the sub-divider and shall explain, in detail, the reasons and facts supporting the application.
4.05.03 - Required Minimum Improvements
A.
Applicability of article. The sub-divider shall provide improvements as required by this article and by applicable city specifications and requirements.
B.
Street grading.
1.
All street rights-of-way shall be cleared and graded to the standards of the city.
2.
When property adjacent to the street is not owned by the sub-divider, the sub-divider shall obtain the necessary easements for sloping banks before submitting the preliminary plat, as required in Chapter 10.
C.
Street paving.
1.
Street paving widths shall be in conformance with standards set forth in Chapter 6 of the UDC.
2.
Street pavements shall be installed according to standards adopted by the City under Chapter 6 of the UDC.
D.
Curbs and gutters.
1.
Curbs and gutters shall be installed on all streets, except where noted in this chapter. Installation shall be in accordance with the standards adopted by the city.
2.
Curbs and gutters shall be of a straight or standard construction on one or both sides of streets, as applicable, where sidewalks are required.
E.
Sidewalks.
1.
The sub-divider shall furnish all required sidewalks.
2.
Sidewalks shall have a minimum width of four feet and shall be provided under the following conditions:
a.
Sidewalks shall be required in subdivisions located within one mile from an existing or proposed school on one side of any subdivision street terminating at or adjacent to such school, when the Planning Commission determines sidewalks are necessary to provide for pedestrian movement.
b.
The Planning Commission may require additional sidewalks and wider sidewalks within a distance of up to one mile on streets leading to or going through commercial areas, street sites, places of public assembly and other congested areas.
c.
Sidewalks in residential areas shall not be adjacent to street curbs.
F.
Water supply.
1.
Where a public water supply is within a reasonable distance, the sub-divider shall install or have installed a system of water mains and connect to such supply. The mains and connections to each lot shall be installed prior to the paving of the street.
2.
Where a public water supply is not available, each lot in a subdivision shall be furnished with a water supply system approved by the health department.
G.
Sanitary sewage disposal.
1.
When in the written opinion of the health department, public sanitary sewers are within reasonable access of the subdivision, the sub-divider shall provide sanitary sewer services to each lot within the bounds of the subdivision. All street sewers serving lots in the subdivision shall be installed by the sub-divider.
2.
When in the written opinion of the health department, a public sanitary sewer is not accessible, an alternate method of sewage disposal for each lot or a community sewage disposal system may be used when in compliance with the standards of the health department.
3.
When the operation of a temporary sanitary sewer system requires land to be set aside for a disposal plant, the property owner shall give the city title to the property for as long as the plant is in operation. Such title may carry a reversionary clause returning the property to the owner when the site is no longer necessary for the operation of the plant.
4.
In a drainage basin which at the time of plat application is scheduled for a public sewage system, all subdivisions shall be provided with a temporary community sewage disposal system, as approved by the health department. Such system shall include permanent sewerage outfall lines plus a temporary treatment plant to be installed by the sub-divider.
5.
Whenever the installation of a sanitary sewer is required as provided by this chapter, no new street shall be paved without such sewer being first installed in accordance with the requirements of the health department sewer specifications.
H.
Storm drainage.
1.
Every subdivision shall be served by storm drainage facilities, including drains, sewers, catch basins, culverts and other facilities.
2.
All drainage facilities shall be so designed as to serve the entire drainage area in which these facilities are located. All street drains serving lots in the subdivision shall be installed by the sub-divider.
3.
All surface water drainage shall be transported to existing storm sewers or to drainage facilities approved by the city engineer.
4.
Whenever drainage ditches are used, such ditches shall retain natural design characteristics and be so designed that they do not present a hazard to life and safety.
5.
All drainage features shall be in accordance with standards and specifications of the city, and no extension shall be made from the street drainage through the abutting property without approval of the city engineer.
6.
When the construction of a proposed public road makes it necessary to cross a storm drain, the developer shall provide and install the required size and length of pipe acceptable to the city engineer.
i.
In cases where the developer or owner chooses not to develop the land through which the drain runs, the trench may be left open; however, in such cases the plat must be so marked and an easement shown thereon, indicating that no building or driveway shall be built over or within forty (40) feet of the open drain.
ii.
Where the developer chooses to leave the drain open and the drain is crossed by a driveway, the size of pipe shall be determined by the city engineer, and no building permit will be approved unless the installation meets the requirements of the city engineer.
iii.
Notwithstanding the controls set forth in this subsection, the building inspector may refuse to issue a building permit on any lot or lots where the land is subject to floods or where, in the opinion of the building inspector, the topographic features of the property are such that a building could not be properly maintained on the lot.
7.
Improvements, such as widening, deepening, relocating, clearing, protecting or otherwise improving existing lakes and shorelines, streambeds and other watercourses, for the control of mosquitoes and public health nuisance, shall be provided by the developer in accordance with standards are requirements of the health department.
8.
Any water impoundment structure shall be constructed so as to minimize mosquito breeding and other nuisance hazards. The outside toe of any dam shall be at least fifty (50) feet away from the toe of the street right-of-way slope. Any dam to be constructed within the city shall require the approval of the city engineer and the health department, and shall be constructed in accordance with standards and specifications as determined by them.
9.
No land subject to flooding as determined by the city engineer shall be platted or improved for residential or other use which may be endangered by floods, unless such land shall be raised four feet above the existing or forecast flood level with fill dirt taken from within that part of the subdivision within the floodplain, unless a greater height is specified by the city engineer; such fill areas shall include all land twenty (20) feet beyond the sites proposed for structures, and no such structure shall have any part below such four-foot level. Provided, however, that cutting and filling operations shall not deepen the floodplain below its lowest level or reduce the cross section of the floodplain. Provided further that all existing natural cover shall be replaced in kind after cutting and filling operations are complete.
I.
Monuments and iron pipes.
1.
Permanent monuments shall be accurately set and established where plat boundary lines intersect with land lot lines.
2.
Monuments shall consist of two (2) inch iron pipe, sixteen (16) inches in length. Monuments shall be set so the top of the pipe shall be six inches above the ground level, unless otherwise approved by the city engineer.
3.
The accurate location, material and size of all existing monuments shall be shown on the final plat, as well as the future location of monuments to be placed after street improvements have been completed.
4.
Iron pipes at least three-fourths (3/4) inch by sixteen (16) inches shall be placed at all corners of each lot and shall be set flush to the ground.
J.
Fire hydrants. Fire hydrants shall be located and set in accordance with city specifications.
K.
Street trees. Street trees and other shrubbery that may be retained or planted shall be placed or retained so as not to obstruct sight distances at street intersections.
L.
Completion. At such time as any or all improvements are completed, the sub-divider shall notify the city in writing, accurately identifying the improvements covered.
M.
Acceptance. Upon notification of completion of minimum improvements, the city shall within forty-five (45) days after such notice accept or reject, in writing, the completed improvements, stating the deficiencies, if any. Improvements shall not be accepted unless they conform to these regulations and applicable city specifications. All work performed under this chapter shall conform to this Code and all technical specifications and regulations adopted by the Mayor and Council. Work found to be deficient by city inspectors shall be corrected by the sub-divider at his expense and within the time frames required by the city.
N.
Guarantee. The sub-divider shall guarantee to the city, for a period of two years after completion and acceptance of the improvements, all material and workmanship. The sub-divider shall post bond with the city, conditioned upon the faithful performance of such guaranty. In lieu of furnishing the sub-divider's bond, the sub-divider may assign to the city an approved contractor's guaranty and bond. Such guaranty and bond shall be posted prior to approval by the city of the subdivision plat.
4.07.00 - STANDARDS FOR LEADERSHIP IN ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL DESIGN (LEED)
A.
Intent. The City of Kennesaw is committed to minimizing the short term and long term negative impacts construction has on the environment. The intent of this section is to provide owners and occupants of commercial buildings, offices, industrial buildings, multiple residences and senior citizen multiple residences with an opportunity for energy and water savings; good indoor air quality and healthy, pleasant and productive surroundings. The purpose of this section is to provide benefits to the community by having buildings constructed that are resource-efficient and conserve energy.
This section provides incentives for voluntary participation in sustainability efforts for new construction as a development option.
B.
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED). The City of Kennesaw hereby promotes the utilization of the Green Building Council's (USGBC) Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEEDNC) Rating System, Version 2.2 and any amendments thereto or subsequent versions. The LEED-NC system (for new construction) establishes several levels of environmental achievement from the certified rating to a platinum rating. The ratings are attained by earning LEED points in the categories of sustainable sites, water efficiency, energy and atmosphere, materials and resources, indoor environmental quality and innovation and design process. Alternatively, compliance with the requirements of this section may be achieved for new construction.
C.
Applicability. This section shall be applicable to all new construction of a commercial building, office building, industrial building, schools, multiple residence or senior citizen multiple residence equal to or greater than 20,000 square feet of gross floor area space where the owner or builder wish to pursue sustainability goals and certification through the LEED program.
4.07.01 - City of Kennesaw Incentives Review
The City of Kennesaw's commitment to becoming a green community is reinforced by the support to promote sustainable construction projects. The incentives for each project will be assessed by the City of Kennesaw collective review by the following Departments and Committees:
A.
Environmental Committee
B.
Planning and Zoning Department
C.
Public Works Department
D.
Economic Development Department
Possible incentives include but not limited to the following:
A.
Reduced construction permit fees
B.
Expedited plan review timetable
C.
Zoning bonuses including density, site design and setback reductions will be considered
D.
Other Economic Incentives identified by the Economic Development Department.
Each project will be analyzed on its own merit and will require analysis by the City Departments as per Section 4.08.01
4.07.02 - Process for Analysis of LEED compliance and City of Kennesaw consideration of development incentives
A.
All new projects will be reviewed by the City of Kennesaw Plan Review Committee as part of the adopted project review process for new construction.
B.
The property owner will submit a written request for sustainability review to the Plan Review Committee. The request will itemize the following information:
1.
Total square footage of project
2.
Proposed certification level pursued (gold, silver platinum) as regulated by the US Green Building Council (USGBC)
3.
Other sustainability efforts to be listed such as Earthcraft and Energy star initiatives
4.
Estimates of cost to implement LEED rated installation
5.
List of other similar projects completed that achieved LEED certification by same builder or owner
6.
Any additional information required by the Plan Review Committee deemed relevant to the request.
C.
["Reserved."]
D.
Written request and itemized information will be forwarded to the reviewing departments as listed in Section 4.07.01 for a collective review and assessment.
E.
If Economic Incentives are identified by the collective department review, the Economic Development Department will submit the assessment and recommendations/findings to the owner for review.
F.
If all parties agree on the assessment and finding by the City of Kennesaw and if Economic Incentives are being pursued, then the prepared Incentive package will be submitted for approval by Mayor and Council for ratification as an Economic Development Incentive Resolution specific to the project.
4.08.00 - ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS

4.08.01 - City-Wide Architectural Design Standards
This chapter, providing for the administration and enforcement of the Architectural Design, shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the "Architectural Design Standards Ordinance of the City of Kennesaw, Georgia."
A.
Purpose and scope
1.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish minimum standards for the design and construction of buildings and related structures in all districts excluding Single family dwelling units (detached) and Two-family dwelling units.
a.
In, PUD-R, RA-4, RM-8, RM-12, FST, RA-5, RA-6, and RM-16 districts, primarily residential construction materials such as, brick, stone, wood, lap siding, and architectural shingles, shall be utilized in the design.
2.
The Mayor and City Council find that the interests served through the adoption of these design standards includes the quality of architecture and building construction and protection of property values, prevention of the physical deterioration of buildings and the promotion of the image of the community and the general welfare of the city.
B.
General regulations
1.
As part of the submittal for site plan approval within any zoning district, architectural plans shall be submitted for review by the community development department and meet the minimum submittal requirements as specified in Chapter 10 of this UDC.
2.
Architectural elevations showing the building's design and a description of structural and exterior material proposed shall be provided in accordance with this chapter as required for site plan review.
C.
Design standards
1.
Building orientation. The orientation of any proposed building shall be carefully scrutinized so as to mitigate the visual and audible impact of service areas, loading areas, or similar operations on the adjoining properties and general public.
a.
Buildings shall not be designed or oriented to expose loading docks, service areas, or non-residential overhead doors to the public rights-of-way.
b.
Buildings proposed in commercial districts that are adjacent to residential developments shall not be designed or oriented to expose loading docks, service areas, or similar operations towards the adjacent residential developments.
c.
If it is not feasible to design or orient the loading docks, service areas, or similar operations away from the residential developments of public rights-of-way, additional landscape buffering, screening walls, and fences may be approved by the Zoning Administrator.
2.
Architectural elements. In order to reduce the negative aesthetic impacts of large buildings, additional architectural elements shall be incorporated into the overall building design.
a.
Non single-family buildings proposed in residential districts shall incorporate residential design elements such as, pitched roofs, dormers, cupolas, or other similar roof elements into the building design in order to minimize the aesthetic impact of the differing uses.
b.
Buildings proposed in commercial districts that are adjacent to residential developments are recommended to include an articulated roofline, giving emphasis to architectural elements that will divide the mass of a large building into smaller, identifiable pieces. Flat roof buildings shall not be encouraged, and only be approved by the Mayor or City Council.
c.
Commercial buildings shall incorporate architectural design elements, materials, and colors into the side and rear building elevations, similar to those used in the front building elevation.
d.
Commercial buildings shall incorporate façade modulation in all building elevations in order to preserve building scale and reduce the aesthetic impact of long, large expansive wall surfaces. The variation in wall surfaces can be accomplished either by physical offsets or by the use of color, pattern, or texture.
e.
Roof mounted mechanical units, satellite dishes, or other similar equipment shall be screened from the public view by the extension of a parapet wall or other roof structure.
f.
In the case where the parapet wall cannot feasibly screen the roof-mounted equipment, point-in-place or other appropriate screening shall be required. Such screening shall have similar design features as the building including material, shape, and color considerations. Wooden fences shall not be considered appropriate.
3.
Exterior material selection. The building's exterior material selection shall be compatible with other building and structures in adjoining developments. The minimum requirements shall be as follows:
a.
In, PUD-R, RA-4, RM-8, RM-12, FST, RA-5, RA-6, and RM-16 districts, primarily residential construction materials such as, brick, stone, wood, lap siding, and architectural shingles, shall be utilized in the design.
i.
Attached dwelling structures shall incorporate at a minimum, forty-five (45) percent brick, stone, or similar substantial material in the overall building design. The percentage requirement shall be calculated on the total exterior surface area exclusive of glazed surfaces.
ii.
Multiple family structures shall incorporate at a minimum, fifty (50) percent brick, stone, or similar substantial material into the overall building design. The percentage requirement shall be calculated on the total exterior surface area exclusive of glazed surfaces.
iii.
CBD, HPV and properties in the historic districts are subject to historical design standards contained herein.
b.
In LI and HI districts, architectural pre-cast tilt-up concrete panels are an acceptable exterior material provided that additional architectural detailing is provided along the public faces of the building.
c.
In OI, NS, NRC, CRC, GC, HBG, UVC, PVC, PSC, LI, HI districts, all proposed architectural material shall be dominated with permanency and strength of materials in proportion to the aesthetic characteristics of the buildings bulk and shape. Structures in these districts shall incorporate at a minimum, 50 percent brick, stone, stucco, or other similar substantial material into the overall building design. The percentage requirement shall be calculated on the total exterior surface area exclusive of glazed surfaces.
d.
The use of metal panels or sheet metal will not be considered an acceptable exterior building or accessory building material in any residential or commercial district. (Contrary to above, standing seam material may be utilized for roofing in any zoning district.)
D.
Waiver of requirements. The Zoning Administrator, or his/her designee, may grant administrative relief to the requirements of this ordinance. The Zoning Administrator's, or his/her designee, authority is limited to the following circumstances:
1.
Property located within an existing commercial development or park built prior to the adoption date of ordinance. This applies to office and industrial parks and retail developments for extension of said buildings.
2.
Property located an interior street of development and does not contain frontage along a major or minor collector or arterial street as defined under Chapter 6 of the UDC.
3.
Existing principal structure constructed prior to the adoption of this section.
E.
The Zoning Administrator, or his/her designee, upon review and determination that a subject property meets the criteria for administrative relief will issue a letter of approval to the property owner. A copy of this approval will be submitted to the official building files located in the building services department.
F.
If subject properties do not meet the above mentioned criteria there shall be no deviation from the terms of this section unless a waiver has been granted by the Mayor and Council of the City of Kennesaw through the variance application process as set forth in Chapter 9 of the UDC.
G.
The Mayor and City Council reserves the right to waive or modify to a lesser restriction any provision or requirement of architectural design elements contained in this chapter in any redevelopment of property within the city.
1.
The Mayor and City Council may consider modifications that do not adversely affect the intent of these regulations and adequately safeguard the general public and surrounding property.
2.
Exceptions will only be considered for those areas where special circumstances warrant a change and where the modification or waiver is determined to be in the best interest of the general public.
( Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 9(Exh. D3), 6-21-21)
TECHNICAL DOCUMENTS
1. City-wide Architectural Design Standards, 2007
2. Historic District Design Standards, 2006
4.09.00 - SITE DESIGN STANDARDS FOR OVERLAY DISTRICTS[4]
Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., adopted March 7, 2016, set out provisions intended for use as App. A, § 4.02.00. For clarity, and at the editor's discretion, these provisions have been included as App. A, § 4.09.00.

ARTICLE 1. - GENERAL

1.1 - Intent
The intent and purpose of this code is to enable and support the implementation of the following policies:
a.
That downtown Kennesaw and the Cherokee Street corridor is the focal point for high-quality, mixed-use development in the City of Kennesaw as established in the 2014 Cherokee Street Gateway Visioning Plan and the 2006-2026 Comprehensive Plan.
b.
That within Kennesaw ordinary activities of daily life should occur within walking or bicycling distance of most dwellings.
c.
That interconnected networks of thoroughfares should be designed to disperse traffic and reduce the length of automobile trips.
d.
That a range of housing options should be provided to accommodate different needs in the community.
e.
That the quality of life in existing neighborhoods should be preserved, protected, and enhanced.
f.
That development patterns should enable children to walk or bicycle to school.
g.
That a range of open spaces including parks, squares, playgrounds, and preserved green corridors should be distributed throughout Kennesaw.
h.
That buildings and landscaping should contribute to the physical definition of thoroughfares as public spaces.
i.
That development should adequately accommodate automobiles while respecting the pedestrian and the spatial form of public areas.
j.
That community design should reinforce safe environments, but not at the expense of accessibility.
k.
That civic buildings and public gathering places should be provided as locations that reinforce community identity.
l.
That civic buildings should be distinctive and appropriate to a role more important than the other buildings that constitute the fabric of the area.
m.
That the harmonious redevelopment of Kennesaw should be secured through design-based codes in select areas.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
1.2 - Applicability
1.2.1 In areas subject to this code, all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this chapter or inconsistent with its provisions in the City of Kennesaw Code of Ordinances are hereby superseded to the limited extent necessary to give this code full force and effect. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this shall not serve to supplant any state or federally mandated regulation, sign ordinance, platting ordinance, bonding requirements, development permitting, historic preservation and Historic Design Guidelines, nonconforming uses, Adult entertainment and sexually oriented businesses, alcohol permits and licenses, building code, soil erosion and sedimentation code, stormwater, impact fee ordinances, fire safety or life safety code as the City may have adopted or as amended from time to time.
1.2.2 Should any provision of this be declared invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration shall not affect this chapter as a whole or any part hereof except that specific provision which was the subject of the declaration.
1.2.3 Capitalized terms used throughout this code may be defined in Article 6 Definitions of Terms. Article 6 contains regulatory language that is integral to this code. Those terms not defined in Article 6 shall be accorded their commonly accepted meanings. In the event of conflicts between these definitions and those of Appendix A Section 1.09.02 Definitions of the Unified Development Code, those of this code shall take precedence when applied to the regulations found herein.
1.2.4 The metrics of Article 5 Standards and Tables are an integral part of this code. The diagrams and illustrations that accompany those standards should be incorporated, unless modified herein.
1.2.5 Where in conflict, numerical metrics shall take precedence over graphic metrics.
1.2.6 Where this document conflicts with the Historic District Design Standards, the Historic Design Standards shall govern.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
1.3 - Rezoning Process
1.3.1 Properties may only be rezoned to this code consistent with the currently adopted Special Update to the Future Land Use Plan, referred to hereafter as the Official Regulating Plan, and in accordance with Article 2.
1.3.2 The procedure for rezoning to the Official Regulating Plan shall be the same as required for any other application for zoning map amendment as described in Chapter 10 of the Unified Development Code, subject to the provisions thereto and additional requirements set forth below.
1.3.3 An update to the Official Regulating Plan submitted by any entity, including the City, shall provide the following:
a.
A Regulating Plan in accordance with the requirements of Section 2.1.2;
b.
Standards for Special Districts if applicable; and
c.
Requested Variances for concurrent consideration by Mayor and City Council, if applicable.
d.
Requested rezoning to the Official Regulating Plan for concurrent consideration by Mayor and City Council, if applicable.
1.3.4 Once the Mayor and City Council approves a rezoning under this code, the parcel(s), their t-zones or special districts shall be designated DBC (Design Based Code) on the City of Kennesaw zoning map.
1.3.5 Rezoning to the Official Regulating Plan will be processed by the City with application fee for a period of 6 months after the adoption of this code or as may be approved by action of the Mayor and City Council.
1.3.6 Special Area Plans identified in Section 2.14 may only be approved by the Mayor and City Council in accordance with the procedures set forth for updates to the Official Regulating Plan applications.
1.3.7 The following approval process is specific to parcels zoned T5 within the Downtown Activity Center (DAC) as defined by the Kennesaw Comprehensive Plan, as amended from time to time:
a.
Prior to rezoning to a T5 district, City of Kennesaw staff shall conduct a minimum of one consultation with applicant to review project concept and factors to consider in the planning and design phase prior to initial site plan and architectural review. Such consultation shall include consideration of the following:
i.
Conceptual site plan and architectural review by City of Kennesaw staff.
ii.
Submittal to the Kennesaw Downtown Development Authority (KDDA) for review and comment only.
iii.
Submittal to the Historic Preservation Commission (HPC) for certificate of appropriateness approval if within a historic district. If subject property is not in the historic district then concept approval will be required.
iv.
Site Plan review and approval by City of Kennesaw staff required.
b.
Final plan approval by Mayor and Council as required by section 2.11 of the City Charter, and as may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
1.4 - Transect Zones, Civic Zones, and Special Districts
1.4.1 The standards for Transect Zones and Civic Zones shall be as set forth in Articles 3, 4, and 5.
1.4.2 Areas that, by their intrinsic character, cannot conform to the requirements of any Transect Zone may be designated as Special Districts on a Regulating Plan.
1.4.3 The standards for Special Districts shall be approved by the Mayor and City Council as part of Regulating Plan and shall include either:
a.
Standards specifically prepared for the Special District and recorded in Table 13: Special Districts; or
b.
Standards of any City of Kennesaw zoning district.
1.4.4 Special Districts shall comply with all additional Special District provisions identified in Articles 3 and 4, unless relief is granted by Variance, and one of the following:
a.
Special District provisions set forth in Table 13: Special Districts, as applicable; or
b.
The requirements the base zoning, including conditions, as applicable; or
c.
The requirements of any other City of Kennesaw zoning district, as applicable.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
1.5 - Variances.
1.5.1 There shall be two types of deviation from the requirements of this code: administrative variances and variances. Whether a deviation requires an administrative variance or variance shall be determined by the planning and zoning administrator except where specifically prescribed in this code.
1.5.2 An administrative variance is a ruling that would permit a practice that is not consistent with a specific provision of this code but is justified by its intent. An administrative variance shall be processed consistent with Chapter 9 of the UDC, or as may be amended from time to time.
1.5.3 Administrative variances relating to a physical element or metric of this code shall be based upon credible submitted evidence demonstrating that:
a.
Approval, if granted, would not offend the spirit or intent of this code as set forth in Section 1.1 Intent;
b.
There are such extraordinary and exceptional situations or conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property that the literal or strict application of this code would create an unnecessary hardship due to size, shape or topography or other extraordinary and exceptional situations or conditions not caused by the applicant;
c.
Relief, if granted would not cause a substantial detriment to the public good and surrounding properties;
d.
Any relief from a metric authorized by an administrative variance shall be consistent with section 9.04 of the UDC, or as may be amended from time to time; and
e.
That the public safety, health and welfare are secured, and that substantial justice is done.
1.5.4 A Variance is any ruling on a deviation other than an administrative variance. A Variance shall be processed by the Mayor and City Council as described in Chapter 9 of the Unified Development Code.
1.5.5 If an Administrative variance or Variance is requested in conjunction with an application for an update to the Official Regulating Plan, the Mayor and City Council shall process the requested Administrative variances and Variances as a concurrent Variance.
1.5.6 With respect to the review of Variances, the City Planning Commission shall only make recommendations.
1.5.7 No Administrative variances or Variances may be issued for the following standards and requirements:
a.
The minimum Base Densities. (See Table 11 section a.)
b.
The permission to build Accessory Buildings.
c.
To address a violation of the footing survey requirement.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
1.6 - Density Calculations
1.6.1 The following Density calculations shall apply to all plans hereunder except Special Districts that are subject to the standards of any other City of Kennesaw zoning district as set forth in Section 1.4.3(b).
1.6.2 All areas of a site shall be considered cumulatively the Gross Site Area.
1.6.3 Development on a site shall be limited as follows:
a.
The maximum amount of floor area shall be limited by the maximum building height and applicable setback and lot coverage regulations; and
b.
The maximum number of housing units shall be further limited by the maximum number housing units per acre as specified for each Transect Zone by Table 11: Code Summary, item a Residential Density.
1.6.4 The maximum residential density of a site shall be calculated by multiplying the Transect Zone's density identified in Table 11: Code Summary, item a Residential Density by the Net Site Area. Where a site includes multiple Transect Zones, each shall be calculated independently. The area of new Thoroughfares and Civic Spaces on the site shall be allocated to the closest Transect Zone(s) on the site. Where a Thoroughfare or Civic Space adjoins multiple Transect Zones, their area shall be proportionally allocated to the adjoining zones.
1.6.5 Where a site is subdivided into lots, a lot's residential density may exceed the residential density of the Transect Zone within which it lies, provided that the maximum residential density of the Transect Zone for the site as whole as established in Section 1.6.3(b) is not exceeded.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
ARTICLE 2. - REGULATING PLANS

2.1 - Alterations to the Regulating Plan
2.1.1 The provisions of this article shall be utilized for sites being rezoned under this code. Alterations to the Official Regulating Plan shall be consistent with the requirements for Future Land Use map amendment as described in Chapter 10 of the Unified Development Code, or as may be amended from time to time.
2.1.2 Regulating Plans shall consist of one or more maps showing the following:
a.
Transect Zones and Civic Spaces:
b.
Thoroughfare network, existing and planned:
c.
A differentiation of Thoroughfares as A-Grid and B-Grid. Buildings along the A-Grid shall be held to the highest standard of this code in support of pedestrian activity. Buildings along the B-Grid may be more readily considered for Variances allowing automobile-oriented standards;
d.
Special Districts, including an indication of the specific City zoning district, if applicable;
e.
Mandatory Private Frontages;
f.
Any special requirements; and
g.
A record of any Variances.
2.1.3 The owner(s) of a parcel, or abutting parcels, consisting of 15 acres or more of contiguous lots within an area subject to the Official Regulating Plan may apply to prepare a Special Area Plan. In consultation with the Planning and Zoning Department, a Special Area Plan may assign new Transect Zones, Civic Zones, Thoroughfares, Special Districts, architectural standards, signage standards, and/or Special Requirements as provided in this code, with appropriate transitions to abutting areas. Special Area Plans shall be approved by the Mayor and City Council.
2.1.4 The City of Kennesaw or the owner of a parcel or abutting parcels in the Official Regulating Plan may adjust the locations of proposed Thoroughfares from those shown by up to a total of 300 horizontal feet by Variance, provided that the interconnected network shown in the Official Regulating Plan is maintained.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
2.2 - Special Area Plan Requirements
2.2.1 Special Area Plans shall include one or more maps described in Section 2.1.2., in compliance with the standards described in Article 2 of this code (Transect Zones and Civic Spaces):
a.
Thoroughfare network, existing and planned;
b.
A differentiation of Thoroughfares as A-Grid and B-Grid. Buildings along the A-Grid shall be held to the highest standard of this code in support of pedestrian activity. Buildings along the B-Grid may be more readily considered for MODIFICATIONS allowing automobile-oriented standards;
c.
Special Districts, including an indication of the specific City zoning district, if applicable;
d.
Mandatory Private Frontages;
e.
Any special requirements; and
f.
A record of any Variances and Administrative Variances.
2.2.2 The following elements shall not deviate from those established in the Official Regulating Plan unless otherwise amended:
a.
Mandatory Public Frontages along existing Thoroughfares; and
b.
Greenways, although their exact locations may vary provided the connections to adjacent sites shown outside of the Regulating Plan are maintained.
2.2.3 Each Special Area Plan for a site greater than 15 acres in area shall dedicate at least 5% of its total area to Civic Space.
2.2.4 Civic Space shall be designed as generally described in Table 5: Civic Space and as allowed in the Transect Zones in accordance with Table 11: Code Summary, item d Civic Spaces. Greenways shall not be counted towards this requirement, except where they pass through a Civic Space meeting the requirements of Table 5: Civic Space.
2.2.5 The Thoroughfare network for the Special Area Plan shall be designed to define Blocks not exceeding the size prescribed in Table 11: Code Summary, item b Block Size. The perimeter shall be measured as the sum of lot Frontage Lines of the Block. When one side of the Block perimeter is at the edge of a development parcel the maximum Block perimeter shall be subject to approval by Variance as described in Article 1.5.
2.2.6 All Thoroughfares shall terminate at other Thoroughfares, forming an interconnected network. Internal Thoroughfares shall connect wherever possible to those on adjacent sites. Where adjacent sites are non-conforming with regards to the Thoroughfare network requirements of this code, stub-out streets shall be provided to provide future connectivity at such time as the adjacent sites are developed or redeveloped. All other dead-end streets and cul-de-sacs are allowed only by variance to accommodate specific site conditions including and limited to where said street would otherwise cross a state water, wetland, or existing slope exceeding 25%.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
2.3 - Required Buffers
2.3.1 The requirements of Section 3.07.04 of the Unified Development Code that refers to required buffer zones shall not apply within the boundaries of the Official Regulating Plan between different parcels when both parcels are located within the boundaries of such Plan.
2.3.2 Where a parcel located within the Official Regulating Plan is adjacent to a parcel outside of such Plan, there shall be a 20 foot mandatory planted buffer or an undisturbed natural buffer within the parcel located within the Official Regulating Plan, as may be determined by the Planning and Zoning Administrator in order provide maximum visual screening and sound buffer. This requirement shall not preclude utility easements as may be reasonably required or deemed necessary by the City or other public utility. Said 20 foot buffer may be located within the area designated as setback.
2.3.3 Unless otherwise varied Stream and waterway buffers must be provided as per Section 46-421 Buffer and setback requirements and in compliance with O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1, Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act or other applicable State Law, and as one or more of these may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
ARTICLE 3. - PUBLIC STANDARDS

3.1 - Article Applicability
3.1.1 All sites, including those in Special Districts, shall incorporate Thoroughfares and Civic Spaces as established in an approved Regulating Plan or Special Area Plan.
3.1.2 Where no approved Special Area Plan exists, excluding Special Districts in an approved Regulating Plan:
a.
Additional Thoroughfares are only permitted when in accordance with Section 2.2.6;
b.
Additional Civic Spaces are permitted; and
c.
Sites of more than 4 acres shall be designed to define Blocks not exceeding the size prescribed in Table 11: Code Summary, item b Block Size. The perimeter shall be measured as the sum of lot Frontage Lines of the Block. When one side of the Block perimeter is at the edge of a development parcel the maximum Block perimeter shall be subject to approval by variance.
3.1.3 Thoroughfares are intended for use by vehicular, bicycle, and pedestrian traffic and to provide access to adjacent lots and Civic Spaces. Thoroughfares shall generally consist of Vehicular Lanes and Public Frontages. Bicycle Facilities, where provided along a Thoroughfare, shall also be considered part of said Thoroughfare.
3.1.4 Thoroughfares and Civic Spaces shall be designed according to their Transect Zone. The Public Frontages of Thoroughfares that pass from one Transect Zone to another shall be adjusted so that the newer Thoroughfare's vehicular lane and parking assemblies and Public Frontages shall taper to meet those of the existing Thoroughfare.
3.1.5 Each lot shall Enfront a vehicular Thoroughfare or Civic Space, except that 20% of the lots within each Transect Zone may Enfront a Passage.
3.1.6 Standards for Thoroughfares within Special Districts, except as identified in this Article, shall be consistent with Chapter 6 of the UDC, or and as amended from time to time, or as may be approved by Mayor and Council if the public health, safety, and welfare demand.
3.1.7 Thoroughfares along a designated B-Grid may be exempted by Variance from one or more of the specified Public Frontage or Private Frontage requirements. See Table 8: Private Frontages.
3.1.8 Rear Alleys and Rear Lanes shall be provided where required by Table 11: Code Summary, item c Thoroughfares.
3.1.9 Rear Alleys shall be paved for their width that includes installation of curbs.
3.1.10 Rear Lanes may be paved to driveway standards. Rear Lanes shall consist of bounded gravel or landscaped edges, and have no raised Curb.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
3.2 - Thoroughfares—Vehicular Lanes
3.2.1 Thoroughfares may include vehicular lanes in a variety of widths for parked and moving vehicles, and Bicycle Lanes. The standards for vehicular lanes shall be as shown in Table 3A: Vehicular Lane Dimensions, subject to approval of the City of Kennesaw Public Works Director or other official as designated by the City Manager, who may present alternative standards for approval by the Mayor and City Council if the public health, safety, and welfare demand.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
3.3 - Thoroughfares—Bicycle Facilities
3.3.1 A bicycle network consisting of Greenways, Bicycle Lanes, and other bicycle facilities shall be provided as specified in the approved Regulating Plan or Special Area Plan. The bicycle network shall be connected to existing or proposed city and regional networks wherever possible.
3.3.2 Greenways shall include:
a.
An open space corridor that is available for pedestrian access;
b.
A Multi-Use Trail with a minimum width of 12 feet, which shall be located within open space corridor.
3.4 - Thoroughfares—Public Frontages
3.4.1 The standards for Public Frontages shall be as follows, subject to approval of the City of Kennesaw Public Works Director or other official as designated by the City Manager, who may, present alternative standards for approval by the Mayor and City Council if the public health, safety, and welfare demand.
3.4.2 Design Standards General to zones T3, T4, T5
a.
The Public Frontage contributes to the character of the Transect Zone and includes Sidewalk, Curb, Planter, and trees. If a Greenway is located in what would otherwise be part of the Public Frontage then it shall also be considered part of the Public Frontage.
b.
Public Frontages shall be designed as shown in Table 4A: Public Frontages - General and Table 4B: Public Frontages - Specific and allocated within Transect Zones, where applicable, as specified in Table 11: Code Summary, item c Thoroughfares.
c.
Retrofit of existing Thoroughfares
i.
Retrofit of existing Thoroughfares which shall be defined as project improvements as contemplated by O.C.G.A. § 36-71-1 et seq. shall be accomplished in the Public Frontage by widening Sidewalks, adding trees, adding public lighting, and adding any required Greenways.
ii.
Retrofit of existing Thoroughfares may also be accomplished in the Public Frontage by adding on-street parking, or by adding one Slip Road along one or both sides of the Thoroughfare utilizing one of the Thoroughfares identified as suitable for a Slip Road in Table 3B: Vehicular Lane/Parking Assemblies.
iii.
Where retrofit occurs and there is insufficient right-of-way for the required improvements, the right-of-way needed for such improvements may be expanded by mutual agreement between the property owner and the entity holding the right-of-way, or a public access easement may be provided to the City of Kennesaw to meet the required improvements. Where the latter occurs, the Frontage Line will not be congruent with the right-of-way line.
iv.
Retrofits of existing Thoroughfares will be considered system improvements for the purposes of the Kennesaw Impact Fee Ordinance.
d.
Public lighting shall be provided as established in Section 4.13 Lighting Standards.
e.
Street trees shall be provided in the Public Frontage Planter and required Landscape Zone, subject to Chapter three of the Unified Development Code section 3.07.00 with the following alterations:
i.
Along State Routes street trees shall be placed and sized in accordance with the standards established by the Georgia Department of Transportation.
ii.
Along other Thoroughfares street trees shall be placed and sized in accordance with the current standards established by the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
iii.
Permitted tree species within the Public Frontage shall be as established in the Tree Species Selection List in Chapter 3. The City of Kennesaw may establish additional requirements along specific Thoroughfares.
3.4.3 Specific to zones T3, T4, T5
a.
Street trees shall be spaced a minimum of 30 and a maximum of 60 feet on-center.
b.
The introduced landscape shall consist of durable species tolerant of soil compaction.
3.4.4 Specific to zone T3
a.
The Public Frontage shall include trees of various species, naturalistically clustered.
3.4.5 Specific to zone T4
a.
Street trees shall be planted in a regularly-spaced Allee pattern of similarly shaped species with shade canopies of a height that, at maturity, clears at least one Story.
3.4.6 Specific to zone T5
a.
Street trees shall be planted in a regularly-spaced Allee pattern of similarly shaped species with shade canopies of a height that, at maturity, clears at least one Story. At Retail Frontages, the spacing of the trees may be irregular, to avoid visually obscuring the Shopfronts.
3.4.7 Specific to State Routes in all Zones and Special Districts
a.
The requirements of the Specific Transect Zones or Special Districts notwithstanding, along State Routes Sidewalk with a minimum width of 10 feet and a Planter having a width of 10 feet shall be provided. Street trees shall be located in the Planter and spaced a minimum of 30 and a maximum of 60 feet on-center. The spacing may be adjusted to accommodate specific site conditions.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
3.5 - Civic Zones
3.5.1 General
a.
Civic Zones shall be designated on a Regulating Plan or Special Area Plan as Civic Building Sites or Civic Spaces.
3.5.2 Civic Spaces
a.
Civic Spaces shall be designed as described in Table 5: Civic Space and shall be accessible to the public during normal City of Kennesaw park hours or longer each day.
b.
Each Civic Space, except for Playgrounds and Parks, shall have a minimum of 50% of its perimeter enfronting one or more Thoroughfares. There shall be no minimum requirement for Playgrounds and Parks.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
ARTICLE 4. - BUILDING SCALE PLANS

4.1 - Article Applicability
4.1.1 Lot and building plan approval for areas rezoned hereunder shall be subject to the following additional requirements of this Article.
4.1.2 Building and site plans submitted under this code shall show compliance with the following standards described in this code:
a.
For preliminary site and building approval:
i.
Building Placement
ii.
Building Form
iii.
Building Function
iv.
Public Frontages
b.
Environmental Design Requirements For final approval, in addition to the above:
i.
Landscaping
ii.
Signage
iii.
Special Requirements, if any
iv.
Architecture
v.
Environmental Design Requirements
4.1.3 Special Districts that do not have provisions within this code as set forth in Table 13: Special Districts shall be governed by the applicable base zoning, including any zoning conditions, or by any other City of Kennesaw zoning district as indicated on the Official Regulating Plan or Special Area Plan.
4.1.4 Civic Buildings shall not be subject to the requirements of this code. Buildings housing Civic Functions that do not meet the definition of a Civic Building shall be subject to the requirements of this code.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
4.2 - Non-Conforming Properties
4.2.1 Non-conforming properties shall be governed by section 9.01 Nonconforming Uses of the Unified Development Code, or as may be amended from time to time, except as indicated to the contrary below.
4.2.2 A property existing at the date of adoption of this code or any amendments thereto, at which time the Planning and Zoning Administrator shall determine the provisions of this code that shall apply. The above shall not apply to any structures required to be phased out according to 9.01.00.C of the UDC, or as may be amended from time to time.
4.2.3 Lots existing at the time of adoption of this code shall not be considered non-conforming with regard to width.
4.2.4 Except for properties within any Historic District, the modification of existing buildings is permitted By Right if such changes do not increase the non-conformity with the specifications of this code (as illustrated in Table 2: Modifications to Non-Conforming Properties).
4.2.5 In the event of a partial or full destruction by casualty or unintentional means such as fire, storm, or other hazards, developments that received approvals from the Kennesaw Downtown Development Authority, the Historic Preservation Commission, and the Mayor and City Council before the effective date of this ordinance may be fully reconstructed in accordance with such prior approvals and shall not be considered non-conforming. However this shall not limit any other applicable Central Business District zoning provision unless specifically varied.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
4.3 - Special Requirements
4.3.1 To the extent that the Official Regulating Plan designates any of the following Special Requirements, these standards shall apply to said requirements:
a.
A mandatory Retail Frontage designation requires that a building provide a Shopfront at Sidewalk level along the entire length of its Private Frontage. The Shopfront building wall area shall be no less than 70% glazed in clear glass and shaded by an awning overlapping the Sidewalk as illustrated in Table 8: Private Frontages. The first story shall be confined to Retail or Office Function through the depth of the Second Layer.
b.
A mandatory Gallery Frontage designation requires that a building provide a permanent cover over the Sidewalk, either cantilevered or supported by columns (as generally illustrated in Table 8: Private Frontages). A Gallery Frontage may be combined with a Retail Frontage.
c.
A mandatory Arcade Frontage designation requires that a building overlap the Sidewalk such that the first floor Facade is a colonnade (as illustrated in Table 8: Private Frontages). The Arcade Frontage may be combined with a Retail Frontage.
d.
A coordinated Frontage designation requires that the Public Frontage (Table 4A: Public Frontages - General) and Private Frontage (Table 8: Private Frontages) be coordinated as a single, coherent landscape and paving design.
e.
A cross Block Passage designation requires that a minimum 8 foot wide pedestrian access be reserved between buildings.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
4.4 - Building Placement
4.4.1 Specific to zones T3, T4, T5
a.
Newly platted Lots shall be dimensioned according to Table 11: Code Summary, item e Lot Occupation.
b.
Building Placement types shall be as shown in Table 7: Building Placement and Table 11: Code Summary, item h Building Placement.
c.
Buildings shall be placed in relation to the boundaries of their lots according to Table 11: Code Summary and Table 14: Definitions Illustrated subject to the following:
i.
Front Setbacks shall be measured from the Frontage Line.
ii.
Side and Rear Setbacks shall be measured from the Lot Line.
d.
At least One Principal Building at the Frontage, and one Outbuilding to the rear of the Principal Building, may be built on each Lot as shown in Table 14: Definitions Illustrated.
e.
Lot coverage by building shall not exceed that recorded in Table 11: Code Summary, item e Lot Occupation.
f.
Facades shall be built parallel to a straight Principal Frontage Line or to the tangent of a curved Principal Frontage Line, and along the A-Grid to a minimum percentage of the Frontage width at the Setback, as specified as Frontage buildout on Table 11: Code Summary, item f Setbacks - Principal Building, provided that where a master planned site in Zone T5 is planned for subdivision into lots, compliance with this requirement may be calculated prior to subdivision.
g.
Rear Setbacks for Outbuildings shall be a minimum of 12 feet measured from the centerline of a Rear Alley or Rear Lane easement. In the absence of Rear Alley or Rear Lane, the rear Setback shall be as shown in Table 11: Code Summary.
4.4.2 Specific to zones T5
a.
The Principal Entrance to all enfronting buildings shall be on a Frontage Line.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
4.5 - Building Form
4.5.1 General to zones T3, T4, T5
a.
The Private Frontage of buildings shall conform to Table 8: Private Frontages and Table 11: Code Summary.
b.
Buildings on corner Lots shall have two Private Frontages as shown in Table 14: Definitions Illustrated. Prescriptions for the Second and Third Layers pertain only to the Principal Frontage. Prescriptions for the First Layer pertain to both Frontages.
c.
Building heights and Setbacks shall conform to Table 6: Building Form.
d.
Stories may not exceed 14 feet in height from finished floor to finished ceiling, except for a first floor Commercial or Civic Function, which shall be a minimum of 11 feet with a maximum of 25 feet. A single floor level exceeding 14 feet, or 25 feet at ground level, shall be counted as two stories. Mezzanines extending beyond 33% of the floor area shall be counted as an additional Story.
e.
A first level Residential Function may be raised a maximum of 6 feet from average Sidewalk grade unless a greater height is approved by Variance.
f.
In a Parking Structure or garage, each above-ground level counts as a single Story regardless of its relationship to habitable Stories.
g.
Building height limits do not apply to attics, masts, belfries, clock towers, chimney flues, water tanks, or elevator bulkheads. Attics shall not exceed 14 feet in height.
h.
The habitable area of an Accessory Unit within a Principal Building or an Outbuilding shall not exceed 440 square feet, excluding the parking area.
4.5.2 Specific to zone T3
a.
No portion of the Private Frontage may Encroach the Sidewalk.
b.
Open porches may Encroach the First Layer for 50% of the layer's depth.
c.
Balconies and bay windows may Encroach the First Layer for 25% of the layer's depth except that balconies on porch roofs may Encroach as does the porch.
4.5.3 Specific to zone T4
a.
Balconies, open porches and bay windows may Encroach the First Layer for 50% of the layer's depth.
4.5.4 Specific to zones T5
a.
Except where prohibited, Awnings, Arcades, and Galleries may Encroach the Sidewalk to within 2 feet of the Curb but must clear the Sidewalk vertically by at least 8 feet.
b.
Stoops, Lightwells, balconies, bay windows, and terraces may Encroach the First Layer for 100% of the layer's depth.
c.
A walkway with a minimum width of 4 feet shall connect rear buildings to the public Sidewalk.
d.
A first level Residential or Lodging Function shall be raised a minimum of 2 feet from average Sidewalk grade unless a lesser height is necessary to allow wheelchair access.
4.5.5 Specific to Special Districts
a.
A walkway with a minimum width of 5 feet shall connect all buildings to the public Sidewalk.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
4.6 - Building Function
4.6.1 Nothing in this code shall be construed to provide relief from the provision of Section 4.04.00 Supplemental Standards for Specific Uses of the Kennesaw Code or Ordinances, which shall remain in full effect.
4.6.2 Table 10: Specific Function and Use lists the uses that are permitted by Transect Zone. If a particular use is not listed but the Planning and Zoning Administrator can equate the proposed use to a similar use that is listed, then the use that is not listed may be allowed to locate in the Transect Zone where the equated use is permitted. The uses allowed are those that will benefit from close proximity of uses and foster a pedestrian-oriented environment.
4.6.3 General to zones T3, T4, T5
a.
A structure or parcel in each Transect Zone shall conform to the Functions on Table 9: Building Function, Table 10: Specific Function and Use and Table 11: Code Summary.
b.
Specific uses identified in Table 9 shall apply regardless of whether the use is a permitted use or accessory use. A structure or parcel may contain more than one permitted or accessory use.
c.
In addition to the accessory uses identified in Table 9, a structure or parcel may also be used for uses customarily incidental to any permitted use.
d.
Home Occupation shall be permitted as an accessory use in accordance with Section 4.04.00 of the UDC
4.6.4 Specific to zone T3
a.
Accessory Functions of Restricted Lodging or Restricted Office shall be permitted within an Accessory Building. See Table 9: Building Function.
4.6.5 Specific to zones T5
a.
Accessory Functions of Limited Lodging or Limited Office shall be permitted within an Accessory Building. See Table 9: Building Function.
4.6.6 Specific to zone T4-Open
a.
The Function standards of T5 shall apply. See Table 10.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
4.7 - Screening and Fencing
4.7.1 Fences, walls and hedges shall be subject to the following:
a.
General to zones T3, T4, T5
i.
Electrical and barbed wire fencing are prohibited.
ii.
Chain link fencing is prohibited from view from a public Thoroughfare and shall be black or hunter green vinyl clad.
iii.
Retaining walls shall be faced with or constructed of stone, brick, or decorative concrete modular block. Retaining walls above three feet high shall have a continuous planting of evergreens in front of them. Retaining walls in Historic Areas are subject to the requirements of the Historic District Design Standards.
b.
Specific to zones T3, T4
i.
Where permitted within the First Layer, fences, walls and hedges shall not exceed 48 inches in height. Retaining walls are excluded from this requirement.
ii.
Fences shall be a maximum of 50% opaque in the First Layer.
iii.
In all other locations fences and walls shall not exceed 6 feet in height and shall be at maximum of 50% opaque above 48 inches in height. This requirement shall not apply to fences and walls screening refuse areas or loading docks.
c.
Specific to zones T5, and Special Districts
i.
Within the first Layer, fences, walls and hedges shall not exceed 54 inches in height. Retaining walls are excluded from this requirement.
ii.
Fences shall be a maximum of 50% opaque in the First Layer.
iii.
In all other locations fences and walls shall not exceed 6 feet in height and may be 100% opaque.
iv.
Chain link fencing is prohibited.
4.7.2 The following elements shall be screened from view of any A-Grid or Civic Space as set forth below. To comply with the maximum height requirements above, any screening that exceeds the maximum requirements for the First Layer shall not be located within it.
a.
Loading docks and service areas shall be screened by either:
i.
A minimum 6 foot high 100% opaque fence matching the material of the building; or
ii.
An 8 foot wide landscape strip planted with a continuous hedge of evergreen shrubs. Shrubs shall be moderately growing, be a minimum height of 42 inches at time of planting, reach a minimum height of 6 feet within two years of planting, and all plant materials shall be equal to or surpass specifications as defined in the current issue of "American Standards for Nursery Stock," published by the American Association of Nurserymen, Inc.
b.
Open Parking or gas fueling bays shall be screened by a continuous screen of evergreen plantings. Said screen shall be 3 feet in height at planting and 4 feet minimum height at maturity and 3 to 8 feet in width at maturity.
4.7.3 Refuse areas (dumpsters) shall be placed in the least visible location from Thoroughfares, and shall be enclosed with vertically enclosed opaque walls one foot higher than the dumpster. Where wall enclosures are provided they shall be faced in a material compatible with the exterior wall material of the Principal Building.
4.7.4 Mechanical features such as HVAC condensers, electrical transformers, heat pumps, and similar features shall not be placed in the First Layer and shall be screened from view of any Thoroughfare, Civic Space, or any property zoned, used, or developed for Residential Functions, by one of the following means:
a.
Placement behind the building;
b.
100% opaque fencing which shall be constructed of the same type of exterior material used for the Principal Building; or
c.
By a berm or vegetative screening. The screening shall consist of evergreen shrubs, be a minimum of 42 inches in height at time of planting, and reach a minimum height of 6 feet within two years of planting.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
4.8 - Off-Street Parking and Loading
4.8.1 Off-street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with Section 6.06 Off-Street Parking Facilities of this ordinance except where alternate standards have been approved by the Mayor and City Council within a Regulating Plan or Special Area Plan, or as set forth below.
4.8.2 The parking requirements of Section 6.06 may be satisfied off-site subject to the following:
a.
Said off-site parking shall be located within 600 feet of the Principal Entrance of the use it serves, as measured along the pedestrian walkway;
b.
Said off-site parking shall be located within this zoning district;
c.
Applicants shall submit an executed and court recorded parking agreement from the off-site parking property owner granting the applicant the right of sole use of the specific number of parking spaces to be utilized; and
d.
All off-site parking spaces shall be clearly marked and signed.
4.8.3 A reduction of the parking requirements of Section 6.06 may be permitted subject to the following:
a.
Applicants for shared parking shall submit the following to the Director of Community Development:
i.
A shared parking analysis using the Urban Land Institute (ULI) Shared Parking Model (latest edition);
ii.
A to-scale map indicating location of proposed shared parking spaces; and
iii.
Written consent of property owners and businesses agreeing to the shared parking arrangement, including copies of executed and court recorded agreements for off-site parking, as applicable.
b.
Uses providing shared parking must have either mutually exclusive or compatibly overlapping normal hours of operations.
c.
Reductions in the total number of required spaces for shared parking are not permitted unless the Planning and Zoning Administrator determines a reduction is appropriate on a case-by-case basis through use of the ULI Shared Parking Model.
d.
Renewed parking agreements shall be filed with the Planning and Zoning Administrator. Lapse of a required lease agreement shall terminate the shared parking reduction.
e.
All shared parking spaces shall be clearly marked and signed as reserved during specified hours.
f.
Off-site shared parking shall also comply with the requirements of Section 4.8.2.
4.8.4 On-street parking along the parking lane corresponding to the Lot Frontage shall be used to satisfy parking requirements.
4.8.5 All Office, Lodging, Retail, Civic, and education Functions, shall provide a minimum of one bicycle or scooter rack to accommodate a minimum of one bicycle or scooter space for every 5,000 square feet of net floor space. Multiple family dwellings shall provide a minimum of one bicycle or scooter rack to accommodate a minimum of one bicycle or scooter space for every 20 units. Said rack(s) shall be located either:
a.
Within the Public or Private Frontage, or
b.
Closer than the closest off-street vehicular parking space provided.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
4.9 - Parking Location Standards
4.9.1 General to zones T3, T4, T5
a.
Parking shall be accessed by Rear Alleys or Rear Lanes, when such are available or required.
b.
Rear Alleys, Rear Lanes, and Driveways on adjacent sites shall connect to provide inter-parcel access to minimize curb cuts and improve street traffic flow.
4.9.2 Specific to zones T3
a.
Open Parking areas shall be located at the Second and Third Layers, except that Driveways, drop-offs and unpaved parking areas may be located at the First Layer.
b.
Garages shall be located at the Third Layer.
4.9.3 Specific to zones T3, T4
a.
Driveways at Frontages shall be no wider than 10 feet in the First Layer. (Table 3B: Vehicular Lane/Parking Assemblies, item f Parking Access)
4.9.4 Specific to zone T4
a.
All parking areas and garages shall be located at the Second or Third Layer.
4.9.5 Specific to zones T5
a.
All Open Parking and Parking Structures shall be located at the Second or Third Layer.
b.
Vehicular entrances to Open Parking, drive-throughs, and Parking Structures shall be no wider than 12 feet for one-way access and 24 feet for two-way access at the Frontage.
c.
Pedestrian exits from all Open Parking and Parking Structures shall be directly to a Frontage Line (i.e., not directly into a building) except underground levels which may exit directly into a building.
d.
Parking Structures on the A-Grid shall have Liner Buildings lining the first and second Stories.
4.9.6 Specific to Special Districts
a.
All Open Parking and Parking Structures shall be located at the Second or Third Layer.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
4.10 - Landscape Standards
4.10.1 General to Zones T3, T4, T5, and Special Districts
a.
Permitted tree species and caliper within the Private Frontage shall be as established in Chapter 3: Tree Species Selection List. Trees in the Private Frontage shall also comply with the following:
i.
No more than 33 percent of the trees shall be the same species, and
ii
At least 70 percent of the trees shall be listed as trees with a medium or large canopy.
b.
The property owner is responsible for maintaining all required landscaping in good health and condition. Any dead, unhealthy, damaged or missing landscaping and screening shall be replaced with landscaping that conforms to this code within 90 days, or within 180 days where weather concerns would jeopardize the health of plant materials. The standards of 3.07.07 still apply to trees as part of the landscaping.
4.10.2 General to zones T3, T4, T5
a.
Impervious surface shall be confined to the ratio of Lot coverage specified in Table 11: Code Summary, item e Lot Occupation.
4.10.3 Specific to zones T3, T4
a.
The First Layer shall be landscaped with live grass, trees, shrubs, hedges and other landscaping materials approved by the Planning and Zoning Administrator and shall not be paved, with the exception of Driveways as specified in Section 4.9.2 and Section 4.9.3. Species selected should be ecologically compatible with the site, and non-living materials should be consistent with the historic character of the area.
b.
On-site stormwater management is required; however, connection to a city regional stormwater management facility, if available in the basin, is mandatory.
4.10.4 Specific to zone T3
a.
A minimum of one tree shall be planted within the First Layer for each 30 feet of Frontage Line or portion thereof.
b.
Trees shall be naturalistically clustered.
4.10.5 Specific to zone T4
a.
A minimum of one tree shall be planted within the first Layer for each 30 feet of Frontage Line or portion thereof.
b.
Trees shall be a single species to match the species of Street Trees on the Public Frontage.
4.10.6 Specific to zone T5 and Special Districts
a.
Adjacent to Open Parking
i.
The First Layer shall be landscaped with live grass, shrubs, hedges, and other landscaping materials approved by the Planning and Zoning Administrator. Species selected should be ecologically compatible with the site, and non-living materials should be consistent with the historic character of the area.
ii.
The First Layer shall be planted with trees spaced a minimum of 30 and a maximum of 60 feet on-center. The spacing may be adjusted to accommodate specific site conditions.
iii.
The First Layer shall not be paved, with the exception of walkways and Driveways as specified in Section 4.9.2 and Section 4.9.3, the sum of which shall not occupy more than 50% of the area of the First Layer.
b.
Not adjacent to Open Parking:
i.
Trees and landscaping shall not be required in the First Layer.
ii.
The First Layer may be paved to match the pavement of the Public Frontage.
c.
Open detention or open retention facilities are prohibited. On-site underground stormwater management is required; however, connection to a city regional stormwater management facility, if available in the basin, is mandatory
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
4.11 - Drive-Through Standards
4.11.1 Specific to Special Districts
a.
Drive-through service canopies shall be pitched at an angle and use materials matching the roof of the Principal Building.
b.
Drive-through facilities and all associated vehicular queuing shall be located at the rear of the Principal Building if feasible, but shall be located at the side if not feasible.
c.
Vehicular access to a drive-through should be from mid-block or from a Rear Alley to avoid disrupting pedestrian traffic. If a Driveway is necessary it shall be no more than 24 feet wide.
d.
Drive-through facilities shall be considered accessory structures to a building.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
4.12 - Automobile Fuel Station Standards
4.12.1 Specific to Special Districts
a.
Lighting shall be shielded to direct light and glare onto the lot where the gas/fueling station is located.
b.
Gasoline station canopies and pumps:
i.
Shall be located to the side, or rear of the Principal Building.
ii.
Pump canopies shall be located at least 50 feet from any interior side or rear property line that adjoins a Residential Function.
iii.
Shall be buffered from adjoining Residential Functions with an opaque wall between 3.5 and 8 feet in height. Said wall shall be faced in a material compatible with the same exterior wall material of the Principal Building.
c.
A conforming Principal Building is required and shall be a minimum floor area of 1,600 square feet.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
4.13 - Lighting Standards
4.13.1 The following lighting standards shall apply in areas regulated by this code except where alternate standards have been approved by the Mayor and City Council within a Special Area Plan.
4.13.2 Any lighting fixture shall be a cutoff luminary whose source is completely concealed with an opaque housing. Fixtures shall be recessed in the opaque housing. Drop dish refractors are prohibited. This provision includes lights on mounted poles as well as architectural display and decorative lighting visible from a Thoroughfare or Civic Space. Wall pack lighting shall be cut-off down directional. Canopy lighting shall be cut-off down directional.
4.13.3 All light fixtures that are required to be shielded shall be installed and maintained in such a manner that the shielding is effective for fully shielded fixtures.
4.13.4 Flood or spot lamps must be positioned no higher than 45 degrees above straight down (half-way between the vertical and the horizontal) when the source is visible from any off-site residential property or public roadway.
4.13.5 Mounting fixtures must be modified in such a manner that the cone of the light is not directed at any property line. The minimum mounting height for a pole is 12 feet. The maximum mounting for a pole is 28 feet. Any fixture and pole located within 20 feet of a single family residential district, T3 Zone, or a T4 Zone shall be a Type Four (enclosures that are intended for outdoor use primarily to provide a degree of protection against windblown dust and rain, splashing water, and hose directed water; undamaged by the formation of ice on the enclosure) and forward throw distribution.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
4.14 - Sign Standards
4.14.1 The provisions of Section 5.03 Signs shall apply in areas regulated by this code with the following additional standards.
4.14.2 Freestanding Signs
a.
All permanent freestanding signs must be ground-based monument signs.
b.
No sign may exceed 10 feet in height.
c.
Signs must be setback at least 3 feet from the right-of-way. The Public Works Director or their designee may require additional setback distances based upon site conditions for traffic safety.
d.
Signs must use materials that match the primary building.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
4.15 - Architectural Standards
4.15.1 The following architectural standards shall apply to all buildings in areas regulated by this code.
4.15.2 Properties listed within a historic district are subject to the architectural requirements spelled out in the Historic Kennesaw Design Standards and are not subject to 4.15.3, 4.15.4, or 4.15.5.
4.15.3 General to Zones T3, T4, T5, and Special Districts
a.
Exterior materials for all buildings may be combined only horizontally, with the heavier below the lighter.
4.15.4 Specific to buildings with a Detached Single Family Home use in Zones T3, T4, T5, and Special Districts.
a.
Materials.
i.
The exterior finish material on all Facades shall be limited to brick, manufactured stone, natural stone, wood siding, and/or cementitious siding.
ii.
Foundations shall be constructed as a distinct building element that contrasts with Facade materials. Exposed above-ground foundations shall be coated or faced in brick, manufactured stone, or natural stone to contrast with façade materials.
iii.
Synthetic stucco exterior insulation finishing systems are prohibited.
iv.
Other materials not mentioned above will be reviewed by the plan review committee for appropriateness during the normal application process. If the plan review committee finds the material is inappropriate, the decision can be appealed through a variance process as described in Chapter 9 of the Unified Development Code.
b.
Windows and Doors along Frontages.
i.
Where used, shutters shall match one-half the width of the window opening to which they are adjacent.
ii.
Windows shall provide glass that is clear, unpainted, and not tinted so as to obstruct views into the building.
iii.
Doors and windows that operate as sliders are prohibited.
iv.
Windows shall be vertically shaped with a height greater than width. The top of said windows shall generally be in alignment with the top of the adjacent door frame.
v.
Windows shall have True or Simulated Divided Lights or be one-over-one lights.
vi.
Windows shall include sills of wood, masonry, stone, cast stone, or terra cotta.
vii.
Window frames shall be recessed a minimum of 1.5 inches from the exterior façade.
c.
Roofs.
i.
Pitched roofs are required and shall be symmetrically sloped no less than 6:12, except that roofs for porches and attached sheds may be no less than 2:12.
ii.
All roofs shall have a minimum 25-year roof life and no visible roll roofing.
iii.
Chimneys, where provided, shall extend to the ground and shall be faced in brick or stacked stone. Chimneys shall extend between 3 and 6 feet above the roof line.
d.
No more than three adjacent row house units shall have the same façade design. Differentiation between adjacent façades may be accomplished by a change in materials, building height, color, roof form or setbacks, provided that the appearance of a separate building is achieved.
e.
Stoops and porches:
i.
Porches and stoops along a Frontage shall not be enclosed with screen, wire, or glass.
ii.
Entry steps leading to porches and stoops along a Frontage shall have enclosed risers.
4.15.5 General to all other buildings in Zones T3, T4, T5, and Special Districts
a.
The design of buildings shall conform to Section 4.08.01 City-Wide Architectural Design Standards and to the requirements below. Where the standards do not agree, the standards below shall govern.
b.
Buildings less than 3,000 sf may elect to follow the standards of 4.15.4 or 4.15.5
c.
Materials.
i.
The exterior finish material on all Facades shall be limited to brick, manufactured stone, natural stone, wood siding, and/or cementitious siding.
ii.
Synthetic stucco exterior insulation finishing systems, concrete masonry, and vinyl siding are prohibited as finish materials.
iii.
Other materials not mentioned above will be reviewed by the plan review committee for appropriateness during the normal application process. If the plan review committee finds the material is inappropriate, the decision can be appealed through a variance process as described in Chapter 9.
iv.
All four facades of the building must continue the design attributes and combination of materials.
d.
Windows and Doors along Frontages.
i.
Windows shall provide glass that is clear, unpainted, and not tinted so as to obstruct views into the building.
ii.
Doors and windows that operate as sliders are prohibited
iii.
Windows shall be vertically shaped with a height greater than width. The top of said windows shall generally be in alignment with the top of the adjacent door frame.
iv.
Not more than 20 feet of building frontage shall be provided without a door or window.
e.
Roofs.
i.
Pitched roofs, if provided, shall be symmetrically sloped no less than 6:12, except that roofs for porches and attached sheds may be no less than 2:12.
ii.
Flat roofs shall be enclosed by parapets a minimum of 42 inches high, or as required to conceal mechanical equipment.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
[ARTICLE 5. - STANDARDS AND TABLES]
Table 1: Transect Zone Descriptions. This tables provides descriptions of the character of each Transect Zone.
EXPAND
T-3 SUB-URBAN
T-3 Sub-Urban Zone consists of low density residential areas, adjacent to higher zones that have some mixed use. Home occupations and outbuildings are allowed. Planting is naturalistic and setbacks are relatively deep. Blocks may be large and the roads irregular to accommodate natural conditions. General Character: Lawns and landscaped yards surrounding detached single-family houses; pedestrians occasionally
Building Placement: Large and variable front and side yard Setbacks
Frontage Types: Porches and fences, Common Yard
Typical Building Height: 1- to 2-Story
Type of Civic Space: Parks, Greenways
T-4 GENERAL URBAN
T-4 General Urban Zone consists of a mixed use but primarily residential urban fabric. It may have a wide range of building types: single, Sideyard, and Rowhouses. Setbacks and landscaping are variable. Streets with curbs and sidewalks define medium-sized Blocks. General Character: Mix of Houses and Townhouses with scattered Commercial activity; balance between landscape and buildings; presence of pedestrians
Building Placement: Shallow to medium front and side yard Setbacks
Frontage Types: Porches and fences, Shopfronts, Galleries
Typical Building Height: 1- to 3-Story
Type of Civic Space: Squares, Greens
T-5 URBAN CENTER
T-5 Urban Center Zone consists of higher density mixed use building that accommodate Retail, Offices, Townhouses and Apartments. It has a tight network of streets, with wide sidewalks, steady street tree planting and buildings set close to the sidewalks. General Character: Shops mixed with Townhouses, larger Apartment houses, Offices, work place and Civic buildings; predominantly attached buildings; trees within the public right-of-way; substantial pedestrian activity
Building Placement: Shallow Setbacks or none; buildings oriented to street defining a street wall
Frontage Types: Shopfronts, Galleries
Typical Building Height: 1- to 4-Story
Type of Civic Space: Parks, Plazas, and Squares, median landscaping
  (Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
TABLE 2: Modification to Non-Conforming Properties. This table provides descriptions of changes to non-conforming properties that result in conformance with the specifications of this code. Other changes to decrease the degree of non-conformity are also possible.
EXPAND
NON-CONFORMING
PROPERTY POSSIBLE
TECHNIQUES CONFORMING MODIFICATION
DRIVE-THRU
• Keep existing building and drive-thru and add Liner Buildings in front of building to engage the Thoroughfare, or
• Replace building
FUEL STATION
• Keep fuel station building and pumps and build a new building at the intersection, or
• Eliminate the fuel station building, but keep the pumps and increase them, while building a new building at the intersection
STRIP CENTER
• Keep existing building and add Liner Buildings in front of it to engage the Thoroughfare
• Convert frontal parking into Forecourt and add on-street parking to existing the Thoroughfare
BIG BOX OR OFFICE BUILDING
• Infill the frontal parking with new Liner Buildings and streets terminating on the existing building; retain current building use or convert to new use
• Infill the frontal parking with new Liner Buildings and streets terminating on the existing building; reconfigure existing buildings for new use
RELIGIOUS BUILDING
• Infill the frontal parking lot with senior housing; add on-street parking to existing Thoroughfare
• Create a street and Civic Space with Liner Buildings terminating on the existing religious building; add on-street parking to the existing Thoroughfare
  (Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
TABLE 3A: Vehicular Lane Dimensions. This table assigns lane widths to Transect Zones. The Design ADT (Average Daily Traffic) is the determinant for each of these sections. The most typical assemblies are shown in Table 3B: Vehicular Lane/Parking Assemblies. Specific requirements for truck and transit bus routes and truck loading shall be decided by the City of Kennesaw Public Works Director or other official as designated by the City Manager.
EXPAND
DESIGN SPEED TRAVEL LANE WIDTH T3 T4 T5
25—35 mph 10 feet ■ ■ ■ ■ BY RIGHT
25—35 mph 11 feet 1- to 2-Story
Above 35 mph 11 feet ■
DESIGN SPEED PARKING LANE WIDTH
25 mph (Angle 18 feet) ■
25 mph (Parallel) 7 feet ■
25—35 mph (Parallel) 8 feet ■ ■ ■
Above 35 mph (Parallel) 9 feet ■
DESIGN SPEED EFFECTIVE TURNING RADIUS (See Table 12)
20—25 mph 10—15 feet ■ ■ ■
25—35 mph 15—20 feet ■ ■ ■
Above 35 mph 20—30 feet ■
  (Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
TABLE 3B: Vehicular Lane/Parking Assemblies. The projected design speeds determine the dimensions of the vehicular lanes and Turning Radii assembled for Thoroughfares. Use of standards in this table are subject to approval by the City of Kennesaw Public Works Director or other official as designated by the City Manager. Where on-street Bicycle Lanes or similar bicycle facilities are provided, the paved width shall be increased a corresponding amount.
EXPAND
ONE WAY MOVEMENT → TWO WAY MOVEMENT →
a. NO PARKING
Design ADT 300 VPD 22,000 VPD 36,000 VPD
Pedestrian
Crossing 3 Seconds 9 Seconds 13 Seconds
Design Speed 25—30 MPH 25 MPH 35 MPH or above
b. YIELD PARKING
Design ADT 1,000 VPD 1,000 VPD
Pedestrian
Crossing 5 Seconds 7 Seconds
Design Speed
c. PARKING ONE SIDE PARALLEL
Design ADT 5,000 VPD 18,000 VPD 16,000 VPD 15,000 VPD 32,000 VPD
Pedestrian
Crossing 5 Seconds 8 Seconds 8 Seconds 11 Seconds 13 Seconds
Design Speed 25—30 MPH 25—30 MPH 25—30 MPH 25—30 MPH 35 MPH or above
d. PARKING BOTH SIDES PARALLEL
Design ADT 20,000 VPD 15,000 VPD 22,000 VPD 32,000 VPD
Pedestrian
Crossing 10 Seconds 10 Seconds 13 Seconds 15 Seconds
Design Speed 25—30 MPH 25—30 MPH 25—30 MPH 35 MPH and above
e. PARKING BOTH SIDES DIAGONAL
(Drive-in or back-in parking permitted. Parking may be limited to one side in assemblies suitable for a Slip Road)
Design ADT 18,000 VPD 20,000 VPD 15,000 VPD 22,000 VPD 31,000 VPD
Pedestrian
Crossing 15 Seconds 17 Second 17 Seconds 20 Seconds 23 Seconds
Design Speed Below 20 MPH 25 MPH 25 MPH 25—30 MPH 25—30 MPH
f. PARKING ACCESS *Indicates assembly suitable for a Slip Road in any Transect Zone
Design ADT
Pedestrian
Crossing 3 Seconds 6 Seconds
Design Speed
  (Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
TABLE 4A: Public Frontages - General: The Public Frontage is the area between the private Lot Line and the edge of the vehicular lanes. Dimensions are given in Table 4B: Public Frontages - Specific.
EXPAND
a. (HW) For Highway: This Frontage has open Swales drained by percolation, Multi-Use Trails and no parking. The landscaping consists of the natural condition or multiple species arrayed in naturalistic clusters. Buildings are buffered by distance or berms.
b. (RD) For Road: This Frontage has open Swales drained by percolation and a walking Path or Multi-Use Trail, Yield parking along one or both sides. The landscaping consists of multiple species arrayed in naturalistic clusters.
c. (ST) For Street: This Frontage has raised Curbs drained by inlets and Sidewalks separated from the vehicular lanes by individual or continuous Planters, with parking on one or both sides. The landscaping consists of street trees of a single or alternating species aligned in a regularly spaced Allee.
d. (DR) For Drive: This Frontage has raised Curbs drained by inlets and a wide Sidewalk or paved path along one side, related to a Greenway or waterfront. It is separated from the vehicular lanes by individual or continuous Planters. The landscaping consists of street trees of a single species or alternating species aligned in a regularly spaced Allee.
e. (AV) For Avenue: This Frontage has raised Curbs drained by inlets and wide Sidewalks separated from the vehicular lanes by a narrow continuous Planter with parking on both sides. The landscaping consists of a single tree species aligned in a regularly spaced Allee.
f. (CS) For Commercial Street: This Frontage has raised Curbs drained by inlets and very wide Sidewalks along both sides separated from the vehicular lanes by separate tree wells with grates and parking on both sides. The landscaping consists of a single tree species aligned with regular spacing where possible but clears the storefront entrances.
g. (BV) For Boulevard: This Frontage has slip Roads on both sides. It consists of raised Curbs drained by inlets and Sidewalks along both sides, separated from the vehicular lanes by Planters. The landscaping consists of double rows of a single tree species aligned in a regularly spaced Allee.
  (Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
TABLE 4B: Public Frontages - Specific. This table assembles prescriptions and dimensions for the Public Frontage elements - Curbs, walkways and Planters - relative to specific Thoroughfare types within Transect Zones.
EXPAND
TRANSECT ZONE
Public Frontage Type
a. Assembly: The principal variables are the type and dimension of Curbs, walkways, Planters and landscape.
Total Width 16—24 feet 12—24 feet 12—18 feet 12—18 feet 18—24 feet 18—30 feet
b. Curb. The detailing of the edge of the vehicular pavement incorporating drainage.
Type Open Swale Open Swale Raised Curb Raised Curb Raised Curb Raised Curb
Radius 10—30 feet 10—30 feet 5—20 feet 5—20 feet 5—20 feet 5—20 feet
c. Walkway. The hard surface dedicated exclusively to pedestrian activity and maintained clear and unobstructed to a minimum height of 8 feet.
Type Path Optional Path Sidewalk Sidewalk Sidewalk Sidewalk
Width n/a 4—8 feet 5—8 feet 5—8 feet 12—20 feet 12—30 feet
d. Planter: The layer which accommodates street trees and other landscape materials.
Arrangement Clustered Clustered Regular Regular Regular Opportunistic
Species Clustered Clustered Alternating Single Single Single
Planter Type Continuous Swale Continuous Swale Continuous Planter Continuous Planter Continuous Planter Tree Well
Planter Width 8 feet—16 feet 8 feet—16 feet 6 feet—12 feet 5 feet—12 feet 4 feet—6 feet 4 feet—6 feet
  (Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
TABLE 4C: Thoroughfare Assemblies: These Thoroughfares are assembled from the elements that appear in Tables 3A: Vehicular Lane Dimensions and 3B: Vehicular Lane/Parking Assemblies and incorporate the Public Frontages of table 4A: Public Frontages - General. The key gives the Thoroughfare type followed by the right-of-way width, followed by the pavement width, and in some instances followed by specialized transportation capability.
EXPAND
Thoroughfare Type Street Street
Transect Zone Assignment T4, T5 T4, T5
Right-of-Way Width 50 feet 50 feet
Pavement Width 26 feet 28 feet
Movement Slow Movement Yield Movement
Design Speed 25 MPH 25 MPH
Pedestrian Crossing Time 7.4 seconds 7.6 seconds
Traffic Lanes 2 lanes 2 lanes
Parking Lanes One side @ 8 feet marked Both sides @ 8 feet unmarked
Curb Radius 10 feet 10 feet
Walkway Type 5 foot Sidewalk 5 foot Sidewalk
Planer Type 7 foot continuous Planter 6 foot continuous Planter
Curb type Curb Curb
Landscape Type Trees @ 30' o.c. Avg. Trees @ 30' o.c. Avg.
Transportation Provision BR BR
  (Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
TABLE 5: Civic Space
EXPAND
a. Park: A natural preserve available for structured or unstructured recreation. A park may be independent of surrounding building Frontages. Its landscape shall consist of Paths and trails, meadows, water bodies, woodland and open shelters, all naturalistically disposed. Parks may also include dog parks within them. Sports and recreation courts and fields are also permitted, but sports stadiums are prohibited. Parks may be linear, following the trajectories of natural corridors. The minimum size shall be 5 acres.
b. Green: An Open Space, available for structured or unstructured recreation. A Green may be spatially defined by landscaping rather than building Frontages. Its landscape shall consist of lawn and trees, naturalistically disposed. Greens may also include dog parks within them. Sports courts are also permitted, but sports and recreation fields and stadiums are prohibited. The minimum size shall be ½ acre and the maximum shall be 5 acres.
c. Square: An Open Space available for unstructured recreation and Civic purposes. A Square is spatially defined by building Frontages. Its landscape shall consist of paths, lawns and trees, formally disposed. Squares shall be located at the intersection of important Thoroughfares. The minimum size shall be ½ acre and the maximum shall be 5 acres.
d. Plaza: An Open Space available for Civic purposes and Commercial activities. A Plaza shall be spatially defined by building Frontages. Its landscape shall consist primarily of pavement. Trees are optional. Plazas should be located at the intersection of important streets. The minimum size shall be ½ acre and the maximum shall be 2 acres.
e. Playground: An Open Space designed and equipped for the recreation of children. A Playground should be fenced and may include an open shelter. Playgrounds shall be interspersed within Residential areas and may be placed within a Block. Playgrounds may be included within parks and greens. The maximum size of playground shall be 2 acres, provided that playgrounds may also be located within another approved Civic Space identified above.
  (Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
TABLE 6: Building Form - Height. This table shows the configurations for different building heights for each Transect Zone. N = maximum height in stories as specified in Table 11: Code Summary.
TABLE 7: Building Placement. This table approximates the location of the structure relative to the boundaries of each individual Lot, establishing suitable basic building types for each Transect Zone.
EXPAND
a. Edgeyard: A building that occupies the center of its lot with Setbacks on all sides. This is the least urban of types as the front yard sets it back from the Frontage, while the side yards weaken the spatial definition of the public Thoroughfare space. The front yard is intended to be visually continuous with the yards of adjacent buildings. The rear yard can be secured for privacy by fences and a Backbuilding and/or Outbuilding.
b. Sideyard: A building that occupies one side of the lot with the Setback to the other side. A shallow Frontage Setback defines a more urban condition. If the adjacent building is similar with a blank side wall, the yard can be quite private. This type permits systematic climatic orientation in response to the sun or the breeze. If a Sideyard House abuts a neighboring Sideyard House, the type is known as a Twin or double house. Energy costs, and sometimes noise, are reduced by sharing a party wall in this disposition.
c. Rearyard: A building that occupies the full Frontage, leaving the rear of the lot as the sole yard. This is a very urban type as the continuous Facade steadily defines the public Thoroughfare. The rear Elevations may be articulated for functional purposes. In its Residential form, this type is the Rowhouse. For its Commercial form, the rear yard can accommodate substantial parking.
d. Courtyard: A building that occupies the boundaries of its lot while internally defining one or more private patios. This is the most urban of types, as it is able to shield the private realm from all sides while strongly defining the public Thoroughfare. Because of its ability to accommodate incompatible activities, masking them from all sides, it is recommended for workshops, Lodging and schools. The high security provided by the continuous enclosure is useful for crime-prone areas.
  (Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
TABLE 8: Private Frontages. The Private Frontage is the areas between the building Facades and the lot lines.
EXPAND
a. Common Yard: a planted Frontage wherein the Façade is set back substantially from the Frontage Line. The front yard created remains unfenced and is visually continuous with adjacent yards, supporting a common landscape. The deep Setback provides a buffer from the higher speed Thoroughfares.
b. Porch & Fence: a planted Frontage where the Façade is set back from the Frontage Line with an attached porch permitted to Encroach. A fence, wall, or hedge at the Frontage Line maintains street spatial definition. Porches shall be no less than 8 feet deep.
c. Terrace or Lightwell: a frontage wherein the Façade is setback back from the Frontage Line by an elevated terrace or sunken Lightwell. This type buffers Residential use from urban Sidewalks and removes the private yard from public encroachment. Terraces are suitable for conversion to outdoor cafes. Syn: Dooryard.
d. Forecourt: a Frontage wherein the Façade is close to the Frontage Line and the central portion is set back. The forecourt created is suitable for vehicular drop-offs. This type should be allocated in conjunction with other Frontage types. Large trees within the Forecourts may overhang the Sidewalks.
e. Stoop: a Frontage wherein the Façade is aligned close to the Frontage Line with the first Story elevated from the Sidewalk sufficiently to ensure privacy for the windows. The entrance is usually an exterior stair and landing. This type is recommended for ground-floor Residential use. Stoops shall be no less than 30 inches deep.
f. Shopfront: a Frontage wherein the Façade is aligned close to the Frontage Line with the building entrance at Sidewalk grade. This type is conventional for Retail use. It has glazing on the Sidewalk level and an awning that may overlap the sidewalk. Syn: Retail Frontage.
g. Gallery: a Frontage wherein the Façade is aligned with the Frontage Line with an attached cantilevered shed or lightweight colonnade overlapping the Sidewalk. This type is conventional for Retail use. The Gallery should be no less than 10 feet wide and should overlap the sidewalk to within 2 feet of the Curb.
h. Arcade: a collonade supporting habitable space that overlaps the Sidewalk, while the Façade at Sidewalk level remains at or behind the Frontage Line. This type is conventional for Retail use. The Arcade shall be no less than 12 feet wide and should overlap the Sidewalk to within 2 feet of the Curb.
  (Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
TABLE 9: Building Function. This table categorizes Building functions within Transect Zones. For Specific Function and Use permitted By Right or by Conditional Use Permit, see Table 10: Specific Function and Use.
EXPAND
T3 T4L T4O T5
a. RESIDENTIAL Restricted Residential: The number of dwellings on each Lot is restricted to one within a Principal Building. Limited Residential: The number of dwellings on each Lot is unlimited within One Principle Building except by form-based standards elsewhere in this Code, and limited to one unit within an Accessory Building. All dwelling units shall be under single ownership. The habitable area of the Accessory Unit shall not exceed 440 sf, excluding the parking area. Open Residential:The number of dwelling units and buildings on each lot is unlimited except by standards elsewhere in this Code. Open Residential:The number of dwelling units and buildings on each lot is unlimited except by standards elsewhere in this Code.
b. LODGING Prohibited Lodging: Lodging is not permitted on any lot. Prohibited Lodging: Lodging is not permitted on any lot. Open Lodging: Unlimited bedrooms for lodging is permitted on each lot. Food service may be provided at all times. Open Lodging: Unlimited bedrooms for lodging is permitted on each lot. Food service may be provided at all times.
c. OFFICE Restricted Office: Office functions are restricted to home occupations by the owner. Limited Office: The building area available for Office functions on each Lot is limited to the first Story of the Principal Building and/or the Accessory Building. Open Office: The building area available for Office functions is unlimited. Open Office: The building area available for Office functions is unlimited.
d. RETAIL AND SERVICES Prohibited Retail and Services: Retail and Service functions are not permitted. Prohibited Retail and Services: Retail and Service functions are not permitted. Open Retail and Services: The building area available for Retail and Service functions is unlimited. Open Retail and Services: The building area available for Retail and Service functions is unlimited.
e. CIVIC See Table 10 See Table 10 See Table 10 See Table 10
f. OTHER See Table 10 See Table 10 See Table 10 See Table 10
  (Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
TABLE 10: Specific Function and Use. Specific Function and Use. This table expands the categories of Table 9: Building Function to delegate specific principle uses within Function categories by Transect Zone. Uses that are not included or left blank are prohibited.
P: PERMITTED BY RIGHT
SE: ALLOWED BY SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMIT
SL: ALLOWED BY SPECIAL LAND USE PERMIT
EXPAND
a. RESIDENTIAL T3 T4L T4O T5
Accessory Unit P P P
Fraternity and sorority houses/residence halls P
Group Homes P P P P
Halfway Houses
Limited home occupations P P P P
Live-Work P P P
Multi-Family Housing P P
Rest/personal care/convalescent homes P P P
Rooming houses and boardinghouses
Shelters (homeless)
Detached Single Family Homes P P P P
Townhouses P P P
Two-family dwelling units P P P P
Mobile/Manufactured Homes
  EXPAND
b. LODGING T3 T4L T4O T5
Hotel/Motel P P
Bed and Breakfast P P
Extended Stay Facilities
  EXPAND
c. OFFICE T3 T4L T4O T5
Offices P P
Live/Work Unit P P
  EXPAND
d. RETAIL T3 T4L T4O T5
Cigar, smoke shops, tobacco stores
Drive-Through Facility [5]
Flea markets P P
General Retail P P
Growler Sales P P
Pawn shops
Regional Shopping Centers
Restaurants and Cafes P P
Sexually Oriented Business
Vaping Store or accessories
  EXPAND
e. CIVIC T3 T4L T4O T5
Religious Assembly P P P P
Commercial Recreation Facility
Commercial Recreation Facility Outdoor
Community Meeting Facility P P
Libraries and Museums P P
Parking Structure P
Parking, Surface P P
Sports and Entertainment Assembly Facility P
Temporary Use P P P P
Theater, Movie or Live Performance P P
Transit Station or Terminal P P
  f. SERVICE T3 T4L T4O T5
Banks/financial institutions P P
Check Cashing
Fitness/Health Facility P P
Furniture, Furnishings and Appliance Store P P
General Service P P
Body Piercing/Tattoo Business
  g. OTHER: AUTOMOTIVE T3 T4L T4O T5
Auto and Vehicle Sales or Rental
Drive-Through Facility*
Gas Station
Vehicle Services
EV Charging Station P P
  g. OTHER: CIVIL
SUPPORT
T3 T4L T4O T5
Animal hospitals P P
Cemeteries SE SE SE
Gardens P P P
Hospitals SE SE
Medical P P
Mortuary, Funeral Home
Recycling—Small Collection Facility
  g. OTHER: EDUCATION
T3 T4L T4O T5
Colleges and universities (private), including research and training facilities SE SE
Driving School (including automobile & commercial licenses) P P
In-home day care P P P P
Nursery schools and child day care centers
Public and Private schools of general and special education SE SE SE SE
Vocational schools (commercial) SE SE
  g. OTHER: INDUSTRIAL T3 T4L T4O T5
Heavy Construction Equipment Sales/Rental
General Industrial
Overnight trailer/ travel trailer parking
Printing, publishing, and lithography establishments
Radio and television stations SE SE
Radio, television, and other communication towers and antennas SL SL
Scrap and Dismantling Yards
Truck or Freight Terminal
Wholesale and Distribution
Wireless Telecommunications Facilities SL SL
Scrap and Dismantling Yards
Truck or Freight Terminal
Wholesale and Distribution
Wireless Telecommunications Facilities SL SL
  (Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
TABLE 11: Code Summary
1. Minimum setbacks and building separations shall be subject to fire and building code restrictions.
2. Transect Zone notwithstanding, along State Routes the mininum required frontage buildout shall be 50%.
3. Additional stories allowed by approved variance in T5 zone. HPC review required, as applicable.
3.[4.] In T4-Limited and T4-Open different Building Function requirements apply.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
TABLE 11A: Code Graphics - T3
BUILDING CONFIGURATION
1. Building height shall be measured in number of Stories, excluding Attics and above ground portions of basements.
2. Stories may not exceed 14 feet in height from finished floor to finished ceiling.
l. BUILDING FUNCTION (See Table 9 & Table 10) SETBACKS - PRINCIPAL BLDG.
1. The Facades and Elevations of Principal Buildings shall be distanced from the Lot lines as shown.
2. Facades shall be built along the Principal Frontage to the minimum specified width in the table.
Residential restricted use
Lodging prohibited use
Office restricted use
Retail prohibited use
k. BUILDING FORM (See Table 6)
Principal Building 2 stories max.
Outbuilding 1 story max.
f. LOT OCCUPATION (See Table 11 section e)
Lot Width 70 ft. min.
Lot Coverage 50% max.
i. BUILDING PLACEMENT (See Table 6) SETBACKS - OUTBUILDING
1. The Elevations of the Outbuilding shall be distanced from the Lot lines as shown.
Edgeyard permitted
Sideyard not permitted
Rearyard not permitted
Courtyard not permitted
g. SETBACKS - PRINCIPAL BUILDING (See Table 11 section f)
(g.1) Front Setback Principal 24 ft. min.
(g.2) Front Setback Secondary 12 ft. min.
(g.3) Side Setback 12 ft. min.
(g.4) Rear Setback 12 ft. min. [6]
Frontage Buildout 30% min. at setback
h. SETBACKS - OUTBUILDING (See Table 11 section g)
(h.1) Front Setback Principal 20 ft. min. + bldg. setback
(h.2) Front Setback Secondary 3 ft. min. or 6 ft. min. at corner
(h.3) Side Setback 3 ft. min.
j. PRIVATE FRONTAGES (See Table 8) PARKING PLACEMENT
1. Uncovered parking spaces may be provided within the second and third Layer as shown in the diagram (see Table 12 section d).
2. Covered parking shall be provided within the third Layer as shown in the diagram (see Table 12 section d). Side- or rear-entry garages may be allowed in the first or second Layer by Warrant.
3. Trash containers shall be stored within the third Layer.
Common Lawn permitted
Porch & Fence permitted
Terrace or Lightwell not permitted
Forecourt not permitted
Stoop not permitted
Shopfront & Awning not permitted
Gallery not permitted
Arcade not permitted
Refer to Summary Table 11
"N" stands for any Stories above those shown, up to the maximum. Refer to metrics for exact minimums and maximums.
  (Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
TABLE 11B: Code Graphics - T4
BUILDING CONFIGURATION
1. Building height shall be measured in number of Stories, excluding Attics and above ground portions of basements.
2. Stories may not exceed 14 feet in height from finished floor to finished ceiling, except for a first floor Commercial function which must be a minimum of 11 ft with a maximum of 25 feet.
3. Height shall be measured to the eave or roof deck as specified on Table 5.
l. BUILDING FUNCTION (See Table 9 & Table 10) SETBACKS - PRINCIPAL BLDG.
1. The Facades and Elevations of Principal Buildings shall be distanced from the Lot lines as shown.
2. Facades shall be built along the Principal Frontage to the minimum specified width in the table.
Residential limited use*
Lodging limited use*
Office limited use*
Retail limited use [7]*
k. BUILDING FORM (See Table 6)
Principal Building 3 stories max.
Outbuilding 2 stories max.
f. LOT OCCUPATION (See Table 11 section e)
Lot Width 18 ft. min.
Lot Coverage 65% max.
Building Footprint 20,000 sf max.
i. BUILDING PLACEMENT (See Table 6) SETBACKS - OUTBUILDING
1. The Elevations of the Outbuilding shall be distanced from the Lot lines as shown.
Edgeyard permitted
Sideyard permitted
Rearyard permitted
Courtyard not permitted
g. SETBACKS - PRINCIPAL BUILDING (See Table 11 section f)
(g.1) Front Setback Principal 15 ft. min., 30 ft. max.
(g.2) Front Setback Secondary 15 ft. min., 30 ft. max.
(g.3) Side Setback 3 ft. min.
(g.4) Rear Setback 3 ft. min. [8]**
Frontage Buildout 40% min. at setback
h. SETBACKS - OUTBUILDING (See Table 11 section g)
(h.1) Front Setback Principal 20 ft. min. + bldg. setback
(h.2) Front Setback Secondary 0 ft. min. or 3 ft. min. at corner
(h.3) Side Setback 3 ft. min.
j. PRIVATE FRONTAGES (See Table 8) PARKING PLACEMENT
1. Uncovered parking spaces may be provided within the third Layer as shown in the diagram (see Table 12 section d).
2. Covered parking shall be provided within the third Layer as shown in the diagram (see Table 12 section d).
3. Trash containers shall be stored within the third Layer.
Common Lawn not permitted
Porch & Fence permitted
Terrace or Lightwell not permitted
Forecourt not permitted
Stoop not permitted
Shopfront & Awning permitted
Gallery permitted
Arcade not permitted
Refer to Summary Table 11
"N" stands for any Stories above those shown, up to the maximum. Refer to metrics for exact minimums and maximums.
  (Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
TABLE 11C: Code Graphics - T5
BUILDING CONFIGURATION
1. Building height shall be measured in number of Stories, excluding Attics and above ground portions of basements.
2. Stories may not exceed 14 feet in height from finished floor to finished ceiling, except for a first floor Commercial function which must be a minimum of 11 ft with a maximum of 25 feet.
3. Height shall be measured to the eave or roof deck as specified on Table 8.
l. BUILDING FUNCTION (See Table 9 & Table 10) SETBACKS - PRINCIPAL BLDG.
1. The Facades and Elevations of Principal Buildings shall be distanced from the Lot lines as shown.
2. Facades shall be built along the Principal Frontage to the minimum specified width in the table.
Residential open use
Lodging open use
Office open use
Retail open use
k. BUILDING FORM (See Table 6)
Principal Building 3 stories max. [9]*
Outbuilding 2 stories max.
f. LOT OCCUPATION (See Table 11 section e)
Lot Width 18 ft. min.
Lot Coverage 85% max.
Building Footprint 20,000 sf max.
i. BUILDING PLACEMENT (See Table 6) SETBACKS - OUTBUILDING
1. The Elevations of the Outbuilding shall be distanced from the Lot lines as shown.
Edgeyard not permitted
Sideyard permitted
Rearyard permitted
Courtyard not permitted
g. SETBACKS - PRINCIPAL BUILDING (See Table 11 section f)
(g.1) Front Setback Principal 0 ft. min., 15 ft. max.
(g.2) Front Setback Secondary 0 ft. min., 15 ft. max.
(g.3) Side Setback 0 ft. min.
(g.4) Rear Setback 3 ft. min. [10]**
Frontage Buildout 70% min. at setback
h. SETBACKS - OUTBUILDING (See Table 11g)
(h.1) Front Setback Principal 5 ft. min.
(h.2) Front Setback Secondary 5 ft. min.
(h.3) Side Setback 3 ft. max.
j. PRIVATE FRONTAGES (See Table 8) PARKING PLACEMENT
1. Uncovered parking spaces may be provided within the third Layer as shown in the diagram (see Table 12 section d).
2. Covered parking shall be provided within the third Layer as shown in the diagram (see Table 12 section d).
3. Trash containers shall be stored within the third Layer.
Common Lawn not permitted
Porch & Fence permitted
Terrace or Lightwell not permitted
Forecourt not permitted
Stoop not permitted
Shopfront & Awning permitted
Gallery permitted
Arcade not permitted
Refer to Summary Table 11
"N" stands for any Stories above those shown, up to the maximum. Refer to metrics for exact minimums and maximums.
  (Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
TABLE 12: Special Districts. The metrics for each column of this table (SD1, SD2, etc.) are to be filled in for each Special district as they are permitted pursuant to a Regulating Plan or Special Area Plan. Functions may be specifically listed or may reference an existing City of Kennesaw zoning district. More pages can be added. Special Districts that do not have provisions noted herein shall be governed by the standards of any other City of Kennesaw zoning district as set forth in Sections 1.4.4 (c) or (d), as applicable.
SD1 SD2 SD3 SD4 SD5 SD6 SD7
a. RESIDENTIAL DENSITY
By Right
b. BLOCK SIZE
Block Perimeter
c. THOROUGHFARES
HW
BV
AV
CS
DR
ST
RD
Rear Lane
Rear Alley
Path
Passage
Multi-Use Trail
Bicycle Lane
Bicycle Route
d. CIVIC SPACES
Park
Green
Square
Plaza
Playground
e. LOT OCCUPATION
BUILDING PLACEMENT
Lot Width
Lot Coverage
f. SETBACKS - PRINCIPAL BUILDING
Front Setback
Side Setback
Rear Setback
Frontage Buildout
g. BUILDING PLACEMENT
Edgeyard
Sideyard
Rearyard
Courtyard
h. PRIVATE FRONTAGES
BUILDING FORM
Common Yard
Porch & Fence
Terrace, Dooryard
Forecourt
Stoop
Shopfront
Gallery
Arcade
Open Parking
i. BUILDING FORM - HEIGHT
Principal Building
Outbuilding
j. BUILDING FUNCTION
FUNCTION
Residential
Lodging
Office
Retail
  (Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
TABLE 13: Definitions Illustrated
a. THOROUGHFARE & FRONTAGES
b. TURNING RADIUS c. BUILDING DISPOSITION
d. LOT LAYERS e. FRONTAGE & LOT LINES
f. SETBACK DESIGNATIONS
  (Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Drive-through facilities are considered accessory to a Retail or Automotive Function.

--- (6) ---
or 15 feet from center line of alley

--- (7) ---
* In T4-Limited and T4-Open different Building Function requirements apply.

--- (8) ---
** or 15 feet from center line of alley.

--- (9) ---
*HPC review required, as applicable.

--- (10) ---
** or 15 feet from center line of alley.

ARTICLE 6. - DEFINITION OF TERMS
DEFINITIONS
This Article provides definitions for terms in this code that are technical in nature or that otherwise may not reflect a common usage of the term. If a term is not defined in this Article or in Section 1.09.02 Definitions of the Unified Development Code, then the Planning and Zoning Administrator shall determine the correct definition. Items in italics refer to Articles, Sections, or Tables in the code.
A-Grid: cumulatively, those Thoroughfares that by virtue of their pre-existing pedestrian-supportive qualities, or their future importance to pedestrian connectivity, are held to the highest standards prescribed by this code. See B-Grid.
Accessory Building: an Outbuilding with an Accessory Unit.
Accessory Unit: a small apartment sharing ownership and utility connections with a Principal Building; it may or may not be within an Outbuilding. (Syn: ancillary unit)
Allee: a regularly spaced and aligned row of trees usually planted along both sides of a Thoroughfare or Path.
Arcade: a Private Frontage conventional for Retail use wherein the Facade is a colonnade supporting habitable space that overlaps the Sidewalk, while the Facade at Sidewalk level remains at the Frontage Line.
Auto and Vehicle sales: a business selling motorized vehicles including but not limited to automobile and truck sales and service facilities; boat sales and service establishments; Motorcycle, ATV, and three-wheel vehicle sales and service facilities; Trailer salesrooms and sales lots. Auto and Vehicle sales does not include any other uses specifically set forth in Table 10: Specific Function and Use.
Avenue (AV): a Thoroughfare of high vehicular capacity and low to moderate speed, acting as a short distance connector between urban centers, and usually equipped with a landscaped median.
B-Grid: cumulatively, those Thoroughfares that by virtue of their use, location, or absence of pre-existing pedestrian-supportive qualities, may meet a standard lower than that of the A-Grid. B-Grid Thoroughfares are often privately-owned. See A-Grid.
Backbuilding: a single-Story structure connecting a Principal Building to an Outbuilding. See Table 14: Definitions Illustrated.
Banks/financial institutions: a business dedicated to banking and lending of money including but not limited to Banks/financial institutions and/or automated transfer machines. Banks/financial institutions does include drive-in establishments, check cashing, title loan or any other uses specifically set forth in Table 10: Specific Function and Use.
Bicycle Lane (BL): a dedicated lane for cycling within a moderate-speed vehicular Thoroughfare, demarcated by striping and having a minimum width of 5 feet.
Bicycle Route (BR): a Thoroughfare suitable for the shared use of bicycles and automobiles moving at low speeds.
Block: the aggregate of private Lots, Passages, Rear Alleys and Rear Lanes, circumscribed by Thoroughfares.
Block Face: the aggregate of all the building Facades on one side of a Block.
Boulevard (BV): a Thoroughfare designed for high vehicular capacity and moderate speed, traversing an Urbanized area. Boulevards are usually equipped with Slip Roads buffering Sidewalks and buildings.
Building Form: the shape of a building, based on its massing, Private Frontage, and height.
Building Placement: the arrangement of a building on its lot.
By Right: characterizing a proposal or component of a proposal for a Building Scale Plan (Article 4) that complies with the code and is permitted and processed administratively, without public hearing. See Variance.
Civic: the term defining not-for-profit organizations dedicated to arts, culture, education, recreation, government, transit, and municipal parking.
Civic Building: a building operated by a city, county, state, or federal government.
Civic Building Sites: a parcel containing a Civic Building.
Civic Space: an outdoor area dedicated for public use, but which may be under public or private ownership. Civic Space types are defined by the combination of certain physical constants including the relationships among their intended use, their size, their landscaping and their Enfronting buildings. See Table 5: Civic Space.
Civic Zone: designation for sites dedicated for Civic Building Sites and Civic Spaces.
Commercial: the term collectively defining workplace, Office, Retail, and Lodging Functions.
Commercial Recreation Facility: a facility that provides opportunities for indoor recreation including but not limited to amusement centers, arcades, billiards and pool halls, commercial indoor recreation uses, and nightclubs. Outdoor recreation facilities are considered part of Commercial Recreation Facility, Outdoors. Commercial Recreation Facility does not include Sexually Oriented Business or any other uses specifically set forth in Table 10: Specific Function and Use.
Commercial Recreation Facility Outdoor: a facility that provides opportunities for outdoor recreation including but not limited to commercial outdoor recreation uses, executive golf courses, golf courses (18-hole regulation; private and public), golf courses (par 3), nonprofit (seasonal use) fishing lakes, nonprofit riding stables, outdoor golf driving ranges, private parks, recreation grounds other than tennis courts and golf courses, and zoos. Commercial Recreation Facility does not include any uses specifically set forth inTable 10: Specific Function and Use.
Common Yard: a planted Private Frontage wherein the Facade is set back from the Frontage line. It is visually continuous with adjacent yards. See Table 8: Private Frontages.
Community Meeting Facility: a facility that can host public meetings including but not limited to assembly halls; clubs or lodges (noncommercial); and private community centers. Community Meeting Facility does not include any uses specifically set forth inTable 10: Specific Function and Use.
Cottage: an Edgeyard Building type containing a single-family dwelling, on its own Lot, often shared with an Accessory Building in the back yard.
Courtyard Building: a building that occupies the boundaries of its Lot while internally defining one or more private patios. See Table 8: Private Frontages.
Curb: the edge of the vehicular pavement that may be raised or flush to a swale. It usually incorporates the drainage system. See Table 4A: Public Frontages - General and Table 4B: Public Frontages - Specific.
Design Speed: is the velocity at which a Thoroughfare tends to be driven without the constraints of signage or enforcement. There are three ranges of speed: Low: (25 MPH); Moderate: (25-35 MPH); High: (above 35 MPH). Lane width is determined by desired Design Speed. See Table 3A: Vehicular Lane Dimensions.
Dooryard: a Private Frontage type with a shallow Setback and front garden or patio, usually with a low wall at the Frontage Line. See Table 8: Private Frontages. (Variant: Lightwell)
Downtown Activity Center: land use designation for the downtown Kennesaw area as identified in the adopted comprehensive plan.
Drive: a Thoroughfare along the boundary between an Urbanized and a natural condition, usually along a waterfront, Park, or promontory. One side has the urban character of a Thoroughfare, with Sidewalk and building, while the other has the qualities of a Road or parkway, with naturalistic planting and rural details.
Drive-Through Facilities: any structure which permits a vehicle to drive to and conduct a transaction while remaining in the vehicle including but not limited to drive-in theaters, drive-thru ATMs or tellers, and drive-thru restaurants. Drive-Through Facilities does not include any uses specifically set forth in Table 10: Specific Function and Use.
Edgeyard Building: a building that occupies the center of its Lot with Setbacks on all sides. See Table 7: Building Placement.
Effective Turning Radius: the measurement of the inside Turning Radius taking parked cars into account. See Table 14: Definitions Illustrated.
Elevation: an exterior wall of a building not along a Frontage Line. See Table 14: Definitions Illustrated. See: Facade.
Encroach: to break the plane of a vertical or horizontal regulatory limit with a structural element, so that it extends into a Setback, into the Public Frontage, or above a height limit.
Encroachment: any structural element that breaks the plane of a vertical or horizontal regulatory limit, extending into a Setback, into the Public Frontage, or above a height limit.
Enfront: to place an element along a Frontage, as in "porches Enfront the street."
Facade: the exterior wall of a building that is set along a Frontage Line. See Elevation.
First Layer: the privately held Layer between the Frontage Line and the Principal Building front Setback shown in Table 11: Code Summary. Where both a minimum and maximum Setback exists, the First Layer shall extend to the maximum. See Table 14: Definitions Illustrated.
Fitness/Health Facility: Any facility that promotes healthy living through exercise including athletic and health clubs and gyms. Fitness/Health Facility does not include any Medical uses or other uses specifically set forth in Table 10: Specific Function and Use.
Forecourt: a Private Frontage wherein a portion of the Facade is close to the Frontage Line and the central portion is set back. See Table 8: Private Frontages.
Frontage: the area between a building Facade and the vehicular lanes, inclusive of its built and planted components. Frontage is divided into Private Frontage and Public Frontage. See Table 4A: Public Frontages - General and Table 8: Private Frontages.
Frontage Line: a line bordering a Public Frontage that may or not be congruent with the Lot Line. Facades facing Frontage Lines define the public realm and are therefore more regulated than the Elevations facing other Lot Lines. See Table 14: Definitions Illustrated.
Function: the use or uses accommodated by a building and its Lot, categorized as Restricted, Limited, orOpen, according to the intensity of the use. See Table 9: Building Function and Table 10: Specific Function and Use.
Gallery: a Private Frontage conventional for Retail use wherein the Facade is aligned close to the Frontage Line with an attached cantilevered shed or lightweight colonnade overlapping the Sidewalk. See Table 8: Private Frontages.
Gardening: any use which allows for the non-commercial growing of plants including but not limited to home gardens; community gardens; and the growing of fruit trees, nuts, and vegetables. Gardening does not include commercial operations or other uses specifically set forth in Table 10: Specific Function and use.
Gas station: any use which sells gasoline or diesel fuel from pumps including Convenience food stores with self-service fuel sales; Full service gasoline stations. Gas station does not include convenience stores without gasoline or diesel pumps or other uses specifically set forth in Table 10: Specific Function and use.
General Retail: a business whose primary use is the sale of merchandise to consumers, specifically including, but not limited to agricultural produce stands; community retail uses; farm and garden supply stores; farmers markets (fully enclosed); fruit stores, markets; neighborhood retail uses; office service and supply establishments; and millinery or similar trade whenever products are sold retail, exclusively on the site where produced. General Retail does not include cigar, smoke shops, tobacco stores; flea markets; growler sales; pawn shops, regional shopping centers; restaurants and cafes; sexually oriented businesses; or other uses specifically set forth in Table 10: Specific Function and use.
General Service: a business whose primary use is to provide a service, specifically including, but not limited to, film developing and printing facilities; laundry and dry cleaning pick-up establishments; linen and diaper services; massage therapy; nonautomotive repair service establishments; self-service laundry facilities, spas and salons. General Service does not include financial establishments, banks, check cashing establishments, tattoo businesses, or other uses specifically set forth in Table 10: Specific Function and use.
Green: a Civic Space type for structured or unstructured recreation, spatially defined by landscaping rather than building Frontages. See Table 5.
Greenway: an open space corridor which includes a continuous Multi-Use Trail.
Gross Site Area: all land within a site's boundaries.
Highway: a rural and suburban Thoroughfare of high vehicular speed and capacity. This type is allocated to the more rural Transect Zones (T-2, and T-3).
Home Occupation: Non-Retail Commercial enterprises. The work quarters should be invisible from the Frontage, located either within the house or in an Outbuilding. Permitted activities are defined by the Restricted Office category. See Table 9: Building Function.
House: an Edgeyard Building type containing a single-family dwelling on a large Lot, often shared with an Accessory Building in the back yard. (Syn: single.)
Industrial: for the purpose of uses, Industrial means any use which can generate a significant amount of noise, vibration, smells, or other emissions this includes but is not limited to major appliance repair; dry cleaning plants; fuel and ice dealers; mining or other extractive industries; newspaper publishing facilities; railroad car classification yards; temporary sawmills; self-service storage facilities; shooting ranges; and vending machine sales, service, rental, or repair establishments. Industrial does not include truck or freight terminals or scrap and dismantling yards or other uses specifically set forth in Table 10: Specific Function and use.
Layer: a range of depth of a Lot within which certain elements are permitted. See Table 14: Definitions Illustrated.
Lightwell: A Private Frontage type that is a below-grade entrance or recess designed to allow light into basements. See Table 8: Private Frontages.
Liner Building: a building specifically designed to mask a parking lot or a Parking Structure from a Frontage.
Live-Work: Nonresidential activity conducted wholly within a residential dwelling that allows employees, customers, clients or patrons to visit.
Lodging: premises available for daily renting of guest rooms. See Table 9: Building Function and Table 10: Specific Function and Use.
Lot Line: the boundary that legally and geometrically demarcates a lot.
Lot Width: the length of the Principal Frontage Line of a lot.
Manufacturing: premises available for the creation, assemblage and/or repair of objects, using table-mounted electrical machinery or artisanal equipment, and including their Retail sale.
Medical: for the purposes of uses, medical is any organization that provides medical care or support including but not limited to ambulance services; clinics; massage therapy; medical and dental laboratories (provided that no chemicals are manufactured on site); medical research centers; pain management clinic; research testing laboratories; and sports/medical physical therapy. Medical does not include hospitals or other uses specifically set forth in Table 10: Specific Function and use.
Mixed Use: multiple Functions within the same building through superimposition or adjacency, or in multiple buildings by adjacency.
Multi-Family Housing: a residential facility that provides long-term housing including but not limited to condominiums; and multifamily dwelling units. Multi-Family Housing does not include Lodging or uses specifically set forth in Table 10: Specific Function and use.
Multi-Use Trail (MT): a shared paved pedestrian and bicycle way running independent of a vehicular Thoroughfare and having a minimum width of 12 feet and a maximum width of 20 feet.
Net Site Area: all land within a site's boundaries except any part or parts of rivers, streams, floodplains, and natural lakes.
Office: premises available for the transaction of general business but excluding Retail, Service, and Industrial Functions. For the purposes of uses office includes but is not limited to corporate or administrative offices for any permitted uses; photography studios; professional offices; wholesale sales offices; and wholesale trade offices in conjunction with office showrooms. Office does not include Live/Work Units or other uses specifically set forth in Table 10: Specific Function and use.
Open Parking: an uncovered parking area not within a Parking Structure. (Syn: parking lot)
Outbuilding: an Accessory Building, usually located toward the rear of the same Lot as a Principal Building, and sometimes connected to the Principal Building by a Backbuilding. See Table 14: Definitions Illustrated.
Park: a Civic Space type that is a natural preserve available for structured or unstructured recreation. See Table 5.
Parking Structure: a building containing either two or more levels of above ground parking or one or more level of basement parking.
Passage (PS): a pedestrian connector, open or roofed, that passes between buildings to provide shortcuts through long Blocks and connect rear parking areas to Frontages.
Path (PT): a pedestrian way traversing a Park or rural area, with landscape matching the contiguous open space, ideally connecting directly with the urban Sidewalk network.
Planter: the element of the Public Frontage which usually accommodates street trees, whether continuous or individual. The Planter shall be located between the Sidewalk and the Curb.
Plaza: a Civic Space type designed for Civic purposes and Commercial activities in the more urban Transect Zones, generally paved and spatially defined by building Frontages.
Principal Building: the main building on a Lot, usually located toward the Frontage. A Lot may contain more than one Principal Building. See Table 14: Definitions Illustrated.
Principal Entrance: the main point of access for pedestrians into a building.
Principal Frontage: On corner Lots, the Private Frontage designated to bear the address and Principal Entrance to the building, and the measure of minimum Lot width. Prescriptions for the parking Layers pertain only to the Principal Frontage. Prescriptions for the First Layer pertain to both Frontages of a corner Lot. See Frontage.
Private Frontage: the privately held Layer between the Frontage Line and the Principal Building Facade that bears the Principal Entrance to the building. See Table 8: Private Frontages and Table 14: Definitions Illustrated.
Public Frontage: the area between the Curb of the vehicular lanes and the Frontage Line. See Table 4A: Public Frontages - General and Table 4B: Public Frontages - Specific.
Rear Alley (RA): a privately owned and maintained vehicular way located to the rear of Lots providing access to service areas, parking, and Outbuildings and containing utility easements. Rear Alleys should be paved from building face to building face, with drainage by inverted crown at the center or with roll Curbs at the edges.
Rear Lane (RL): a privately owned and maintained vehicular way located to the rear of Lots providing access to service areas, parking, and Outbuildings and containing utility easements. Rear Lanes may be paved lightly to Driveway standards. The streetscape consists of gravel or landscaped edges, has no raised Curb, and is drained by percolation.
Rearyard Building: a building that occupies the full Frontage Line, leaving the rear of the Lot as the sole yard. See Table 7: Building Placement. (Var: Rowhouse, Townhouse line prescribed for the full width of a Facade, above which there is a Stepback of a minimum distance, such that the height to this line (not the overall building height) effectively defines the enclosure of the enfronting public space.) See Table 6: Building Form - Height.
Regulating Plan: a Zoning Map or set of maps that shows the Transect Zones, Civic Zones, Special Districts if any, Thoroughfares, and Special Requirements if any, of areas subject to regulation by this code.
Residential: characterizing premises available for long-term human dwelling.
Restaurants and Cafes: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are actually and regularly prepared and served, without sleeping accommodations, such place seating a minimum of 40 or more people, and holding a certificate of approval from the county health department. At least one meal per day shall be served at least six days per week, with the exception of holidays, vacations and periods of redecorating; and the serving of such meals shall be the principal business conducted, with the serving of distilled spirits to be consumed on the premises as only incidental thereto. Restaurants and Cafes includes but is not limited to commercial recreation restaurants, eating and drinking establishments, hookah bars, mobile food vending units, and sit down dining restaurants. Restaurants and Cafes does not include drive-in restaurants or other uses specifically set forth in Table 10: Specific Function and Use.
Retail: characterizing premises available for the sale of merchandise and food service. See Table 10: Specific Function and Use and Table 11: Code Summary.
Retail Frontage: Frontage designated on a Regulating Plan that requires or recommends the provision of a Shopfront, encouraging the ground level to be available for Retail use. See Special Requirements.
Road (RD): a local, rural and suburban Thoroughfare of low-to-moderate vehicular speed and capacity. This type is allocated to the more rural Transect Zones (T2-T3).
Rowhouse: a single-family dwelling that shares a party wall with another of the same type, is located in a row of at least three and not more than eight dwellings of the same type, and occupies the full Frontage Line. See Rearyard Building. (Syn: Townhouse)
Scrap and Dismantling Yards: for the purpose of uses, a facility that stores and dismantles large pieces of equipment including but not limited to automotive storage yards and wrecker service. Scrap and Dismantling Yards does not include uses specifically set forth in Table 10: Specific Function and Use.
Secondary Frontage: on corner Lots, the Private Frontage that is not the Principal Frontage. As it affects the public realm, its First Layer is regulated. See Table 14: Definitions Illustrated.
Setback: the area of a Lot measured from the Frontage Line or, in the absence of Frontage Line, the Lot line, to a building Facade or Elevation that is maintained clear of permanent structures, with the exception of Encroachments listed in Section 4.5. See Table 11: Code Summary, item f.
Shopfront: a Private Frontage conventional for Retail use, with substantial glazing and an awning, wherein the Facade is aligned close to the Frontage Line with the building entrance at Sidewalk grade. See Table 8: Private Frontages.
Sidewalk: the paved section of the Public Frontage dedicated exclusively to pedestrian activity.
Sideyard Building: a building that occupies one side of the Lot with a Setback on the other side. This type can be a Single or Twin depending on whether it abuts the neighboring house. See Table 7: Building Placement.
Simulated Divided Lights: a method of constructing windows in which muntins are affixed to the inside and outside of a panel of insulating glass to simulate the look of true divided light.
Slip Road: an outer vehicular lane or lanes of a Thoroughfare, designed for slow speeds while inner lanes carry higher speed traffic, and separated from them by a planted median. (Syn: access lane, service lane)
Special Area Plan: an area of 15 acres or more of contiguous lots within an area subject to a Regulating Plan which, because of its size, may establish unique requirements upon approval of the Mayor and City Council.
Special District (SD): an area that, by its intrinsic Function, Building Placement, or Building Form, cannot or should not conform to one or more of the Transect Zones specified by this code.
Specialized Building: a building that is not subject to Residential, Commercial, or Lodging classification. See Table 6: Building Form - Height.
Special Requirements: provisions of Section 4.3 of this code and/or the associated designations on a Regulating Plan.
Sports and Entertainment Assembly Facility: any venue which hosts large assemblies for the purposes of entertainment including but not limited to amphitheaters, coliseums, stadiums, and convention centers (privately owned). Sports and Entertainment Assembly Facility does not include uses specifically set forth in Table 10: Specific Function and Use.
Square: a Civic Space type designed for structured or unstructured recreation and Civic purposes, spatially defined by building Frontages and consisting of Paths, lawns and trees, formally disposed. See Table 5.
State Route: a Thoroughfare under the jurisdiction of the Georgia Department of Transportation.
Stepback: a building Setback of at least 10 feet that occurs at a prescribed number of Stories above the ground. See Table 6: Building Form - Height.
Stoop: a Private Frontage wherein the Facade is aligned close to the Frontage Line with the first Story elevated from the Sidewalk for privacy, with an exterior stair and landing at the entrance. See Table 7: Building Placement.
Story: a habitable level within a building, excluding an attic. A basement shall be considered as a story if subdivided or used for dwelling or business purposes. See Table 6: Building Form - Height.
Street (ST): a local urban Thoroughfare of low speed and capacity.
Substantial Modification: alteration to an existing building that is valued at more than 60% of the replacement cost of the entire building, if built new according to current standards.
Swale: a low or slightly depressed natural area for drainage.
T-zone: Transect Zone.
Temporary Use: any use that is expect to last for less than 30 days including but not limited to community fairs and other temporary uses. Temporary use does not include uses specifically set forth in Table 10: Specific Function and Use.
Thoroughfare: a public or private way for use by vehicular, bicycle, and pedestrian traffic and to provide access to Lots and Open Spaces, consisting of Vehicular Lanes and the Public Frontage. See Table 3A: Vehicular Lane Dimensions, Table 3B: Vehicular Lane/Parking Assemblies, and Table 14: Definitions Illustrated, item a.
Townhouse: See Rearyard Building. (Syn: Rowhouse)
Transect: a cross-section of the environment showing a range of different habitats. The rural-urban Transect of the human environment is divided into six Transect Zones. These zones describe the physical form and character of a place, according to the Density and intensity of its land use and Urbanism.
Transect Zone (T-zone): one of several geographic areas regulated by this code. Transect Zones are administratively similar to the land use zones in conventional codes, except that in addition to the usual building use, Density, height, and Setback requirements, other elements of the intended habitat are integrated, including those of the private Lot and building and Public Frontage. See Table 1.
Transit Station or Terminal: a facility that can accommodate two or more transit vehicles for the purposes of loading and unloading passengers including but not limited to bus stations, commuter rail stations, taxi stands and dispatching agencies. Transit Station or Terminal does not include Truck or Freight Terminals or other uses specifically set forth in Table 10: Specific Function and Use.
Truck or Freight Terminal: a facility that can accommodate two or more transit vehicles or trucks for the purpose of loading and unloading freight including but not limited to bus stations for freight, railroad stations for freight, transportation equipment storage and maintenance facilities, and truck terminals. Truck or Freight terminals does not include loading docks associated with a retail facility or other uses specifically set forth in Table 10: Specific Function and Use.
True Divided Lights: A term that refers to windows in which multiple individual panes of glass or lights are assembled in the sash using muntins.
Turning Radius: the curved edge of a Thoroughfare at an intersection, measured at the inside edge of the vehicular tracking. The smaller the Turning Radius, the smaller the pedestrian crossing distance, and the more slowly the vehicle is forced to make the turn. See Table 3B: Vehicular Lane/Parking Assemblies and Table 14: Definitions Illustrated.
Urbanism: collective term for the condition of a compact, Mixed Use settlement, including the physical form of its development and its environmental, functional, economic, and sociocultural aspects.
Urbanized: generally, developed. Specific to this code, developed at T3 (Sub-Urban) Density or higher.
Vehicular Service: the repair, servicing, alteration, restoration, painting, cleaning, or finishing of automobiles, trucks, recreational vehicles, boats and other vehicles as a primary use, including the incidental wholesale and retail sale of vehicle parts as an accessory use. Vehicular services includes but is not limited to automotive paint and body repair shops, automotive repair and maintenance facilities, automotive upholstery shops, car washes, emissions/inspection stations, and heavy automotive repair. Vehicular Service does not include automobile service and repair that is part of an automotive sales dealership on the same site, automobile wrecking, automobile junkyards, or salvage yards or other uses specifically set forth in Table 10: Specific Function and Use.
Wholesale and Distribution: any use that sells merchandise primarily to retailers or specific trades or which transports retail or wholesale goods including but not limited to wholesale building materials stores; contractors including general, heavy, and special office/warehouse space; plumbing and/or heating equipment dealers; and electrical supply stores. Wholesale and Distribution does not include Truck or Freight terminals or other uses specifically set forth in Table 10: Specific Function and Use.
Yield: characterizing a Thoroughfare that has two-way traffic but only one effective travel lane because of parked cars, necessitating slow movement and driver negotiation. Also, characterizing parking on such a Thoroughfare.
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
(Ord. No. 2016-03, Att., 3-7-16)
Chapter 5 - STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY AND TEMPORARY USES
5.00.00 - GENERALLY
The provisions of Chapter 5 apply to accessory uses, accessory structures, and temporary uses. Standards pertaining to accessory structures are set forth in Section 5.01.00. Standards for Temporary Structures and Uses are set forth in Section 5.02.00. Standards for Signs, which may be either accessory structures, or the principal use on a parcel, are provided in Section 5.03.00. Standards for Wireless Telecommunication Facilities, which may be located on a lot or parcel with a principal use, or which may be the principal use, are provided in Section 5.04.00.
5.01.00 - ACCESSORY STRUCTURES

5.01.01 - Generally
An accessory structure is defined as a structure on the same lot with, and of a size and nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal structure.
5.01.02 - Standards for Accessory Uses
A.
Any accessory building or structure in excess of 1,000 square feet of gross space:
1.
Shall be located to the rear of the primary structure at least 100 feet from any property line;
2.
Must have the approval of the Zoning Administrator or his/her designee as to the location, architectural design, and size prior to construction; and
3.
Shall be required to submit for plan review through the inspections department or receive approval from the building official or his/her designee.
B.
Accessory buildings, structures, uses and decks are subject to the following conditions:
1.
Maximum height of two (2) stories or 35 feet;
2.
Accessory uses shall include garbage pads, heating and air conditioning units, Jacuzzis, tennis courts, swimming pools (private), playhouses and playgrounds;
3.
All accessory uses shall be located to the rear of the principal building except for heating and air conditioning units or garbage pads which may be located on the side or rear;
4.
The rear of the principal building shall be where the main portion of the building ends without consideration of wings;
5.
Architectural style and design to be approved by the Zoning Administrator or his/her designee;
6.
Such structures or buildings shall be located on the same lot as and to the rear of the principal building to which they are accessory. Decks may be located to the rear or side of the principal subject to the limitations below;
7.
No accessory building, structure, use or deck shall be constructed upon a lot until construction of the principal building has commenced;
8.
On a corner lot no accessory building, structure, use or deck shall be located closer to the side street right-of-way line than the principal building;
9.
No garage or other accessory building, structure, use or deck shall be located closer than five feet to a side or rear lot line or within any required buffers whichever is greater;
10.
When an accessory building is attached to the principal building by a breezeway, passageway or similar means, it shall comply with the yard requirements of the principal building to which it is accessory. This shall not apply to decks.
11.
Incidental storage is permitted, provided that the material is incidental to the permitted use (as determined by the Zoning Administrator or his/her designee) and stored completely within a portion of the enclosed, principal structure permitted within the district, or within a permitted accessory structure;
12.
Car washes accessory to convenience stores with self-service fuel are permitted;
13.
Freestanding parking garages are subject to the following conditions:
a.
Maximum height of 55 feet with no more than four stories;
b.
When abutting any residential property line, freestanding parking garages shall not be located within any required buffers; and
c.
When abutting any other nonresidential district, no freestanding garage shall be located closer than five feet to a side or rear lot line.
14.
Heating and air conditioning units are subject to the following conditions:
a.
When abutting any residential property line, heating and air conditioning units shall not be located within any required buffers;
b.
When abutting any other nonresidential district, no heating [and] air conditioning units shall be located closer than five feet to a side or rear lot line;
c.
Heating and air conditioning units may be installed on the roof of any structure zoned commercially so long as the heating and air conditioning unit does not exceed the height restrictions stated herein and they are placed so as to be hidden from a front or side view; and
d.
No ground-based heating and air conditioning unit shall exceed 35 feet in height.
5.01.03 - Charitable Collection Receptacle Registration and Standards
A.
Definitions.
Charitable Collection Receptacle: Any unattended receptacle or container made of metal, steel, or any other material designed or intended for the collection and temporary storage of charitable donations of clothing, books, personal or household items of other goods, which shall not include containers for the purpose of collecting monetary donations.
Person: Any individual, sole proprietor, firm, partnership, cooperative, nonprofit membership corporation, joint venture, association, company, corporation, agency, syndicate, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, fiduciary, limited liability company, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, general partnership or other group or combination acting as a unit, whether public, private or quasi-public.
B.
Registration Required.
1.
Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no person shall place, use or employ a charitable collection receptacle, within the City of Kennesaw, for gathering or solicitation purposes, unless the person has registered with the Secretary of State and registered with the City of Kennesaw.
2.
Owners of charitable collection receptacles must be registered and in good standing with the Secretary of State for the State of Georgia under the Georgia Charitable Solicitations Act O.C.G.A. Title 43, Chapter 17, and as may be amended from time to time.
D.
Registration Requirements. The registration information shall include:
1.
A diagram illustrating the precise location where the charitable collection receptacle would be positioned on the property;
2.
Disclosures prominently displayed as required by O.C.G.A. § 43-17-8.1, and as may be amended from time to time.
3.
Written permission of the property owner or his/her authorized representative consenting to the placement, maintenance and associated liabilities of the charitable collection receptacle.
4.
The name and telephone number of the bona fide office of the person which may share or profit from any clothing or other donations collected via the receptacle, which can be reached during normal business hours. For the purposes of this ordinance, an answering machine or service unrelated to the person does not constitute a bona fide office.
E.
Renewal Registration Requirements. An expiring registration may be renewed upon application and payment of a renewal fee in accordance with the schedule of fees and charges maintained in the office of the City Clerk as established by the Mayor and City Council. In addition to the above application requirements, renewal registrations must include:
1.
Proof of registration or exemption from such registration with the Secretary of State for the State of Georgia under the Georgia Charitable Solicitations Act O.C.G.A. Title 43, Chapter 17, et seq.
2.
The name and telephone of the bona fide office of any person which shared or profited from any clothing or other donations collected via the collection receptacle; and
F.
Placement of Collection Receptacles.
1.
The City of Kennesaw shall not grant registration to place, use, or employ a charitable collection receptacle if it determines that the placement of the receptacle could constitute a safety hazard. Such hazards shall include, but not be limited to, the placement of a charitable collection receptacle within 100 yards of any place which stores large amounts of, or sells, fuel or other flammable liquids or gases; or the placement of a collection receptacle where it interferes with vehicular or pedestrian circulation or presents a fire safety hazard.
2.
Charitable receptacles shall be permitted only as an accessory use to the principal use on an established lot of record.
3.
Charitable collection receptacles shall not be located in the Central Business zoning district (CBD) or any residential zoning district classification.
4.
When located in other districts zoned for commercial, industrial, or office uses, there shall not be more than one charitable receptacle on properties less than one (1) acre in size and no more than two (2) collection receptacles on properties greater than one (1) acre in size.
5.
The location of the receptacle(s) shall not cause a reduction of the minimum parking requirements or be placed within the landscaped buffers of the hosting lot.
6.
Designated recycling collection centers, as defined by the City of Kennesaw Unified Development Code, shall be governed by the terms of the Unified Development Code and any applicable state law.
7.
The person placing the charitable collection receptacle shall keep the area around the charitable collection receptacle free of litter at all times. Graffiti shall be removed from the receptacle within 48 hours of discovery. The collection receptacle shall be maintained, painted or otherwise un-rusted and un-dented and in good repair.
8.
The charitable collection receptacle(s) must be cleared of contents at least once per week.
9.
The charitable collection receptacle(s) shall not exceed a capacity of 512 cubic feet.
10.
All charitable collection receptacle(s) must be safely designed or secured in a manner that prevents tipping over and prevents children from entering the collection receptacle.
G.
Display of State Registration. The following information shall be clearly and conspicuously displayed on the exterior of the charitable collection receptacle:
1.
The registration number and its date of expiration stating that a copy of the registration information is on file with the City of Kennesaw.
2.
Each charitable collection receptacle must bear the information required by O.C.G.A. § 43-17-8.1.
H.
Receipt, investigation of complaints relative to charitable collection receptacle.
1.
Code Enforcement shall receive and investigate any complaints from the public regarding a charitable collection receptacle and shall report said findings to the Secretary of State for disposition and clean-up., or, may undertake such steps as may be provided by State Law prescribed in O.C.G.A. § 43-17-8 et seq., and as may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. No. 2018-22, Exh. A, 10-15-18)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2018-22, Exh. A, adopted Oct. 15, 2018, amended § 5.01.03 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former § 5.01.03 pertained to charitable donation bin standards and derived from Ord. No. 2013-13, adopted July 15, 2013.
5.02.00 - TEMPORARY STRUCTURES AND USES

5.02.01 - Mobile Food Vending Units
5.02.02 - Definition
Hours of Operation: Hours of Operation shall mean the time period from 7:00 a.m. to 11:59 p.m. each day. This provision shall not apply to Mobile Food Vending Units operating in an Entertainment District pursuant to Kennesaw Code of Ordinances Section 6-(c)(5), as those Mobile Food Vending Units may operate until the closure of the alcohol licensed establishment for which they are providing food in the Entertainment District.
Mobile Food Vending Unit: Mobile Food Vending Unit shall mean any motorized vehicle designed to be portable and not permanently attached to the ground from which food is peddled, vended, sold, or given away.
Permitted Locations: Mobile Food Vending Units may operate on improved private property only within the following specific locations and zoning districts:
1.
Private property in the following zoning districts: general commercial; highway general business; neighborhood retail commercial; light industrial, entertainment; and central business district.
2.
The following specific locations:
a.
Property containing three (3) acres or more currently under new building construction with a current City building and development permits. The project site must be in active status as verified by the City building official.
b.
On property owned or leased by the City and the food is served during an event that is sanctioned and/or approved by the City.
c.
Residential locations in the following zoning districts - R-40, R-30, R-20, R-15, R-12, R-10, PUD-R, RA-4, RA-5, RA-6 and FST and subject to the residential standards in section 5.02.03-(2)(d).
The City of Kennesaw Planning and Zoning Department will verify that all proposed locations for Mobile Food Vending Units meet the standards for the zoning district under the Unified Development Code. All permitted locations approved for the placement and operation of any Mobile Food Vending Units must maintain a minimum distance of one hundred feet (100') from any building housing an established licensed eating and drinking establishment as defined under the Code of Ordinances, City of Kennesaw. This minimum distance requirement shall not apply to any Mobile Food Vending Unit operating in an Entertainment District pursuant to Kennesaw Code of Ordinances Section 6-(c)(5).
Permitted Signage: Permitted signage shall mean any signage marketing and/or advertising for any Mobile Food Vending Unit that meets the following requirements:
1.
Sandwich board signage located on a permitted location where the Mobile Food Vending Unit is operating while the Mobile Food Vending Unit is operating.
2.
Wall signage that is safely affixed to the Mobile Food Vending Unit so as to be flat against the surface of that Mobile Food Vending Unit.
Prohibited Signage: Prohibited signage shall mean any signage of any type, that is erected or maintained on a right-of-way owned or maintained by the City. Cobb County, or the State; and, any and all signage located off the permitted location where the Mobile Food Vending Unit is operating.
Signage: Signage shall mean any type of design or artwork that advertises the use of a Mobile Food Vending Unit or which contains the name of a Mobile Food Vending Unit.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12; Ord. No. 2015-11, 11-16-15; Ord. No. 2021-07 , §§ 10(Exh. E), 15(Exh. I), 6-21-21)
5.02.03 - Business License and Permit Requirements
1.
The owner or operator of a Mobile Food Vending Unit shall not operate those Mobile Food Vending Units within the City at any permitted location unless and until such owner or operator has obtained a Mobile Food Vending Unit Permit from the City as provided in Section 5.02.04 below.
2.
Prior to the issuance of a City Mobile Food Vending Unit permit, the person applying for a Mobile Food Vending Unit permit under this article must show compliance with the following requirements:
a.
Each Mobile Food Vending Unit that will be engaged in the selling of cooked or prepared food must receive a Mobile Food Service Unit Permit from the Georgia Department of Public Health. A copy of the Mobile Food Service Unit Permit for each Mobile Food Vending Unit to be operated within the City must be submitted with the Mobile Food Vending Unit Permit application as provided in Section 5.02.04 below.
b.
Each Mobile Food Vending Unit that will be operated in the City must have a current Food Service Establishment Inspection Report issued by the Georgia Department of Public Health, which must be conspicuously posted on the Mobile Food Vending Unit. A copy of the current Food Service Establishment Inspection Report for each Mobile Food Vending Unit to be operated within the City must be submitted with the Mobile Food Vending Unit Permit application as provided in Section 5.02.04 below.
c.
The owner or operator of a Mobile Food Vending Unit must have a business license from the City of Kennesaw or the Georgia county or municipality that is the principal place of business of the owner or operator of the Mobile Food Vending Unit. A copy of the business license must be submitted with the Mobile Food Vending Unit Permit application as provided in Section 5.02.04 below.
d.
The owner or operator of any Mobile Food Vending Unit located in residential zoning districts within the City shall possess and maintain the following:
i.
Food Service Establishment Inspection Reports from the Georgia Department of Public Health for each of the Mobile Food Vending Units.
ii.
Business license from the City of Kennesaw or the Georgia county or municipality that is the principal place of business of the owner or operator of the Mobile Food Vending Unit. A copy of the business license must be submitted with the Mobile Food Vending Unit Permit application as provided in Section 5.02.04 below.
iii.
Location map of Mobile Food Vending Unit location in the subject residential zoning district.
iv.
Letter of approval from adjacent property owners, property owners of the subject-property within the residential zoning district, Home Owners Associations and all other parties that have authority over the location.
v.
Residential Mobile Food Vending Unit applications must be submitted at least three (3) business days prior to the date on which the Mobile Food Vending Unit will be operating in the residential zoning district.
3.
The issuance of a Mobile Food Service Unit Permit and a Food Service Establishment Inspection Report by the Georgia Department of Public Health for any Mobile Food Vending Unit does not guarantee that the City will issue a permit for the locations at which that unit is intended to operate. All other requirements in this ordinance must be met before a business license or permit may be issued by the City.
4.
All Mobile Food Vending Unit permit applications submitted under this article must be reviewed and approved by the following departments of the City:
a.
The Business License Department, which will verify that all State licensing requirements have been satisfied and that the application is complete.
b.
The Planning and Zoning Department, which will review the application to assure the location and district standard requirements are met;
c.
The Police Department, which will review the application to verify if any existing safety violations for the Mobile Food Vending Unit in the application are pending.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12; Ord. No. 2015-11, 11-16-15; Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 15(Exh. I), 6-21-21)
5.02.04 - Permitted Location Application
1.
Either after receipt of a business license from the City or another Georgia municipality or county that is the principal place of business of the owner or operator of the Mobile Food Vending Unit, or contemporaneously with the application for a business license, the person or business entity owning or operating each Mobile Food Vending Unit must submit an application to the City for approval for the permitted location(s) at which it is intended to operate. To obtain such approval, the application for the permitted location(s) must include the following information:
a.
The applicant shall complete and submit all information required in the application form supplied by the City. Any omission or misstatement of any material information on the application shall be grounds for denial of the application.
b.
A copy of either the business license issued by the City, a pending application for a business license with the City, or a current business license issued by another Georgia county or municipality that is the principal place of business of the person or business entity owning or operating the Mobile Food Vending Unit. If a copy of the application for a business license is submitted with the application for permitted location(s), copies of all attachments to that application for a business license must also be submitted with the application for permitted locations(s).
c.
A list of all locations at which the applicant wants to operate a Mobile Food Vending Unit.
d.
A map of each location at which the owner or operator of the Mobile Food Vending Unit wants to operate that has been prepared by a surveyor licensed by the State of Georgia. That map must identify where the Mobile Food Vending Unit will be located. Each such plan shall be no smaller than 8 ½" x 11". Each such plan shall illustrate the distance measured from the Mobile Food Vending Unit to the building location of the nearest established eating and drinking establishments.
e.
A written approval from the property owner of record for each location for such occupancy by the Mobile Food Vending Unit.
f.
A written approval from each owner of any property adjacent to the location for such occupancy by the Mobile Food Vending Unit.
g.
A written statement from the property owner that the location-contains a hardened treated surface and designated parking spaces for the Mobile Food Vending Unit, patrons, and customers.
h.
A signed affidavit from the applicant that the Mobile Food Vending Unit will not transport alcoholic beverages to the permitted location and will not sell or give alcoholic beverages at the permitted location to any of its patrons or customers.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12; Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 15(Exh. I), 6-21-21)
5.02.05 - Requirements and Restrictions
Failure of an owner or operator of a Mobile Food Vending Unit to abide by the following requirements and restrictions shall constitute a violation of this article:
1.
A Mobile Food Vending Unit shall operate only during the hours of operation. Operation of a Mobile Food Vending Unit outside of the hours of operation shall be a violation of this article.
2.
A Mobile Food Vending Unit shall not operate at any location that is considered to be a permitted location unless and until that Mobile Food Vending Unit is approved to operate at that location by the City. To be approved for any permitted location, each Mobile Food Vending Unit must submit an application on forms provided by the City pursuant to Section 5.02.04 above.
3.
Any Mobile Food Vending Unit that begins operating at a permitted location without securing all permits shall be in violation of this article.
4.
A Mobile Food Vending Unit shall not arrive to operate at a permitted location more than thirty (30) minutes prior to the time it intends to operate or prior to 6:30 a.m., whichever is later.
5.
A Mobile Food Vending Unit shall not stay at a permitted location more than thirty (30) minutes after it is done operating or later than 12:30 a.m. on any day, whichever is earlier. This provision shall not apply to Mobile Food Vendors Unit operating in an Entertainment District pursuant to Kennesaw Code of Ordinances Section 6-(c)(5), in which case the Mobile Food Vending Unit shall not stay more than thirty (30) minutes after the closure of the alcohol licensed establishment for which it is providing food.
6.
Any semi-permanent structure allowed in this section to be used and/or associated with the Mobile Food Vending Unit operation shall also be removed from the site during hours of non-operation.
7.
A Mobile Food Vending Unit shall use only Permitted Signage and shall not use any Prohibited Signage.
8.
Mobile Food Vending Units shall not utilize any temporary connections to potable water. All water used by a mobile vending unit shall be provided an internal tank within that Mobile Food Vending Unit. The Mobile Food Vending Unit shall also not replenish the internal tank at the permitted location.
9.
All electricity to the Mobile Food Vending Unit shall be from a generator or a main power supply via a portable cord that is in conformance with the Electrical Code of the City.
10.
A Mobile Food Vending Unit shall not make use of any outdoor cooking facilities. To the extent that cooking is done at a permitted location, it shall be done within the confines of the Mobile Food Vending Unit.
11.
A Mobile Food Vending Unit shall not, at any time, utilize outdoor storage or devices to warm or refrigerate food with the exception of storage for disposable tableware.
12.
A drive-through service shall not be allowed at any Mobile Food Vending Unit. A person operating a Mobile Food Vending Unit shall not conduct business with or accept orders from any patrons or customers while such patrons or customers are in their motor vehicles.
13.
The area within which a Mobile Food Vending Unit is operating shall, at all times, be kept clean and free from litter, garbage, rubble, and debris. To that end, each Mobile Food Vending Unit must provide a trash or garbage receptacle in which patrons or customers may place their litter or garbage. The receptacle shall be within ten feet (10') of the Mobile Food Vending Unit. The operator of the Mobile Food Vending Unit must remove this litter or garbage from the permitted location when he or she leaves the permitted location each day.
14.
A Mobile Food Vending Unit shall not use amplified music of any type. This restriction shall not apply to the operation of a vehicle operated solely as an ice cream truck and which does not sell any other type of food.
15.
A Mobile Food Vending Unit shall not use temporary or portable lighting outside of that necessary to illuminate the inside of the Mobile Food Vending Unit and the serving area of the Mobile Food Vending Unit.
16.
All of the following shall be posted on each Mobile Food Vending Unit in a conspicuous place:
a.
The current business license;
b.
A list of the locations approved by the City where the Mobile Food Vending Unit is permitted to operate;
c.
A copy of the Mobile Food Vending Unit permit issued by the City of Kennesaw.
d.
A copy of the most recent Food Service Establishment Inspection Reports from the Georgia Department of Public Health.
17.
A Mobile Food Vending Unit operating at or participating in any event sponsored, authorized, or approved by the City shall pay the registration fees set forth in the Code of Ordinances, City of Kennesaw, or otherwise required by the City. Such fees shall be paid prior to the event.
18.
The operator of a Mobile Food Vending Unit shall not go into a park owned or operated by the City, the County, or the United States of America to sell, offer for sale, or display a food item, unless the operator's activity is authorized by a written rental agreement or other written permission of the Director of the Parks and Recreation Department of the City.
19.
Parking requirements and restrictions:
a.
Each Mobile Food Vending Unit shall secure a minimum of two (2) dedicated parking spaces for customers utilizing their services.
b.
Parking spaces shall be marked as required by zoning regulations.
c.
Parking spaces shall meet the size requirements established by the City.
d.
Mobile Food Vending Unit operators shall not sell to customers parked in areas designated as public rights-of-way.
20.
Mobile Food Vending Unit permits for residential zoning districts will be valid for thirty days from the date of issuance. The maximum number of days for Mobile Food Vending Unit operation per location per calendar year is sixty days. All other Mobile Food Vending Unit permits shall be valid for twelve (12) months.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12; Ord. No. 2015-11, 11-16-15; Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 15(Exh. I), 6-21-21)
5.02.06 - Enforcement
The provisions of this article may be enforced through the City's code enforcement procedures or as otherwise authorized in this Code and may be pursued by appropriate remedy in a court of competent jurisdiction. The remedies that the City may pursue for a violation of this article include but are not limited to:
a.
Issuance of a citation subject to the penalties and punishment as provided for in Section 1-11 of article 1 of the Code of Ordinances, Kennesaw, Georgia;
b.
Revocation or suspension of the business license of the owner or operator of the Mobile Food Vending Unit found in violation of this article, if such business license has been issued by the City of Kennesaw;
c.
Refusal of the City to renew the business license of the owner or operator of the Mobile Food Vending Unit found in violation of this article, if such business license has been issued by the City of Kennesaw;
d.
Revocation or suspension of the location permit issued to the owner or operator of the Mobile Food Vending Unit pursuant to Section 5.02.04 above; and/or
e.
If code enforcement is utilized to enforce this article, a resulting code enforcement lien may be assessed against the Mobile Food Vending Unit itself and the private property upon which the Mobile Food Vending Unit operates or operated.
f.
An injunction to halt any prohibited activity by the owner or operator of any Mobile Food Vending Unit.
Any revocation, suspension, or refusal to grant or renew any business license or location(s) permit for any Mobile Food Vending Unit may be appealed to the Mayor and Council of the City of Kennesaw within ten (10) business days from the receipt of written notice of such revocation, suspension, or refusal by the owner or operator of such Mobile Food Vending Unit.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12; Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 15(Exh. I), 6-21-21)
5.03.00 - SIGNS[11]

Footnotes:
--- (11) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2019-05 , § 2(Exh. B), adopted Sep. 16, 2019, repealed the former § 5.03.00 and enacted a new section as set out herein. The former § 5.03.00 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 2012-03, adopted May 7, 2012; Ord. No. 2013-13, adopted July 15, 2013; Ord. No. 2014-09, adopted July 21, 2014; and Ord. No. 2015-05, §§ 8, 9, adopted April 20, 2015.

5.03.01 - General Provisions
A.
Title: This Chapter shall hereafter be known and cited as the "City of Kennesaw Sign Ordinance".
B.
Jurisdiction: The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to all signs erected within the incorporated area of the City of Kennesaw, Georgia.
C.
Purpose and Findings:
1.
The Mayor and City Council make the following findings:
a.
The City finds that signs are a proper use of private property, are a means of personal free expression and a necessary component of a commercial environment. As such, citizens of the City desiring to erect signs are entitled to the protection of the law. However, without some regulation, the number of signs tends to proliferate leading to cluttered and aesthetically unpleasing and blighted thoroughfares. Such proliferation leads to competition among sign owners or lot owners for the public's visibility of signs. Accordingly, this contributes to the possibility of hazards for vehicles and pedestrians.
b.
The City finds that signs erected along corridors are potentially distracting to motorists. Therefore, some regulation of signs along corridors is necessary to ensure that any such signs are within a driver's vision while that driver is also attending to traffic. Therefore, both height and size limitations are necessary to support the visibility of signs. Regulation of size, height, number and spacing of signs throughout the City is necessary to assure compatibility of signs with surrounding land uses, to enhance businesses and the economy, to protect the public investment in the streets and highways, to maintain a tranquil environment of residential areas, to promote industry and commerce, to eliminate visual clutter and blight, to provide an aesthetically appealing environment and to provide for the orderly and reasonable display of communication through the display of signs for the benefit of all the citizens of the City of Kennesaw.
c.
The City finds that a difference exists between signs erected by a public authority and signs erected by private citizens or businesses. Signs erected by a public authority are erected for the purpose of maintaining the public safety by directing traffic for safe and efficient facilitation of vehicles, directing traffic for the purpose of informing the public where government and public places are located and directing traffic vis-a-vis public utility signs for the purpose of avoiding hazardous or emergency situations. Therefore, virtually all public authority signs are erected for public safety purposes, while signs erected by private citizens or businesses are not.
d.
The City finds that this Chapter is adopted to serve substantial governmental interests. The regulations contained herein are no more extensive than necessary to serve those substantial governmental interests identified herein. It is not the intent of this Chapter to regulate signs based on the message that the sign conveys, such as political, religious or personal messages, just to name a few. Therefore, it is the intent of this ordinance that the regulations contained herein are content-neutral as defined by the United States Supreme Court and the Georgia Supreme Court.
2.
This Chapter is enacted for the following purposes:
a.
To protect the lives, health, safety and welfare of the citizens, residents, visitors and businesses in the City;
b.
To limit the negative impact of signs while encouraging the positive and constructive use of signs;
c.
To improve the general appearance and aesthetics of the City;
d.
To improve traffic and pedestrian safety;
e.
To protect property values and the public investment in roads;
f.
To promote economic development;
g.
To enhance the attractiveness of the City as a place to live, work, recreate, travel to and do business;
h.
To protect the rights of individuals and businesses to convey messages through signs;
i.
To encourage the effective use of signs as a means of communication;
j.
To preserve the natural beauty and environment of the City;
k.
To eliminate, over time, all nonconforming signs by recognizing the sign owner's investment in any sign as balanced with the City's interest in restricting the continued existence of abandoned or nonconforming signs, subject to State law;
l.
To ensure the fair and consistent enforcement of sign standards.
( Ord. No. 2019-05 , § 2(Exh. B), 9-16-19)
5.03.02 - Application of Regulations
1.
The regulations of this Chapter shall apply to the location, erection, and maintenance of signs in all Zoning Districts within the City of Kennesaw, Georgia.
2.
Noncommercial messages may be displayed on any sign authorized to display commercial messages.
3.
All signs shall comply with all applicable federal, state and county laws, municipal ordinances, codes and rules. Compliance with this ordinance shall not operate to relieve any person or entity from any other duty imposed by law.
4.
A permit issued under this ordinance constitutes a revocable license to maintain a sign. A permit issued by the city that is issued in violation of this ordinance is void. A permit does not create a vested right to maintain any sign which violates any terms of this ordinance.
5.
A sign shall only be erected in a zoning district that allows that type of sign. See the specific restrictions based on zoning district. If a new zoning district is created following the enactment of this ordinance and this ordinance does not provide specific authority to locate types of signs in that new district, signs shall be allowed in that new district in accordance with the next more restrictive zoning district until such time as this ordinance is amended to allow for such sign.
( Ord. No. 2019-05 , § 2(Exh. B), 9-16-19)
5.03.03 - Definitions
Words and phrases used in this Chapter shall have the meanings set forth in Chapter 1 of the Unified Development Code. All other words and phrases shall be given their common, ordinary meaning, unless the context clearly require otherwise. Section headings or captions are for reference purposes only and shall not be used in the interpretation of this ordinance.
( Ord. No. 2019-05 , § 2(Exh. B), 9-16-19)
5.03.04 - Powers and Duties of Personnel
The Zoning Administrator, or its designee, is hereby authorized and directed to administer and enforce this ordinance.
( Ord. No. 2019-05 , § 2(Exh. B), 9-16-19)
5.03.05 - Permit Required
A.
It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to post, display, materially change, or erect a sign in the City of Kennesaw without first having obtained a Permanent Sign Permit (PSP) or Temporary Sign Permit (TSP) from the Zoning Administrator, or its designee, unless specifically exempted by this ordinance. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the following signs do not require a permit:
1.
Signs which are not visible from a public right of way or from neighboring or adjacent properties;
2.
Standard information signs;
3.
Flags;
4.
Non-prohibited permanent window signs;
5.
A-frame signs;
B.
An approved PSP or TSP shall become null and void if the sign for which the permit was issued has not been erected within eighteen (18) months from the date of the permit. If the sign is not completed within this time frame, a new application must be submitted and the permitting process begins anew. A sign permit for a sign shall expire twelve (12) months after the issuance of the permit if construction of the sign has not commenced within that time. If the sign construction is not commenced within this time frame, a new application must be submitted and the permitting process begins anew. An expired, null or void PSP or TSP cannot be revived. A permit may be denied if the applicant, landowner or lessee is presently maintaining any sign in violation of this ordinance.
( Ord. No. 2019-05 , § 2(Exh. B), 9-16-19)
5.03.06 - Fees Required
No PSP or TSP shall be approved until the sign applicant has paid the applicable fee(s). All fees are non-refundable once a PSP or TSP has issued.
( Ord. No. 2019-05 , § 2(Exh. B), 9-16-19)
5.03.07 - Application
A.
A sign permit application for a PSP or TSP required by this Chapter shall be submitted by the person owning the property upon which the sign will be erected, or an agent thereof, in the office of the Zoning Administrator on forms furnished by the City. An 'agent thereof' may be an individual owner, a representative of an entity that owns the property, a person or representative of a company under contract with the owner of the property upon which the sign will be erected, or a lessee of the owner of the property upon which the sign will be erected. The application shall describe and include documentation setting forth the following information:
1.
The name(s), address(es), and telephone number(s) of the applicant;
2.
If different from the applicant, the name(s), address(es) and telephone number(s) of the owner(s) of the real property upon which the subject sign is to be located;
3.
If different from the applicant and/or owner, the name(s), address(es) and telephone number(s) of the erector of the sign;
4.
Written consent of the owner of the property granting permission for the placement, maintenance, size, and height of the subject sign to be placed on the property and written consent for entry onto the property by the City for purposes of inspection and enforcement of this ordinance;
5.
The type and purpose of the sign as defined by this Chapter;
6.
The value of the sign;
7.
A survey to scale (plans and specifications) showing the boundaries of the property upon which the subject sign is to be located, the proposed location of the subject sign on the subject property, the distance of the subject sign from the subject property's boundaries, public rights of way, other signs on the property, required setbacks, attachment to buildings (if applicable) and all existing structures and buildings on the subject property;
8.
A visual representation of the completed sign;
9.
The square foot area of the proposed sign;
10.
If applicable, the name, address, telephone number and occupational tax certificate number of the sign contractor including a copy of the current occupational tax certificate from a city or county located in the State of Georgia;
11.
Detailed drawings of the proposed sign, including the proposed color scheme, and scaled elevation of the size and height of the proposed sign from ground level and adjacent street level;
12.
The zoning district in which the proposed sign is to be located;
13.
If applicable, certified documents from the Georgia Department of Transportation or the United States Department of Transportation or their successors regarding the classification of the applicable road;
14.
For an electrical sign, an electrical permit.
15.
The City may require that the survey or plans bear the signature and seal of a registered land surveyor, professional engineer, an architect or land planner.
B.
Notices. All notices and communications regarding sign permit renewal or general notices and communications shall be deemed sufficient when mailed using the address of the permit holder on record and by depositing the same with the United States postal service mail with sufficient postage affixed thereto. All notices and communications regarding violations shall be deemed sufficient when mailed, certified, return receipt requested, using the address of the permit holder on record or any subsequent notification of change of address. A change in return address on an envelope or on a letterhead shall not be deemed as notice to the City of a change of address unless the correspondence clearly indicates an intention to notify the City of a change of address.
C.
Processing the application. Upon receipt of a properly completed application for a SPS or TSP, the City, through its Zoning Administrator or its designee, shall examine and process the application, and either grant or deny the application within 10 business days of receipt of the completed application. If the Zoning Administrator, or its designee, does not grant or deny the permit within this time frame, the permit shall automatically issue on the next business day following the 10 day review period.
D.
Procedure upon denial. Upon the denial of an application for a permit, the City shall give written notice stating the reason for the denial within 10 business days of the decision to deny the permit. The applicant may appeal said denial to the Mayor and City Council as provided in Chapter 10 of the UDC appeals, provided that the hearing before the Mayor and City Council shall take place no more than 45 days after the date the appellant files a notice of appeal with the Zoning Administrator. The Mayor and City Council shall render a decision on the appeal at the hearing on which the appeal is considered. An appeal may be had from said Mayor and City Council decision as provided in Chapter 10 of the UDC appeals.
E.
Expiration. Any permit which is required to be renewed or transferred and is not renewed or transferred within twelve (12) months shall naturally expire, rendering the permit unrenewable. An expired permit shall not be reinstated. Any sign for which a permit has expired and no new permit has been granted shall be removed.
( Ord. No. 2019-05 , § 2(Exh. B), 9-16-19)
5.03.08 - Revocation for False Material Statement or False Material Omission
A PSP or TSP may be revoked by the Zoning Administrator, or its designee, subject to an administrative appeal under Chapter 10 of the UDC, if the applicant made a false material statement or false material omission in the application process or for any violation of any provision of this Chapter.
( Ord. No. 2019-05 , § 2(Exh. B), 9-16-19)
5.03.09 - Variances
A.
Administrative variance.
1.
The Zoning Administrator, or its designee, shall have the authority to grant variances to the standards set forth in this Chapter relating to sign dimension (area) up to ten percent and set backs up to ten percent where, in his or her determination, relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purposes and intent of this Chapter. No administrative variance may be granted to vary the height of a sign.
2.
The Zoning Administrator, or its designee, shall have authority to grant administrative variances pursuant to Section 5.03.22 of this ordinance.
3.
All other variance requests shall be considered by the Mayor and City Council pursuant to Chapter 9 for granting variances under the Unified Development Code.
B.
Non-administrative variance. Any deviation from the regulations in this ordinance, except those subject to an administrative variance, shall require an application for variance to the Mayor and City Council as set forth in Chapter 9. Non-administrative variances from the provisions of this ordinance shall be applied for, granted, denied and appealed in the same substantive and procedural manner as variances set forth in Chapter 9 of the UDC.
( Ord. No. 2019-05 , § 2(Exh. B), 9-16-19)
5.03.10 - Indemnification of City
By erecting a sign, with or without a PSP or TSP, the permit holder, property owner, lessee (if any), sign contractor, their agents, servants, employees, and assignees agree to hold harmless and indemnify the City, its officials, officers, agents, servants and employees from any and all claims for damages (including attorney's fees and expenses) to person (including death) and property resulting from the erection, alteration, relocation, construction and/or maintenance of a sign permitted or authorized under this Chapter to the extent allowed by law.
( Ord. No. 2019-05 , § 2(Exh. B), 9-16-19)
5.03.11 - Prohibited Signs
The following types of signs are prohibited in the City:
1.
Any sign not specifically identified in this Chapter as an authorized sign;
2.
Any sign not issued a PSP or TSP, unless specifically exempt from the permit requirements;
3.
Banners, except as specifically allowed under this Chapter;
4.
Audible signs;
5.
Signs in the public right of way, other than public signs;
6.
Signs which use pyrotechnics of any type, or emit smoke, vapor, particles or odors of any type;
7.
Permanent window signs and window lettering (regardless of whether the sign is located on the interior or the exterior of the transparent surface area) which collectively covers more than 30% (thirty-percent) of the transparent surface area;
8.
Transportation shelter signs other than as authorized by the CobbLinc (Cobb County transit system) or the City of Kennesaw;
9.
Flashing signs, except electronic signs as allowed by this Chapter;
10.
Signs which depict sexual conduct, obscene or pornographic material as defined in the United States and state codes such as O.C.G.A. § 16-12-80 and O.C.G.A. § 16-12-81, and relevant case law, as may be amended from time to time, or which contain fighting words as defined by O.C.G.A. § 16-11-30;
11.
Roof signs, except as allowed by this ordinance (see graphic illustrations of prohibited and permitted roof signs in Appendix A);
12.
Rotating signs;
13.
Wind or gas activated devices including streamers, feather signs, windsocks, air dancers, sky dancers, inflatable billboards, wind wavers, or other air/gas filled figures or devices (see graphic illustration);
14.
Signs which advertise an activity which is illegal under the laws of the state, federal laws or regulations, or any city ordinance;
15.
Signs, wraps, devices, graphics and magnets (magnetic sign) attached to any un-registered motorized or non-motorized vehicle or trailer parked so as to visible from a public right of way;
16.
Signs not in good repair, in violation of codes or containing or exhibiting broken panels, visible rust, visible rot, damaged support structures or missing letters;
17.
Abandoned signs;
18.
Signs which contain or imitate a traffic sign or traffic control device in such a manner as to resemble an official traffic sign or traffic control device;
19.
Off-premise outdoor advertising signs (see also Section 5.03.21);
20.
Bootleg signs (see graphic illustration of sign in Appendix A);
21.
Pennant string signs (see graphic illustration in Appendix A);
22.
Feather flag signs (see graphic illustration in Appendix A);
23.
Portable display signs (see graphic illustration in Appendix A);
24.
Signs located within recorded and/or prescriptive water, sewer, or utility service easements unless a variance is granted by the Mayor and City Council or the easement holder provides a written waiver for the proposed sign.
25.
Freestanding temporary signs (see graphic illustration in Appendix A);
26.
Mannequin sign holder (see graphic illustration in Appendix A);
27.
Pylon signs (see graphic illustration in Appendix A);
( Ord. No. 2019-05 , § 2(Exh. B), 9-16-19)
5.03.12 - Enforcement; Violations; Penalties
A.
This ordinance shall be enforced by the Zoning Administrator, or its designee, including the city's Public Works Director, code enforcement personnel and law enforcement officers. The enforcement personnel shall have such powers so as to enforce and give effect to this ordinance.
B.
Noncompliance: No person or entity shall erect any sign on any premise owned or controlled by that person or entity which does not comply with the standards and requirements of this Chapter;
C.
Dangerous or defective: No person or entity shall maintain or permit to be maintained any sign on any premise owned or controlled by that person or entity which is in a dangerous or defective condition. Any such sign shall be removed or repaired.
D.
Separate violation: Each sign installed, created, erected or maintained in violation of this ordinance shall be considered a separate violation when applying the penalty provisions herein. For each such sign, a separate violation shall be deemed to exist for each day the sign is in violation of this ordinance.
E.
Public Nuisance: Any violation of this ordinance is hereby declared to be a public nuisance;
F.
Notice: When it is determined that any sign is in violation of this ordinance, the Zoning Administrator, or its designee, shall give the violator ten days' written notice to correct the deficiencies or to remove the sign or signs that are in violation of this ordinance. If the violator refuses to correct the deficiencies or remove the sign, the City may cause to have the sign removed and the permit holder will be held responsible for all costs associated therewith.
G.
Citations: If any sign governed by this ordinance is erected, constructed, altered, converted or used in violation of any provision of this ordinance, the City may issue a citation. In addition, the City may seek an injunction for a continuing violation or take other appropriate action to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, alteration, conversion, or use to correct or abate such violation. Any violation of this ordinance shall be a misdemeanor offense, and the violator shall be subject to a fine of up to $1,000.00, imprisonment for up to 60-days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
H.
Removal: Subject to state law, the City may order the removal of any sign in violation of this ordinance by written notice to the permit holder, the real property owner upon which the sign is located, or the owner of the sign. If an approved PSP or TSP has been issued, such notice shall operate to revoke the PSP or TSP.
I.
Procedure following removal order: If the sign is not removed within the time allowed pursuant to this ordinance, the City may remove or cause to be removed the sign.
J.
Removal without notice: The City may remove any sign in violation of this ordinance, without giving notice to any party, if:
1.
The sign is upon the public right of way or upon public property;
2.
The sign poses an immediate public safety threat to life, health or property.
K.
The permit holder may appeal said removal or decision to remove to the Mayor and City Council as provided in Chapter 10 of the UDC appeals, provided that the hearing before the Mayor and City Council shall take place no more than 45 days after the date the appellant files a notice of appeal with the Zoning Administrator. The Mayor and City Council shall render a decision on the appeal at the hearing on which the appeal is considered. An appeal may be had from said Mayor and City Council decision as provided in Chapter 10 of the UDC appeals.
( Ord. No. 2019-05 , § 2(Exh. B), 9-16-19)
5.03.13 - Nonconforming Signs
A.
Signs lawfully existing on the effective date of the ordinance (September 16, 2019) from which this article is derived which do not conform to the provisions of this article shall be deemed to be nonconforming signs and may remain, except as otherwise specifically qualified in this article. Such signs shall not be enlarged, extended, structurally reconstructed, replaced or altered in any manner; except a sign face may be changed so long as the new sign face does not increase either height or sign area. This provision shall not have the effect of excusing any violation of any other ordinance, nor shall this provision have the effect of permitting the continued existence of any unsafe sign or any sign that is not in a good state of repair.
B.
Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent keeping in good repair a nonconforming sign. No repairs other than normal maintenance and upkeep of nonconforming signs shall be permitted except to make the sign comply with the requirements of this article. For any sign that is declared to be unsafe due to changed conditions beyond the control of the sign owner, such sign shall be promptly repaired, rebuilt or restored to the same dimensions, type and size of the original nonconforming sign. The failure to promptly repair, rebuild or restore such a sign within six months of the city declaring, in writing, the sign to be unsafe shall be deemed abandonment of the sign and any re-erection of such sign shall conform in all respects to the provisions of this article.
C.
A nonconforming sign shall not be moved to any other location on the same lot or to another lot unless a variance is granted or such change in location will make the sign conform to the provisions of this article, and meet permit requirements of this article.
D.
If a nonconforming sign is removed or discontinued for six months the subsequent erection of a sign shall be in accordance with the provisions of this article.
E.
A nonconforming sign which is changed to or replaced by a conforming sign shall no longer be deemed nonconforming, and thereafter such sign shall be in accordance with the provisions of this article.
F.
All nonconforming temporary signs shall be brought into compliance with this article or removed within 90 days from the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived. Upon failure to comply with the requirements of this article, the city may cause the removal of such signs at the expense of the property owner, sign owner, permit holder and/or sign erector. The city shall have the right to maintain an action at law for the recovery of the costs of such removal. If the owner is unknown and cannot be found upon reasonable investigation, the city may cause the removal of such sign without liability.
G.
Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section, all signs which were illegally erected or maintained with respect to prior sign ordinances shall be removed by the owner of the sign within 90 days from the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived. Upon failure to comply with the requirements of this article, the city may cause the removal of such signs at the expense of the property owner, sign owner, permit holder and/or sign erector. The city shall have the right to maintain an action at law for the recovery of the costs of such removal. If the owner is unknown and cannot be found upon reasonable investigation, the city may cause the removal of such sign without liability.
H.
The purpose of this article's nonconforming treatment is to mitigate detrimental impact of new ordinances on existing previously legally conforming signage. Over time, it is anticipated that nonconforming usages shall eventually be eliminated. As a consequence, when a nonconforming sign is damaged by nature or an act of God, such sign may be promptly repaired, rebuilt or restored to the same dimensions, type, shape, location, and size and at the same height as the original nonconforming sign. The failure to repair, rebuild or restore such a sign within six months of the date of damage shall be deemed to be abandonment of the sign and any re-erection of such sign shall conform in all respects to the provisions of this article.
I.
Except for the condition that renders a sign nonconforming, nonconforming signs must otherwise comply with all provisions of this article.
J.
Nonconforming off-premise outdoor advertising signs are further regulated under Section 5.03.21 of this ordinance.
( Ord. No. 2019-05 , § 2(Exh. B), 9-16-19)
5.03.14 - General Sign Location
modified
A.
All signs shall be located on private property, except signs erected on public property by any authorized governmental entity. No sign shall be erected on or encroach on any public right of way, except as authorized by a governmental unit or agency.
B.
Obstructions to doors, windows or fire escapes. No sign shall be erected, relocated, or maintained so as to prevent free ingress and egress from any door, window or fire escape.
C.
Signs not to constitute traffic hazard. No sign or any part thereof, except authorized public signs, shall be located in any public right of way or public property unless authorized by the City of Kennesaw. No sign may be located any closer than 15 feet to an intersection as measured from the intersection of the two rights of way.
D.
Setback. In any event, unless a more restrictive setback is specified in the conditions of zoning or otherwise in the zoning district in which the sign is located, all signs and parts of signs shall be set back at least five feet from the right of way of a private street or public roadway. No sign shall project over the right of way.
E.
No privately owned sign shall be allowed in any easement, including but not limited to the following: (1) conservation easement; (2) dedicated greenspace; (3) facility easement (i.e. sanitary sewer, drainage, access/egress); (4) City or County controlled and maintained easement.
F.
Political campaign signs are expressly prohibited on public property owned or otherwise under the control of the City of Kennesaw.
G.
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, place, or maintain within the dedicated right of way of any public road any sign, signal, or other device except as authorized by law or ordinance.
H.
Any sign, signal, device, or other structure erected, placed, or maintained on the dedicated right of way of any public road in violation of paragraph (G) of this ordinance section or in violation of any ordinance adopted pursuant to paragraph (G) of this Code section is declared to be a public nuisance, and city officials may remove or direct the removal of the same.
I.
Any person who violates paragraph (G) of this ordinance section shall be punished the same as for littering under Code Section 16-7-43. Any person who violates any other provision of this ordinance section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished as set forth in the Kennesaw Code of Ordinances, Section 1-11. The remedies and penalties set forth herein are nonexclusive and the exercise of one or more of such remedies or penalties shall not preclude the exercise of another.
( Ord. No. 2019-05 , § 2(Exh. B), 9-16-19; Ord. No. 2023-11 MEETING , § 1, 5-15-23)
State Law reference— O.C.G.A. §§ 16-7-58 and 32-6-51.
5.03.15 - Measurement of Sign Area
A.
Size generally. The areas of a sign shall be computed as the area within the smallest continuous polygon comprised of not more than eight straight lines enclosing the limits of a sign face, together with any sign face cabinet or frame or material, texture, or color forming an integral part of the sign face used to differentiate the sign face from the structure upon which it is placed. If polygons established around wall signs located on the same street oriented wall are within 24 inches or less of one another, then the area of the sign shall be measured within one contiguous polygon.
B.
Structure. The computation of the area of the sign face shall not include the structure, supports, or uprights on which the sign face is placed or any portion of a sign structure that is not intended to contain any message or idea and is purely structural or decorative in nature, other than those parts contained within the polygon that delimits the sign face.
C.
Electronic sign/changeable copy sign. For any signs on which the words, letters, figures, symbols, logos, fixtures, colors, or other design elements routinely change or are intended to be changed from time to time, the sign face area shall include the entire area within which any words, letters, figures, symbols, logos, fixtures, colors, or other design elements may be placed, together with any frame or material, texture or coloring forming an integral part of the sign face or used to differentiate the sign face from the structure upon which it is placed.
D.
Multi-faced signs. For multi-faced signs, when the sign face surfaces are back to back, or whether the interior angle formed by the faces is 45 degrees or less, the area of the sign shall be taken as the areas on the largest side. For all other multi-faced signs, the area of the sign shall be the total area on all sides that can be viewed at one time from any angle.
( Ord. No. 2019-05 , § 2(Exh. B), 9-16-19)
5.03.16 - Measurement of Sign Height
The height of a sign shall be computed as the distance from the base of the sign structure at normal grade to the top of the highest attached component of the sign. Normal grade shall be construed to be the lower of:
1.
Existing grade prior to construction; or
2.
The newly established grade after construction, exclusive of any filling, berming, mounding, or excavating solely for the purpose of locating the sign. In cases in which the normal grade cannot reasonably be determined, sign height shall be computed on the assumption that the elevation of the normal grade at the base of the sign is equal to the elevation of the nearest point of the crown of a public street or the grade of the land at the principal entrance to the principal structure on the zone lot, whichever is greater. Where the normal grade is below the normal grade of a public street, the sign base can be raised to the elevation of the normal grade of the street before the height limitations are applied. (A surveyor's elevation certificate is required.)
( Ord. No. 2019-05 , § 2(Exh. B), 9-16-19)
5.03.17 - Construction Standards, Design Guidelines and Maintenance
A.
Building codes. All signs permitted under this Chapter shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with the applicable city building codes.
B.
Faces. The surface area of a sign shall be flat, with protrusions of no more than two inches to allow for the texture of the sign and words, letters, figures, symbols, logos, fixtures, colors or other design features and elements. No sign shall be permitted that has nails, tacks or wires protruding from it.
C.
Illumination. Signs, when illumination is permitted, may be illuminated internally or externally.
D.
Landscaping. Landscaping and grass shall be maintained in the front of, behind, underneath, and around the base of all signs.
E.
Maintenance or changing sign face. The permit holder is responsible to remove or cause to be removed from the premises any discarded or unused sign faces, parts, debris or other material resulting from the changing of the sign face or maintenance of the sign or structure.
F.
Historic District Design Standards. All signs located in the City Historic District shall, in addition to the restrictions based on location per the zoning district, shall comply with historic district design standards.
( Ord. No. 2019-05 , § 2(Exh. B), 9-16-19)
5.03.18 - Restrictions Based on Location
modified
If not otherwise stated, any sign not specifically allowed in any zoning district as provided under the City of Kennesaw Unified Development Code shall be prohibited in that district, except as otherwise provided for in this Chapter. The following standards govern signs within specific zoning districts defined by the Unified Development Code.
A.
Single-Family residential district (R-40); Single-Family residential district (R-30); Single-Family residential district (R-20); Single-Family residential district (R-15); Single-Family residential district (R-12); Single-Family residential district (R-10); Planned Unit Development residential district (PUD-R), Residential District 4 units per acre (RA-4); Residential District 5 units per acre (RA-5); Residential District 6 units per acre (RA-6); Multiple-Family District 8 units per acre (RM-8); Multiple-Family District 12 units per acre (RM-12); Multiple-Family District 16 units per acre (RM-16); Fee Simple Townhouse District (FST); Mobile Home Park district (MHP), Planned Village Community district (residentially designated lots only), CBD (residentially designated or developed lots only); HPV (residentially designated or developed lots only); PVC (residentially designated or developed lots only) as said zoning districts are defined by the Unified Development Code.
1.
Ground based monument sign.
a.
For subdivisions five acres or less: One maximum 32 square foot monument sign or two monument signs not to exceed 16 square feet for each side of a platted single-family subdivision entrance shall be permitted for each street on which the lot has frontage. Subdivisions with more than one identifiable section, as shown on an approved preliminary plat, may be allowed internal identification monument signs of 16 square feet on one side of the entrance to each section. Residential developments cannot have a changeable copy sign.
b.
For subdivisions more than five acres: One maximum 64 square foot monument sign or two single-faced monument signs not to exceed 32 square feet for each side of a platted single-family subdivision entrance shall be permitted for each street on which the lot has frontage. Subdivisions with more than one identifiable section, as shown on an approved preliminary plat, may be allowed internal identification monument signs of 16 square feet on one side of the entrance to each section. Residential developments cannot have a changeable copy sign.
c.
On-premise sign for nonresidential use: Signs for nonresidential use shall only be located on property on which non-residential uses are legally being conducted, such as a religious assembly, country club, golf course, school, cemetery, mausoleum, and private community center, to name a few. The maximum total sign area is based on lot size as follows: Less than one acre is entitled to up to 16 square feet. A lot between one acre and five acres is entitled to up to 32 square feet. A lot greater than five acres is entitled up to 64 square feet. The sign shall not exceed eight (8) feet in height, unless it is a wall sign, in which case it is governed by the regulations for wall signs. The sign shall be located at least 150 feet from any other such sign on the same lot. The sign may be internally or externally illuminated. The maximum number of signs shall be calculated as follows: (a) One (1) sign for each complete 200 feet of the lot's public road frontage. (b) Any lot with less than 200 feet of public road frontage shall be allowed one (1) sign; (c) If the lot fronts on more than one (1) public road, then the calculation shall be performed for each public road frontage separately. A PSP or TSP and building permit is required.
d.
Monument signs for residential developments shall have a maximum height of eight feet, and shall not be internally illuminated unless it is a sign associated with a non-residential land use.
e.
Sign shall be at least seventy-five feet from any other such sign on the same lot.
f.
Both an approved PSP and building permit are required.
2.
Sign during initial construction. One non-illuminated sign shall be allowed during initial construction. The sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in area and five feet in height, and shall be allowed beginning with the commencement of construction and ending with the issuance of a certificate of occupancy or installation of a permanent monument or entry wall sign, whichever occurs first. An approved TSP is required. No PSP or building permit is required.
3.
Sign during ongoing construction. In addition to the initial construction sign, a maximum of two non-illuminated signs located on the property shall be allowed during on-going construction of any phase of development which is subject to the City of Kennesaw Unified Development Code, as amended from time to time. The sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in area and five feet in height and shall only be allowed during the period of on-going construction in a development/subdivision of property which is subject to the City of Kennesaw Unified Development Code, as amended from time to time. Ongoing construction is defined as the period in which a building permit has been issued for any lot within a development/subdivision of property which is subject to the City of Kennesaw Unified Development Code, as amended from time to time. A sign during ongoing construction must be located at least ten feet from the property line of the public right of way. An approved TSP is required for any such sign erected during ongoing construction. No building permit is required.
4.
Annual off-premise sign. One annual temporary off-premise sign may be allowed on private property subject to the approval of a TSP application and applicable fees. A temporary off-premise sign shall only be allowed upon the private property of which the applicant is in the process of or has completed work or service. The maximum number of days the annual temporary off-premise sign is allowed at a specific location is 15 calendar days after the work or services has been completed at the property with at least the first day occurring within the calendar year in which the application is approved. A temporary off-premise sign is limited to a maximum of four square feet in size and must be non-illuminated and no more than three feet in height. The temporary off-premise sign must be located at least ten feet from the property line of the public right of way. A TSP and building permit are required.
5.
Flag. Each lot may display no more than three flags and/or flagpoles. The flagpole shall not exceed 35 feet in height. PSP, TSP and building permit are not required.
6.
Banner. Banners shall be allowed for a period not to exceed 30 days with no more than three such 30-day periods being permitted per calendar year per lot. Banners shall not be more than 24 square feet. No banner shall be mounted so as to extend above the horizontal plane of the roof where the building wall and roof meet nor shall it extend more than five feet above grade when on the ground. The banner must be affixed to an existing monument sign or wall and securely fastened on all corners. ATSP is required. A PSP and building permit are not required.
7.
Standard Information Sign. Each lot less than one acre may display two standard information signs. Any lot greater than one acre may display two standard informational signs for every 250 feet of road frontage. PSP, TSP and building permit are not required for any standard information sign. Exception: This section does not apply to political campaign signs which are governed by O.C.G.A. § 16-7-58(a)(2).
8.
One street number sign per lot may be displayed for emergency notification purposes and said sign shall not count against the number of permitted standard information signs allowed, provided that the minimum height of any number displayed is at least four inches and the maximum height of any number displayed is twelve inches. The street number sign shall not be counted against the maximum allowable sign area. PSP, TSP and building permit are not required.
9.
Signs during vacancy. Developments in which there are vacant lots, units, and/or tenant spaces shall be entitled to one such sign per access-providing street frontage of the development. Signs during vacancy shall not exceed six square feet in area, shall have a maximum height of five feet, and shall not be internally illuminated. Signs during vacancy shall be allowed for a period not exceeding 90 days with no more than two such 90-day periods being permitted per calendar year. An approved TSP is required. A PSP and building permit are not required.
B.
Low Rise Office District (LRO), Office/Institutional District (OI), Neighborhood Shopping District (NS), Limited Retail Commercial (LRC), Neighborhood Retail Commercial (NRC), Central Business District (CBD) (non-residential designated or developed lots only); Historic Preservation Village (HPV) (non-residential designated or developed lots only); Planned Village Community (PVC) (non-residential designated or developed lots only) and Form-Based Zoning Districts as said districts are defined by the Unified Development Code. A graphic illustration of selected various permitted and prohibited sign types is located in Appendix A.
1.
Ground based monument sign.
a.
See Section 5.03.19 for area, height and number limitations.
b.
Monument signs shall not be internally illuminated.
c.
Both an approved PSP and building permit are required.
2.
Sign during initial construction. One non-illuminated sign shall be allowed during initial construction. The sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in area and five feet in height, and shall be allowed beginning with the commencement of construction and ending with the issuance of a certificate of occupancy or installation of a permanent monument or entry wall sign, whichever occurs first. The sign shall be a ground based or pole based sign or attached to part of a supporting wall or fence. An approved TSP is required. No PSP or building permit is required.
3.
Sign during ongoing construction. In addition to the initial construction sign, two non-illuminated signs located on the property shall be allowed during on-going construction of any phase of development which is subject to the City of Kennesaw Unified Development Code, as amended from time to time. The signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in area and five feet in height and shall only be allowed during the period of on-going construction in a development/subdivision of property which is subject to the City of Kennesaw Unified Development Code, as amended from time to time. Ongoing construction is defined as the period in which a building permit has been issued for any lot within a development/subdivision of property which is subject to the City of Kennesaw Unified Development Code, as amended from time to time. A sign during ongoing construction must be located at least ten feet from the property line of the public right of way. The sign shall be a ground based or pole based sign or attached to part of a supporting wall or fence. An approved TSP is required for any such sign erected during ongoing construction. No building permit is required.
4.
Annual off-premise sign. One annual temporary off-premise sign may be allowed on private property subject to the approval of a TSP application and applicable fees. A temporary off-premise sign shall only be allowed upon the private property of which the applicant is in the process of or has completed work or service. The maximum number of days the annual temporary off-premise sign is allowed at a specific location is 15 calendar days after the work or services has been completed at the property with at least the first day occurring within the calendar year in which the application is approved. A temporary off-premise sign is limited to a maximum of four square feet in size and must be non-illuminated and no more than three feet in height. The temporary off-premise sign must be located at least ten feet from the property line of the public right of way.
5.
Wall sign. Wall signs are permitted on buildings with public or private road frontage (including doors). Businesses without a street on which there is public or private road frontage, but which have exterior entrances to the building, are entitled to one principal wall sign on the exterior wall of the business. A principal wall sign is limited to 75 square feet or two square feet per linear foot of the wall, on which such sign is erected, whichever is greater. No wall sign shall project more than twenty-four (24) inches from the building surface on which it is attached. Not more than one principal wall sign per wall shall be permitted. Both an approved PSP and building permit are required.
6.
Flag mounted wall sign. Flag mounted wall signs are permitted on buildings with public or private road frontage. All flag mounted wall signs shall provide for at least 9 feet of clearance from the ground surface. Not more than one principal flag mounted sign per wall shall be permitted. No flag mounted wall sign shall project more than (48) inches from the building surface on which it is attached. The surface area of any flag mounted wall sign shall be calculated from the square footage allowance given for wall sign. Both an approved PSP and building permit are required.
7.
Window sign. Window signs shall not occupy in the aggregate more than 30 percent of the window area. Such signs shall not be illuminated. PSP, TSP and building permit are not required.
8.
Canopy sign. Canopy signs may be displayed. The maximum sign area shall be calculated as follows: for each one linear foot of canopy along each face of the canopy, two square feet of sign area is allowed on that face. If the canopy is not entirely within the buildable area of the lot, the sign shall be included in the calculations of maximum total sign area for freestanding signs outside the buildable area of the lot. No canopy shall be less than eight (8) feet above the ground at its lowest point. Canopy signs shall only be located on a lot with a minimum road frontage of fifty (50) feet. An approved PSP and building permit are required.
9.
Awning sign. Awning signs may be displayed. Awnings with no script or content will not be counted against the maximum allowable sign area. The maximum sign area for an awning sign shall be calculated as follows: for each one (1) linear foot of the wall or building along each face of the building, two (2) square feet of sign area is allowed on that face. If the awning is not entirely within the buildable area of the lot, the sign shall be included in the calculations of maximum total sign area for freestanding signs outside the buildable area of the lot. An approved PSP and building permit are required.
10.
Standard Information Sign. Each lot less than one acre may display two standard information signs. Any lot greater than one acre may display two standard informational signs for every 250 feet of road frontage. PSP, TSP and building permit are not required for any standard information sign. Exception: This section does not apply to political campaign signs which are governed by O.C.G.A. § 16-7-58(a)(2).
11.
One street number sign per lot may be displayed for emergency notification purposes and said sign shall not count against the number of permitted standard information signs allowed, provided that the minimum height of any number displayed is at least four inches and the maximum height of any number displayed is twelve inches. The street number sign shall not be counted against the maximum allowable sign area. PSP, TSP and building permit are not required.
12.
Banner. Banners shall be allowed for a period not to exceed 30 days with no more than three such 30-day periods being permitted per calendar year per lot. In the case of lots which contain multiple businesses, each business shall be allowed one banner. Banners shall not be more than 32 square feet. No banner shall be mounted so as to extend above the horizontal plane of the roof where the building wall and roof meet nor shall it extend more than five feet above grade when on the ground. The banner must be affixed to an existing monument sign or wall and securely fastened on all corners. A TSP is required. A PSP and building permit are not required.
13.
Signs during vacancy. Developments in which there are vacant lots, units, and/or tenant spaces shall be entitled to one such sign per access-providing street frontage of the development. Signs during vacancy shall not exceed six square feet in area, shall have a maximum height of five feet, and shall not be internally illuminated. Signs during vacancy shall be allowed for a period not exceeding 90 days with no more than two such 90-day periods being permitted per calendar year. An approved TSP is required. A PSP and building permit are not required.
14.
Roof sign. Roof signs are permitted provided that the sign or copy area shall not extend beyond the pitch boundaries or extremities of the roof line. The sign shall be mounted flush as depicted in the illustration of the UDC sign section. Square footage is limited to extend to no more than 75 percent of the roof surface area. An approved PSP is required.
15.
Searchlight. A search light shall be allowed for a period not to exceed 30 days with no more than two 30 day non-consecutive periods per year for any lot of record receiving the temporary permit to display said search light. Only one search light may be displayed on any lot of record at one time. A search light shall not cause glare (excessive brightness that causes visual discomfort), sky-glow (brightening of the night sky over inhabited areas), light trespass (light falling where it is not intended or needed) or clutter (bright, confusing and excessive groupings of light sources) on adjacent properties. An approved TSP is required.
16.
A-frame sign. A-frame signs are only permitted in the CBD district. A-frame signs must be removed and stored at the close of business. A-frame signs do not require a TSP or PSP.
C.
Planned Shopping Center District (PSC), General Commercial District (GC), Community Retail Commercial District (CRC), Urban Village Commercial District (UVC), Planned Village Community District (commercially designated lots only), as said districts are defined by the Unified Development Code. A graphic illustration of selected various permitted and prohibited sign types is located in Appendix A.
1.
Monument sign.
a.
See Section 5.03.19 for area, height and number limitations.
b.
A monument sign must be located at least five feet from the property line of the public right of way or adjacent property. The sign may be internally or externally illuminated.
c.
Both a PSP and building permit are required.
2.
Wall sign. Wall signs are permitted on buildings with public or private road frontage (including doors). Businesses without a street on which there is public or private road frontage, but which have exterior entrances to the building, are entitled to one principal wall sign on the exterior wall of the business. A principal wall sign is limited to 75 square feet or two square feet per linear foot of the wall, on which such sign is erected, whichever is greater. No wall sign shall project more than twenty-four (24) inches from the building surface on which it is attached. Not more than one principal wall sign per wall shall be permitted. Both an approved PSP and building permit are required.
3.
Flag mounted wall sign. Flag mounted wall signs are permitted on buildings with public or private road frontage. All flag mounted wall signs shall provide for at least 9 feet of clearance from the ground surface. Not more than one principal flag mounted sign per wall shall be permitted. No flag mounted wall sign shall project more than (48) inches from the building surface on which it is attached. The surface area of any flag mounted wall sign shall be calculated from the square footage allowance given for wall sign. Both an approved PSP and building permit are required.
4.
Menu sign. Menu signs are allowed provided they are not legible from the public right of way. The signs shall not exceed six feet in height and shall be internally illuminated only. Both a PSP and a building permit are required.
5.
Banner. Banners shall be allowed for a period not to exceed 30 days with no more than three such 30-day periods being permitted per calendar year per lot. In the case of lots which contain multiple businesses, each business shall be allowed one banner. Banners shall not be more than 32 square feet. No banner shall be mounted so as to extend above the horizontal plane of the roof where the building wall and roof meet nor shall it extend more than five feet above grade when on the ground. The banner must be affixed to an existing monument sign or wall and securely fastened on all corners. A TSP is required. A PSP and building permit are not required.
6.
Sign during initial construction. One non-illuminated sign shall be allowed during initial construction. The sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in area and five feet in height, and shall be allowed beginning with the commencement of construction and ending with the issuance of a certificate of occupancy or installation of a permanent monument or entry wall sign, whichever occurs first. An approved TSP is required. No PSP or building permit is required.
7.
Sign during ongoing construction. In addition to the initial construction sign, one non-illuminated sign located on the property shall be allowed during on-going construction of any phase of development which is subject to the City of Kennesaw Unified Development Code, as amended from time to time. The sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in area and five feet in height and shall only be allowed during the period of on-going construction in a development/subdivision of property which is subject to the City of Kennesaw Unified Development Code, as amended from time to time. Ongoing construction is defined as the period in which a building permit has been issued for any lot within a development/subdivision of property which is subject to the City of Kennesaw Unified Development Code, as amended from time to time. A sign during ongoing construction must be located at least ten feet from the property line of the public right of way. An approved TSP is required for any such sign erected during ongoing construction. No building permit is required.
8.
Signs on Accessory Uses (commercial). Color, form, graphic illumination, symbol, and/or writing thereon to communicate information regarding a product or service provided by the primary building on a site zoned for non-residential use on an accessory use is allowed. To the extent such Accessory use sign is legible to the travelling public from the right of way or permanently affixed to the building or the ground (or both), the sign requires a PSP and building permit.
9.
Flag. Each lot may display no more than three flags and/or flagpoles. The flagpole shall not exceed 35 feet in height. PSP, TSP and building permit are not required.
10.
Suspended sign. In a multi-tenant commercial or office building, in addition to all other permitted signs, one suspended non-illuminated sign per entrance used shall be allowed. Suspended signs shall adhere to the following: not to exceed three square feet in area; be uniform in size, material, color and shape and placed in an equivalent location to other such signs located on the same building; be suspended from the eave, canopy or soffit of the building; and maintain a minimum of eight feet clearance between the bottom of the sign and the walkway below. An approved SPS and building permit is required.
11.
Window sign. Window signs shall not occupy in the aggregate more than 30 percent of the window area. Such signs shall not be illuminated. PSP, TSP and building permit are not required.
12.
Canopy sign. Canopy signs may be displayed. The maximum sign area shall be calculated as follows: for each one linear foot of canopy along each face of the canopy, two square feet of sign area is allowed on that face. If the canopy is not entirely within the buildable area of the lot, the sign shall be included in the calculations of maximum total sign area for freestanding signs outside the buildable area of the lot. No canopy shall be less than eight (8) feet above the ground at its lowest point. Canopy signs shall only be located on a lot with a minimum road frontage of fifty (50) feet. An approved PSP and building permit are required.
13.
Awning sign. Awning signs may be displayed. Awnings with no script or content will not be counted against the maximum allowable sign area. The maximum sign area for an awning sign shall be calculated as follows: for each one (1) linear foot of the wall or building along each face of the building, two (2) square feet of sign area is allowed on that face. If the awning is not entirely within the buildable area of the lot, the sign shall be included in the calculations of maximum total sign area for freestanding signs outside the buildable area of the lot. An approved PSP and building permit are required.
14.
Standard Information Sign. Each lot less than one acre may display two standard information signs. Any lot greater than one acre may display two standard informational signs for every 250 feet of road frontage. PSP, TSP and building permit are not required for any standard information sign. Exception: This section does not apply to political campaign signs which are governed by O.C.G.A. § 16-7-58(a)(2).
15.
One street number sign per lot may be displayed for emergency notification purposes and said sign shall not count against the number of permitted standard information signs allowed, provided that the minimum height of any number displayed is at least four inches and the maximum height of any number displayed is twelve inches. The street number sign shall not be counted against the maximum allowable sign area. PSP, TSP and building permit are not required.
16.
Signs during vacancy. Developments in which there are vacant lots, units, and/or tenant spaces shall be entitled to one such sign per access-providing street frontage of the development. Signs during vacancy shall not exceed six square feet in area, shall have a maximum height of five feet, and shall not be internally illuminated. Signs during vacancy shall be allowed for a period not exceeding 90 days with no more than two such 90-day periods being permitted per calendar year. An approved TSP is required. A PSP and building permit are not required.
17.
Roof sign. Roof signs are permitted provided that the sign or copy area shall not extend beyond the pitch boundaries or extremities of the roof line. The sign shall be mounted flush as depicted in the illustration of the UDC sign section. Square footage is limited to extend to no more than 75 percent of the roof surface area. An approved PSP is required.
18.
Searchlight. A search light shall be allowed for a period not to exceed 30 days with no more than two 30 day non-consecutive periods per year for any lot of record receiving the temporary permit to display said search light. Only one search light may be displayed on any lot of record at one time. A search light shall not cause glare (excessive brightness that causes visual discomfort), sky-glow (brightening of the night sky over inhabited areas), light trespass (light falling where it is not intended or needed) or clutter (bright, confusing and excessive groupings of light sources) on adjacent properties. An approved TSP is required.
D.
Highway General Business District (HGB), Light Industrial District (LI), and Heavy Industrial District (HI), as said districts are defined by the Unified Development Code. A graphic illustration of selected various permitted and prohibited sign types is located in Appendix A.
1.
Monument sign.
1[a].
See Section 5.03.19 for area, height and number limitations.
2[b].
A monument sign must be located at least five feet from the property line of the public right of way or adjacent property. The sign may be internally or externally illuminated.
3[c].
Both a PSP and building permit are required.
2.
Wall sign. Wall signs are permitted on buildings with public or private road frontage (including doors). Businesses without a street on which there is public or private road frontage, but which have exterior entrances to the building, are entitled to one principal wall sign on the exterior wall of the business. A principal wall sign is limited to 75 square feet or two square feet per linear foot of the wall, on which such sign is erected, whichever is greater. No wall sign shall project more than twenty-four (24) inches from the building surface on which it is attached. Not more than one principal wall sign per wall shall be permitted. Both an approved PSP and building permit are required.
3.
Flag mounted wall sign. Flag mounted wall signs are permitted on buildings with public or private road frontage. All flag mounted wall signs shall provide for at least 9 feet of clearance from the ground surface. Not more than one principal flag mounted sign per wall shall be permitted. No flag mounted wall sign shall project more than (48) inches from the building surface on which it is attached. The surface area of any flag mounted wall sign shall be calculated from the square footage allowance given for wall sign. Both an approved PSP and building permit are required.
4.
Menu sign. Menu signs are allowed provided they are not legible from the public right of way. The signs shall not exceed six feet in height and shall be internally illuminated only. Both a PSP and a building permit are required.
5.
Banner. Banners shall be allowed for a period not to exceed 30 days with no more than three such 30-day periods being permitted per calendar year per lot. In the case of lots which contain multiple businesses, each business shall be allowed one banner. Banners shall not be more than 32 square feet. No banner shall be mounted so as to extend above the horizontal plane of the roof where the building wall and roof meet nor shall it extend more than five feet above grade when on the ground. The banner must be affixed to an existing monument sign or wall and securely fastened on all corners. A TSP is required. A PSP and building permit are not required.
6.
Sign during initial construction. One non-illuminated sign shall be allowed during initial construction. The sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in area and five feet in height, and shall be allowed beginning with the commencement of construction and ending with the issuance of a certificate of occupancy or installation of a permanent monument or entry wall sign, whichever occurs first. An approved TSP is required. No PSP or building permit is required.
7.
Sign during ongoing construction. In addition to the initial construction sign, one non-illuminated sign located on the property shall be allowed during on-going construction of any phase of development which is subject to the City of Kennesaw Unified Development Code, as amended from time to time. The sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in area and five feet in height and shall only be allowed during the period of on-going construction in a development/subdivision of property which is subject to the City of Kennesaw Unified Development Code, as amended from time to time. Ongoing construction is defined as the period in which a building permit has been issued for any lot within a development/subdivision of property which is subject to the City of Kennesaw Unified Development Code, as amended from time to time. A sign during ongoing construction must be located at least ten feet from the property line of the public right of way. An approved TSP is required for any such sign erected during ongoing construction. No building permit is required.
8.
Signs on Accessory Uses (commercial). Color, form, graphic illumination, symbol, and/or writing thereon to communicate information regarding a product or service provided by the primary building on a site zoned for non-residential use on an accessory use is allowed. To the extent such Accessory use sign is legible to the travelling public from the right of way or permanently affixed to the building or the ground (or both), the sign requires a PSP and building permit.
9.
Flag. Each lot may display no more than three flags and/or flagpoles. The flagpole shall not exceed 35 feet in height. PSP, TSP and building permit are not required.
10.
Suspended sign. In a multi-tenant commercial or office building, in addition to all other permitted signs, one suspended non-illuminated sign per entrance used shall be allowed. Suspended signs shall adhere to the following: not to exceed three square feet in area; be uniform in size, material, color and shape and placed in an equivalent location to other such signs located on the same building; be suspended from the eave, canopy or soffit of the building; and maintain a minimum of eight feet clearance between the bottom of the sign and the walkway below. An approved SPS and building permit is required.
11.
Window sign. Window signs shall not occupy in the aggregate more than 30 percent of the window area. Such signs shall not be illuminated. PSP, TSP and building permit are not required.
12.
Canopy sign. Canopy signs may be displayed. The maximum sign area shall be calculated as follows: for each one linear foot of canopy along each face of the canopy, two square feet of sign area is allowed on that face. If the canopy is not entirely within the buildable area of the lot, the sign shall be included in the calculations of maximum total sign area for freestanding signs outside the buildable area of the lot. No canopy shall be less than eight (8) feet above the ground at its lowest point. Canopy signs shall only be located on a lot with a minimum road frontage of fifty (50) feet. An approved PSP and building permit are required.
13.
Awning sign. Awning signs may be displayed. Awnings with no script or content will not be counted against the maximum allowable sign area. The maximum sign area for an awning sign shall be calculated as follows: for each one (1) linear foot of the wall or building along each face of the building, two (2) square feet of sign area is allowed on that face. If the awning is not entirely within the buildable area of the lot, the sign shall be included in the calculations of maximum total sign area for freestanding signs outside the buildable area of the lot. An approved PSP and building permit are required.
14.
Standard Information Sign. Each lot less than one acre may display two standard information signs. Any lot greater than one acre may display two standard informational signs for every 250 feet of road frontage. PSP, TSP and building permit are not required for any standard information sign. Exception: This section does not apply to political campaign signs which are governed by O.C.G.A. § 16-7-58(a)(2).
15.
One street number sign per lot may be displayed for emergency notification purposes and said sign shall not count against the number of permitted standard information signs allowed, provided that the minimum height of any number displayed is at least four inches and the maximum height of any number displayed is twelve inches. The street number sign shall not be counted against the maximum allowable sign area. PSP, TSP and building permit are not required.
16.
Signs during vacancy. Developments in which there are vacant lots, units, and/or tenant spaces shall be entitled to one such sign per access-providing street frontage of the development. Signs during vacancy shall not exceed six square feet in area, shall have a maximum height of five feet, and shall not be internally illuminated. Signs during vacancy shall be allowed for a period not exceeding 90 days with no more than two such 90-day periods being permitted per calendar year. An approved TSP is required. A PSP and building permit are not required.
17.
Roof sign. Roof signs are permitted provided that the sign or copy area shall not extend beyond the pitch boundaries or extremities of the roof line. The sign shall be mounted flush as depicted in the illustration of the UDC sign section. Square footage is limited to extend to no more than 75 percent of the roof surface area. An approved PSP is required.
18.
Searchlight. A search light shall be allowed for a period not to exceed 30 days with no more than two 30 day non-consecutive periods per year for any lot of record receiving the temporary permit to display said search light. Only one search light may be displayed on any lot of record at one time. A search light shall not cause glare (excessive brightness that causes visual discomfort), sky-glow (brightening of the night sky over inhabited areas), light trespass (light falling where it is not intended or needed) or clutter (bright, confusing and excessive groupings of light sources) on adjacent properties. An approved TSP is required.
( Ord. No. 2019-05 , § 2(Exh. B), 9-16-19; Ord. No. 2023-11 MEETING , §§ 2—5, 5-15-23)
5.03.19 - Freestanding Signs
In addition to the other provisions of this ordinance, the following regulations shall apply to all freestanding signs in all non-residential districts and any non-residential developments in the following districts: CBD, HPV and PVC.
A.
Number: The maximum number allowed on any lot shall be determined by road frontage as follows:
1.
On each road frontage, one (1) freestanding sign is allowed for each complete 200 feet of public road frontage; provided that on any frontage of less than 200 feet, one (1) freestanding sign shall be allowed on that public road frontage.
2.
No more than four (4) freestanding signs shall be allowed on any platted, recorded or deeded lot of record. Each freestanding sign must be at least 150 feet from any other freestanding sign on the same lot.
3.
To the extent the lot fronts on more than one public road, the calculation on the maximum number of freestanding signs shall be determined independently for each additional road frontage.
B.
Area: The maximum sign area allowed shall be determined based on lot size as follows:
1.
EXPAND
Lot size (acres)
Greater than or equal to: But less than: Maximum total sign area
(Square feet) Maximum sign structure area
(Square feet)
— 1 65 162.50
1 5 120 300
5 10 200 500
10 No limit 300 750
  2.
The sign structure area shall be computed as including the entire area of structure surrounding the actual display area.
C.
Height: The maximum height limitations shall be determined by the road classification as follows:
EXPAND
Road classification per Section 6.02.01 of the UDC Maximum height
Arterial (100' minimum right of way) 30 feet
Major collector (80' minimum right of way) 25 feet
Minor collector (60' minimum right of way) 20 feet
Local (60' minimum right of way non-residential) 18 feet
Local (50' minimum right of way residential subdivision) 15 feet
  ( Ord. No. 2019-05 , § 2(Exh. B), 9-16-19)
5.03.20 - Signs with Electronic Display
A.
The City Council has determined that a very limited number of signs with electronic display will serve the important needs for advertisement of local business, the display of messages on behalf of non-profit organizations, and the broadcast of emergency messages. These benefits must be weighed against the negative impact that large electronic signs have on distracting motorists causing the possibility of an increase in automobile accidents in the vicinity of such signs. Signs with an electronic display will be allowed only in accordance with the restrictions contained in this section.
B.
Any sign containing an electronic display which is seventy (70) square feet or larger in size shall only be allowed as conversions of existing sign faces on parcels adjacent to the right-of-way of Cobb Parkway and I-75 as located within the city limits of Kennesaw. The electronic portion of any such sign shall not be larger than the square footage of the sign being converted. Each such conversion must comply with all of the following conditions:
1.
The sign must be located on a parcel zoned for commercial or industrial use and no portion of the sign is to be located within three hundred (300) feet of a single family residence.
2.
No sign having an electronic display which is seventy (70) square feet or larger shall be located within five thousand (5,000) feet of another sign having an electronic display of seventy (70) square feet or larger which is on the same side of the roadway. Additionally, no sign having an electronic display which is seventy (70) square feet or larger shall be located within one thousand (1,000) feet of any other electronic sign facing the same direction.
3.
The sign shall comply with all provisions of subsection (4) of this section below.
C.
Any sign containing an electronic display smaller than seventy (70) square feet shall be allowed on any parcel that is adjacent to a non-Interstate roadway which has four (4) or more lanes of traffic if all of the following conditions are met:
1.
Each such sign must be located on a parcel zoned commercial, industrial or residential, provided that any such sign located on residentially zoned property shall be located on a parcel that is developed for a non-residential or institutional use;
2.
No portion of such sign is to be located within one hundred fifty (150) feet of a single family residence.
3.
Each such sign must be located at least five hundred (500) feet from any other sign containing an electronic display.
D.
All signs containing an electronic display shall comply with the following operating limitations:
1.
No electronic message may be displayed for less than ten (10) seconds.
2.
No electronic message shall flash, scroll the entire display from one side of the sign to the other whether from top to bottom or from one side of the sign to the other, or give the illusion of movement. Only static electronic messages shall be allowed. The electronic display shall not have varying light intensity during the display of any single message.
3.
The electronic portion of each sign may not operate at brightness levels of more than 0.30 foot candles above ambient light levels as measured at the following distances:
EXPAND
Square footage of electronic portion of the sign Feet Distance
<100 square feet 100 feet
101 square feet — 300 square feet 150 feet
  4.
Notwithstanding the above mentioned subsection, if the sign is located in the line of sight of a single family residence on a residentially zoned property, such sign shall not operate, regardless of the square footage of the electronic display of the sign, at brightness levels of more than 0.10 foot candles above ambient light levels (at measurement conditions) as measured at the portion of the residential structure nearest the electronic sign.
5.
Upon erection of a sign containing an electronic display, the owner shall provide written proof from an independent contractor that the sign complies with this section concerning brightness measurements, as appropriate. Such proof shall contain measurements taken both during daytime and nighttime hours. Such measurements and proof shall be provided no less than yearly each year within thirty (30) calendar days of anniversary of the erection of the electronic portion of the sign. Additionally, if there is a complaint that the sign is brighter than specified under this section, as appropriate, the owner must take such measurements and provide another written certification, at the owner's cost, if requested to do so by the City of Kennesaw. If any of the certifications indicates that the electronic portion of the sign exceeds the brightness levels stated in this section, as appropriate, the owner of the sign, within twenty-four (24) hours of a request by the City of Kennesaw, shall turn off the electronic portion of the sign until the brightness of the sign is corrected, at the owner's expense, to comply with this section, as appropriate.
6.
Each sign must have a light sensing device that will adjust the brightness of the display as the natural ambient light conditions change.
7.
The owner of a sign containing an electronic display shall coordinate with the City to display emergency information important to motorists including, but not limited to, Amber Alerts or alerts concerning emergency management information. The owner will assure that someone is available twenty-four (24) hours a day, seven (7) days a week, to the City of Kennesaw to discuss the display of such emergency messages.
8.
The owner of any sign containing an electronic display shall provide to the City of Kennesaw information for a contact who is available twenty-four (24) hours a day, seven (7) days a week, and able to turn off the electronic sign promptly if a malfunction occurs. If, at any time, more than fifty (50) percent of the digital display lights malfunction or are no longer working, the owner of the sign containing an electronic display shall turn off the electronic display until repairs are made.
9.
Each sign containing an electronic display must comply with all Georgia Department of Transportation rules and regulations were not in conflict with this article.
10.
Each sign containing an electronic display shall contain a default design that will freeze the design in one position should a malfunction occur.
11.
Any sign containing an electronic display installed within one hundred (100) feet of an existing traffic signal shall be non-flashing and shall not contain any of the following colors: red, green, or amber.
12.
No sign containing an electronic display shall utilize, house, or contain any interactive features or components, or function as an interactive sign.
13.
No traveling message may travel at a rate slower than sixteen (16) light columns per second or faster than thirty-two (32) light columns per second.
14.
Signs containing an electronic display may not have sequential messages, i.e., more than one message to form a single advertisement. Each message shall be self-contained in that it provides all of the information in one screen to communicate the message intended.
15.
In addition to the requirements imposed by this section, signs containing an electronic display shall meet the same installation and permitting requirements as set out for electrical signs and all other signs. The final permit shall provide that except for the replacement of the sign face(s) with the electronic sign panel, and any associated structural improvements or reconstruction required by current building codes for such signs, the designated sign shall not be moved to another portion of the property, increased in size or height, or otherwise modified in a manner which increases the nonconformity of the structure unless a variance is first obtained to permit such modification. The building official of the City of Kennesaw will be authorized to make determination if structural improvements to existing structure will be necessary to accommodate the conversion to LED technology. Structural data and site data will be required to make assessment for the need of structural modifications.
E.
Any measurement of distance between signs required by this section shall be measured pole to pole.
( Ord. No. 2019-05 , § 2(Exh. B), 9-16-19)
5.03.21 - Off-Premise Outdoor Advertising Sign
A.
Off-premise outdoor advertising signs were prohibited by City ordinance number 2015-05, § 10 on April 20, 2015 and this ordinance continues to prohibit these signs under Section 5.03.11.
B.
Off-premises outdoor advertising signs legally existing as of the adoption of the 2015 ordinance and existing on the date of the adoption of this ordinance may be continued, even though such signs do not conform to this ordinance. Such nonconforming signs shall not be expanded, relocated or replaced by another nonconforming sign, except:
1.
That the substitution of interchangeable poster panels painted boards or demountable material on nonconforming signs shall be allowed; or
2.
The sign may be relocated under an administrative variance pursuant to Section 5.03.22 of this ordinance.
[C.
Reserved.]
[D.
Reserved.]
[E.
Reserved.]
F.
No such nonconforming sign shall continue after the discontinuance of the nonconforming use for a period of six (6) months.
G.
Unless a specific exception is stated in this article, no sign shall be located on or within 100 feet of a lot used for a religious assembly, school, park, cemetery or any lot zoned for residential use.
H.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, no off-premises outdoor advertising signs shall be erected or maintained if any part of the sign or sign structure is visible from the main traveled way of Cherokee Street, Old Highway 41 (Main Street/Hwy. 293), or any other roadway within the historic district. This subsection shall also apply to any other road declared historic, scenic or natural after the adoption date of the ordinance from which this article is derived.
I.
Permits for off-premise outdoor advertising signs are transferrable upon proper application to the City using the following procedure:
1.
Application for change of ownership must be made within 30 days of the change of ownership of the sign or the assignment of any lease;
2.
The payment of a renewal fee;
3.
Completion of forms that certify the new permit holder agrees to the terms and conditions of the permit and any variance, stipulation, special use permit or zoning decision associated with such sign and attestation of the date of sale by both the previous permit holder and the new permit holder.
J.
Nothing herein shall be deemed to disallow the use of a grandfathered off-premise outdoor advertising sign to display noncommercial messages.
( Ord. No. 2019-05 , § 2(Exh. B), 9-16-19)
5.03.22 - Relocation of Sign
Relocation of a sign, regardless of whether such sign is allowed under this ordinance or legally nonconforming as an off-premise outdoor advertising sign, may be required in the interest of the public for such reasons as road improvements. If the city or any other lawfully constituted state or federal governmental authority, agency, body, or utility having the authority of eminent domain condemns property which, as a sole result of condemnation, either a. creates nonconformity and relocation of a sign is requested; or b. relocation of a nonconforming off-premise outdoor advertising sign is requested, enforcement personnel may administratively approve the relocation of the sign outside the right of way without the necessity of a variance. In determining the point of relocation, the City shall consider the following factors: safety, size of sign, shape of sign, height of sign, size of remainder, and size of part acquired.
( Ord. No. 2019-05 , § 2(Exh. B), 9-16-19)
5.03.23 - Roadway Safety
A.
Safety must be exercised in erecting signs near a road. No sign shall obstruct or impair the vision of any vehicle operator at the intersection of any public rights-of-way, at any entrance onto or exit from a public road or any other location where such obstruction could create a hazard to life or property.
B.
Notwithstanding any other provision or regulation in this ordinance, at a minimum, no sign or other obstruction of vision, including but not limited to poles or other support structures, with a height greater than three (3) feet, shall be permitted within the mitered corner, defined as an area beginning at the intersection of any right-of-way lines of any streets, roads, highways, driveways, curb cuts or railroads and extending twenty (20) feet along each such right-of-way, and closed by a straight line connecting the end points of the twenty (20) foot sections of the right-of-way lines. However, a sign with a height of fifteen (15) feet or greater may be erected outside the area designated in this subsection and allowed to overhang in the designated area. In no event shall a sign or other obstruction of vision greater in height than three (3) feet or less than fifteen (15) feet in height be permitted within the designated area or overhang within the designated area.
C.
No sign or illumination shall be used, constructed, maintained or located at any location where it may interfere with or obstruct the view of an authorized traffic control device, nor shall any sign be used, constructed, maintained or located where it, by reason of its position, shape, wording or color, may be confused with an authorized traffic control device or emergency vehicle device or markings.
( Ord. No. 2019-05 , § 2(Exh. B), 9-16-19)
5.03.24 - Electrical and Structural Safety
All electrical signs and all electrical devices that illuminate signs or otherwise operate signs are subject to approval of the City building inspections division or its successor. All such signs and electrical devices shall only be allowed if listed by an approved testing laboratory or agency and installed in conformance with that listing. All signs shall be built in compliance with all applicable building, safety, electrical and structural code requirements.
( Ord. No. 2019-05 , § 2(Exh. B), 9-16-19)
5.03.25 - Interpretation, Construction, Severability
A.
Interpretation. The words used in this ordinance in the present tense shall include the future tense. Singular words include the plural, and plural words include the singular. For the sake of brevity, masculine and feminine pronouns shall be mutually inclusive and shall also include the neuter (e.g., corporations). Sub-headings and/or examples are inserted for the convenience of the reader and shall not operate to limit the effect of any provision of this chapter.
B.
Construction of Ordinance. The provisions of all other applicable city, state, and federal laws, ordinances, rules, or regulations shall continue to apply. This ordinance shall not be construed to create a right to maintain a sign in violation of any other statute, law, rule, or regulation; in violation of any protective covenant; or, in violation of the property rights or other rights of any person or entity. In the event that any provision of this ordinance regulates the same activity, conduct, or any other aspect of signage that is also by any other city, state, or federal law, ordinance, statute, rule or regulation, then the provision that is most restrictive of the signage in question shall govern. In the event that any provision of this chapter is in genuine conflict with any state or federal law, statute, or requirement, the conflict shall be resolved in accordance with the state or federal law, statute, or requirement.
C.
Severability. The provisions, sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, phrases, and terms of this chapter are severable. In the event that any portion or any specific application of this chapter is held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the other portions or other applications of this chapter.
( Ord. No. 2019-05 , § 2(Exh. B), 9-16-19)
APPENDIX A
Graphic illustration of sign types for non-residential districts
Graphic Illustrations of Selected Prohibited Signs*
Feather flag signs
Portable Display Signs
Wind activated signs
Pennant string signs
Mannequin sign holder
Bootleg signs
Pylon signs
Freestanding temporary signs
* The omission of an illustration for prohibited signs not identified and depicted herein does not convert an otherwise prohibited sign to a permitted sign
Graphic illustration
Roof signs (allowed and not allowed):
( Ord. No. 2019-05 , § 2(Exh. B), 9-16-19)
5.04.00 - WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES

5.04.01 - Purpose and Intent
The purpose of this ordinance is to establish guidelines for the siting of all wireless communications towers and antennas that will encourage the development of a competitive wireless communications marketplace while protecting the health, safety and welfare of the public and maintaining the aesthetic integrity of the community. The goals of this ordinance are:
A.
To comply with 47 U.S.C.A. § 332 Federal Telecommunications Act;
B.
To protect residential areas and land uses from the potential adverse impact of telecommunications towers, antenna support structures and wireless communications facilities;
C.
To minimize the total number of towers and antennas within the community necessary to provide adequate personal wireless services to residents and businesses of the City of Kennesaw;
D.
To promote and encourage the joint use of new and existing tower sites among service providers;
E.
To locate telecommunications towers and antennas in areas where adverse impacts on the community are minimized;
F.
To encourage the design and construction of towers and antennas to minimize adverse visual impacts;
G.
To avoid potential damage to property caused by wireless communications facilities by insuring that such structures are soundly and carefully designed, constructed, modified, maintained and removed when no longer used or when determined to be structurally unsound;
H.
To enhance the ability of the providers of wireless communications services to deliver such services to the community effectively and efficiently; and
I.
To preserve those areas of significant scenic or historic merit.
5.04.02 - Applicability
All new towers and antennas shall be subject to the regulations contained within this article except as provided in subsections A., B., and C. of this section:
A.
Public Property. Nothing in this article shall be read to prohibit a government-owned tower from being located at a specific site when the tower is required to protect the public welfare or safety.
B.
Amateur Radio; Receive-Only Antennas. This ordinance shall not govern any amateur radio tower, or the installation of any antenna, that is under seventy (70) feet in height and is owned and operated by a federally licensed amateur radio station operator or is used exclusively for receive only antennas.
C.
Preexisting Towers and Antennas. Any tower or antenna for which a permit has been properly issued prior to the effective date of this ordinance shall not be required to meet the provisions of this ordinance, other than the requirements of Chapter 5.04.07 of this UDC "Maintenance of Facilities." Any such towers or antenna shall be referred to in this ordinance as "preexisting towers" or "preexisting antenna." If additional antennas are co-located upon a preexisting tower after adoption of this ordinance, then fencing and landscaping requirements shall be met as part of the permitting process.
5.04.03 - General Requirements
A.
An application shall be required for the construction or placement of all new wireless transmission facilities, whether alternative or non-alternative structures, within the jurisdictional limits of the City of Kennesaw. Approval of any application for the construction of a tower or placement of an antenna shall be based on consideration of the following factors:
1.
The proposed height of any component of the facility in relation to the height of buildings, trees or other structures in the area;
2.
Proximity to residential structures and residential district boundaries;
3.
Nature of uses on adjacent and nearby properties;
4.
Surrounding topography, tree coverage and foliage;
5.
Design of the facility, with particular reference to design characteristics which have the effect of reducing or eliminating visual obtrusiveness;
6.
Proposed ingress and egress;
7.
Availability of suitable existing towers, other structures, or alternative technologies (microcells) not requiring the use of towers or structures;
8.
Demonstrated need for the telecommunications facility at the specified site;
9.
Capability of co-location on existing wireless facilities;
10.
Proposed landscaping necessary to ensure that the visual obtrusiveness of all accessory structures will be virtually eliminated;
11.
Proximity to historic districts or structures;
12.
Historic and/or scenic views when non alternative structures are proposed.
B.
All applications submitted to the community development department shall include a complete inventory of the applicant's existing wireless transmission facilities including towers and receivers/transmitters located within the City of Kennesaw and within one and one-half (1½) miles surrounding the city limits, including each asset's location (plane coordinates), height and co-location usage or capabilities, as well as the nature of any alternative structure or designed being utilized. The community development department shall utilize such information to promote co-location alternatives for other applicants.
C.
At the time of filing the application for construction or placement of a wireless transmission facility, the applicant shall provide a site plan and information regarding the tower, accessory structure location, neighboring uses, proposed architectural design and proposed landscaping. Additional documentation to be submitted with the site plan and certified by an experienced radio frequency engineer licensed to do business in the State of Georgia shall delineate coverage and propagation zones, identify types of antenna and mounting location, specify the type of band currently in use and state co-location capabilities.
1.
The scaled site plan shall clearly indicate the location, type and height of the proposed tower or accessory structure to be utilized, on-site land uses and zoning, adjacent land uses and zoning including proximity to historic or scenic view corridors, adjacent roadways, proposed means of access, setbacks from property lines, elevation drawings of the proposed tower, accessory structure and any other structures, topography, parking and other information deemed necessary by the director of community development or his/her designee to assess compliance with this ordinance.
2.
Legal description of the parent tract and leased parcel (if applicable).
3.
A definition of the area of coverage and radio frequency goals to be served by the antenna or tower and the extent to which such antenna or tower is needed for coverage and/or capacity.
4.
The setback distance between the proposed wireless transmission facility and the nearest residential unit or residentially used structure if less than 500 feet.
5.
Structural integrity analysis where antennas and equipment will be attached to an existing structure.
6.
Landscaping shall be designed in such a way as to preserve existing mature growth and to provide in the determination of the Mayor and Council, a suitable buffer of plant materials that mitigates the view of the telecommunications facility and accessory structures from surrounding property.
D.
Each application shall be accompanied by a fee, determined by the Mayor and Council, to offset the costs associated with processing such application. In addition, applicants shall be responsible for any fees commonly charged for a rezoning if one is required, or for any other required permit fees.
E.
The director of community development may elect to retain outside consultants or professional services to review an application for any wireless communication facility and to make recommendations on relevant issues including, but not limited to, verification of the applicant's due diligence, analysis of alternatives, conditions of approval and compliance with state and federal rules and regulations, at the applicants expense. An application shall not be deemed complete until the applicant had posted a $5,000.00 cash bond, or other security satisfactory to the city guaranteeing payment of such expenses.
F.
Landscaping plans and the design and placement of the wireless transmission facility on an approved site plan shall require the review and approval of the Mayor and Council prior to issuance of a building permit to insure compliance with this ordinance.
G.
Prior to issuance of the permit, compliance with section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act, 16 U.S.C. § 461 et. seq. shall be demonstrated. In addition wireless communications facilities proposed to be located within the downtown Kennesaw Historic District shall receive a certificate of approval from the Historic Preservation Commission and said certificate shall be submitted with the permit application.
H.
In approving any application, the Mayor and Council may impose additional conditions to the extent determined necessary to minimize adverse effects on adjoining properties.
I.
The City of Kennesaw reserves the right to conduct a height trial to identify the visual impact of the proposed facility upon the surrounding area.
J.
Prior to the issuance of the permit that applicant shall post a $25,000.00 per tower and $5,000.00 per antenna cash bond or other security satisfactory to the city to guarantee the removal of the permitted wireless communication facility upon its abandonment.
5.04.04 - Development Requirements for Non-Alternative Wireless Communications Facilities and Towers
A.
Wireless communication facilities are permitted on top of buildings and other existing structures that do not require an increase in height to accommodate the facility. Parapet walls may be required in order to conceal such facilities from view.
B.
These facilities, when mounted on a building or other existing structure, shall be flush mounted against the side of the building or structure and camouflaged to match or complement the color and architectural treatment of the surface on which they are mounted.
C.
In those instances where simulated trees are proposed within residential zoning districts, said trees shall be located within an existing stand of trees and set back from neighboring property boundaries a distance of twice the full height of the proposed simulated tree. In addition, the height of said trees shall be no more than ten (10) feet above the vegetative canopy in the immediate vicinity of the structure.
5.04.05 - Development Requirements for Alternative Wireless Communications Facilities and Towers
A.
Non-alternative towers shall be located only in the following zoning districts as shown in the following table subject to the restrictions and standards contained herein. Wireless transmission facilities in any other zoning districts shall be accessory uses or alternative tower structures only; provided however, non-alternative towers may be allowed on publicly owned property regardless of zoning district.
TABLE 5.04.05A:
EXPAND
LI Light Industrial District
HI Heavy Industrial District
  B.
Separation. Except in cases of co-location on the same tower or accessory structure, no wireless transmission facilities shall be located within 2,500 feet of any preexisting tower or preexisting antenna within the City of Kennesaw unless such facility or preexisting tower or antenna is concealed through use of alternative tower structures or otherwise camouflaged in such a way that the presence of telecommunications equipment is virtually undetectable from any adjoining property.
C.
All applicants seeking to erect a tower must demonstrate that no existing tower or structure can accommodate the proposed antenna(s). Evidence of an engineering nature shall be documented by the submission of a certification by an engineer licensed in the State of Georgia. Such evidence may consist of the following:
1.
No existing towers or structures are located within the geographic area required to meet applicant's engineering requirements.
2.
No existing structure is of sufficient height to meet the applicant's engineering requirements.
3.
No existing tower or structure has sufficient structural strength to support applicant's proposed antenna(s) and related equipment.
4.
Applicant's proposed antenna(s) would cause electromagnetic interference with the antenna(s) on the existing tower or structure.
5.
That the cost or contractual provisions required by the tower owner to share an existing tower or structure or to adapt an existing tower or structure for sharing are unreasonable. Costs exceeding new tower development are presumed to be unreasonable.
6.
Such other limiting factor(s) as may be demonstrated by the applicant.
7.
All evidence submitted shall be signed and sealed by appropriate professionals or qualified industry experts licensed in the State of Georgia. Such evidence shall be subject to independent verification by an engineer of the city's choosing. The cost of such independent verification shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
D.
Setbacks: Setbacks for towers and above-ground transmission facilities shall be as follows:
1.
All transmission facilities, except buried portions, shall be set back from all adjoining properties the distance required for the zoning district in which the wireless communications facility is located.
2.
When a tower is adjacent to a residential use, the tower and entire transmission facility must be set back from the nearest residentially zoned lot line a distance equal to the twice the height of the tower.
E.
Unless otherwise specified by the director of community development or his/her designee, towers shall be enclosed by vinyl chain link security fencing or other approved alternative not less than six (6) feet in height and shall be equipped with an appropriate anti-climbing device.
F.
All new towers that do not incorporate alternative design features must be designed and built in a manner that allows other entities to co-locate on the structures. The maximum allowable height of all non-alternative towers in any zoning district shall be 125 feet.
G.
Co-located wireless communication facilities shall be designed to meet the following standards:
1.
Use of dual band/multi band antenna (to allow sharing of antennas or antenna arrays by wireless providers using different frequency bands) or by using combiners (to allow antenna sharing by users of the same frequency band) is encouraged in order to minimize the height of support structures and the visual impact of multiple co-located antennas or antenna arrays.
2.
Antenna associated with a co-located wireless communication facility shall be mounted so as to present the smallest possible silhouette, profile, or cross section. Preferred antenna mounting scenarios are, in order of descending preference:
a.
Compact dual polarized antennas in a cylindrical unicell arrangement extending less than two (2) feet from the structure, and mounted atop the tower;
b.
Panel antennas flush mounted against the tower; and
c.
Antennas mounted at the end of a straight or curved davit arms or brackets extending from the sides of the tower.
3.
No co-located wireless communication facility located on a non-alternative tower shall have constructed thereon, or attached thereto in any way, any platform, catwalk, crow's nest, triangular framework, or like structures or equipment, except during periods of construction or repair. Curved or straight davit arms or brackets used for antenna mounting shall be connected to the tower at the base of the arms or brackets only and such arms and brackets (and any antennas or hardware mounted thereon) shall not be physically interconnected with any similar arm or bracket.
4.
Where economically and technically feasible and viable, Chapter 5.04.05 shall also be construed to regulate co-locations that may occur on preexisting non-alternative wireless communication facilities and towers.
H.
All towers and their related facilities shall maximize the use of building materials, colors, textures, screening and landscaping that effectively blend the tower and accessory facilities within the surrounding natural setting and built environment and to provide a visual barrier between the accessory equipment and adjacent properties. Where appropriate, towers shall be painted so as to reduce their visual obtrusiveness, subject to any applicable standards of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).
I.
If upon receipt of an application for the erection of any tower or alternative tower structure governed by this ordinance, the director of community development or his/her designee deems that the proposed structure may interfere with the use of the airways of the City of Kennesaw by the public or interfere with the operation of existing or proposed airport facilities, a copy of the application shall be submitted by the community development department to the aviation division of the Cobb County Department of Transportation for review and recommendation.
J.
Any parcel of property proposed to be the location of a new non-alternative tower that directly abuts a residentially zoned property shall have a minimum 100 ft. landscaped buffer with a solid fence or wall no less than six (6) feet in height.
K.
A registered landscape architect licensed in the State of Georgia shall prepare all landscaping plans. The property shall be landscaped in accordance with city standards.
L.
All non-alternative towers shall be monopole in design except those located in heavy industrial zoning districts that are greater than 150 feet in height.
M.
All towers shall meet or exceed current standards and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).
5.04.06 - Approval Process
A.
Uses subject to administrative approval. Subject to certification by the Planning and Zoning Administrator or his/her designee of compliance with the general requirements, development requirements and standards enumerated above, the following uses may be administratively approved by staff without further review by the Planning Commission or Mayor and Council after receipt of a complete application, supporting engineering certification and lease approval, if any, without the necessity of public hearing.
1.
Placement of additional transmission equipment on existing, permitted towers by additional users shall be exempted from special land use permits, advertising, posting and hearing requirements and shall not require placement of signs or any other such public notice, so long as the structure or height of such existing tower is not altered. Additional users and equipment are subject to the following conditions:
a.
Application for such approval must be made to the community development department staff at least five working days prior to the last date by which a request can be made to the Planning Commission (i.e. second Friday of each month).
b.
Applications for such approval must include all information normally required by the special land use permit process including site plan amendments necessitated by the placement of such additional equipment. All other applicable requirements of this ordinance shall apply to any site plan so amended. The community development director or his/her designee shall be authorized to grant administrative approval for such plans.
c.
An application fee equivalent to that normally assessed for a special land use permit application shall be required.
2.
If the Planning and Zoning Administrator or his/her designee determine that any application for an administratively approved use does not meet the general application requirements, development requirements and/or standards enumerated herein, administrative approval of the application shall be denied provided substantial evidence exists to support such denial. Such evidence shall be summarized in writing for the applicant along with a recommendation as to whether the applicant should pursue a variance or proceed to a public hearing as specified in subsection (B) below. Applicants may appeal the administrative denial to the Mayor and Council of the City of Kennesaw. Any other party aggrieved by the decision of the director of community development or his/her designee may file an appeal to the Mayor and Council. For purposes of this section an aggrieved party is one who demonstrates that his or her property will suffer special damage as a result of the decision complained of rather than merely some damage that is common to all property owners and citizens similarly situated. The Mayor and Council shall dispense with the appeal by either:
a.
A determination the application is valid and meets all applicable criteria for an administratively approved use under this ordinance, which shall result in the issuance of a permit.
b.
A determination the application does not satisfy all applicable criteria for an approved administratively approved use under this ordinance, but, owing to special conditions, a variance as to separation or setback requirements:
i.
Will not be contrary to the public interest;
ii.
Will relieve unnecessary hardship; and
iii.
Shall preserve the intent and spirit of this ordinance.
c.
A determination the application does not satisfy all applicable criteria for an administratively approved use under this ordinance and the deficiencies cannot, subject to the conditions listed above, properly be cured by a variance.
3.
Applications that do not satisfy all applicable criteria must, as a result, apply for a public hearing before the Mayor and Council as specified in subsection (B) below.
B.
Other uses—Special land use permit required.
1.
If the proposed tower or antenna is not included under the above described administratively approved uses, or the application does not on its face satisfy the development standards and other criteria specified herein, then a special land use permit as outlined in Chapter 4.04.06, Standards for SLUP, shall be required for the approval of the construction of any wireless transmission facility in all zoning districts. Applicants shall apply for a special land use permit through the community development department and pay the required fee at such time. Applications, when complete, shall be placed on the next available agenda of the Planning Commission. Once the Planning Commission has held a hearing they shall make a recommendation on the application to the Mayor and Council. The Mayor and Council shall then conduct their own public hearing and based on evidence presented at that hearing, the recommendation of the Planning Commission and the recommendations of staff approve or deny the application. At least thirty (30) days prior to any scheduled hearing, the Planning and Zoning Department shall follow the public notification procedure as outlined in Chapter 10.
2.
When approving an application for a use for which a special land use permit is required the Mayor and Council may impose conditions to the extent necessary to buffer or otherwise minimize any adverse effect of the proposed tower on adjoining properties. The factors considered in granting such a permit include those enumerated in Chapter 5. The Mayor and Council may waive or reduce the burden on the applicant of one or more of these criteria, if, in their discretion doing so will advance the goals of this article as stated in Chapter 5.
5.04.07 - Maintenance of Facilities
A.
All wireless transmission facilities and related landscaping shall be maintained by the facility owner in good condition, order, and repair so that they shall not endanger the life of property of any person, nor shall they be a blight upon the property.
B.
To ensure the structural integrity of towers, the applicant of a tower or alternative tower structure shall ensure that it is maintained in compliance with standards contained in applicable local building codes and the applicable standards for towers that are published by the Electronic Industries Association, as amended from time to time. If, upon inspection, the director of community development of the City of Kennesaw concludes that a tower fails to comply with all applicable codes and standards, or constitutes a danger to persons or property, then upon receipt of written notice by the applicant, said applicant shall have fifteen (15) days to bring the tower into compliance with such standards. If the applicant fails to bring the tower into compliance within the fifteen (15) days, the City of Kennesaw may remove the tower at the applicant's expense. Prior to removal of any tower, the director of community development may consider detailed plans submitted by the applicant for repair of substandard towers, and may grant a reasonable extension of the above referenced compliance period. Any such removal by the City of Kennesaw shall be in the manner provided in O.C.G.A. §§ 41-2-7—41-2-17.
C.
All towers must meet or exceed current standards and regulations of the FAA, the FCC, and any other agency of the federal government with the authority to regulate towers and antennas. If such standards and regulations are changed, the owners of the towers and antennas governed by this ordinance shall bring such towers and antennas into compliance with such revised standards and regulations within six (6) months of the effective date of such standards and regulations unless a more or less stringent compliance schedule is mandated by the controlling federal agency. Failure to bring towers and antennas into compliance with such revised standards and regulations shall constitute grounds for the removal of the tower or antenna at the owner's expense. Any such removal by the city shall be in the manner provided in O.C.G.A. §§ 41-2-7—41-2-17.
D.
All maintenance or construction on wireless transmission facilities shall be performed by persons employed by or under contract to the owner between the hours of 6:00 AM and 6:00 PM Monday through Friday except in cases of emergency. Access to facilities on city owned property shall be determined on a case-by-case basis by the city department responsible for such property. The hours of access to city sites shall not exceed those specified above. Persons may not be present on site unless performing construction or maintenance at such site.
E.
The owner or user of any telecommunications facility shall be required to submit a "facility in use certification" annually to the license and permits department. Any antenna or tower that is not operated for a continuous period of twelve (12) months or is not properly maintained shall be considered abandoned, and the owner of such antenna or tower shall remove same and any structures housing supporting equipment within ninety (90) days of receipt of notice from the governing authority of such abandonment. If such antenna or tower is not removed or returned to good condition within said ninety (90) days, the governing authority may remove such antenna or tower at the owner's expense. If there are two (2) or more users of a single tower, then this provision shall not become effective until all users cease using the tower.
5.04.08 - Waiver of Requirements
No exception, waiver or variance to the conditions and requirements contained herein shall be granted unless expressly provided for in this ordinance, or the Mayor and Council find that the proposed tower or wireless transmission facility is necessary and essential to providing the applicant's service.
5.04.09 - Reserved
5.04.10 - Reserved
5.04.11 - Facilities Lease
A.
The Mayor and Council may, in its sole discretion, which is hereby reserved, approve facilities leases for the location of wireless transmission facilities and other telecommunications facilities upon city owned property. Neither this section, nor any other provision of this article shall be construed to create an entitlement or vested right in any person or entity of any type.
B.
All such leases shall comply with the requirements of O.C.G.A. § 36-60-13.
5.04.12 - Lease Application
Any person that desires to solicit the Mayor and Council's approval of a facilities lease pursuant to this article shall file a lease proposal with the city's community development department which, in addition to the information required by Chapter 5.04.03 shall include the following:
A.
A description of the wireless transmission facilities or other equipment proposed to be located upon City of Kennesaw property;
B.
A description of the city property upon which the applicant proposes to locate wireless transmission facilities or other equipment;
C.
Preliminary plans and specifications in sufficient detail to identify;
1.
The location(s) of existing wireless transmission or telecommunications facilities or other equipment upon the city's property, whether publicly or privately owned.
2.
The location and source of electric and other utilities required for the installation and operation of the proposed facilities.
D.
Accurate scaled conceptual drawings and diagrams of sufficient specificity to analyze the aesthetic impacts of the proposed wireless transmission facilities or other equipment;
E.
Whether the applicant intends to provide cable service, video dial tone service or other video programming service from the facility, and sufficient information to determine whether such service is subject to cable franchising;
F.
An accurate map showing the location of any wireless transmission or telecommunications facilities in the city that applicant intends to use or lease;
G.
Such other and further information as may be requested by the city; and
H.
An application fee for lease negotiation in the amount consistent with fee schedule adopted by the Mayor and Council.
5.04.13 - Determination by Mayor and Council
Recognizing that the Mayor and Council is under no obligation to grant a facilities lease for the use of city property, the Mayor and Council shall strive to consider and take action on application for facilities leases within sixty (60) days after receiving a complete application for such a lease. When such action is taken, the Mayor and Council or their designee shall issue a written determination granting or denying the lease in whole or in part, applying the standards set forth below, or any other such criteria as the Mayor and Council may choose to apply. If the lease application is denied, the determination shall include the reason for denial following review of these factors:
A.
The capacity of the city property and public rights-of-way to accommodate the applicant's proposed facilities.
B.
The capacity of the city property and public rights-of-way to accommodate additional utility and wireless transmission or telecommunications facilities if the lease is granted.
C.
The damage or disruption, if any, of public or private facilities, improvements, service, travel or landscaping if the lease is granted.
D.
The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of construction upon city property and within the public ways.
E.
The service that applicant will provide to the community and region. The effect, if any, on public health, safety and welfare if the lease requested is approved. The availability of alternate locations for the proposed facilities.
F.
Whether the applicant is in compliance with applicable federal and state telecommunications laws, regulations and policies, including, but not limited to, the registration requirements administered by the Georgia Public Service Commission.
G.
The potential for radio frequency and other interference with existing public and private telecommunications or other facilities located upon the city property.
H.
The potential for radio frequency and other interference or impact upon residential, commercial and other uses located within the vicinity of the city property.
I.
Recommendations of the recreation department with respect to impact on park and recreation activities.
J.
Recommendations of the Public Works Department with respect to maintenance and security of water towers. Such other factors, such as aesthetics, as may demonstrate that the lease to use the city property will serve the community interest.
K.
The maximization of co-location opportunities with other similar uses.
5.04.14 - Agreement
No facilities lease shall be deemed to have been granted hereunder until the applicant and the Mayor and Council have executed a written agreement setting forth the particular terms and provisions under which the lessee has been granted the right to occupy and use the city property.
5.04.15 - Nonexclusive Lease
No facilities lease granted under this ordinance shall confer any exclusive right, privilege, license or franchise to occupy or use city property for delivery of telecommunications services or any other purposes nor shall approval of a lease entitle the applicant to a permit to construct or place a wireless transmission facility.
5.04.16 - Term of Facilities Lease
Unless otherwise specified in a lease agreement, a facilities lease granted hereunder shall be valid for an initial term of one (1) year, with the lessee granted a maximum of four (4) one-year renewal options which options shall also be subject to approval of the Mayor and Council. The term of any such agreement shall not exceed five (5) years unless approved by the Mayor and Council on a case-by-case basis.
5.04.17 - Rights Granted
No facilities lease granted under this ordinance shall convey any right, title or interest in the city property, but shall be deemed a license only to use and occupy the city property for the limited purposes and term stated in the lease agreement. Further, no facilities lease shall be construed as any warranty of title.
5.04.18 - Interference with Other Users
A.
No facilities lease shall be granted under this ordinance unless it contains a provision that is substantially similar to the following:
1.
The Mayor and Council has previously entered into leases with other tenants for their equipment and wireless transmission facilities. Lessee acknowledges that the Mayor and Council is also leasing the city property for the purposes of transmitting and receiving telecommunications signals from the city property. The Mayor and Council, however, is not in any way responsible or liable for any interference with lessee's use of the city property that may be caused by the use and operation of any other tenant's equipment, even if caused by new technology. In the event that any other tenant's activities interfere with the lessee's use of the city property, and the lessee cannot work out this interference with the other tenants, the lessee may, upon thirty (30) days notice to the Mayor and Council, terminate this lease and restore the city property to its original condition, reasonable wear and tear excepted. The lessee shall cooperate with all other tenants to identify the causes of and work towards the resolution of any electronic interference problem. In addition, the lessee agrees to eliminate any radio or television interference caused to city-owned facilities or surrounding residences at lessee's own expense and without installation of extra filters on city-owned equipment. Lessee further agrees to accept such interference as may be received from city operated telecommunications or other facilities located upon the city property subject to this lease.
5.04.19 - Ownership and Removal of Improvements
No facilities lease shall be granted under this ordinance unless it contains a provision that states that all buildings, landscaping and all other improvements, except telecommunications equipment, shall become the property of the City of Kennesaw upon expiration or termination of the lease. In the event that the Mayor and Council requires removal of such improvements, such removal shall be accomplished at the sole expense of the lessee and completed within ninety (90) days after receiving notice from the city manager requiring removal of the improvements. In the event that wireless transmission facilities or other equipment are left upon city property after expiration or termination of the lease, they shall become the property of the City of Kennesaw, unless otherwise notified. The Mayor and Council may require removal of wireless transmission facilities or other equipment by the lessee upon thirty (30) days written notice from the city manager.
5.04.20 - Compensation to the City of Kennesaw
A.
Each facilities lease granted under this ordinance is subject to the Mayor and Council's right, which is expressly reserved, to annually fix a fair and reasonable compensation to be paid for the rights granted to the lessee; provided, nothing in these sections shall prohibit the Mayor and Council and a lessee agreeing to the compensation to be paid. Such compensation shall be payable in advance of the effective date of the lease and on or before January 31 of each calendar year. Any payments received after the due date shall include a late payment penalty of two (2) percent of the annual rental fee for each day or part thereof past the due date. The compensation shall be negotiated by the city manager or designee, subject to the Mayor and Council's final approval, based on the following criteria:
1.
Comparable lease rates for other public or private property.
2.
In the case land is leased, an appraisal opinion upon which the land and airspace is rented.
3.
If structure of another user is involved, any amount needed to reimburse that user, in addition to the above.
4.
A yearly escalator rate commonly used in comparable leases.
5.
The additional rent such structure may generate if leased to additional users.
B.
The city manager is authorized to accept telecommunications services in lieu of cash rental payment; however, such services must constitute substantial benefit to the City of Kennesaw over retail purchases of said telecommunications services under any applicable government rates offered by the wireless services provider.
C.
Additional fees or charges may be established by the Mayor and Council to cover actual costs of processing the application, including engineering review, inspection and appraisal cost, legal, administration of the agreement, providing on-site services and/or other direct or indirect costs.
5.04.21 - Amendment of Facilities Lease
Except as provided within an existing lease agreement, a new lease application and lease agreement shall be required of any telecommunications carrier or other entity that desires to significantly expand, modify or relocate its telecommunications facilities or other equipment located upon city property. If ordered by the Mayor and Council to locate or relocate its telecommunications facilities or other equipment on the city property, the Mayor and Council shall grant a lease amendment without further application.
5.04.22 - Renewal Application
A lessee that desires to exercise a renewal option in its facilities lease under this ordinance shall, not more than ninety (90) days nor less than sixty (60) days before expiration of the current facilities lease term, file an application with the Mayor and Council for renewal of its facilities lease which shall include the following:
A.
The information required pursuant to Chapter 5.04.11 of this UDC;
B.
Any information required pursuant to the facilities lease agreement between the Mayor and Council and the lessee;
C.
A report certified by a radio frequency engineer that the site is in compliance with current FCC radio emission standards;
D.
All deposits or charges required pursuant to the ordinance; and
E.
An application fee that shall be set by the Mayor and Council by resolution.
5.04.23 - Renewal Determination
Recognizing that the Mayor and Council is under no obligation to grant a renewal of a facilities lease for the use of city property, the Mayor and Council shall strive to consider and take action on applications for renewal of such leases within thirty (30) days after receiving a complete application for such a lease renewal. When such action is taken, the city manager shall issue a written determination granting or denying the lease renewal in whole or in part, applying the standards set forth below, or any other such criteria as the Mayor and Council may choose to apply. If the renewal application is denied, the written determination shall include the reason for denial, if any after review of these factors:
A.
The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
B.
The legal ability of the applicant.
C.
The continuing capacity of the city property to accommodate the applicant's existing facilities.
D.
The applicant's compliance with the requirements of this ordinance and the lease agreement.
E.
Applicable federal, state and local telecommunications laws, rules and policies.
F.
Continued need for the facility in light of technological advances and current industry standards.
G.
Such other factors as may demonstrate that the continued grant to use the city property will serve the community interest.
5.04.24 - Obligation to Cure as a Condition of Renewal
No facilities lease shall be renewed until any ongoing violations or defaults in the lessee's performance of the lease agreement, or of the requirements of these sections, have been cured, or a plan detailing the corrective action to be taken by the lessee has been approved by the director of community development or his/her designee.
5.04.25 - Legal Status Provisions
A.
Conflict with other laws. Whenever the regulations of this ordinance require a greater width, depth or size of yard or impose other more restrictive standards than are required in or under any other statue or covenants, the requirements of this ordinance shall govern.
B.
Severability. In the event any article, section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other articles, sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases of this ordinance, which shall remain in full force and effect, as if the article, section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional were not originally a part thereof. The Mayor and Council hereby declares that it would have adopted the remaining parts of the ordinance if it had known that such part or parts thereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
C.
Repeal of conflicting resolutions. All resolutions and ordinances or portions thereof in conflict with this ordinance are hereby repealed.
Chapter 6 - INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS
Engineering Technical Standards
EXPAND
Engineering Technical Standards
Detail 0000 Retaining Wall for Pond- Backfilled Condition
Detail 0000 Retaining Wall for Pond- Freestanding Condition
Detail A4 Detectable Warning Surface
Detail 80 Utility Standard for R.O.W. (Residential)
Details 80A/B Utility Standards for R.O.W. (Urban)
Detail 81A Utility Locations- Local Urban Streets
Details 100A/B Residential Streets- Grading
Detail 103 Intersection Landing Requirements
Detail 104B Typical Offset Cul-de-Sac
Detail 104C Bubble Cul-de-Sac
Detail 106 Concrete Curbs, Median
Detail 107 Street Sign Base
Detail 108 Stopping Sight Distance Requirements
Detail 109 Obstructing Visibility at Intersections
Detail 110 Street Barricade
Detail 113 Sidewalks
Detail 114 Off-Street Parking
Detail 116 Commercial Driveway Requirements
Detail 116R Residential Driveway Standard
Detail 150 Traditional Neighborhood Development (TND)
Detail 401A Acceleration and Deceleration Lanes
Detail 401B Intersection Sight Distance
Details 401C/D Typical Sections for 3 and 4 Lane Divided Roadway
Detail 401E 5 Lane Urban Center Turning Lane Details
Detail 401F Left Turn Lane
Detail 401P Pavement Markings Detail
Detail 401R Raised Pavement Markers
Detail 403 Off-Street Parking Facilities
  (Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12)
6.00.00 - STREETS[12]

Footnotes:
--- (12) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. A), adopted Oct. 15, 2018, amended § 6.00.00 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former § 6.00.00 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 2012-03, adopted May 7, 2012.

6.00.01 - General
The character, width, grade, and location of all public streets shall conform to the standards in these Regulations and shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned streets, to topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety, and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served by such streets. Construction and material specifications for streets shall conform to the standard specifications of the city, Cobb Department of Transportation (CDOT) and Georgia Department of Transportation (GDOT) in use at the time for roads, except as may otherwise be stated herein. Specifications and design criteria stated herein are for planning purposes. A Waiver from the standards will be considered on a case-by-case basis and it is the responsibility of the developer to articulate a substantial justification for deviating from such standards in the concept and preliminary design stages. Any such waiver will be subject to approval by the Public Works Director or designee. Substantial justification for deviating from the utility standards shall be demonstrated through an engineering report that certifies compliance with the standard has the effect of materially inhibiting the provider's technology or service and deviation from the standard is necessary to feasibly provide such technology or service.
A.
Thoroughfares in developments shall be planned in conformity with the Comprehensive Plan, and the Major Thoroughfare Plan. These streets classified, or designated to be classified, as an arterial, major collector, or minor collector shall be developed per Section 6.04.00.
B.
The proposed development's street layout shall be coordinated with the street system of the surrounding area or with plans for streets in said area on file with the City, if any.
C.
If the developer desires to provide for street access to an adjoining property, proposed streets shall be extended by dedication to the boundary of such property and a temporary paved turn-around provided.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. A), 10-15-18; Ord. No. 2019-06 , § 2(Exh. B), 9-16-19)
6.00.02 - Permits Required; Obstructions
A.
No person, partnership, corporation, or their agents or employees or contractors shall remove, cut, dig into, tear up or make or cause to be made any opening or excavation in any public street, public road, public alley, public way, public ground, public sidewalk or City-owned easement or fill or alter any culvert or construct or install additions or extensions to its existing facilities within the City without a permit issued by the Public Works Director or his or her designee.
B.
The applicant or applicant's contractor shall submit to the City a written request for a construction/street excavation permit and a plan of the proposed alteration, extension, or addition showing its location and details of construction, including specified depth, method of excavation, open cut or boring, provisions of restoration and whatever the City would deem necessary for review and consideration.
C.
It shall be unlawful to place or maintain, or cause to be placed or maintained, in any of the streets or in any of the easements, or on any of the public sidewalks of the City, any obstruction of any kind or character whatever, except by the consent of the Mayor and Council or a designated officer of the City.
D.
It shall be unlawful for any property owner, lessee or tenant to construct, establish, open, grade or cause to have constructed, or in any manner to form or use a driveway or other opening from private property into any street, highway or thoroughfare in the city or entered upon across any sidewalk in the city, without first obtaining a permit for such work from the mayor and council or designated city officer. When such permit is issued, the owner, lessee, tenant or other constructing party shall conform to all requirements of the standard specifications of the city in use at the time for that portion of the driveway from the curb or gutter line to the property line, and such constructing party shall conform to all grades established and other special requirements in effect at the time. In no event, however, shall any driveway be constructed in the city so as to prevent or obstruct the free flow or passage of water in the gutters of any streets in the city, or in any streets themselves having no gutters constructed thereon.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. A), 10-15-18)
6.00.03 - Applicant Requirements
A.
Any person obtaining a permit as provided herein agrees, as a condition of the issuance of the permit, to indemnify and hold harmless the City against any claims or expenses, including attorney's fees, for bodily injury or property damage for accidents or occurrences arising out of such person's operations. Before a permit for excavating or opening any street or public way may be issued, the applicant must sign a statement in that it will indemnify and save harmless the city, its officers, agents and employees from all liability for accidents and damage caused by any of the work covered by its permit, that it will fill up and place in good and safe condition all excavations and openings made in the street, that it will replace and restore the pavement over any opening it may make as near as can be to the state and condition in which it found it and keep and maintain the same in such condition, normal wear and tear excepted, to the satisfaction of the City for a period of one (1) year, that it will pay all fines imposed upon it for any violation of any rule, regulation, or ordinance governing street openings or drain laying adopted by the city, and that it will repair any damage done to existing improvements during the progress of the excavation in accordance with the ordinances, rules, and regulations of the city. Such statement shall also guarantee that if the City shall elect to make the street repair, the person opening the street will pay all costs of making such repair and of maintaining the same for one (1) year.
B.
Whenever the City finds that any such work has become defective within one (1) year of the date of completion, it shall give written notice thereof to the contractor or to its surety stating the defect, the work to be done, the cost thereof, and the period of time deemed by the City to be reasonably necessary to complete said work. After receipt of such notice, the contractor or the surety shall, within the time specified, repair the defect or indemnify the City for the cost of doing the work as set forth in the notice.
C.
Upon written request by the applicant, the city, in its sole discretion, may waive some of the requirements under this ordinance when such requirements are deemed by the City to be inapplicable or unnecessary due to the nature of the work involved.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. A), 10-15-18)
6.00.04 - Street Repair; Utility Placement, Excavation Cut and Engineering Details
A.
When any part of any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place of the City shall be torn or dug up for any purpose, the person making that excavation, or opening shall have the duty of refiling the excavation or opening so as to restore it to essentially the same condition that existed prior to the excavation or opening. Any person neglecting, refusing or failing to comply with any provision of this section shall be guilty of a violation thereof; and where any neglect, refusal or failure is continued, after notice from the public works department, every day's continuance thereafter shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
B.
The following specifications shall be used for asphalt and fill dirt reparations of all City streets and public properties after any excavations have been made, including all utilities.
1.
Trenches shall be excavated to a width not to exceed 12 inches on each side of the pipe diameter of 24 inches or less and not to exceed 15 inches on each side of the pipe for pipe diameters greater than 24 inches. Trench walls shall be as nearly vertical as possible.
2.
Backfill shall be dense graded aggregate or sand. Dense graded aggregate shall be placed in maximum six-inch loose lifts and mechanically compacted. Sand may be compacted by placing in maximum 12-inch loose lifts and then flooded or jetted in place where satisfactory drainage is provided for free water.
3.
Backfilling up to sub grade elevation shall be completed prior to excavation for the additional 12 inches of concrete on each side of the trench.
4.
The applicant will be held responsible during the ensuing five years for proper backfilling and replacement of surface. During the five-year period after the cut is made, any pavement settlement shall be immediately repaired in an approved manner at the expense of the applicant.
5.
Concrete pavements shall be repaired in the same manner as described in this section except that the thickness of concrete shall be the same as the surrounding pavement.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. A), 10-15-18)
6.00.05 - Protection of Excavations and Liable
A.
It shall be unlawful for any person who obtains a permit herein to do any excavation of any kind which may create or cause a dangerous condition in or near any street, alley, sidewalk or public place of the City without placing and maintaining proper guardrails and signal lights or other warnings at, in or around the work, sufficient to warn the public of any excavation work, and to protect all persons using reasonable care from injuries on account of such work.
B.
All necessary precautions shall be taken to guard the public effectively from accidents or damage to persons or property through the period of the work.
1.
Every excavation shall be enclosed with sufficient barriers; warning signs, lights, and other such other traffic control devices as may be required by the Public Works Director and shall conform to the latest edition of the "Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices." Warning lights shall be electrical markers or flashers used to indicate a hazard to traffic and pedestrians from sunset of each day to sunrise of the next day. Electrical markers or flashers shall emit light at sufficient intensity and frequency to be visible at a reasonable distance for safety. Reflectors or reflecting material may be used to supplement, but not to replace light sources.
2.
Unless otherwise approved, a minimum of one (1) lane of traffic in each direction shall be provided. Every effort shall be made on the part of the applicant to provide reasonable access to all properties adjacent to its project. In the event traffic is limited to less than one (1) lane in each direction, a flagman or temporary traffic control signal shall be provided so as to safely cycle traffic in each direction past the work area.
C.
Each person making such opening shall be held liable for all damages, including costs incurred by the City in defending any action brought against it for damages as well as cost of any appeal, that may result from the neglect by such person or his/her employees of any necessary precaution against injury or damage to persons, vehicles, or property of any kind.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. A), 10-15-18)
6.00.06 - Inspections
The City shall inspect all streets, gutters, curbs, surface water drainage systems, wastewater drainage systems, paving standards and other such improvements before and after any pipe is covered or excavation is backfilled. All work performed in any street or other public way that involves the construction or reconstruction of paving, sidewalks, driveways, curbs, gutters, sewers and waterlines, after the same has been opened or excavated, shall be inspected by the Public Works Director or his/her designee.
1.
All excavations or openings in any part of a street, sidewalk, alley or other public place shall be restored to essentially the same condition that existed prior to the excavation or opening.
2.
All driveways shall be constructed so as to prevent or obstruct the free flow or passage of water in the gutters of any streets in the city, or in any streets themselves having no gutters constructed thereon.
3.
The person to whom such permit is issued shall be responsible for all defects in excavations occurring within one year from the completion of the work and shall be liable for all damages resulting from such defects.
4.
The person to whom such permit is issued shall remain liable to the City for one year after the inspection.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. A), 10-15-18)
6.02.00 - TRANSPORTATION AND PARKING FACILITY[13]

Footnotes:
--- (13) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), adopted Oct. 15, 2018, amended § 6.02.00 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former § 6.02.00 pertained to similar subject matter.

6.02.01 - Right-of-Way
Minimum Right-Of-Way Per Street Classification*
EXPAND
Street Category Minimum Right-of-Way As Measured From Centerline
Arterial 100' 50'
Major Collector 80' 40'
Minor Collector 60' 30'
Local (Residential Subdivision) 50' 25'
Non-Residential Local 60' 30'
  * Additional street right-of-way width may be required to be dedicated at intersections or other locations fronting the property where turning lanes, storage lanes, medians, or realignments are required for traffic safety and minimum right-of-way standards would be inadequate to accommodate the improvements. Right-of-way variable depending upon roadway design and Public Works Director approval.
EXPAND
Type of Street Minimum Right-of-Way
Width (feet)
Major thoroughfares (state road) 100
Secondary streets 50
Collector streets 50
Residential streets 50
Cul-de-sac and loop streets 50
Cul-de-sac turnaround (radius):
Residential 50
Commercial and industrial 60
Alleys, service drives 20
  (Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.02 - Design Standards for Streets
A.
The arrangements, character, extent, width, grade and location of all streets shall conform to the major thoroughfare plan for the city and shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned streets, to topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served by such streets.
B.
Where such is not shown in the major thoroughfare plan for the city, the arrangement of streets in a subdivision shall either:
1.
Provide for the continuation of appropriate projection of existing streets in surrounding areas at the same or greater width, but in no case less than the required minimum width; or
2.
Conform to a plan for a neighborhood approved or adopted by the planning commission to meet a particular situation where topographical or other conditions make continuance or conformance to existing streets impracticable.
C.
Minor streets shall be so laid out that their use by through traffic will be discouraged.
D.
Where a subdivision contains a dead-end street other than a cul-de-sac, the planning commission may require the subdivider to provide a temporary vehicular turnaround within the right-of-way, when the planning commission considers such to be necessary for effective traffic circulation.
E.
Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed major street, the planning commission may require acceleration/deceleration lanes, double frontage lots with screen planting contained in a nonaccess reservation along the rear property lines, deep lots with rear service drives or such other treatment as may be necessary for adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation of through and local traffic.
F.
Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad right-of-way or limited access highway right-of-way, the planning commission may require a street approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way, at a distance suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land, as for park purposes in residential districts, or industrial purposes in appropriate districts. Such distances shall also be determined with due regard for the requirements of approach grades and future grade separations.
G.
Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet shall not be permitted. Alleys or service drives may be required on any lots to be used for multiple-family, commercial or industrial developments, but shall not be provided in residential blocks except where the subdivider produces evidence satisfactory to the planning commission of the need for alleys or service drives.
H.
Paving widths shall be no less than as follows, measured from back of curb to back of curb:
EXPAND
Type of Street Minimum Paving Width (feet)
(1) Major thoroughfares (100-foot right-of-way) 81
(2) Secondary streets (50-foot right-of-way) 26
(3) Collector streets (50-foot right-of-way) 26
(4) Residential streets (50-foot right-of-way) 24
(5) Culs-de-sac and loop streets 24
(6) Culs-de-sac turnaround:
Residential, outside pavement radius 40
Commercial and industrial, outside pavement radius 50
(7) Alleys, service drives 20
  (Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.03 - Additional Right-of-Way and/or Pavement Widths
A.
Right-of-way for all abutting and internal public streets, existing and proposed, may be dedicated in accordance with the street classifications as shown on the Major Thoroughfare Plan, and as contained in these Regulations, or as otherwise required by the Public Works Director.
B.
On any existing street that abuts a property, one-half of the required width of right-of-way shall be dedicated to the City as measured from the centerline of the roadway.
C.
Right-of-way miters are required at all intersections to provide area for adequate utility location and maintenance. Twenty (20) foot miters shall be provided at the right-of-way intersection of any major thoroughfare. Ten (10) foot miters shall be provided at the right-of-way intersection of any local and collector roads.
D.
If a new street or thoroughfare is funded by the City, CDOT, or GDOT to adjoin or traverse the property, the proposed road right-of-way shall be incorporated into the development plans of the property in accordance with these regulations. These right-of-way requirements shall govern except where there exist clearly defined plans of the City, CDOT, or GDOT which require additional right-of-way. In that case, the greater right-of-way requirements shall govern.
E.
Any development with property fronting on an existing City road for which there exists clearly defined plans by CDOT, GDOT or the City may be required to provide road improvements associated with the defined plans. In such cases, in lieu of the design and construction, at the discretion of the Public Works Director, the developer shall escrow the dollar equivalency of required improvements (including curbing, utility relocation, and drainage structures), as estimated by the developer and verified by the Public Works Department. These funds shall be deposited in the appropriate road construction account prior to the approval of development improvements or within 30 days of City award of a construction contract, whichever occurs first.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.04 - Right-of-Way Encroachment and Maintenance
A.
No property owner, lessee, tenant or other person shall place or plant shrubberies, trees, or erect a fence closer than one foot to the edge of any of street, sidewalk easement, or the right-of-way on which their property abuts, except by consent of the Public Works Director or his designee.
B.
The property owner, lessee, or tenant shall be responsible for maintaining, in a clean and sanitary condition, the sidewalks, ditches, curbs and gutters, driveway pipes, drainage pipes and unpaved/undeveloped portion of rights-of-way or easement abutting such premises.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.05 - Roadway/Lane Widths
A minimum of twelve (12) foot travel lanes is required on all streets except local residential which require eleven (11) foot travel lanes. Roadway widths and lane assignments are typically based upon the functional classification of said roadway; for Major Thoroughfares see Section 6.04. The following table indicates these minimum requirements per roadway classification. Widths shown are measured from back of curb to back of curb.
EXPAND
Functional Classification Width Lane Assignments
Local (Residents) 26' 2 Lanes
Non-Residential Local 40' 3 Lanes
Minor Collector 28' 2 Lanes
Major Collector 28' 2 Lanes
Industrial 32' 2 Lanes
  Roadway width and design may be variable based upon current and/or proposed operational characteristics of the roadway and is subject to City and/or CDOT or GDOT review and approval. Median divided roadways may be required with left-run bays and median breaks in lieu of center two (2) way left turn lanes.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.06 - Improvements Along State Highways
For any development that abuts a state highway or other right-of-way controlled by the State of Georgia, improvements to the roadway and the location and design of any street or driveway providing access from the state highway shall comply with the standards and requirements of GDOT. A permit for the proposed access or improvements shall be required to have been approved by the GDOT and incorporated into the construction drawings for the project prior to issuance of a development permit by the City. A copy of the drawings approved by CDOT and/or GDOT is required to be submitted to Public Works Department prior to final plan approval.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.07 - Improvements Along Cobb County Highways
For any development that abuts a Cobb County road or other right-of-way controlled by Cobb County, improvements to the roadway and the location and design of any street or driveway providing access from a Cobb County highway shall comply with the standards and requirements of CDOT. A permit for the proposed access or improvements shall be required to have been approved by the CDOT and incorporated into the construction drawings for the project prior to issuance of a development permit by the City.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.08 - Improvements Along City Highways
For any development that abuts a City street or right-of-way, improvements to the roadway and the location and design of any street or driveway providing access from the City street shall comply with City standards and requirements. A permit for the proposed access or improvements shall be required to have been approved by the City and incorporated into the construction drawings for the project prior to issuance of a development permit by the City.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.09 - Super Elevation and Run-Off
Widening sections along existing streets shall be designed reflecting existing curvature and super elevation, if any, unless the existing street has been included in a specific design by the City, CDOT and/or GDOT which calls for different standards, in which case the project will be coordinated with the overall design (excluding local residential streets).
Roadway edge curves shall be provided for tangent run out (bringing edge from a normal crown to centerline elevation) and super elevation run-off (from the end of tangent run out to the point of design super elevation) in accordance with design standards of AASHTO, latest edition.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.10 - Unimproved Road
If a subdivision and/or development have access to a substandard street (i.e., a dirt or gravel road), the following improvements shall be considered through a Development Agreement:
A.
If the abutting substandard street provides the primary means of access to the development and is dirt or gravel, the developer shall upgrade the street to the classification of the roadway from the end of the improvements required to the nearest standard paved road along the route of primary access.
B.
Where lots do not front onto, but the access is other than primary, in addition to the road widening requirements abutting the development access, a drainage ditch, shoulder, and adequate base shall be provided and the roadway shall be paved to a minimum width of twenty-six (26) feet.
C.
Where lots do not front onto, but the access is other than primary, in addition to the road off-site improvements required above, shall at a minimum result in a full-section roadway meeting the requirements of a local residential rural roadway of twenty-six (26) feet, edge to edge of pavement, with drainage ditches as needed. Responsibilities shall be as follows:
1.
The developer shall design the road and provide the labor, equipment, and materials required for roadway improvements and necessary drainage improvements.
2.
All rights-of-way required for these off-site improvements shall be considered in the Development Agreement.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.11 - Intersection Design
For an intersection that contains at least one street classified in the Major Thoroughfare Plan, refer to Section 6.04.00.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.12 - Angle of Intersection
Intersections shall be at right angles and shall not be at an angle of less than 75° for reasons of safety, topography, interference with utilities, or separation from other driveways.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.13 - Intersection Radius
Intersection radii for all streets shall be measured at the back of curb or edge of pavement, if no curb exists. The minimum roadway radii for the intersection of local and residential collector streets, is 25 feet. When a local or residential collector intersects a higher classification of roadway, the radii shall be a minimum of 30 feet. Larger radii may be required for streets intersecting at an angle of less than 90° or when a vehicle and operating circumstances dictate. The radii can be reduced a maximum of five feet for the following reasons:
1.
Separation from street or
2.
Removal of obstruction
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.14 - Intersection/Corner Sight Distance
A.
Intersections shall be designed with adequate corner sight distance for each street, which approaches a street of higher street category. Where necessary, back slopes shall be flattened and horizontal or vertical curves lengthened.
B.
The minimum corner sight distance requirement shall be calculated per Chapter 6 of the UDC.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.15 - Vertical Alignment/Intersection Approaches
A.
For the intersections of local and residential collector streets, a leveling of the street at a grade not exceeding 2 percent shall be provided for a minimum tangent length of 25 feet. Exemptions are allowed for topographic considerations as determined by the design professional and the Public Works Director.
B.
As a street approaches an intersection with a street classified in the Major Thoroughfare Plan, the approach shall be in accordance with the CDOT standards.
C.
Tangent length is measured from edge of pavement of the intersecting street to the point of curvature in the approaching street.
D.
This grade for the landing may be 1 percent.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.16 - Horizontal Alignment/Intersection Approaches
A.
New local streets, which approach an intersection with a street in a higher category on a horizontal curve having a centerline radius less than 240 feet, shall provide a tangent section of roadway at least 30 feet long. The tangent length shall be measured along the centerline of the street from the right-of-way line of the intersecting street extending to the point of tangency with the centerline of the curve section.
B.
Minor and Major Collector classified streets in the Major Thoroughfare Plan shall provide tangent sections at intersections with streets in equal or higher categories as needed to provide adequate stopping sight distances at their design speeds as stated in Chapter 6, Maximum Grades.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.17 - Storm Water Design for Intersections
For intersections classified under the Major Thoroughfare Plan, sheet or concentrated flows of water will not be permitted through the intersection.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.18 - New/Proposed Streets—General
A.
All proposed new streets shall be designed and constructed to the standards contained in these Regulations in accordance with the classification of said streets.
B.
The arrangement of local streets shall permit practical patterns, shapes, and sizes of development parcels. Street layout must strike a balance with proposed land use so as to not unduly hinder the development of land. Distances between streets, angles of intersections, numbers of streets, and related elements all have a bearing on efficient lot layout of an area.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.19 - Local Residential Streets
A.
Local streets shall be so laid out that cut through routes are not created. Where this cannot be accomplished optional traffic calming features will be considered by the Public Works Director.
B.
Local residential streets shall be 26 feet wide as measured from back of curb to back of curb. This provides for an 11-foot lane in each travel direction.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.20 - Non-Residential Local Streets
Local non-residential streets shall be laid out so that use by through traffic will be discouraged. The functional and operational characteristics of the roadway shall be to provide access to adjacent non-residential lots.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.21 - Minor and Major Collector Streets
Collector streets shall be provided to channel through traffic movements within a development as part of or in addition to the current thoroughfare network. Actual classification of said roadway will be determined by the Public Works Director after review of the functional and operational characteristics of the roadway and adequate traffic study including, but not limited to trip generation data, as provided by the developer.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.22 - Private Streets
A.
The developer shall grant such easements as required to the appropriate governing authority or Utility Company as is necessary for public purposes.
B.
The private road must not unreasonably restrict public access to sites of cultural, historical, or natural significance, previously established pedestrian access and must not have unreasonable negative effects on the health and welfare of the community or the good order of the City.
C.
All private streets should have a minimum right-of-way of as noted in Section 6.02.01
D.
All private streets shall be built to City Public Street standards
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.23 - Street Names and Addresses
A.
Street Names. The Community Development Department has the responsibility of maintaining the street addressing system throughout the city, and coordinates with the following: Atlanta Gas Light Co., Atlanta Regional Commission, AT&T Broadband, BellSouth, Cobb EMC, Cobb County Fire Department , Cobb County Schools, Cobb County Tax Assessor's Department, Cobb County Water Department, Cobb County Voters registration, Georgia Power Co., U.S. Post Office, City of Kennesaw 911 Emergency, Kennesaw Planning and Zoning Department, Kennesaw Public Works Department, Kennesaw Utility Billing Department, Kennesaw Parks and Recreation Department, and Kennesaw Business License Department. The goal is to ensure that addresses are assigned and properly maintained in a logical, sequential order for the purposes of locating property anywhere in the county. An accurate addressing system facilitates quicker response times for emergency services, and provides efficient mail delivery. Correct property identification is also necessary for locating utilities.
B.
Street numbers and addresses shall be assigned, changed and/or corrected where deemed necessary to assure the health, safety, and welfare of all City residents and property owners. Street numbers shall be posted and maintained in a prominent place on the property (i.e. Building façade, mail box, signage, etc.), which is visible from the street providing public access. The numbers shall be posted in the following manner:
1.
For residential properties, in figures at least one inch (1") high with a contrasting background; and
2.
For commercial properties, in figures at least two inches (2") high with a contrasting background.
C.
Cobb County and the City of Kennesaw utilizes a grid system for assigning street names and numbers. The reference point (or zero point) of the grid is located at the Marietta Square in the county seat of Marietta, Georgia. The base line between north and south part of the county is at Whitlock Avenue. The base line between the east and west part of the County is at Church Street. Directional base lines are extended to the county's boundaries thus creating four quadrants designed N.E., N.W., S.E., and S.W. Street numbers increase as one moves away from the base lines.
D.
Street Numbering Procedures. All property address numbers are assigned by the Community Development Department. Typically, a property located on the right side of a street is given an even number as numbers increase. Numbers are always referenced from the address grid base lines. Generally, address numbers will increase sequentially as they move away from the zero point and the base lines and will decrease as they move toward the zero point and the base lines.
E.
Street Naming and Selection Procedures
1.
All street names are subject to the approval of the Mayor and City Council. The following guidelines are used when assigning street names:
a.
Proposed streets that are obviously in alignment with other existing, named streets shall bear the names of such existing streets. Once a name is assigned to any alignment, it may not change anywhere along the extension of that alignment.
b.
Except within the same project, no proposed street name shall duplicate an existing street name within Cobb County regardless of the use of any suffix such as "street," "avenue," "boulevard," "drive," "place," "way," "court," or other designation.
c.
All streets shall bear the proper quadrant suffix (ie. N.E., N.W., S.E., S.W.).
d.
Proposed new names shall be reviewed for correct usage and reasonable meanings consistent with the language used. Such review shall also include correct spelling.
e.
Street names shall not include directional words such as north, south, east or west.
f.
A street name should be pleasant sounding, appropriate and easy to read so the public and children, in particular, can communicate the name in an emergency situation.
g.
Street names tending to be confused as homonyms (similar names spelled differently) are not acceptable.
h.
Names derived from a foreign language are unacceptable.
i.
Names that tend to be slurred, or have pronunciations that run together are unacceptable.
j.
Street names with the same theme (ie. flower, states, etc) are suggested for naming streets in an entire subdivision, as means of general identification, rather than duplicating the conventional name differentiated only by the street type (suffix).
F.
Addressing for Commercial Properties.
1.
A current "Full Site" Land Disturbance Permit (LDP) for the parcel proposed for development must be issued by the Community Development Department. This is required before a request for a street address will be processed. An approved copy of the site plans for the project must be presented at the time of application, or the 6-digit LDP number must be made available for reference.
2.
A field check of the property may be necessary if a proper address cannot be established. Property is typically identified by legal description (i.e. land district, land lot and parcel location). The site plans for a project are examined; the property is located on the tax map; and the correct address number range is established.
3.
A street number conforming to sequential order established by the grid system is selected. If the number has not been duplicated anywhere in the city, an official property address is issued to the parcel.
G.
Addressing for residential properties. For new residential subdivision, street names are determined during the preliminary plat review and approval process. Names are only approved if the street name, including street type (suffix) is unique within the city.
For a single family residential property located outside of a subdivision, the following process will apply:
1.
A site plan based on a recent survey must be provided. The tract must be a legal "lot of record" as recorded by plat in the Office of the Clerk of Superior Court.
2.
The site plan must be approved by the Community Development Department for applicable zoning requirements.
3.
The driveway location for the property must be approved by the Public Works Department for access onto a minor, major or arterial road.
4.
Since this type of tract is not typically a candidate for a LDP and does not come through the formal plan review process, it must be reviewed individually on a case by case basis. Each property is unique and may be subject to further review and requirements (i.e. City or State stream buffers, floodplain areas, variance stipulation, septic or sewer approval, etc.)
5.
A field check of the property may be necessary to ensure the new street address is in sequence. When appropriate number is determined, an official property address notice is issued.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.24 - Industrial Roads
6.02.25 - Cul-de-Sacs
A.
Dead end streets designed to have one end permanently closed shall provide a cul-de-sac turnaround. Cul-de-sacs shall conform to the layout and dimensional requirements as shown in the Standard Details - 104A, 104B, or 104C meet the design standards of 104A, 104B, or 104C with the exception for the standard 104D.
B.
Commercial cul-de-sacs shall have a minimum 50' paved radius. Industrial cul-de-sacs shall meet the same design standards but have a minimum 60' paved radius.
C.
Non-standard cul-de-sacs will be evaluated individually and may be constructed with a landscaped island (subject to approval by the Fire Marshall) to be maintained by the Homeowners Association in perpetuity.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.26 - Minimum Centerline Offsets and Intersection Separation
Streets shall either directly align or have offsets of a minimum of 125 feet for intersecting streets on opposite sides of the through street and a minimum of 250 feet for streets on the same side of the through street, as measured between centerlines of said streets.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
STREET GRADES AND DESIGN SPEEDS
6.02.27 - Minimum Grades
Minimum grade for all streets shall be 1½ percent. Grades of less than 1½ percent may be approved by the Public Works Director, based on adequate engineering designs, where at least 1½ percent cannot reasonably be achieved due to topographical limitations imposed by the land. In such cases, an as-built drawing and such computations as necessary shall be provided after construction to establish that the street will drain in accordance with these regulations. Street sections where unacceptable pooling, excessive spread at catch basins, or other hazardous conditions occur shall be reconstructed or otherwise improved to eliminate such conditions.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.28 - Maximum Grades
Maximum grade for all local residential streets shall be 18 percent. Grades between 14 and 18 percent shall require an "as graded" survey prior to the installation of the curb or utilities
EXPAND
Maximum Grades
Street Category Maximum Grade
Driveways 10%
Arterial 8%
Major Collector 10%
Minor Collector 12%
Local 18%
Non-Residential Local 14%
  Maximum grade on any cul-de-sac turnaround shall be limited by drainage concerns.
Maximum grade in excess of those listed above may be approved by the Public Works Director in order to address topographical safety, hydrological, and environmental concerns.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.29 - Vertical Alignment
Vertical alignment must be designed in conjunction with the horizontal alignment. All changes in street profile grades having an algebraic difference greater than 1 percent shall be connected by a parabolic curve.
Minimum safe stopping sight distance is a direct function of the design speed of 25 mph in residential and 35 mph in local, non-residential, and commercial areas. A height of eye of 3½ feet and height of object of ½-foot is used to determine safe stopping sight distance. See Standard Detail 108.
The minimum length of vertical curve required for safe stopping sight distance shall be calculated using AASHTO "Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets", latest edition.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.30 - Horizontal Alignment
For streets classified by the Major Thoroughfare Plan, see Cobb County Development Standards Section 401.20.
HORIZONTAL CURVES
EXPAND
Street Category Minimum Radius (ft) Maximum Superelevation
Local 100 Normal Crown
Non-Residential Local 150 Normal Crown
Non-Residential Collector AASHTO Normal Crown
  A minimum tangent is required between reverse curves to facilitate steering and control. Between reverse horizontal curves there shall be not less than the minimum centerline tangents shown in the following table. Compound radii curves are prohibited, except local residential streets.
TANGENTS
EXPAND
Street Category Minimum Tangent Length
Local 50 Feet
Minor and Major Collector 100 Feet
Non-Residential Local 75 Feet
  (Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.31 - Pavement Specifications
MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS*
EXPAND
Street Category Base Asphalt Base Binder Topping E or F
Arterial 10" GAB 4" A.C. 2" B 1½"
Major Collector 8" GAB 3" A.C. 2" B 1½"
Minor Collector 8" GAB 2" A.C. 2" B 1½"
Industrial 10" GAB 4" A.C. 3" B 1½"
Local 6" GAB 2" A.C. 1½" B 1½"
  * NOTE: Unless otherwise specified by Public Works, CDOT or GDOT.
Pavement of sections of existing roads of less than 4' in width which cannot be properly compacted, shall have a minimum of 6" Class "B" concrete base and 1" asphaltic topping.
Engineers can submit alternate but equivalent pavement designs.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.32 - Curbs and Gutters
All new streets or street widening sections shall be provided with curb and gutter. All gutters shall drain positively with no areas of ponding.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.33 - Curbing
A.
Concrete shall be Class "A" (as defined by GDOT) and have a minimum strength of 3,000 psi at 28 days.
B.
Typical minimum section (residential subdivision only) shall be 6" x 24" x 12" for vertical curb (see Standard Detail 106) unless otherwise specified by CDOT or GDOT. A six (6") inches by thirty (30") inches by twelve (12") inches section may be required on non-residential local and collector roads.
C.
½-inch expansion joints or pre-molded bituminous expansion joint material shall be provided at all structures and radius points and at intervals not to exceed 250 feet in the remainder of the curb and gutter as shown on Standard Detail 106.
D.
When the development ties into existing curbing, the curb and gutter shall match the existing width.
E.
Where driveway access must be made through existing curbing, the curbing must be saw cut 2' wider than the driveway throat on either side and the driveway throat curbing extended to the point of saw cut and completed with a finished joint.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.34 - Minimum Grades
Curb and gutter shall be set true to line and the grade of the street, horizontally field staked, and finished to the section shown on the plans. Along the widening section of a road, which Public Works has identified for resurfacing within one year of the construction, the grade of the new gutter shall be placed one inch above the widening pavement grade in areas where drainage will not be adversely affected.
Line and grade shall be set by developers' engineer or surveyor.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.35 - Other Requirements
Inferior workmanship or unprofessional construction methods resulting in unacceptable curb and gutter will be cause for rejection of the finished work.
Disturbed areas along all curbing shall be back-filled, stabilized, and grassed.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.36 - Sub-Grade Preparation
A.
Sub-grade preparation on all non-local streets shall be in accordance with GDOT specifications and these regulations. Sub-grade preparation for local streets shall meet and pass proof roll testing.
B.
If any section of the sub-grade is composed of topsoil, organic, or other unsuitable or unstable material, such material shall be removed and replaced with suitable material and then thoroughly compacted as specified for fill, or stabilized with stone or a geo-textile or geo-grid.
C.
Fill shall be placed in uniform, horizontal layers not more than eight inches thick (loose measurement). Moisture content shall be adjusted as necessary to compact material to 95 percent of maximum dry density except for the top twelve inches, which shall be compacted to 100 percent of maximum dry density.
D.
After the earthwork has been completed, all storm drainage, water, and sanitary sewer utilities have been installed within the right-of-way as appropriate, and the back-fill in all such ditches thoroughly compacted, the sub-grade shall be brought to the lines, grades, and typical roadway section shown on the plans.
E.
Utility trenches cut in the sub-grade shall be back-filled as specified herein. Compaction tests at the rate of one per 150 feet of trench shall be provided to verify compaction.
F.
The sub-grade must pass proof roll testing regardless of compaction test prior to placement of the base material. With the approval of the Kennesaw Public Works and Community Development Department, a geo-textile or grid may be used to stabilize a sub-grade that does not pass proof-rolling.
G.
Provisions shall be made to drain low points in the road construction when the final paving is delayed. A break in the berm section is required when the curbing has not been constructed. After installation, drainage under the curb is required.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.37 - Signing and Striping
Traffic Control Devices (signs and pavement markings) are normally provided by the City for local residential streets to be dedicated to the City for maintenance. On major thoroughfares, non-residential development, and private roads signs and pavement markings are to be provided by the developer. Traffic control devices must comply with the MUTCD and be approved by Public Works. No traffic control devices shall be installed without prior approval by Public Works. The developer shall provide and install all traffic control devices (signs and pavement), marking for streets not dedicated to the City for maintenance. All traffic control devices must comply with the MUTCD, City, CDOT, and GDOT design and installation standards. Decorative sign ownership and maintenance of these traffic control devices shall be transferred to the Home Owners Association at an appropriate time.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.38 - Street Signs
Streets dedicated to the City for maintenance shall be identified by signage of white lettering on green background. Private owned/maintained streets shall be identified by signage having white lettering on blue background.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.39 - Blocks
A.
The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be determined with regard to:
1.
Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs of the type of use contemplated;
2.
Zoning requirements as to lot sizes and dimensions, unless a planned unit development is contemplated;
3.
Needs for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of street traffic; and
4.
Limitations and opportunities of topography.
B.
In general, residential blocks shall not be greater than 1,800 feet in length or less than 600 feet in length. In blocks over 1,000 feet long, the planning commission may, when existing or proposed public gathering places so justify, require public crosswalks across the block.
C.
The depth of residential blocks shall be sufficient to allow two tiers of lots, unless prohibited by natural or manmade barriers, or unless one tier backs onto a line of another person's property, provided that this shall not prevent the inclusion with the subdivision plan of blocks of greater width including super blocks. Super blocks may contain public or joint use areas, such as parks and playgrounds, and shall be covered by adequate maintenance agreements if not dedicated and accepted for public maintenance.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.02.40 - Lots
A.
Insofar as practical, side lot lines shall be perpendicular or radial to street lines. Each lot shall abut upon a public street.
B.
The size, shape and orientation of every lot shall be subject to approval of the planning commission for the type of development and use contemplated. No lot shall be more than six times as deep as it is wide at the building setback line, unless excepted by the planning commission.
C.
Every residential lot shall conform to the minimum dimension and area requirements of the zoning ordinance, provided that every lot not served by a public sewer or community sanitary sewage system and/or public water shall meet the dimension and area requirements of the health department.
D.
Additional building setback lines shall conform to front yard and building setback requirements of the zoning ordinance, unless excepted by the planning commission.
E.
Size, shape and arrangement of commercial and industrial lots, where platted, shall be subject to the approval of the planning commission, provided that approval is not granted under the provisions of section 80-114.
F.
Double frontage, unless required by the planning commission, shall be prohibited except where essential to provide separation of residential development from traffic arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography orientation and property size. A planting screen reservation of at least ten feet, and across which there shall be no right of access, may be required along the line of lots abutting such a traffic artery or other disadvantageous use.
G.
Lot remnants (lots below minimum area or width left over after subdividing tracts of land) shall be prohibited. Such remnant areas shall be added to adjacent lots, rather than remain as unusable parcels.
H.
The subdividing of the land shall be such as to provide each lot with direct abutting access to an existing public street or to a street contained within the proposed subdivision.
I.
The subdividing of land adjacent to or surrounding an existing or proposed lake shall be such that lots abutting the lake shall be drawn to the centerline of the lake. Such requirements may be waived upon submittal to the planning commission of an acceptable method for the maintenance of the lake and any recreational operations to be provided thereon.
(Ord. No. 2018-21, § 1(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
6.03.00 - STREET LIGHTS[14]

Footnotes:
--- (14) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2018-07, adopted April 2, 2018, amended § 6.03.00 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former § 6.03.00 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 95-11, §§ 2—5, 7—9, 12, adopted May 1, 1995; and Ord. No. 2007-09, § 1, adopted Feb. 5, 2007.

6.03.01 - Street Light District
(a)
Authority: The governing authority of the City of Kennesaw is granted supplementary powers pursuant to Ga. Const. Art. IX, § II, ¶ 3(a)(4) to provide street light services within corporate limits. Further, the City is granted powers with respect to its municipal street system to provide lighting on any public road located within its corporate limits. O.C.G.A. § 32-4-92(a)(9). Further, Ga. Const. Art. IX, § II, ¶ VI permits the City to create a special district for the provision of local government services within such district and allows a fee to be collected within such district to pay, wholly or partially, the cost of providing such services therein. Such special district may be created and fees collected by municipal ordinance.
(b)
Purpose: The governing authority of the City of Kennesaw does hereby declare that it shall promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the City by providing for street lights in public rights-of-way. The governing authority of the City finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of Kennesaw and to those visiting the City of Kennesaw that the City provide a street light system that is functional, operational, aesthetically pleasing and uniform throughout the City. The maintenance of street lights in the public rights-of-way provides illumination for vehicular and pedestrian commuters in the City to navigate and travel to and from their respective destinations along and across the public rights-of-way during non-daylight hours. Further, street lights provide illumination for citizens to access (ingress and egress) and frequent commercial and residential establishments within the City during non-daylight hours. Further, the illumination provided by street lights during non-daylight hours may help to reduce crime by discouraging criminal behavior in areas that are lighted throughout areas of the City. The City finds that the cost to provide street lights within the City rights-of-way should be borne by all property owners that receive the public benefit of street lights Citywide.
(c)
Creation: The governing authority of the City does hereby create a special street light district pursuant to Ga. Const. Art. IX, § II, ¶ VI as amended from time to time. The boundaries of said district are the same as the corporate limits of the City of Kennesaw as they currently exist on the date of the adoption of this ordinance.
(d)
Annexation and Deannexation: Upon the annexation of any territory into the City following the adoption of this ordinance, the boundaries of the street light district shall extend to include the territory so annexed and all territory so annexed shall thereafter be subject to the terms of this article. Upon the dennaxation of any territory out of the City, the boundaries of the street light district shall be reduced to exclude the territory so deannexed and all territory so deannexed shall thereafter not be subject to the terms of this article.
(e)
Cost: The governing authority of the City does hereby declare that the cost for the creation and maintenance of the street light district shall be a service, as authorized by Ga. Const. Art. IX, § II, ¶ VI, and not a tax. A street light district special revenue fund shall be created and revenues from the street light district program will be deposited into that special revenue fund. Such revenue shall be used exclusively for any direct and indirect costs and expenses related to the City's street light district program, including but not limited to, the cost to purchase street lights on the public right-of-way and to supply electricity to street lights in the public right-of-way in the district.
(f)
Service Fee: Each owner of each parcel of land contained in the street light district, unless exempted herein, is required to pay a monthly service fee to the City's street light district special revenue fund, as such fee is determined from time to time by the Mayor and City Council. A 'parcel of land' or 'parcel' for purposes of this Article means any plot, lot, or acreage shown as a unit on the latest county tax assessment records that has its own individually assigned tax parcel number.
(g)
Calculation of Service Fee: The fee calculation for each parcel will be based on the amount the City actually paid to Georgia Power Company and Cobb EMC for street light services and structures during the twelve months preceding each budget year for which the fee is calculated and approved by the Mayor and City Council.
(1)
The manner in which the parcel is developed will determine the method of calculation to determine the amount of the service fee. The Public Works Director will take an annual inventory of all property types throughout the City including commercial (single and multi-unit parcels), industrial (single and multi-unit parcels), residential (single and multi-unit parcels) and institutional;
(2)
All single family residential parcels will be charged a flat fee;
(3)
All multi-family parcels will be charged a flat fee based on the number of units developed on that parcel minus 10% (to account for non-leased or vacant units);
(4)
All commercial, industrial, and institutional parcels (single parcel and multi-unit parcels) will be charged a per-acre fee based on the average number of total units developed divided by the total number of acres.
(h)
Exemptions: The following parcels are exempt from having to pay the street light service fee: (1) any parcel of land that is undeveloped; (2) any parcel of land that is developed but which has not obtained a certificate of occupancy at the time the fee is collected by the City; (3) any parcel of land whose owner has obtained a temporary suspension by the Director of Public Works; and 4) parcels that comprise common areas owned by homeowner and property owner associations.
(1)
Temporary Suspension: A single family residential parcel, a single commercial parcel, a single industrial parcel, or a single institutional parcel of land that is developed but not occupied for more than three consecutive months is eligible for a temporary suspension by the Director of Public Works from the monthly street light district fee. Process: An owner or owner's representative may make application with the Director on forms provided by the Department for the temporary suspension. The application shall include an affirmative and sworn statement by the parcel owner, or his/her representative, that the property will be unoccupied and vacant for at least three consecutive months.
(2)
Expiration: The suspension under this section automatically expires whenever the parcel becomes occupied or within twelve months following the granting of the suspension, whichever occurs first. To the extent the property remains unoccupied upon the expiration of the suspension, a new application for a temporary suspension must be filed with the Department in order to remain suspended from the payment of the fee.
(3)
Resuming collection: Once the suspension under this section expires, the City shall thereafter resume collection of the monthly service fee to the City's street light district special revenue fund for that parcel.
(4)
No retroactive application: Fee waivers shall not apply retroactively and the City is under no obligation to refund the special street light district fees already received.
(i)
Administrative Remedy for multi-family residential parcel whose vacancy rate based on non-leased units is more than 10%: An owner or owner's representative of a multi-family residential parcel whose vacancy rate based on non-leased units is more than 10% for six consecutive months may make application with the Public Works Director for an adjustment of its monthly fee to be based on number of units actually occupied. The request for adjustment shall include an affirmative and sworn statement by the parcel owner, or his or her representative, that the multi-unit residential parcel has more than 10% of its units vacant based on non-leased units for six consecutive months. To the extent that an adjustment is made by the Public Works Director, the adjusted monthly fee is effective for six months.
(j)
Collection: The City shall collect the street light service fee on all non-exempt parcels through the City's monthly billing statement.
(1)
The street light district service account shall be in the name of the parcel owner, even if the structure located on the parcel is leased to a tenant. The parcel owner shall be responsible for paying the monthly fee.
(2)
The fee shall be paid by the due date and interest may accrue and be assessed against the parcel's account for all payments made after the due date. A service charge shall be assessed for all dishonored checks or dishonored credit card charges in the amount equal to any charge incurred by the City in connection with same.
(3)
If the account becomes delinquent for more than four months, a lien may be placed against the parcel and any further delinquencies may result in the City foreclosing on the property.
(Ord. No. 2018-07, 4-2-18)
6.03.02 - Conformance by developers; acceptance of public right-of-way
(a)
The owner, developer, or any other person or entity developing a subdivision, a shopping center, industrial park, office park, apartment complex or like development constructing new streets or roads to be dedicated to the City or utilize existing City roads or any combination thereof shall be required to provide street lights which conform to all standards provided in this article.
(b)
The City will not accept any streets for dedication unless the provisions of this article are complied with. The Public Works Director shall not recommend the acceptance of any public streets or roads proposed to be dedicated to the City for perpetual ownership and maintenance until such time as the street lights conform to the approval street light layout. Unless waived by the Public Works Director, the developer, at the time of submitting the final plat to the City, shall:
(1)
Submit a final street light layout prepared by the utility company which will provide the lighting service showing the exact location of street lights within the development. For residential subdivisions, this drawing must be approved by the public works department prior to obtaining any building permit within the subdivision. For nonresidential developments, the drawing must be approved by the public works department and payment made for installation of standards/poles prior to acceptance by the city of any streets or roads for public maintenance. Fixtures and standards/poles installed or used shall be approved by the utility company, which will be responsible for the maintenance of the facilities.
(2)
Pay all costs for standards/poles, fixtures and any other related items or materials necessary for the installation.
(3)
Submit proof of payment for complete installation to the public works department.
(4)
Submit a copy of an executed agreement with the utility company for complete maintenance of all installations.
(5)
Submit an executed contract between the homeowners' association and an independent electrical contractor for complete maintenance and/or replacement of such lighting, equipment and wiring.
(6)
The following requirements are minimum requirements pertaining to street lighting. The Public Works Department or the City may require additional information or conditions prior to final approval:
i)
Lighting plan drawn to scale showing the location of all proposed lights, including all nearby City and County streets;
ii)
Arrangement of all poles;
iii)
Height of all poles;
iv)
Type of electrical service (underground or overhead);
v)
Number of luminaries per pole;
vi)
Mounting heights of luminaries;
vii)
Wattage of proposed lights;
viii)
Mounting angle of fixtures;
ix)
Lamp source to be used;
x)
Photograph of the light to be utilized must be attached to the final plans.
(Ord. No. 2018-07, 4-2-18)
6.03.03 - Standards; Approval by Director
(a)
Safe Use of Roadways: Street lights to be installed within or outside of public rights-of-way for whatever purpose shall be installed and operated in such a manner so as to prevent glare from being a nuisance, or creating a hazard, or interfering with the normal use of adjacent residential property or the public rights-of-way. Lighting shall be established in such a way that the quiet use and enjoyment of adjacent properties are not adversely affected, and that roadways and safe use thereof are not adversely affected.
(b)
Illumination:
1.
In order to ensure adequate illumination of public rights-of-way and promote safety and security, the American National Standard Practice for Roadway Lighting of the Illuminating Engineering Society, as approved by the American National Standards Institute latest edition, as amended, is adopted as the standard for the installation and operation of lighting in the City on rights-of-way in the City, subject to the following recommended minimum standards.
2.
A .2 minimum foot candle level is recommended for pedestrian lighting and street scape lighting projects.
3.
A 1.0 minimum foot candle level is recommended for parking areas and multi-family residential developments using mounting heights in the range of 25-30 feet using an LED fixture. A .5 minimum foot candle level is recommended for parking areas and multi-family residential developments using a decorative post top style lighting application.
(c)
Subdivisions: The lighting plan shall provide that lighting be located at all subdivision entrances, cul-de-sacs, and intersections and pole locations every third lot line, as such location is permissible by the design.
(d)
Mounting Height: The fixtures shall be mounted on a minimum of 16 and 25 feet above the ground for post top and regular street lamps, respectively, and each fixture shall have appropriate arm length to illuminate the street. Mounting heights in subdivisions should not exceed 16 feet.
(e)
Lights at Intersections: The City may require, in addition to other requirements, a light to be located at any or all street intersections within any development.
(f)
Parking lots: In order to ensure adequate illumination of parking lots and promote safety and security, the Parking Lot Design Guide standards set forth for Basic Enhanced Security, Security, and High Security as set forth in the Illuminating Engineering Society Lighting Handbook (IESNA), latest edition, as amended, is adopted a the standard for the installation and operating of lighting in parking lots in the City.
(g)
Discretion to Approve Plans: Notwithstanding the objective standards contained in this ordinance, the Director is authorized, in his or her discretion, to vary from those standards and approve lighting plans that are consistent with the objectives and goals of this ordinance, which include, but are not limited to: 1) to locate street lights on lot lines; 2) to eliminate glare of lights existing on commercial property to negatively impact the use and enjoyment of adjacent residentially used property; 3) to provide adequate illumination for safe use of streets, sidewalks and parking areas; and 4) to maintain uniform and aesthetically pleasing lighting system throughout the City.
(Ord. No. 2018-07, 4-2-18)
6.03.04 - Appeal
Any applicant aggrieved by a decision of the Director made under this Article may appeal that decision to the Board of Construction Appeals pursuant to Section 10.05.01 of the Unified Development Code within 30 days of the Director's decision. Any such appeal shall be made in writing and sent via statutory overnight delivery to the Director.
(Ord. No. 2018-07, 4-2-18)
6.04.00 - MAJOR THOROUGHFARES

6.04.01 - Process
Roadways, streets, or highways that are shown on the Cobb County Major Thoroughfare Plan to be classified as arterials, major collectors, or minor collectors shall conform to this section. Also, new roadways that the County determines to be classified as major thoroughfares shall conform to this section. All roadways proposed for industrial use shall conform to this section.
Because major thoroughfares carry a higher volume of traffic and a higher rate of speed than the lower classified roadways, the planning, design, and construction of these roadways must conform to higher standards.
A.
New, modified, or improved major thoroughfares must be coordinated with the existing Major Thoroughfare Plan and all future planned roadways on file with the County, State, or City.
B.
The design of the roadway shall be performed by an engineering firm pre-qualified with CDOT and/or GDOT who shall become pre-qualified prior to performing the services involved. Both maintains a list of pre-qualified engineering firms for all the categories of roadway, bridge, environmental, surveying, traffic engineering, and geotechnical services involved with roadway projects.
C.
The plan review process shall be as follows:
1.
Concept Plan & Traffic Study
2.
Preliminary Engineering
3.
Right-of-Way Plans
4.
Final Construction Plans (including pavement design)
D.
Plans shall conform to the CDOT, GDOT Specifications, and AASHTO Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets. The design shall utilize the GDOT construction standards and details.
E.
If the County is to fund, participate, or otherwise share the cost of any part of the construction of the roadway or related infrastructure, the design services must conform to Cobb's standard Consultant Services Agreement, latest revision.
F.
If the County is to administer the construction contract (bid the project) the plans shall be prepared in accordance with all chapters of the Cobb DOT Roadway Plans Preparation Manual, latest edition.
6.04.02 - Specifications
Specifications and design criteria stated herein are for planning purposes. Design exceptions will be considered on a case-by-case basis and it is the responsibility of the developer and his engineer to identify the exceptions in the concept and preliminary design stages. Exceptions/variances will be subject to approval by the Public Works Director.
A.
Right-of-Way
MINIMUM RIGHT-OF-WAY PER ROADWAY CLASSIFICATION
EXPAND
FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION RIGHT-OF-WAY, TOTAL WIDTH
Arterial - 5 lane 100'
Arterial - 4 lane divided 110'
Major Collector 80'
Minor Collector 60'
  1.
Additional right-of-way width may be required to be dedicated at intersections or other locations where turning lanes, medians, traffic signal poles and controllers, or other improvements are required and the minimum right-of-way standard would be inadequate to accommodate the improvements.
2.
For existing roadways being improved or modified where the proposed centerline of the pavement to right-of-way is less than ½ the width shown herein, the additional width will be required for all property fronting the roadway.
3.
Right-of-way mitres are required at all intersections and are dependent on the size of the intersection curb radii.
4.
Permanent and temporary easements will be required and shall conform to the City of Kennesaw UDC Standards.
5.
Deeding of right-of-way is covered in Dedication of Right-of-Way and Easements Section.
B.
Roadway/Lane Width
1.
Roadway widths curb, and gutter dimensions are based on the Functional Classification of the Roadway. Lane widths for non-residential roads shall be (13) thirteen feet unless otherwise approved by the Public Works Director.
2.
One way, single access lane shall be (20) twenty feet back of curb to back of curb, unless otherwise approved by the Public Works Director.
3.
If any part of the roadway improvements is within the limits of CDOT and/or GDOT jurisdiction, the lane widths shall comply with the County's or State's requirements.
4.
For right-of-way and lane width requirements for multi-lane urban section streets, see Standard Details.
C.
Intersection Design
1.
Angle of intersection
2.
Intersections for new roadways shall not be at an interior angle less than 85° unless the intersection is otherwise warranted and approved for a stop-and-go traffic signal in which case the minimum angle shall be 80°.
3.
Intersections of existing roadways shall be reviewed on a case-by-case basis using AASHTO, latest edition guidelines.
4.
Intersection radius
5.
Intersections radii for new roadways shall be as follows:
35' for Minor Collectors
40' for Major Collectors
50' for Arterials
6.
Larger radii will be required if channelized right turn lanes are proposed.
7.
Larger radii will be required if the intersecting angle of the roadways is less than 85°.
8.
Traffic Signals
9.
Intersections on thoroughfares with another roadway classified as a major thoroughfare shall require a traffic study utilizing Highway Capacity Software and the MUTCD, latest editions, signal warrants. Additional intersections may require a traffic study pursuant to Cobb County or GDOT traffic study requirements.
6.04.03 - Maximum Grades and Super elevation
EXPAND
FUNCTIONAL
CLASSIFICATION SUPERELEVATION (emax) MAX. GRADE
URBAN RURAL
Arterial .04 .06 8%
Major Collector .04 .06 10%
Minor Collector .04 .08 12%
  6.04.04 - Pavement Sections
(Per GDOT Specifications)
EXPAND
FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION STONE BASE ASPHALT BASE BINDER TOPPING
E OR F
Arterial or
Collectors 10" GAB 4" A.C. 2" B 1 1/2"
  * Additional structural pavement section may be required by Kennesaw Public Works.
6.04.05 - Bikeways
The Cobb County Bikeway Plan shall be reviewed by the developer and his engineer and incorporated into the concept stage of the plan preparation. If bikeways are to be provided, three to four feet of additional pavement width on both sides of the roadway will be required. Additional right-of-way may be required. Residential subdivisions shall be excluded.
6.04.06 - Non-Motorized Accommodation
The City encourages non-motorized accommodation (i.e., bicycle, pedestrians, etc.) design in accordance with routes designated on the adopted Cobb County Bicycle Plan.
6.05.00 - ACCESS

6.05.01 - General
A.
Driveways provide access to property and are a service to the traveling public. However, vehicles entering or leaving driveways may disrupt the flow of traffic on streets and cause accidents, thereby infringing on the rights of the public to travel the roadway. All driveways should be restricted to locations where movements into and out of them can occur in a safe and orderly manner.
B.
Because of their simple appearance, driveways often do not receive sufficient design consideration. At the least, driveways should always be designed to eliminate or minimize opposite lane encroachment while entering and exiting property.
C.
All driveways are to be designed and constructed to provide turning radii for appropriate design vehicles sufficient to minimize adjacent lane encroachment. For commercial driveway requirements see Standard Detail 116.
D.
All driveways are to be designed and constructed with sidewalk transitions as appropriate.
E.
All driveways are to be considered low volume intersections and to comply with minimum Intersection/Corner Sight Distance requirements of these regulations.
F.
Additional guidance is available in GDOT document "Driveway and Encroachment Control".
6.05.02 - Access From Thoroughfare Streets
A.
In order to provide ease and convenience in ingress/egress to private property and the maximum safety with the least interference to the traffic flow on thoroughfares, there shall be the minimum number of access points to adequately serve the development. The number and location of driveways shall be regulated.
B.
When property frontage is less than 200 feet, only one driveway shall be considered for approval. Additional entrances/exits for property having street frontage in excess of 200 feet may be considered by Public Works Director upon a showing that such additional entrances/exits are necessary and would not increase traffic congestion or otherwise reduce the safety and convenience of the traveling public.
C.
To allow for proper corner clearance, the minimum tangent curb length between a driveway radius and an intersection shall be 100 feet.
D.
If the closest intersection is or is likely to be signalized, traffic movements to and from any driveway within 250 feet of an intersection with (as measured from the point of tangency) a collector or an arterial shall be limited to right turns only.
6.05.03 - Access Limitations for Development Adjacent to Thoroughfares
A.
All access points and driveways adjacent to thoroughfares may be subject to further restriction and consideration as may be deemed necessary by the CDOT and/or GDOT and/or Public Works Director to insure safe, functional design and efficient operation of the thoroughfares. A maximum number of 200 residential dwelling units shall be allowed one street outlet on an existing public street. If a second access to an existing public road is not available or, in the opinion of Public Works Director, would encourage non-residential traffic to traverse the development, a single entrance may be allowed if designed with sufficient right-of-way and improvements to provide a protected left-turn lane, subject to the approval of CDOT and/or GDOT.
B.
For non-residential developments, improvements to provide a separate left-turn lane shall be considered on a case-by-case basis.
C.
Access to all residential lots shall be from interior subdivision streets or roads where possible. Exceptions are subject to approval from the Public Works Director. Subdivisions of three or less lots may be exempted upon approval by the Public Works Director with proper consideration of safety, hydrological, and environmental concerns.
D.
Catch basins should not be installed within access/driveway radii (turning radii).
6.05.04 - Service Drives
A.
Where a development borders on or contains a limited access roadway right-of-way, or arterial road right-of-way, GDOT, CDOT, and/or Public Works Director may require a service drive or suitable provisions for future service drives approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way, at a distance suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land. Distances involving rights-of-way shall also be determined with due regard for the requirements of approach grades and future grade separations.
B.
All driveways along designated thoroughfares with existing or planned service roads shall access to such service roads. To gain temporary direct access to the thoroughfare, the developer shall construct the section of the service road adjacent to the development. The service road section shall be located where planned. Any right-of-way not previously dedicated shall be dedicated prior to consideration of a temporary driveway approval providing direct access to the thoroughfare.
6.05.05 - Driveways; Permit to Construct
A.
It shall be unlawful for any property owner, lessee or tenant to construct, establish, open, grade or cause to have constructed, or in any manner to form or use a driveway or other opening from private property into any street, highway or thoroughfare in the City or entered upon across any sidewalk in the city, without first obtaining a permit for such work from the Public Works Director or his designee.
B.
When such permit is issued, the permittee shall conform to all requirements of the standard specifications of the City, Cobb County and Georgia Department of Transportation (GDOT) in use at the time for that portion of the driveway from the curb or gutter line to the property line, and such constructing party shall conform to all grades established and other special requirements in effect at the time.
C.
In no event, shall any driveway be constructed in the City so as to prevent or obstruct the free flow or passage of water in the gutters of any streets in the city, or in any streets themselves having no gutters constructed thereon.
MEDIAN OPENINGS
6.05.06 - Location
No median opening shall be spaced at a distance less than 660 feet from any other median opening (measured from nose to nose) unless specifically approved by the Public Works Director.
6.05.07 - Design Criteria
All median openings shall include at least 200 feet storage with 100 feet transition unless otherwise approved by the Public Works Director.
6.05.08 - Building Setbacks Adjacent to Thoroughfares
Any building constructed along a thoroughfare as defined by the Cobb County Major Thoroughfare Plan, latest edition, shall have a minimum setback from the required right-of-way as required by the UDC.
6.05.09 - Residential Driveway Standards
6.05.10 - Residential Driveways
Residential driveways provide a primary means of access to single-family residential uses.
Along collector and arterial roadways, residential driveways are to be designed and constructed to the following standards. GDOT Standard # 6050 may be substituted, if prior approval is made by the Public Works Director.
1.
Width - Minimum 12', Maximum 24' on right-of-way
2.
Radii or flare - Minimum 5'
3.
Spacing from street intersection - Minimum 50'
4.
Angle of intersection with street/roadway - Approximately right angled 80 o to 100 o
5.
Corner/intersection sight distance - To comply with corner/intersection sight distance requirements of roadway intersected with the driveway as per these regulations.
6.
Landing grade - Compatible with shoulder grade
7.
Length - A minimum of 25' or to the edge of the County or State, or City right-of-way, whichever is greater, shall be paved with a treated hardened surface.
8.
Maximum 10 percent on driveways.
Rural residential driveways may be constructed with an asphalt pavement section, if approved by the Public Works Director.
6.05.11 - Driveway Drainage Pipes
A residential driveway constructed at a location along a roadway shall have a ditch along the roadside for the purpose of collecting, channeling, and controlling storm water runoff. In addition to the design and construction requirements, rural residential driveways shall be constructed with culverts to conduct storm water underneath the driveway and shall be:
1.
Concrete pipe, or other type of culvert approved by the Public Works Director;
2.
Sized to accommodate the 25-year storm, as a minimum;
3.
Provided with flare-end/or headwall sections at the inlet and outlet;
4.
Of sufficient length to accommodate a minimum of 2-foot shoulders at each end of the driveway with a maximum side slope of 3:1 to the bottom of the ditch line; and,
5.
Installed in a ditch of minimum 2-foot wide flat bottom with sides sloped at a grade no greater than 2:1 stabilized with acceptable vegetation.
6.05.12 - Non-Residential Driveways
Driveways servicing developments shall provide uninterrupted ingress/egress to and from the site. The minimum distance required is measured from the street right-of-way line at the ingress/egress to the outer edge of any interior service drive or parking space with direct access to such driveway as measured perpendicularly from the street. The length of the uninterrupted ingress/egress is determined by the maximum peak hour volume of the facility in which the driveway is provided and as shown in the table below. The developer shall provide this information.
EXPAND
MAXIMUM PEAK HOUR VOLUME UNINTERRUPTED INGRESS/EGRESS
UP TO 50 VEHICLES 25'
50 TO 150 VEHICLES 50'
150 TO 500 100'
500 and Up 150'
  Non-residential driveways shall not be designed or marked to allow more than one lane of traffic to exit onto a street simultaneously, unless such driveway is channelized in accordance with traffic engineering design principles as applicable when designing channelized street intersections.
As may be requested, left-turn driveway lanes shall be a minimum of 12 feet wide and provide a minimum 150 feet storage with 100 feet transition.
Non-Residential driveways are to be constructed to the following standards:
1. Width - Minimum 24' two way access
*Maximum 32' two way access
Minimum 14' one-way access
Maximum 18' one-way access
2. Radii - Minimum 30'
Maximum 50'
3.
Spacing from street intersection - Minimum one hundred (100) feet tangent
4.
Composition - Shall meet or exceed the same specification as the connecting public roadway
5.
Drainage - Consistent with existing drainage plan of the connecting public roadway unless other improvements are required for safety, hydrological and environmental considerations
6.
Angle of intersection with roadway - Approximately right angled 80 o to 100 o
7.
Corner/intersection sight distance - To comply with corner/intersection sight distance requirements of roadway intersected with the driveway as per these regulations
8.
Landing grade - +2 percent of intersecting roadway within the right-of-way
Driveway designs other than as provided within these regulations, i.e., median divided or additional lanes, are subject to consideration of the CDOT, GDOT, or Public Works Department.
6.05.13 - Acceleration/Deceleration Lanes/Roadway Improvements Along Existing Streets
A.
The City shall require a deceleration and/or acceleration lane for all developments unless otherwise approved by the Public Works Director. Requirements for constructing the lane(s), by the Public Works Department includes (but are not limited to) sight distance, posted speed limit, classification of the existing street, volumes on the existing street, volumes to be generated by the development, vertical curvature, horizontal curvature, length of property road frontage, hydrological, and environmental concerns.
B.
During the evaluation of the development's entrance, additional improvements, such as tapers, left turn lanes, bypass lanes, median modification, or other facilities, may be required to enhance safety and operations. The developer should contact Kennesaw Public Works Department at the earliest possible time to request the evaluation so the appropriate construction plans are prepared and submitted through the plan review process.
6.06.00 - OFF-STREET PARKING FACILITIES
GENERAL DESIGN REQUIREMENTS

6.06.01 - Street Access
Each building shall be located on a lot or parcel, which abuts a public street for at least 50 feet. Access to a public street by means of a recorded access easement may be permitted if approved by the Zoning Administrator and Public Works Director.
6.06.02 - Street Access - Curb Cuts in Residential Districts
Curb cuts for service drives, entrances, exits, and other similar facilities on public streets in Residential Districts shall not be located within one hundred (100) feet of any intersection or within 40 feet of another curb cut. A curb cut shall be no greater than 40 feet in width and no closer than 20 feet to any property line.
6.06.03 - State Highway Department Approval
All entrances or exits of any street or drive, public or private, from or to any State highway shall be approved by GDOT prior to the construction of such street or drive, or the issuance of any development permit for any improvement to be served by such street or drive, but permit approval shall not be held longer than 30 days. A copy of the approval shall be provided to the Public Works Department before any work is done.
6.06.04 - Corner Visibility Clearance
In any district no fence, structure sign, planting, or other obstruction (above a height of three feet) shall be placed and/or maintained within 15 feet of the intersection of the right-of-way lines extended of two streets or of a street intersection with a railroad right-of-way.
6.06.05 - Off-Street Automobile Parking
Off-street automobile parking shall be provided in accordance with all applicable provisions of this section.
6.06.06 - Design Standards
All parking facilities, including entrances, exits, and maneuvering areas shall comply with the following provisions:
1.
Shall have access to a public street;
2.
Shall be graded and paved, including access drive(s), and be curbed when needed for effective drainage control;
3.
Shall have all spaces marked with paint lines, curbstones, or other similar designations;
a.
Each space set at a 90° angle shall have not less than 162 square feet and shall not be less than 8 feet 6 inches wide and 19 feet deep, exclusive of passageways, which shall be not less than 24 feet wide;
b.
Each space set at a 60° angle shall have not less than 176 square feet and shall be not less than 8 feet 6 inches wide and 20 feet 8 inches deep, exclusive of passageways, which shall be not less than 18 feet 6 inches wide; each space set at a 45° angle shall have not less than 165 square feet and shall be not less than 8 feet 6 inches wide and 19 feet 5 inches deep, exclusive of passageways, which shall be not less than 13 feet 6 inches wide;
4.
There shall be adequate interior drives to connect each space with a public street;
5.
Shall be drained to prevent damage to abutting properties or public streets;
6.
Lighting shall be provided if the facilities are to be used at night. Such lighting shall be arranged and installed not to reflect or causes glare on abutting properties or roadways and shall be subject to the lighting standards.
7.
Any parking areas within the required front yard of any RM or office district shall not be closer than ten feet to any public right-of-way.
8.
No parking or loading area shall be established in the required front yard of any "R" District except for a single-family residential use; no more than 35 percent of the required front yard may be used for parking and total impervious surface in such case.
9.
The parking area shall be separated from sidewalks and streets by a strip of land at least ten feet wide as measured from the edge of pavement reserved as open space and planted in grass.
10.
Surfaces for parking spaces and areas are to be installed by a professional contractor and have a smooth finish that does not create any tripping hazards or irregular textured surface that may cause injury.
11.
The provisions of subsections above shall not apply to single-family residential uses where three (3) or less spaces are required, except that it shall have access to a public street.
6.06.07 - Location
All parking facilities shall be located in accordance with the following provisions:
1.
The required space shall be provided on the same plot with the use it serves, except as provided herein;
2.
If vehicular parking or storage space required cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot on which the principal use is conducted, the Zoning Administrator and Public Works Director may permit such space to be provided on other off-street property provided such space lies within 400 feet of the main entrance to such principal use. Such vehicular parking space shall be associated with the permitted use and shall not hereafter be reduced or encroached upon in any manner; and
3.
The required parking space for any number of separate uses may be combined in one lot, but the required space assigned to one use may not be assigned to another use at the same time, except that one-half of the parking space required for religious assemblies, theaters, or assembly halls whose peak attendance will be at night or on Sunday may be assigned to a use which will be closed at night or on Sundays.
(Ord. No. 2015-05, § 11, 4-20-15)
6.06.08 - Location and Surface of Parking Areas
The parking of any vehicle, including but not limited to recreational vehicles as defined in section 1.09.02, motorized homes, private passenger vehicles, commercial vehicles, boats, with or without trailers, campers, and utility trailers, on any lot in any district on other than a surface treated and hardened to accommodate such vehicle is prohibited except as provided herein. In addition, parking of vehicles in a residentially zoned district shall be located on a hardened treated surfaced driveway or in a carport or garage. A treated or hardened surface shall be defined as concrete or asphaltic pavement. Alternative paving materials/designs may be approved by the Public Works Director.
(Ord. No. 2015-11, 11-16-15)
6.06.09 - Required Spaces - Table 6.06.09A
The number of parking spaces or area required for a particular use shall be as follows:
Table 6.06.09A: PARKING REQUIREMENTS
EXPAND
Type of Use Parking Requirements
Accessory retail sales and service Number required for office or institutional, motel, hotel, high-rise apartment use to which it is accessory. If it is a permitted secondary use in a structure other than the primary use: one space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Adult entertainment establishments 1 space per 100 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Agricultural produce stands 3 spaces per stand
Ambulance services 1 space per employee, 1 space per ambulance parked on site
Ambulance services, if accessory to hospitals or funeral homes 1 space per ambulance parked on site
Amphitheaters 1 space per 4 seats in amphitheater
Amusement park 1 space per 2,000 sq. ft. (gross) of site area, with a minimum of 25 spaces required and a maximum of 100 spaces
Ancillary retail sales Number of spaces required for the primary use
Animal hospitals 1 space per 285 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Animal veterinary 1 space per 285 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Appliance repair (major) 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per loading dock
Arcades 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Asphalt plants 1 space per employee, 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Assembly halls 1 space per 3 seats for every person lawfully permitted within the assembly hall at one time
Athletic and health clubs 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Automobile, truck, and trailer lease and rental facilities (accessory use) 1 space per employee, 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Automobile, truck, and trailer lease and rental facilities (principal use) 1 space per employee, 1 space per 250 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Automotive and truck sales and service facilities 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Automotive paint and body repair shops 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Automotive parking lots or garages As may be required to serve the principal use (see specific principal use for requirement), for free-standing parking garage - not applicable
Automotive salvage and wrecking yards 1 space per 300 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per employee, with a minimum of 5 spaces
Automotive storage yards and wrecking services 1 space per 300 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per employee, with a minimum of 5 spaces
Automotive upholstery shops 1 space per 300 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per employee
Aviation airports (private) 1 space per 500 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per hanger or tie down pad
Bank/financial institutions with drive-in establishments and/or automated transfer machines 1 space per 285 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 3 additional spaces per automated transfer machine, 5 queue spaces per drive in teller
Bed and breakfast establishment 1 parking space per bedroom plus 3
Billiards and pool halls 2 spaces per pool table
Bio-medical and waste transfer and disposal facilities 1 space per employee
Boat sales and service facilities 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per employee, 1 space per boat parked on site
Breeding and boarding kennels 1 space per 250 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per employee
Building materials stores 1 space per 100 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per employee, 1 space per loading dock
Bus stations 1 space per 300 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Bus stations for freight 1 space per 500 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per loading dock
Car washes 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 5 queue spaces per service line
Cemeteries 1 space per 300 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Chemical plants or storage facilities 1 space per 500 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per employee, 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Child care learning centers A minimum of 20 spaces
Clinics 1 space per 285 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Clubs or lodges (non-commercial) 1 space per 250 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Coliseums, stadiums, and convention centers (privately owned) 1 space per 3 seats for every person lawfully permitted within the coliseum or stadium at one time plus 1 space per employee
Colleges and universities (private), including but not limited to research training facilities 1 space per 2,000 sq. ft. (net) of site area
Commercial greenhouses and plant nurseries 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per employee
Commercial indoor recreation uses 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Commercial outdoor recreation uses 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Commercial recreation restaurants 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Community fairs 1 space per 2,000 sq. ft. (net) of site area
Community retail uses 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Composting plants 1 space per employee, 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Concrete plants 1 space per employee, 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Condominiums 2 spaces per dwelling unit
Contractors (general, heavy, special) 1 space per 285 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Convenience food stores with self-service fuel sales A minimum of 5 spaces, 1 space per employee
Corporate or administrative offices for any permitted uses 1 space per 285 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Crematories 1 space per employee
Cultural facilities 1 space per 400 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Customary home occupations N/A
Dairies 1 space per employee
Designated recycling collection locations A minimum of 10 spaces
Drive-in theaters N/A
Dry cleaning plants 1 space per employee
Eating and drinking establishment (drive through only fast food - no indoor dining) Minimum of 8 employee parking spaces
Eating and drinking establishments (including drive-through fast food restaurants with indoor dining) 1 space per 100 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Electrical supply stores 1 space per 100 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per loading dock
Emissions/inspection stations (not to exceed five (5) months) A minimum of 2 spaces, 5 queue spaces per bay, 1 space per employee
Executive golf courses 5 spaces per hole, 1 space per 300 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Extended stay hotel or motel 1.75 spaces per unit
Exterminating facilities (insect and/or rodent) 1 space per 285 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Farm and garden supply stores 1 space per 100 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per loading dock
Farm equipment stores/repair establishments 1 space per 100 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per loading dock
Farmers markets (fully enclosed) 1 space per 100 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per loading dock
Field crops N/A
Film development and printing establishments 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Flea markets 1 space per 500 sq. ft. of site area
Fraternity and sorority houses/residence halls 1.5 spaces per bedroom, 1 space per employee
Freight terminals 1 space per 500 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per employee, 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Fruit trees, nuts, vegetables N/A
Fuel and ice dealers 1 space per employee, 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Full service gasoline stations 3 spaces per bay, 1 space per employee
Funeral homes 1 space per 4 seats in assembly room, 1 space per 250 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Golf courses (Par 3) 5 spaces per hole, 1 space per 300 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Golf courses (18-hole regulation; public and private) 5 spaces per hole, 1 space per 300 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Group homes 1 space per 2 residents
Halfway houses 1 space per 1.5 residents
Hazardous waste sites 1 space per employee, 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Heavy automotive repair establishments 3 spaces per bay, 1 space per employee
Heavy manufacturing establishments 1 space per employee, 1 space per loading dock
Heavy repair services and trade stores 1 space per 500 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per employee, 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Helicopter landing areas N/A
High-rise apartments 1.75 spaces per dwelling unit
Hospitals 1 space per 2 beds
Hotels 1.25 spaces per unit
In-home day care N/A
Landfills (private) 1 space per employee, with a minimum of 5 spaces
Laundry and dry cleaning pick-up establishments 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 2 queue spaces per drive-in window
Light automotive repair establishments 3 spaces per bay, 1 space per employee
Light manufacturing establishments 1 space per employee, 1 space per loading dock
Linen and diaper services 1 space per employee, 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Livestock, non-domestic and wild animals, and poultry N/A
Livestock sales pavilions 1 space per 2,000 sq. ft. of site area
Machine shops 1 space per employee
Mausoleums 1 space per employee
Medical and dental laboratories, provided that no chemicals are manufactured on site 1 space per employee
Mining operations 1 space per employee
Motels 1.25 spaces per unit
Motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles (ATV), and three-wheel vehicle sales and service facilities 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Multi-family dwelling units 1.75 spaces per dwelling unit
Neighborhood retail uses 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Newspaper publishing facilities 1 space per employee, 1 space per vehicle parked on site, 1 space per loading dock
Nightclubs 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Non-automotive repair service establishments 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Non-profit riding stables 1 space per employee, 1 space per stable
Non-profit (seasonal use) fishing lakes N/A
Offices not elsewhere classified 1 space per 285 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Office service and supply establishments 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per employee
Other consumer goods and services 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Other facilities for disposal of the deceased 1 space per employee
Other service establishments 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Outdoor commercial racing (motorcycle, automobile, truck, tractor, and motorized vehicles) 1 space per 2 seats, 1 space per 500 sq. ft. (gross) of site area
Outdoor golf driving ranges 1.5 spaces per tee, 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space for pro shop/clubhouse
Overnight travel trailer parks N/A
Pawn shops 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Parking for vehicles N/A
Petroleum or bulk storage stations 1 space per employee, 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Photography studios 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Plumbing and/or heating equipment dealers 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Poultry hatcheries 1 space per employee, 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Printing, publishing, and lithography establishments 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per employee
Private community centers 1 space per every person lawfully permitted within the assembly area at one time plus 1 space per employee. In the absence of designated assembly area, 1 space per 300 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Private parks 1 space per 3,000 sq. ft. of site area
Private schools of general and special education 2 spaces per classroom, 1 space per employee
Pro shops (accessory to driving ranges/golf courses) 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Professional offices 1 space per 285 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Purpose built student housing .75 space per bedroom and .3 spaces per unit for visitors
Radio and television stations 1 space per 285 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per employee
Radio, television, and other communication towers and antennae N/A
Rail stations 1 space per 300 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Railroad stations for freight 1 space per 500 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per employee
Recreational grounds other than tennis courts and golf courses 1 space per 10,000 sq. ft. of site area
Recycling drop-off centers A minimum of 10 spaces
Religious Assemblies 1 space per 4 seats in the principal place of worship, provided that the number of spaces thus required may be reduced by not more than 50 percent if the place of worship is located within 500 feet of any public parking lot or any commercial parking lot where sufficient spaces are available by permission of the owner(s) without charge, during the time of services to make up the additional spaces required.
Research and development centers 1 space per 500 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per employee
Research testing laboratories 1 space per 500 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per employee
Rest/personal care/convalescent homes 1 space per 4 beds
Re-Upholstery and furniture repair establishments 1 space per 250 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per employee
Rooming and boarding houses 1 space per 2 residents
Self-service laundry facilities 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Self-service storage facilities A minimum of 5 spaces
Shelters (homeless) 1 space per employee
Signs and outdoor advertising facilities 1 space per 300 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per employee
Single-family dwelling units (attached) 2 spaces per dwelling unit minimum, plus .35 parking spaces per new unit for overall new development
Single-family dwelling units (detached) 2 spaces per dwelling unit minimum, plus .35 parking spaces per new unit for overall new development
Studios and supplies 1 space per 250 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Theaters 1 space per 100 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Tire retreading and recapping facilities 1 space per employee, 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Townhouse dwelling units (attached) 2 spaces per dwelling unit
Trailer salesrooms and sales lots 1 space per 500 sq. ft. of site area
Transportation equipment storage and maintenance facilities 1 space per employee
Truck terminals 1 space per employee
Two-family dwelling units 4 spaces per dwelling unit (duplex)
Utility facilities (private) 1 space per 500 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per loading dock
Vending machine sales, service, rental, or repair establishments 1 space per 500 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per loading dock
Vocational schools (commercial) 1 space per 2,000 sq. ft. of site area
Warehouse and storage facilities 1 space per 2,000 sq. ft. (net) of storage space, with a minimum of 5 spaces
Wholesale sales offices 1 space per 300 sq. ft. (net) of floor space
Wholesale trade and distribution facilities 1 space per 300 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per loading dock
Wholesale trade offices in conjunction with office showrooms 1 space per 300 sq. ft. (net) of floor space, 1 space per loading dock
Zoos 1 space per 2,000 sq. ft. of impervious surface
  (Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12; Ord. No. 2015-05, § 12, 4-20-15; Ord. No. 2016-18, § 6, 8-15-16; Ord. No. 2020-09 , § 4, 8-17-20; Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 11(Exh. F1), 6-21-21)
6.06.10 - Restricted Parking Areas for Business and Industrial Uses
The establishment and operation of a restricted parking area shall be permitted in such parts of any residential district except the HPV, R-40, R-30, R-20, R-15, R-12, and R-10 districts as abut, either directly or across an alley or street, a commercial or industrial district subject to the conditions and requirements of this section.
A.
The parking lot shall be accessory to and for use in connection with one (1) or more business or industrial establishments located in an adjoining commercial or industrial district.
B.
Such parking lot shall be situated on premises which have an area of not less than 6,000 square feet, which shall be at least fifty (50) feet either contiguous to or across an alley or street from a commercial or industrial district.
C.
Such parking lot shall be used solely for the parking of passenger vehicles.
D.
No commercial repair work or service of any kind other than emergency repairs shall be conducted on such parking lot.
E.
No sign of any kind, other than those designating entrances, exits and use, shall be maintained on such parking lot.
F.
A buffer shall be provided along all side and rear lot lines.
G.
No charge shall be made for parking except directly to the business or industrial establishments in the adjoining district who are using the lot to meet the parking space requirements of this ordinance.
H.
Each entrance and exit to and from such parking lot shall be at least twenty (20) feet distant from any adjacent property located in any residential district.
I.
The location and design of entrances, exits, surfacing, marking, and lighting shall be subject to the approval of the City Engineer and Planning Commission.
J.
Such parking lot shall have all spaces adequately marked with paint lines, curb stones or other similar designations.
K.
Such parking lot shall be permanently maintained by the owners or the tenants for their invitees and/or licenses so long as the use exists.
L.
After giving thirty (30) days written notice of any violation of the provisions of this section, the building official may revoke a permit granted for a restricted parking lot.
( Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 12(Exh. F2), 6-21-21)
6.06.11 - Off-Street Loading and Unloading Space
Every building or structure used for business, trade or industry hereafter erected, shall provide space as indicated herein for the loading and unloading of vehicles off the street or public alley. Such space shall have access to an alley, or if no alley exists, to a street. For the purposes of this section, an off-street loading space shall have minimum dimensions of twelve (12) feet by forty (40) feet, exclusive of adequate access drives and maneuvering space, and an overhead clearance of fourteen (14) feet in height above the alley or street grade.
A.
Retail business: One (1) space for each 3,000 square feet of floor area, or fraction thereof.
B.
Wholesale and industry: One (1) space for each 10,000 square feet of floor area, or fraction thereof.
C.
Truck terminal: Ample space to accommodate the maximum number of trucks loading, unloading or stored at any time.
6.07.00 - PARKING LOT DESIGN AND DRIVEWAY STANDARDS
General. These provisions shall be used on all developments, private property and City right-of-way. These off street parking rules shall apply to any parking area where three or more vehicle stalls are required. Parking lots should be graded and drained to allow for the disposal of all surface water accumulated within the area and should be arranged and identified so as to provide for an orderly, safe loading or unloading, parking and storage of all vehicles.
(Ord. No. 2006-06, § 1(18-47), 2-21-06)

6.07.01 - Sub-Grade Design
A.
Sub-grade preparation should be completed according to the City of Kennesaw Developmental Standards.
B.
Grading and compaction of the area should be completed so as to eliminate yielding or pumping of soil.
C.
Sub-grade must be uniform and have a minimum of 95 percent standard proctor density.
D.
Unsuitable soil shall be removed from the area. If unsuitable soil cannot be removed from the area due to environmental conditions, a soil reinforcement mat and additional gravel stone base shall be used to meet the required compaction density.
(Ord. No. 2006-06, § 1(18-48), 2-21-06)
6.07.02 - Drainage
A.
Off-street parking areas should be designed and graded in such a manner as to dispose of all surface water accumulation from within the area. Drainage over sidewalks or onto adjacent property shall not be permitted. A storm water drainage management plan shall be required for all new off-street parking areas. This plan may include detention areas within the parking lot.
B.
Off-street parking should be designed for a maximum six percent slope and a minimum two percent slope. Driveways are recommended to not exceed an eight percent slope. Driveways may drain surface water to the street drainage system or to the site the driveway is serving and is located on.
(Ord. No. 2006-06, § 1(18-48), 2-21-06)
6.07.03 - Pavement Requirement for Parking Lots
Rigid and flexible pavement design life should be for 20 years. Pavement thickness for parking lot areas shall be as follows:
1.
Rigid pavement design: Portland cement concrete type A
Class A - General purpose concrete 3000 PSI
2.
Flexible pavement design: Hot mix asphalt shall be per the thickness charts below.
(Ord. No. 2006-06, § 1(18-49), 2-21-06)
6.07.04 - Areas Subject to Light Loads
Parking lots subject to 200 or fewer autos per day and/or two or less trucks per day or equivalent axle loads, as determined by the Director of Public Works, shall be subject to the following requirements:
Table 1 Light Loads
EXPAND
SUB BASE MINIMUM DESIRABLE
Rigid design 6" graded aggregate base 5" paving material 6" paving material
Flexible design 6" graded aggregate base 3" paving material 4" paving material
  (Ord. No. 2006-06, § 1(18-50), 2-21-06; Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12)
6.07.05 - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2012-03, adopted May 7, 2012, deleted § 6.07.05, which pertained to areas subject to moderate loads and derived from Ord. No. 2006-06, §(18-51), adopted Feb. 21, 2006.
6.07.06 - Areas Subject to Moderately Heavy Loads
The pavement for entrances, perimeter travel lanes, frontage roads, trash dumpster sites, and delivery truck parking as well as approach areas to these spaces must be increased in thickness to prevent pavement failure caused by weight and dynamic loading. These areas should be constructed with thickness that will support this special type of pavement loading. Failure to provide this could result in severe pavement failure.
Table 2 Moderately Heavy Loads
EXPAND
SUB BASE MINIMUM DESIRABLE
Rigid design 8" graded aggregate base 5" paving material 6" paving material
Flexible design 6" graded aggregate base 3.5" paving material 4.5" paving material
  (Ord. No. 2006-06, § 1(18-52), 2-21-06; Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12)
6.07.07 - Areas Subject to Heavy Loads
Industrial parking lots/truck stops, and those areas designed primarily for trucks, require a thicker pavement. For those parking lots greater than 200 trucks per day, as determined by the Director of Public Works, shall be subject to the following requirements:
Table 3 Heavy Loads
EXPAND
SUB BASE MINIMUM DESIRABLE
Rigid design 8" graded aggregate base 7" paving material 8" paving material
Flexible design 8" graded aggregate base 8" paving material 9" paving material
  (Ord. No. 2006-06, § 1(18-53), 2-21-06; Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12)
6.07.08 - Curb and Guttering Options
A.
Where possible off-street parking and associated driveways, access roadways and frontage roads are required to have curb and gutter.
B.
All concrete curbing shall be at least three feet from any wall, fence, property line, walkway, or structure where parking, driveways, or aisles are located.
C.
All concrete curbing shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the City development standards.
(Ord. No. 2006-06, § 1(18-54), 2-21-06)
6.07.09 - Additional Driveways
The provisions of this section shall be applied on all requests for driveways that are not part of a site plan under a current plan review/approval process.
1.
An "Additional Driveway Request Form" must be completed and submitted to the building services department. This submittal shall include a scaled drawing or sketch with the dimensions of the parcel and requested driveway.
2.
There is a $25.00 fee per residential driveway and a $50.00 fee per commercial driveway requested.
3.
The Public Works Director shall be responsible for the review of all requests.
4.
Construction shall not begin on any driveway request until the request has been approved by the Public Works Director. Any construction started before the request has been approved shall be required to be returned to the original condition of the parcel prior to construction.
(Ord. No. 2006-06, § 1(18-55), 2-21-06)
6.07.10 - Visibility at Intersections
On a corner lot in the city, no plant, structure, fence, wall, sign or other obstruction to vision shall be placed or maintained within the triangular area formed by the intersection of street right-of-way lines and a straight line connecting points on said street lines, each of which is twenty-five (25) feet distance from the point of intersection.
6.07.11 - Functional Elements of On-Site Circulation System
An on-site circulation plan shall be prepared and submitted to the City for developments.
6.08.00 - SIDEWALKS AND PATHWAYS
The City is actively pursuing the continuation of an integrated and multi-modal transportation system that promotes compliance with the Federal Clean Air Act by emphasizing the need to create increased pedestrian travel opportunities by expanding the sidewalk network and developing a pathway program. Whenever possible, developers will be encouraged to construct sidewalk along the right-of-way abutting their developments. The pathway program takes pedestrian access one step further by providing safe, convenient access to activity centers such as schools, parks, and shopping centers in an effort to encourage pedestrian and non-motorized vehicular travel. The county will support and encourage a viable network of off-street travel routes that can reduce the need for and volume of vehicular traffic throughout the county.

6.08.01 - General Sidewalk Requirements
When a subdivision project abuts a public right-of-way, sidewalks shall be required for a length equal to the distance of the required road improvements along the road frontage. Sidewalks will be required to be constructed on both sides of the road (if development abuts both sides of the road) when the road is classified as an arterial, major collector, or minor collector roadway by the Thoroughfare Plan. Sidewalks shall be constructed on all remaining streets that qualify for such requirements under the Sidewalk Ordinance. Sidewalk location and orientation may be altered under site-specific conditions at the discretion of the Director of Public Works.
1.
Amenity areas must be accessible by sidewalks from the nearest sidewalk in the subdivision. All sidewalks must be installed prior to the acceptance of the subdivision by the City unless a performance security or letter of intent is in place at the time of acceptance.
2.
Sidewalks will not be required in subdivisions zoned to an R-80 classification or approved for a rural road classification and will be considered exempt.
3.
Sidewalks will be constructed to the specification as shown on Standard Detail #113 and located a minimum of three feet back of the curb. Sidewalks location can be varied at the discretion of the Public Works Director.
4.
Sidewalks shall have a minimum width of four (4) feet for interior residential streets, five (5) feet for exterior and non-residential or as required by ADA or the Georgia Accessibility Code.
•
The concrete shall have a compressive strength of 3,000 pounds per square inch at 28 days and a minimum depth of four inches.
•
Builders are required to install sidewalk per City of Kennesaw Sidewalk Standards prior to issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy.
6.08.02 - General Pathway Requirements
When a subdivision project includes a creek with associated floodplain, the City may require the developer to convey a twenty (20) foot section of flood plain along the creek as public right-of-way in an effort to develop a network of pathways along the creeks throughout the City. When a subdivision project includes multiple or long cul-de-sacs, the City will encourage the developer to convey a twenty (20) foot permanent public access easement between lots; connecting cul-de-sacs to other cul-de-sacs, other subdivisions, and other existing pedestrian access facilities.
The dedicated public right-of-way or permanent public access easement for the pathway will have a width of twenty (20) feet.
6.08.03 - Accessibility Requirements
Georgia law relating to the access to and use of facilities by persons with disabilities is set forth at O.C.G.A. Sec. 30-3-1, et seq. The law "is intended to eliminate, insofar as possible, unnecessary physical barriers encountered by individuals with disabilities or other individuals, and whose use of government buildings and facilities by the public is restricted."
Local governing authorities, including the City of Kennesaw, are responsible for the administration and enforcement of the Code with regard to all government and public buildings and facilities which are not under the jurisdiction of the Safety Fire Commissioner or Board of Regents. O.C.G.A. Sec. 30-3-7:
I.
Adoption & Incorporation by Reference of State Statutes.
A.
State Statute (O.C.G.A. Sec. 30-3-1, et seq.) The Georgia Accessibility Code, O.C.G.A. Sec. 30-3-1, et seq., is adopted and included, in its entirety, by reference, and made part of City of Kennesaw Standards and Specifications. A brief overview is included for ease of access. Copies of the Georgia law may be found in O.C.G.A.
B.
Safety Fire Commissioner Rules & Regulations. The Rules & Regulations of the Georgia Safety Fire Commissioner, authorized pursuant to O.C.G.A. Sec. 30-3-7 (h) as may be amended from time to time, are also adopted and included in their entirety, by reference, and made part of City of Kennesaw Development Standards and Specifications. An overview is included for ease of access.
II.
Summary of Statutory Requirements
A.
State Statutes: O.C.G.A. Sec. 30-3-1, et. seq.
1.
Building Permit Requirements: Architect's Seal. Pursuant to the Georgia Accessibility Statute, no building permit for buildings or facilities to be approved by the local governing authority may be approved unless the plans and specifications conform to the requirements of O.C.G.A. Secs. 30-3-3 and 30-3-5 and unless the architect or engineer responsible for preparation of the plans and specifications affixes that person's seal to such plans. The affixing of the seal of the architect to the plans constitutes a certification that to the best of that person's knowledge, information, and belief, they have been prepared in conformity with Sections 30-3-3 and 30-3-5. (See O.C.G.A. Sec. 30-3-7 (c))
2.
Standards and Specifications. The standards and specifications for compliance as set forth in O.C.G.A. 30-3-3 and 30-3-5 are as follows:
a.
OCGA Sec. 30-3-3. This section provides that permits for construction or renovation of government buildings, public buildings and other facilities after July 1, 1995 may be approved only if the plans and specifications, at a minimum, comply with ADAAG standards (or more restrictive rules and regulations adopted by the Georgia Safety Fire Commissioner). The section further specifies standards and specifications for buildings permitted prior to July 1, 1995.
b.
O.C.G.A. Sec. 30-3-5. Specific amenities required to be provided. This section identifies specific amenities required to be provided to make buildings and facilities accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities, including requirements for accessible parking spaces; accessible entrances; accessible toilet rooms, bathrooms, bathing facilities and shower rooms; and accessible seating, tables, and work surfaces in a reasonable number.
Safety Fire Commissioner Rules and Regulations. Copies of the Safety Fire Commissioner's Rules and Regulations, Chapter 120-3-20, may be obtained from the State Safety Fire Commissioner's Office. A copy is on file in the Kennesaw Community Development Department, and in the County ADA Coordinator's Office.
6.09.00 - BUS SHELTERS
The City of Kennesaw does not operate a transit system. Cobb County has adopted Cobb Community Transit Accessibility Guidelines and Performance Specifications for Bus Pads and Shelters. This standard, and as may be amended from time to time, is adopted for purposes of privately and publicly constructed bus pads and shelters constructed within Cobb County. A copy may be obtained through the Department of Transportation.
6.10.00 - EASEMENTS

6.10.01 - [Utility Easements]
Easements to facilitate underground installation of multiple utilities for new development that improves multiple parcels will be required for all new development located in all zoning districts.
(Ord. No. 2015-11, 11-16-15)
6.11.00 - STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEMS[15]

Footnotes:
--- (15) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2012-03, adopted May 7, 2012, deleted the §§ 6.11.00—6.11.11, and enacted new sections as set out herein. The former provisions pertained to similar subject matter. These provisions bore no history note.

6.11.01 - Applicability and Exemptions.
All development in the City of Kennesaw, and in those other jurisdictions which by special agreement with the City of Kennesaw apply City of Kennesaw Standards shall comply with these standards. Exceptions will be considered by the Public Works Director only in those cases involving the legitimate bequest of property for reasonably continuous use by the original recipient by subdivision under the current Zoning Regulations, or where these standards would apply to private roads or driveways where a single residence is constructed on property not a part of or outside of a subdivision, upon written request of the property owner to said Director. No other exceptions to these minimum standards will be considered by the City.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12)
6.11.02 - Applications/Permit Process.
All drawings and calculations must be signed and sealed by a design professional registered to practice in the State of Georgia. Submittal shall be made to the Community Development Department either independently or as a part of an overall project. Once demonstration has been made of a workable system, Site Plan Review shall not unreasonably withhold a Land Disturbance Permit for the work to be done.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12)
6.11.03 - Inspection.
The City of Kennesaw may periodically inspect the work in progress and completed for compliance with the City of Kennesaw minimum standards and the approved drawings.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12)
6.11.04 - Stormwater Facility Operation Permit.
An Operating Permit will be issued for each stormwater system that requires regular operation and maintenance activities. The Permit will outline the operating activities required of the permittee and penalties for non-compliance. The duration of the permit will be five (5) years, with yearly reporting to the Public Works Department, required of the permittee. Each renewal will require a fee to cover yearly monitoring of the facility. The renewal application must be filed in time to re-issue the permit prior to the expiration of the previous permit.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12)
6.11.05 - Storm Drainage System Design.
Standards to be used in designing system:
A.
Sizing and location of all drainage structures shall be the responsibility of a registered design professional subject to approval by the Public Works Director or his/her designee.
B.
Storm drainage pipes shall be sloped to maintain a minimum flow velocity of three (3) feet per second (fps) so sediment will not collect. Exit velocities of eight (8) fps or greater from outlet headwalls will require energy dissipation devices beyond the normal six (6) times diameter length of rip-rap. Unimproved ditch velocities shall be maintained below five (5) fps velocity.
C.
Storm drainage pipes shall be sloped at a minimum of one percent (1%). Maximum slopes for concrete storm drainage pipes shall be ten percent (10%). Storm drainage pipes on grades steeper than ten percent (10%) shall outfall into a drop structure with a least one (1) section of outlet pipe sloped on greater than two percent (2%) (drop structures must be properly anchored down).
D.
Georgia Department of Transportation (GDOT), current Roadway and Bridge Standard Plan 1030D, shall be used in determining class (RCP) or gauge (CMP) of pipe under fill and method of back-filling, subject to the stipulations contained herein.
E.
Inlet spacing shall be performed using FHWA's HEC-12 software or approved alternate.
F.
Minimum design allowance for inlet clogging is fifteen percent (15%).
G.
Manning's roughness coefficient ("n"-value) for pavement inlet-design shall be no smaller than 0.016.
H.
Gutter spreads shall be limited to one-half (½) the travel lane or eight feet (8'), whichever is less. Drainage formula used in determining size of drainage structure shall be determined by the design professional.
I.
The Rational Method shall use the twenty-five (25) year storm or rain event as the minimum design frequency. Stormwater handled in this manner shall be water internal to the specific subdivision only.
J.
The Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance (Section 3.02.00) designates each headwater pool created during a one hundred (100) year storm as a one hundred (100) year floodplain equal to the one hundred (100) year floodplain as established and designated by FEMA.
K.
All subdivision drainage systems, both piped and channelized, receiving stormwater from off-site (outside the bounds of the subdivision specific) shall be designed to handle and transport through the subdivision the one hundred (100) year storm. This design must address all necessary adjustments to channels, pipe sizes, lots, and any infrastructure of the subdivision specific.
L.
Catch basins and/or drop inlets shall be designed by the developer's engineer to the GDOT Standard Plans 1033D, 1034D, 1019 and subject to final approval by the City of Kennesaw Stormwater Management Division.
M.
Grated inlets in unpaved areas are not recommended. Raised lid area drains are preferred in unpaved areas.
N.
Catch basins in accepted subdivisions handling street water shall be designed to handle a ten (10) year storm considering bypass, as prescribed in FHWA's Hydraulic Engineering Circular 12 (HEC-12). Maximum allowable gutter spread shall be one-half (½) the travel lane width or eight feet (8'), whichever is less.
O.
Catch basins outside of accepted subdivisions handling street water shall be designed to handle a ten (10) year storm considering bypass, as prescribed on the major collectors by the GDOT design requirements. Maximum allowable gutter spread shall be one-half (½) the travel lane width or eight feet (8'), whichever is less.
P.
Maximum inlet spacing, unless a different spacing is supported by design calculations approved by the Public Works Director or his or her designee, shall not exceed the following:
1.
Five hundred feet (500') on grades up to seven percent (7%);
2.
Four hundred feet (400') on grades from seven percent (7%) to ten percent (10%);
3.
Two hundred fifty feet (250') on grades over ten percent (10%).
Q.
Demonstration shall be made that the one hundred (100) year storm event runoff will track through the development along the drainage routes assigned by the site specific hydrology study.
R.
A certification of the pipe specifications for each pipe shall be required before installation.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12)
6.11.06 - Storm drain pipes.
A.
A minimum size of eighteen inch (18") diameter pipe is required under public streets and within City dedicated drainage easements.
B.
All pipe within City rights-of-way shall be reinforced concrete pipe (RCP) except for the outfall pipe going from the last structure, perpendicular to the roadway, toward the system outfall may be Aluminum Corrugated Metal Pipe (ACMP).
C.
Minimum wall thickness for ACMP is twelve (12) gauge.
D.
No ACMP is permitted on a live stream. For the purpose of this requirement live streams are defined as any continuously flowing stream, which intercepts more than a one-quarter (¼) square mile (one hundred sixty (160) acres) drainage area.
E.
High-density polyethylene pipe (HDPE) pipe will be permitted under the following conditions:
1.
Must have granular backfill to the top of the pipe;
2.
Depths no greater than ten feet (10') as measured to the invert of the pipe;
3.
Installation must be outside of roadway right-of-way;
4.
Watertight bell and spigot gasketed joints must be provided;
5.
Thirty-six inch (36") diameter or greater must be inspected and certified by a geotechnical engineer or a manufacturer's representative; and,
6.
Smoothbore bore pipe only.
F.
Concrete or solid masonry headwalls of an approved type are required on inlet and outlet ends of the pipe. Steel flared end sections are not permitted. Only concrete flared end sections will be accepted. Standard step bevel end treatment may be approved on large diameter (sixty inches (60") or larger) storm drains where the perimeter is secured with grouted rip-rap or poured in place concrete.
G.
No ACMP will be permitted if depth as measured to the invert of the pipe is greater than fifteen (15) unless the individual exceptional instance is specifically approved in writing by the Public Works Director or his/her designee.
H.
Extend outfalls fifty feet (50') beyond the front building setback line for pipes thirty inches (30") or smaller.
I.
Maximum continuous length of pipe without a point of access (i.e., manhole or junction box) shall be three hundred feet (300') for pipes forty-eight inches (48") and smaller.
J.
Junction boxes having a manhole-type frame and cover access at grade to the pipe shall be constructed at all changes in horizontal or vertical alignment to meet the requirement of GDOT Standard 1030D.
K.
The one hundred (100) year headwater pool shall be determined at each proposed and/or modified cross-drainage structure.
L.
Emergency flow-bypass or emergency overflow relief shall be provided at the elevation of the one hundred (100) year headwater pool to convey flow through (or over) the impoundment structure in instances where the cross drainage structure intercepts a live stream, as defined above.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12)
6.11.07 - Storm Water Detention Facilities
A.
Each project shall provide stormwater controls such that predevelopment peak flow rates are maintained, unless otherwise approved by Division Manager of Stormwater Management or his/her designee
B.
Storms with a statistical rate of return of two (2), five (5), ten (10), twenty-five (25), fifty (50), and one hundred (100) years shall be evaluated and controls created to attenuate peak flows.
C.
Responsibility for calibration and application of the empirical equations rests with the design engineer.
D.
Times of concentrations of less than ten (10) minutes for existing/undeveloped conditions are not acceptable for design nor are runoff percentages CN's higher than fifty-five (55) for on-site area, without supporting documentation acceptable to the City of Kennesaw Stormwater Management Division.
E.
Hydrologic calculations must employ an engineering methodology currently recognized and accepted within the industry. This methodology must include a hydrograph routing analysis, which generates an inflow hydrograph to the detention pond to create an outflow hydrograph. Multiple inflow hydrographs shall be combined on a real time basis. Multiple outflow hydrographs shall be combined on a real time basis. Multiple detention ponds in series must be routed from one to the next and so on throughout.
F.
A hydrograph routing analysis shall be submitted for all proposed areas drainage structures, which intercept more than three hundred twenty (320) acres (one-half (½) square mile).
G.
Where existing developed sites are changed, only those portions of the site, which are unchanged, are "grandfathered" as existing conditions for allowable runoff calculations. That is, impervious areas will be grandfathered as "existing conditions" in only those areas that are not changed, modified, or improved and constitute less than forty percent (40%) of the total impervious area. The calculated allowable flow from all areas razed and reformed must be considered in the undeveloped condition.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12)
6.11.08 - Stormwater Hydrologic Methodology.
A.
The design professional engineer may utilize any industry-accepted methodology for creating hydrologic design which routes a hydrologic model of the storm through the detention pond and outlet control structure and generates a related hydrologic model for output. All storms from two (2) year to the one hundred (100) year event shall be analyzed and controlled such that corresponding peak flows leaving the site are not increased.
B.
To expedite City of Kennesaw's review, the hydrologic study for the project must include the listing of input parameters:
1.
Drainage areas in acres;
2.
Time of concentration/lag time;
3.
Amount or percentage of impervious area within the drainage area both before and after the project;
4.
Length, in feet, of all drainage system improvements along the route; and,
5.
Soil Conservation Services (SCS) curve numbers estimates for before and after project conditions.
C.
Analysis of stream flow and backwater elevations shall be consistent with FEMA's accepted methodologies whether or not the project is within a Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Zone. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' standard step HEC II analysis, HEC RAS or approved equal shall be utilized. Routing of flood waters through an impoundment using a hydrologic model (to justify attenuated peak flows, for example) may be allowed, subject to approval of the Public Works Director or his or her designee
(Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12)
6.11.09 - Stormwater Quality/Quantity Control Facilities.
A.
The City of Kennesaw requires each new project to create adequate stormwater controls using Best Management Practices (BMPs). Use of BMPs to enhance water quality and to comply with the Clean Water Act (CWA) is Federally mandated. The City of Kennesaw will utilize the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual, Volumes I and II, as standards for compliance with the required BMPs.
B.
Water quality BMPs as recommended in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual, Volumes I and II shall be utilized for any project that requires a land disturbance permit.
C.
The total directly connected impervious surface area within its development, including all public and private structures, roadways, utilities, and other facilities shall not exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the total area.
D.
Green Infrastructure/Low Impact Development (GI/LID) design principles are encouraged.
E.
Impervious surfaces can be considered disconnected from the drainage system if the runoff from the impervious surface flows over a minimum of twenty-five feet (25') of pervious surfaces (non-concentrated flow) or if the runoff from one and two-tenths inches (1.2") of rainfall is treated by one of the following water quality best management practices as approved by the Public Works Director or his/her designee:
1.
Wet Ponds (extended detention for less that twenty (20) acres);
2.
Constructed Wetland;
3.
Dry swales;
4.
Sand Filter;
5.
Bio-retention;
6.
Vegetated Filtration Systems;
7.
Dedicated recorded greenspace conservation areas;
8.
Donated (Fee Simple) floodplain land and/or stream buffers;
9.
Any other best management practice approved by the Public Works Director or his/her designee.
F.
Residential detention facility and/or dam and outlet control structure shall be located outside the boundaries of a permitted building lot. Setbacks and density calculations for permitted building lots, which abut a residential detention facility, shall not be adversely affected by the boundaries of the residential detention facility. A detention pond shall be defined as any dam or roadway embankment with a control structure on the upstream side. (This does not apply to roadway detention areas.) Headwater pools created by restrictive culverts are not considered as detention facilities for the purposes of this section.
G.
Access shall be provided via a graded and grassed roadway not less than twenty feet (20') wide and minimum grade practical. Said access must connect the detention pond lot to a public right-of-way. In the event that the detention pond is not accessible via City-owned property to a public right-of-way, the City of Kennesaw will not accept for maintenance; the pond/facility will be privately owned and maintained. Privately maintained ponds within residential projects must be so noted on final plats, including deed covenants and must provide and access easement.
H.
Access to the facility and/or dam and outlet energy dissipater from the public roadway shall occur on City-owned land and shall not occur on any permitted building lot. Access must be used exclusively for access to detention facility even though other utility easements may cross it.
I.
Permanent drainage easements of twelve feet (12') in width shall be recorded around all detention ponds at or above the one hundred (100) year pool elevation.
J.
Detention facilities will not be allowed within any FEMA "A"-numbered or "AE" designated flood zone or the City of Kennesaw Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance flood hazard area without obtaining prior written permit approval from the City of Kennesaw Stormwater Management Division.
K.
Roadway Detention will be allowed on the upstream side of a subdivision street or public road subject to Corp. of Engineer/Ga. Environmental Protection Division approval and, providing that the outlet control structure is located outside of the right-of-way and the roadway shoulder is not impacted. Area must be undisturbed, no grading will be allowed, and must be accessible from the public right-of-way and identified on the final plat with a permanent access and maintenance easement surrounding the headwater pool.
L.
Publicly owned and maintained roadways are not permitted across permanent impoundment structures that have a permanent pool (water) level.
M.
Dams may be created across streams provided all appropriate required State and Federal permits are obtained on all properties affected, including backwaters inundation by a flood pool, are under the control or joint control of the developer of said dam. Backwater elevations upstream and off-site cannot be increased without obtaining flood easements from the affected property owners. In addition, FEMA permitting is required for any dam crossing a regulated floodplain.
N.
Existing lakes and ponds provide a mitigating influence on stormwater flow by attenuating flood peaks. For this reason, the City of Kennesaw may require that each property owner maintain the lake or pond now existing on his/her property. Prior written permission from the Public Works Director or his/her designee is required to remove said lake or pond and the flood attenuating benefits that they provide. The City of Kennesaw will require a pre and post development sediment range survey for any existing lake or pond within the drainage basin that is downstream of a proposed project.
O.
Each residential detention facility, which is normally dry, and is in excess of six (6) vertical feet as measured from the crest of the dam to the invert of the pond, shall be fenced using chain link fencing (or approved alternate) complying in material and installation with Section 643 of the GDOT Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, current edition, except as follows:
1.
Height shall be six feet (6').
2.
Access gate shall have a clear opening width of twelve feet (12'), made of two (2) panels, which shall be centered upon the access road.
3.
Any chain link fencing around detention facilities required by these standards which is located within three hundred feet (300') of any public roadway classified other than a local residential street within the proposed project, must be vinyl coated.
4.
Fencing shall be mounted to provide a minimum twelve foot (12') wide access surrounding the detention pond at top of the bank and shall be located at the crest of the dam. Fencing shall not extend across any spillway opening or downstream channel.
5.
Fencing is also required in cases where detention ponds are constructed using vertical walls with wall heights in excess of four feet (4') (as measured from the top of the wall to the bottom of the pond). Fences shall be installed around the wall in such a manner as to deter access to the top of the wall and to deter someone from falling off the wall.
6.
Fencing of commercial and industrial detention facilities is also required as specified above.
7.
Any detention facility proposed for the exterior boundary of a project which will abut an existing, residential structure, shall provide a ten foot (10') landscape buffer.
8.
As a minimum, developments shall provide facility systems established to provide water quality improvements. This may be accomplished through the appropriate use of BMPs and natural wetland filtration buffers.
9.
Exceptions to fencing will be considered on a case-by-case basis if it can be demonstrated there is no drowning potential for children.
P.
Detention can be waived in certain instances, e.g., fee in lieu of detention, large lot sizes with small house, enhanced canopy/green space, as evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
Q.
The Public Works Director or his or her designee may grant variances to these standards on a case-by-case basis.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12)
6.11.10 - Storm Drainage Easements.
All permanent easements shall be:
A.
A minimum of ten feet (10') for piped easements;
B.
A minimum of twenty feet (20') wide for open channel;
C.
Defined as ten feet (10') on each side of the centerline of drainage course;
D.
Wide enough to allow for full depth excavation of pipe within the side slope limitations of the Trench Ordinance. Nominally, this requires the drainage easement to be four (4) times the depth of the pipe. As an alternative for consideration, engineers can submit concrete pipe designs.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12)
6.11.11 - Combined Easement for Sanitary and Pipe Storm Drainage.
Combined easement for both sanitary sewer and piped storm drainage shall be:
A.
Minimum width of thirty feet (30');
B.
If the storm drainage system consists of an open channel and a sanitary sewer easement;
C.
Minimum construction easement width shall be forty feet (40');
D.
City Code prohibits any structure being built within ten feet (10') of a permanent sewer easement on front and rear setbacks or within two feet (2') on side setbacks. A waiver of setback requirements can be obtained on a case-by-case basis from the Public Works Director or his or her designee
(Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12)
6.11.12 - Minimum Easement Width.
A.
Actual easement shall provide for fully excavated trench with two to one (2:1) side slopes to IE (Invert Elevation) of pipe. Engineers can submit concrete pipe and alternate designs.
B.
A drainage swale shall provide for collection of stormwater to an easement.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12)
6.11.13 - Record Drawings.
Record drawings of Storm Drain systems installed in new developments must be submitted prior to approval of the Final Plat.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12)
6.12.00 - WATER AND SEWER

6.12.01 - Applicability
This section shall apply to all current and potential users of the Cobb County Water System including users outside the County who, by contract or agreement with the County, utilize the services of the Cobb County Water System. Except as otherwise provided herein, the Director or his designated representative shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of the section. Cobb County Water System Sewer and Water Specifications, Appendix B, provide additional details for designing, constructing, and inspecting sewer and water systems. All Water and Sanitary Sewer Systems must be reviewed/approved by Cobb County Water System.
6.12.02 - Street Cuts
All major street crossings should be bored and cased per City and GDOT standards. If a bore cannot be made, the Public Works Department must permit the street cut.
6.13.00 - FENCES, BUFFERS AND BERMS, MAILBOXES, AND IRRIGATION SYSTEMS

6.13.01 - Fences
No fence or wall (other than subdivision entrance walls, retaining walls, noise abatement walls or tennis court fences) shall be more than eight feet in height in rear and side yard areas. New fences constructed in residentially zoned districts will not exceed four feet in height when fence is located in front yard area and no higher than eight feet when located in side and rear yard areas. All new fences will be made of solid weather resistant material including but not limited to wrought iron, wood and alternative materials and will be subject to architectural review by the planning and zoning administrator. Chain link fencing can be used on commercial and residentially zoned property if not visible from the right-of-way. No fence or wall constructed on private property shall be located on public right-of-way. Should a fence be erected in error within the right-of-way, the city shall not be responsible for replacing or repairing the illegal structure. Barbed wire fencing components shall not be used in residentially zoned property. All new fencing will be required to obtain a building permit under the building services department. Location map, dimension and material information will be required as part of the building permit application process. All fences will be installed with finished side facing adjoining property and rights-of-way. All fences will be oriented on property so that structural posts will not be visible. All fencing installed on property located in the Historic District will be subject to the adopted Historic Design Standards.
(Ord. No. 2015-11, 11-16-15)
6.13.02 - Buffers and Berms
Landscape buffers and screening requirements are not applicable to residential zoning classifications of R-40, R-30, R-20, R-15 and R-12. Landscape buffers and screening requirements are required for all other residential zoning classifications. Landscape buffers and screening requirements are required for all non-residential zoning classifications. The buffering and screening requirements for applicable zoning classifications are listed within the individual zoning classification regulations of the City's UDC.
Parcels of land being developed may have zoning stipulation(s) that require buffering or screening. The official records in the Zoning Department should be checked prior to purchasing or developing land.
( Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 13(Exh. F3), 6-21-21)
6.13.03 - Mailboxes
Mailboxes shall be constructed in accordance with approved materials and standards as required by the Postmaster General and the U.S. Postal Service. Installation location shall be compatible with Standard Design 80. Intersection sight distance and sidewalks shall not be obstructed by mailbox installation. Intersection sight distance and sidewalks shall not be obstructed by mailbox installation on one-way streets, all mailboxes will be installed on the right side of the street as traffic flows.
6.13.04 - Irrigation Systems
Irrigation systems shall be constructed outside the right-of-way. Any damage by the City to improperly located systems shall be the sole responsibility of the owner.
6.14.00 - STRUCTURAL RETAINING WALLS
When permanent grades are proposed with a resulting slope steeper than one-foot vertical for every two feet of horizontal displacement (2:1), an appropriate retaining structure shall be designed to reinforce or retain the resulting embankment. The structure shall be designed by a registered professional engineer to be constructed of reinforced concrete or other masonry materials designed by a registered professional engineer. Initiate latest revision O.S.H.A., or as may be amended from time to time. An engineered design may be substituted for the reinforced concrete design if the specific vendor has a pre-qualified acceptance from the City. All structural components of the wall shall meet the minimum building codes for the proposed use.
When the necessity for an earth retaining structure is required for a vertical displacement of 30 inches or less, appropriate landscaping timbers, or approved equal, may be employed if no permanent structure is supported by the soil retained by the retaining wall. The use of railroad cross ties or other timber products will only be allowed in these instances as per detail.
All wall designs must demonstrate complete dimensions for line and grade. Wall design will consider foundation drainage and select backfill material for the proposed conditions.
Walls shall be located in such a fashion to not encroach upon existing or proposed drainage easements, drainage courses or floodplains to encumber the natural flow of surface runoff of storm water. Walls shall be located at a distance from such watercourses to allow for anticipated future maintenance of the easement to prevent a safety hazard to the maintenance workers or to jeopardize the structural integrity of the wall.
Walls that are not attached to the permitted structure and require a foundation shall be permitted as a freestanding structure and shall be inspected as prescribed by the permitting procedure. Walls will be inspected for conformance with the approved design. Any deviation from the approved design will require the engineer of record to submit a certification of the non-conforming structure along with supporting calculations to indicate that the construction is consistent with the initial design parameters. In the event the inspector has not been provided ample opportunity to inspect the structure, the contractor must provide a certification of the construction by the engineer of record and geotechnical reports for concrete testing for strength, reinforcing steel specifications. Failure to comply with the requirements of this section will require that the remaining work cease and/or removal of nonconformance until the adequacy of structural integrity is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the City.
Retaining walls that are proposed for the purpose of storm water detention must be designed to demonstrate that the walls are capable of a hydrostatic load as measured from the top of the foundation footing to the highest elevation along the top of the wall. The hydrological design must allow for a free board dimension of one foot and an emergency overflow capacity equal to the allowable peak discharge for the 100-year storm event. The routing calculations should not take into account the existence of the emergency overflow. Place the overflow device above the projected 100-year flood elevation within the detention area.
Any construction that may impact or be within the right-of-way of an existing or proposed water or sanitary sewer easement must be approved by Cobb County Water.
6.15.00 - DAMS

6.15.01 - Permanent Pool Impoundments
6.15.02 - General Criteria
A.
City of Kennesaw Dam Regulations shall apply to all new, rebuilt, or modified storm water impoundments, including appurtenant works, with the exception of:
1.
Any Category I Dam requiring permitting under the control of the Georgia Safe Dams Program;
2.
Any dam owned and operated by any department or agency of the United States Government;
3.
Any newly constructed dam financially assisted by the United States Natural Resource Conservation Service or any other department or agency of the United States Government when such department or agency designed or approved plans and supervised construction and maintains a regular program of inspection of the dam;
4.
Any dam licensed by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or for which a license application is pending with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; and
5.
Any dam currently constructed and operating is hereby grandfathered in its present state with the owner assuming all rights, responsibilities, and liabilities thereof. Any existing dam that is modified, other than for maintenance activities, becomes subject to these requirements.
B.
All new dams of 25 vertical feet in height (or greater), impoundments containing a maximum storage volume of at least 100 acre-feet, or dams which have been ruled Category II by the Safe Dams Program shall be designed and constructed according to Category I Spillway Standards, as promulgated by the Safe Dams Program under the direction of a Georgia Licensed Civil Engineer and a Georgia Licensed Geotechnical Engineer, both experienced in the design and construction of dams. All dam heights will be measured from the streambed at the downstream toe to the top of dam.
C.
Prior to construction of any dam over 15 vertical feet or any dam impounding more than 50 acre-feet, the contractor shall provide the City sufficient documentation of his/her qualifications to construct dams.
D.
A pre-design meeting shall be held with representatives of the plan review committee, to review any proposed dam or proposed dam changes for any dam over 15 vertical feet or impounding more than 50 acre-feet.
E.
Depending on the level of downstream risk and size of impoundment, the City may require a dam breach analysis to be submitted for any proposed or existing dam impacting a proposed development, utilizing the National Weather Service's DAMBREAK Program or other methodology approved by the Georgia Safe Dams Program. A DAMBRK analysis will be required for all Category I and II dams. When a dam breach analysis is required by Cobb County, as a minimum a sunny day dam breach analysis shall be performed under full pool conditions.
F.
Guidelines are available from the State of Georgia Safe Dams Program (EPD) to assist the design/construction professional. Dam design documents shall include, but not be limited to:
1.
Technical specifications;
2.
Hydrology/hydraulic report;
3.
Geotechnical report (with borrow study applicable);
4.
Drainage basin map with land use and land improvement parameters;
5.
Existing topography of site;
a.
Dam ;hg;= Plan view
= Sections at all critical points
= Details, complete
6.
Names and professional seals of design civil engineer and geotechnical engineer with 24-hour contact; and
7.
Designated contractor, if available.
Because of the variables associated with selecting spillway(s), outlet device(s) or appurtenant structure(s) to suit a given site condition, the design consultant is responsible for the selection, subject to the review and approval of the plan review committee. The Committee will include in its consideration the ease of maintenance, longevity of the system, blockage potential, and practicality of operations.
No orifice shall be less than 3 inches in diameter unless it is installed to meet a State or local requirement.
All risers (standpipes) shall be equipped with a debris deflector (trash rack) and an anti-vortex device. To facilitate outlet operation, curved or inclined trash racks designed to allow debris to rise with the water level are preferred. In all cases, trash racks shall be either hinged or removable to facilitate maintenance operations. Corrugated metal pipe is not permitted for standpipes.
Spillways: Every dam shall be provided with a principal spillway, fully capable of passing at least the 50-year flood, with excess spillway capacity provided by the emergency spillway(s) capable of handling excess flows up to the design storm. The principal spillway can be sized for floods of less magnitude than the 50-year flood only if the emergency spillway is appropriately armored against scour with concrete or other suitable lining as protection against more frequent usage.
Principal Spillway: All spillways shall be analyzed (hydraulically rated) for both inlet and outlet control conditions using appropriate tail water ratings. If a control-box or weir-box is affixed, then the total system (inlet control box and outlet conduit) shall be hydraulically rated to determine the stage-discharge relationship.
Emergency Spillway(s): For every type of water impounding facility, a planned safe flow path must be provided for conveyance of flows of water in an emergency. In many instances, this function can be provided through installation of an emergency spillway. Emergency spillways may be excavated open channels, either vegetated or paved with reinforced concrete, weir sections of concrete walls, or appropriately designed conduit.
Any portion of an open channel spillway excavated into a dam embankment or other fill section must be paved with reinforced concrete equipped with appropriate seepage controls, under drainage, and cut-off walls.
Any portion of any spillway excavated into undisturbed residual soil shall be vegetated in accordance with the practices described in the "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia" or protected against scour and erosion by other suitable measures if vegetation does not provide adequate stabilization. If the spillway is activated by storms smaller than the 50-year frequency, then vegetation alone will not be considered sufficient protection against scour according to these standards.
A 12-foot combined drainage and permanent access easement shall be established around the pond at the 100-year pool level or at the elevation of top of dam, whichever is greater to provide access and permanently prevent usage or modification of this flood storage area. A 12-foot combined easement shall also be provided along the toe of the dam. A 20-foot access easement from the public right-of-way shall be provided.
Emergency Draining of the Lake: Upon obtaining evidence which indicates that a potentially hazardous condition may exist, such as:
•
Excessive leakage transporting soil from the dam interior (i.e., piping);
•
Slope failure, excessive scouring, or other apparent soil instability;
•
Longitudinal cracks, bulging, or shifts in alignment;
•
Excessive sloughing or seepage; or
•
Failure of the spillways and/or outlet devices to function properly (due to cloggage, damage, or other deficiency).
The Public Works Director has the authority to order the immediate and complete draining of the lake in whatever manner deemed necessary at the time and to require the owner to keep the pool down until remedial work, as is deemed most appropriate to create a safe dam condition, is completed and approved by the City.
All lakes shall have a permanent lake drain.
No public roadways shall be constructed over any permanent water impoundment structure. Private roadways and driveways over any permanent impoundment structure (including full indemnification to the County) shall be reviewed on a case-by-case basis by the Public Works Department (access for public safety vehicles must be addressed in said indemnification).
No utilities are permitted to pass through any dam, either longitudinally or transversely, unless approved by the City.
6.15.03 - Specific Criteria
(Dams with vertical heights less than or equal to 6 feet.)
Earthen Dams: Any earth fill dam equal to or less than 6 feet in height is an exempt structure according to Georgia Safe Dams Act. The following minimum design criteria shall apply:
Design shall be by a professional engineer registered and licensed to practice engineering in the State of Georgia;
Plans shall be submitted to the City for review and comment;
Construction shall be performed by a qualified contractor who has sufficient skills and experience to perform this work;
Design storm shall be at least SCS 24-hour 100-year event or equivalent approved by the City;
A minimum freeboard of two feet is required from the design flood pool to the top of the dam;
All soil shall be CL or ML material, compacted to 95 percent standard proctor; and
Side slopes shall be no steeper than 3:1 unless approved by the City. Under no circumstance shall the slope exceed 2:1.
B. Reinforced concrete or masonry dam:
1.
Design and construction supervision must be performed by a civil engineer licensed to practice in the State of Georgia. Construction verification checklist to be submitted to Public Works Director or his or her designee.
2.
Design shall address and account for overturning, sliding uplift and seepage with adequate safety factor (2.0 for over-turning, 1.5 for sliding) and adequate freeboard (0.5 feet above 100-year pool). Steel design shall conform to American Concrete Institute Code. Uplift loads can be reduced by 70 percent, if an under draining system is provided. Construction verification checklist must be provided by design engineer or approved alternate.
3.
Design storm shall be at least SCS twenty-four (24) hour one hundred (100) year event or equivalent approved by Public Works Director or his or her designee.
(Dams with vertical heights between 6 and 25 feet with less than 100 acre-feet of storage)
Earthen Dam:
Design, construction supervision, and certification of completion according to plans and specifications to be by civil engineer and a geotechnical engineer both licensed to practice in the State of Georgia.
Design shall conform to the requirements of a Category I Spillway Standards Dam as classified by the Georgia Safe Dams Office and as published in "Georgia Safe Dams Act and Rules for Dam Safety," Act No. 796, as amended to date.
Design storm shall be at least 25 percent of the Probable Maximum Precipitation (6 hour) storm event.
Principal spillway shall be adequate to handle at least the 50-year flood.
Emergency spillway(s) as a minimum shall be adequate to handle flows in excess of the 50-year flood, up to the ¼ PMP.
Front and back slopes shall not be steeper than 3:1 unless design includes a slope stability analysis, which confirms and documents that a steeper slope will be stable. In no condition, however, will a slope steeper than 2:1 be permitted.
All organics and topsoil shall be removed from the entire footprint of the dam and the foundation certified by a geotechnical engineer (PE).
Earthen fill shall be CL or ML material approved for use by geotechnical engineer (PE), placed, and compacted to not less than 95 percent standard proctor under said engineer's direction.
Compaction records accompanied by a geotechnical engineer's certification that soil compaction meets this specification should be forwarded to the City.
The low-level outlet (lake drain) shall be concrete pressure pipe or ductile iron pressure pipe, cradled in concrete. Bedding shall be in concrete poured the full width of the exposed trench and as a minimum, up to the spring line of the pipe. Pipe and joints shall be rated for internal pressures exceeding that of the design storm and shall meet or exceed ASTM 361 or AWWA C-301. Corrugated metal pipe is not allowed.
A lake drain may also be comprised of a valve-operated siphon system designed by a registered civil engineer licensed in the State of Georgia. Piping for a siphon system shall be schedule 80 PVC in conformance with current state standards or ductile iron with mechanical joints or PV joints with adequate strength and anchoring to sustain the water forces incumbent with operation.
Freeboard of a dam, above the design storm maximum pool, shall be 3.0 feet in lieu of fetch calculations of wave height justifying a lesser freeboard. The City reserves the right to require additional freeboard above the nominal 3-feet requirement, if supported by fetch calculations.
Crest width shall be not less than 12.0 feet.
Reinforced Concrete or Masonry Dam:
Design, construction supervision, and certification of completion according to plans and specifications to be by design civil engineer and a geotechnical engineer both licensed to practice in the State of Georgia.
Design shall address and account for overturning, uplift, and seepage with adequate safety factory and adequate freeboard.
All slab on grade concrete, including concrete footings, shall be designed and constructed to control seepage and piping of foundation soil along the underside of the slab in incorporating cutoff walls or other appropriate measures.
Design storm shall be as specified by the City of Kennesaw and Cobb County Storm Water Division. Generally, at least 25 percent of the Probable Maximum Precipitation 6-hour storm event (¼ PMP) is required.
Principal spillway shall be adequate to handle at least the 50-year flood unless the emergency spillway is appropriately armored against scouring.
Emergency spillway shall be adequate to handle flows in excess of the 50-year flood, up to the 6-hour PMP.
Freeboard of a dam, above the design storm maximum pool, shall be 3.0 feet in lieu of fetch calculations of wave height justifying a lesser freeboard. Additional freeboard above the nominal 3 feet required, if supported by fetch calculations.
Design shall conform to the requirements of a Category I Spillway Standards Dam as classified by the Georgia Safe Dams Office and as published in "Georgia Safe Dams Act and Rules for Dam Safety," Act No. 796, as amended to date.
All organics and topsoil shall be removed from the entire footprint of the dam and the foundation certified by a geotechnical engineer (PE).
Earthen fill (if any) shall be subject to the criteria specified above for earthen embankments.
Required 28-day compressive strength for concrete is 3000 psi.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12)
6.15.04 - Temporary Pool Impoundments
Normally dry storm water storage basins - impound storm water temporarily, i.e., dry detention ponds.
6.15.05 - General Criteria
Design to be by registered civil engineer licensed to practice in the State of Georgia.
Detention pond dams equal to or greater than 15 feet in height or greater than 50 acre feet of storage must conform to the corresponding design criteria for permanent impoundments, as referenced above. Smaller detention pond, refer to Storm Water Management section for guidance.
The following criteria apply to dry detention pond dams less than 15 feet high and less than 50 acre feet:
1.
Design storm shall be at least the 100-year storm.
2.
Multi-frequency outflow control shall be provided for the 2-year, 5-year, 10-year, 25-year, 50-year, and 100-year frequency storms per the current City of Kennesaw Storm Water Management Ordinance.
3.
Principal spillway shall be adequate to handle at least the 25-year flood.
4.
Emergency spillway(s) shall be provided to handle flows in excess of the 25-year flood, up to the 100-year flood.
5.
No orifice shall be less than 3 inches in diameter unless it is installed to meet a State or local requirement.
6.
Install fencing around all ponds deeper than 6 feet as measured vertically from the crest of the dam down to the invert of the lowest control structure. Gates are to be at least 12-feet wide to permit access for maintenance equipment. The City is not responsible for the replacing of any non-permitted structures or plantings destroyed, removed, or otherwise damaged during maintenance operations. Fencing shall not be installed across spillways or drainage ways.
7.
A 12-foot combined drainage and permanent access easement shall be established around the pond at the 100-year pool level or at the elevation of top of dam, whichever is greater to provide access and permanently prevent usage or modification of this flood storage area. A 12-foot combined easement shall also be provided along the toe of the dam. A 20-foot access easement from the public right-of-way shall be provided.
6.15.06 - Specific Criteria
Earthen Dam:
Front slope shall not be steeper than 2.5:1 unless design includes a slope stability analysis, which confirms and documents that a steeper slope will be stable. In no condition, however, can any slope be steeper than 2:1.
All organics and topsoil shall be removed from the entire footprint of the dam and the foundation inspected and approved by the geotechnical licensed, qualified engineer prior to fill placement.
Earthen fill shall be CL or ML material approved for use by a geotechnical engineer (PE) and placed and compacted to not less than 95 percent Standard Proctor under said engineer's direction.
Freeboard of a dam, above the 100-year design storm maximum pool, shall be 2.0 feet in lieu of fetch calculations of wave height justifying a lesser freeboard. Cobb County reserves the right to require additional freeboard above the nominal two feet requirement, if supported by fetch calculations.
Crest width shall be not less than 12.0 feet, unless approved by the City of Kennesaw and Cobb County Storm Water Division.
Reinforced Concrete or Masonry Dams:
Design shall address and account for overturning, uplift, and seepage with adequate safety factor (2.0 for overturning, 1.5 for sliding) and adequate freeboard (0.5 feet above 100-year). Steel design shall conform to American Concrete Institute Code. Uplift loads can be reduced by 70 percent, if an under draining system is provided. Construction verification checklist must be provided by design engineer or approved alternate.
All slab on grade concrete, including concrete footings, shall be designed and constructed to incorporate appropriate cutoff walls.
In no condition can any fill slope (if any) be steeper than 2:1.
All organics and topsoil shall be removed from the entire footprint of the dam and the foundation inspected and approved by the City prior to gravity dam concrete or masonry placement.
Earthen fill (if required) shall be approved for use by a geotechnical engineer (PE) and placed and compacted to not less than 95 percent Standard Proctor under said engineer's direction.
Freeboard of a dam, above the 100-year design storm maximum pool, shall be 2.0 feet along any earth fill sections of the dam, in lieu of fetch calculations of wave height justifying a lesser freeboard. City reserves the right to require additional freeboard above the nominal two feet requirement, if supported by fetch calculations. Freeboard for the concrete section of the dam shall be a minimum of 0.5 feet.
Required 28 day compressive strength for concrete is 3000 psi.
6.16.00 - CEMETERIES
In the event a cemetery or burial site is located on or adjacent to the property, the developer is required to adhere to the following:
1.
Prepare a site plan identifying the full boundaries with a metes and bounds description.
2.
Provide a fifty (50) foot natural undisturbed natural buffer from the common property line; or a 50-foot undisturbed natural buffer around the perimeter of the outermost burials of the cemetery; whichever provides the greatest protection for the cemetery. The outermost burials to be determined by a professional archaeologist. The archaeology survey will locate all grave shafts and define the burial boundary as well as the fence line. Member(s) of the Cemetery Preservation Commission (or approved staff member appointed by Public Works Director) must be present during archeology survey.
3.
Lots adjacent to fifty (50) foot undisturbed natural buffer shall have some or the entire required setback in addition to the buffer.
4.
The fifty (50) foot undisturbed natural buffer shall be recorded as a conservation easement with the City Of Kennesaw Cemetery Preservation Commission having third party right of enforcement.
5.
Provide uninhibited daylight access to the cemetery via a twenty (20) foot graveled easement to the cemetery from the nearest public road. The outer boundaries of this easement may be landscaped.
6.
A plat to be prepared by a registered surveyor denoting the location of all grave shafts, the fifty (50) undisturbed buffer, the fence line as determined by the archaeology survey and the access easement.
7.
The archeology survey and plat must be submitted to the Cobb County Cemetery Preservation Commission three (3) business days prior to any zoning hearing or plan review, as may apply.
8.
Provide and install an orange protective fence on the outer perimeter of the fifty (50) undisturbed natural buffer before beginning construction. This fence shall be maintained throughout the life of the project. At completion of the project, the orange protective fence shall be removed from the premises. A sign stating Cemetery Preservation Buffer- Do Not Disturb shall be erected at fifty (50) foot intervals along the outer perimeter of the buffer. At the completion of the project, these signs may be maintained or replaced by the City of Kennesaw Cemetery Preservation Commission.
9.
Provide at least a permanent six (6) foot chain link fence with gate on the fence line determined by the archaeology survey or on the common property line between the cemetery and the development whichever provides the greater protection for the cemetery before beginning construction.
10.
Fence must be 9 gauge with top rail and fence post must be set in concrete. Fence may be upgraded to vinyl coated chain link and/or wrought iron.
11.
Comply with State and local laws and ordinances.
12.
All cemetery preservation requirements must be Site Plan specific.
6.17.00 - UTILITIES
City of Kennesaw has adopted the Georgia Department of Transportation, Utility Accommodation Policy and Standards, Section 3 - Rules for Issuing Permits (as may be amended from time to time). Please see Volume 2, Section 508, Materials Specifications and Standard Details.
1.
For damage prevention purposes, all utility locations within a street right-of-way shall correspond to the utility location cross section in Standard Details 80, 80a, 80b, 81, 81a and 82.
2.
On residential streets constructed without curb and gutter, the utility depths shall be increased by one foot to allow for the realignment of the ditches without damaging the utilities. The developer is encouraged to coordinate with the City of Kennesaw Public Works.
3.
Southern Bell requests to be moved from 18" BOC (back of curb) to 7½' BOC and from 24" deep to 30" deep to accommodate the gas service crossings.
4.
CATV requests to be moved from 5" BOC to 12" BOC and from 18" deep to 24" deep.
5.
Power requests to be moved from 8' BOC to 9' BOC with power transformer being flush with back of the right-of-way.
6.
Gas requests to remain at 36" BOC and 30" deep and will raise service laterals from 30" deep to 24" deep.
7.
Water requests to remain at 5' BOC and 42" deep.
8.
Utility companies may utilize a joint trench for utility installation. If a joint trench is used, its depth shall be that of the utility in the trench required to place its lines at the greatest depth. Joint trench placement may be specified or random placements.
9.
All contractors, developers, utility companies, and the "general digging public" are encouraged to abide by the OCGA 9 (25). The UPC number is (404) 623-4344; (800) 282-7411.
10.
All privately owned equipment or utilities, with the exception of residential mailboxes, shall be allowed on public right-of-way by special permit only. A special permit must be approved by the Public Work Director and Kennesaw Building Official.
11.
Any utility installed on the City's right-of-way under special permit shall be equipped with a tracing or locating mechanism. As an example, any non-conductive conduit shall be equipped with a minimum size 16 gauge corrosion-resistant tracer wire to aid in locating the utility. The wire shall extend along the tributary conduit to a point four feet off of the right-of-way.
12.
Water and sewer service lateral locations are to be permanently marked on the curb under which they cross.
13.
Any contractor operating within the City shall sign a statement to acknowledge receipt of this new regulation as a condition of obtaining a business license to operate within City. Contractors shall provide a 24-hour contact telephone number to the Georgia UPC.
14.
Responsibility for the location of any utility placed on the City right-of-way under special permit rests solely upon the owner of the utility. Any damage repair to non-permitted utilities shall be the responsibility of the owner of the utility.
15.
The design and construction specifications for all-public water and sanitary sewer facilities shall conform to the specifications of the Cobb County Water System or applicable authority, i.e., water meters should back-up to the property line.
16.
Storm drains and cul-de-sacs shall off-set the right-of-way to accommodate utilities. See Standard Details 80 and 81.
17.
All streetlights shall be placed at the property line.
18.
The standard color codes adopted by the American Public Works Association and the Georgia Utilities Coordinating Committee shall be utilized for any necessary marking of underground utility lines. The color scheme is as follows:
EXPAND
Red Electric
Yellow Gas/Oil
Orange Communications/Cable TV
Blue Water
Green Sewer
White Proposed Excavations
Pink Surveyors
  19.
All utility manholes and valve boxes shall be brought to the finished grade within the roadway section. Manhole covers and splice boxes placed within the sidewalk zone shall be constructed to be flush mounted with the finished sidewalk.
20.
Utility poles and transformers shall be located as near as possible to the frontage line. Wherever practical, utility poles or transformers shall not be located on the same lot corner as water service.
6.18.00 - CONDOMINIUMS

6.18.01 - Project Design
•
Design of project shall conform to the requirements of the Cobb County zoning regulations and to the standard design specifications.
6.18.02 - Monuments
•
Permanent bench markers shall be placed at all land lot corners on the boundary of the property being developed. These markers are to be concrete with brass markings. Placement (to be verified by visual inspections) to extend no less than 6 inches above the finished grade.
NOTE: Set as witness to existing pins.
•
All other corners shall be marked with an iron pin, ½-inch diameter, 24 inches long, and driven to extend no less than one inch above the finished grade.
6.18.03 - Easements
•
Easements shall be cleaned and opened at the time of development to control surface water run-offs. Run-off slope and side slopes are to be specified by the developer's engineer, according to good engineering practice.
•
Permanent sanitary sewer easements of 20 feet in width shall be provided for necessary lines.
•
Buildings shall not be located closer than 10 feet from the edge of any permanent sanitary sewer easement without approval from the Public Works Division.
•
Easements for sanitary sewers and drainage purposes shall not overlap unless approved by the Public Works Division.
•
Drainage easements shall be provided where the project is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way, natural stream, or channel. Easements shall conform substantially to the limits of such watercourse plus any additional width as is necessary to accommodate future construction as recommended by the Storm Water Division.
•
Drainage easements within the project and off the dedicated street right-of-way shall be clearly defined on the final plat of the project. The owner of this property shall be required to keep the easement open and free of undue obstructions at all times.
•
All easements shall be cleared of debris, excess dirt, and other materials. The ground shall be smoothed down and grassed within 10 days of completing construction work. The use of sediment control measures may be required to protect the area until a vegetative cover is obtained.
6.18.04 - Street Names
•
All street names are subject to the approval of the Community Development Agency and shall be done in accordance with Chapter 6, Section 6.02.22.
6.18.05 - Property Address
•
Property address numbers shall be provided by the Community Development Department.
6.18.06 - Sidewalks
•
Sidewalks of an approved design shall be required on residential streets per sidewalk requirements addressed in this chapter.
6.18.07 - Suitability of Land
•
Such land deemed unsuitable for residential purposes may be set aside for such uses that shall not be harmed by the existing condition of the land. (See FEMA floodplain regulations)
6.18.08 - Utilities
•
The design and construction specifications for all public utilities shall conform to the standard design specifications by the applicable agency.
6.18.09 - Variances
Where the sub-divider can show that a provision of the regulations would cause unnecessary hardship if strictly adhered to and/or where, because of topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site, and/or where, in the opinion of the Mayor and Council a departure may be made without adversely affecting applicable City regulation, the Mayor and Council appeals' decision for authorization shall be noted on the final plat before approval of the plat.
6.18.10 - Zoning or Other Regulations
No final plat affected by an existing zoning ordinance shall be approved unless it conforms to such ordinance. Whenever there is a discrepancy between minimum standards of dimensions noted in these regulations and those contained in the zoning regulations, building code, or any other official regulation in Cobb County, the highest standard shall apply.
6.19.00 - GATED COMMUNITIES
Gated communities must be developed in accordance with the following minimum requirements:
All private roads must be designed and constructed according to City standards.
Gates must be set back a minimum of 50 feet from public right-of-way. Minimum gate width must equal the required road width plus the width of any utility easements present, but in no case shall the width be less than 30-feet (including 14-feet of clearance width), provided, however, that the required gate width may be accomplished through the combination of adjacent entrance and exit gates of equal width.
Gate width and placement must be reviewed by, and are subject to approval by, both the City and County Public Safety Agency (including Fire Marshall's Office).
All gates must be "manned" 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Arrangements for access through the gate for emergency service vehicles must be reviewed by, and are subject to approval by Cobb County Public Safety (including Fire Marshall's Office). Necessary arrangements may include Knox-fire boxes for keyed/keyless entry, keypad code entry, occupant telephone authorized entry, and/or automatic gate opening upon power disconnect.
Arrangements for access through the gate for non-emergency service vehicles must be reviewed by, and are subject to approval by the City. Non-emergency public service vehicles include, but are not limited to, mail delivery, garbage pickup, public utility meter reading, and public utility maintenance. Necessary arrangements may include, but are not limited to: access easements for refuse collection vehicles and appropriate utility easements for public utility development and maintenance. Gates may not restrict access to any public right-of-way or publicly owned property within the proposed development.
The City must be properly indemnified against any liability resulting from the proposed development including damage from or broken utilities, fines associated with damaged or broken utilities. This indemnification shall be evidenced by:
1.
The Release and Indemnity Agreement placed on the plat.
2.
A separate release and indemnity agreement executed by the developer.
3.
A clause in each deed of conveyance by the developer for each lot in the subdivision acknowledging the release and indemnity agreement.
4.
Assumption of liability of the release and indemnity agreement by the Homeowners' Association.
5.
Assumption of liability of the release and indemnity agreement in the Protective Covenants, which shall become part of the covenants of the subdivision. The developer's liability shall end three years after the last lot has been sold by the developer, provided that there are then no pending or threatened claims against the developer, the County or the Homeowners' Association. All language for liability agreements and covenants shall read as required by the City Attorney's Office.
The developer shall grant such easements to the appropriate governing authority or Utility Company as is necessary for public purposes regarding said community.
In the event that the developer does not obtain any approval required hereunder, same shall not alleviate the requirement of obtaining such approval.
Via a written Memorandum of Agreement in a form satisfactory to the City Attorney, and compliance by the developer with the requirements of O.C.G.A. 40-6-3 (a) (6) as it may be amended from time to time, the developer, for itself and its successors in title, shall grant the City the authority to enforce all local ordinances and state laws, including the state Uniform Rules of the Road and necessary and required easements, within the gated community. The following standards shall be used by City of Kennesaw when considering any request for gated communities:
1.
The number of units in the development shall not be excessive as identified on the Future Land Use Map of the City Comprehensive Plan.
2.
The developer must demonstrate adequate provision for perpetual maintenance of the private road and any other infrastructure associated with the development, including but not limited to a note on the plat and a clause in each deed of conveyance by the developer for each lot in the subdivision acknowledging the perpetual maintenance of the private road (and other private infrastructure) by the Homeowners' Association.
3.
The developer must demonstrate an adequate strategy for necessary emergency access.
4.
The private road and gate must not unreasonably impede the logical future development of public roads in the vicinity of the project.
5.
The private road and gate must not unreasonably restrict public access to sites of cultural, historical, or natural significance.
6.
The private road and gate must not unreasonably restrict previously established pedestrian access.
7.
The establishment of gated communities must not have unreasonable negative effects on the health and welfare of the community or the good order of the City and/or County.
6.20.00 - UTILITY ACCOMMODATION ORDINANCE

6.20.01 - Declaration of Findings and Purpose, Scope, Definitions
A.
Intent and Purpose. The City is vitally concerned with the use, construction within, and occupancy of all Rights-of-way in the City as such Rights-of-way are a valuable and limited resource which must be utilized to promote the public health, safety, welfare, economic development of the City and to protect public work infrastructure. Therefore, the City, under the authority of the Laws and Constitution of the State of Georgia, including but not limited to Ga. Const. Art. 9, §§ 2 and 3; O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3; and O.C.G.A. § 32-4-92(10), has adopted this ordinance for the purpose of regulating public and private entities which use the City Rights-of-way.
B.
Scope. The provisions of this ordinance shall apply to all Utilities and Facilities occupying the Rights-of-way as provided herein.
C.
Definitions. For the purposes of the administration, interpretation, or enforcement of the Utility Accommodation Ordinance, the following terms, phrases, words, and their derivations have the meanings set forth herein. The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory and "may" is permissive. Words not defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning. References hereafter to "Sections" are, unless otherwise specified, references to Sections in this ordinance. Defined terms remain defined terms whether or not capitalized.
1.
City means the City of Kennesaw, Georgia;
2.
Codified Ordinances means the Codified Ordinances of the City of Kennesaw, Georgia;
3.
Construct means, but shall not be limited to, dig, bore, tunnel, trench, excavate, obstruct, install or remove signs or Facilities, other than landscaping or ornamental plantings, in, on, above, within, over, below, under, or through any part of the Rights-of-way. Construct shall also include the act of opening and/or cutting into the surface of any paved or improved surface that is any part of the Right-of-way;
4.
Construction means, but shall not be limited to, the act or process of digging, boring, tunneling, trenching, excavating, obstructing, installing or removing signs or Facilities, other than landscaping or ornamental plantings, in, on, above, within, over, below, under, or through any part of the Rights-of-way. Construction shall also include the act of opening, boring and/or cutting into the surface of any part of the Right-of-way;
5.
Director means the Director of Public Works Department of the City of Kennesaw, Georgia, or his or her designee;
6.
Emergency means a sudden or unforeseen occurrence involving a clear or imminent danger to life, health, property; or interruption of Utility services; or repairs to transportation facilities that require immediate attention.
7.
Facility or Facilities means any tangible thing, including but not limited to pipes, mains, conduits, cables, wires, poles, towers, traffic and other signals, and other equipment, appurtenances, appliances and future technology of any Utility seeking to locate or already located in, on, along, over, or under any part of the Rights-of-way within the City;
8.
Facilities Representative(s) means the specifically identified agent(s) of a Utility who is/are authorized to direct field activities of that Utility and serve as official notice agent(s) for Facilities' related information. The Utility shall be required to make sure at least one (1) of its Facilities Representatives is available at all times to receive notice of, and immediately and directly respond to, Facilities-related emergencies or situations;
9.
FCC means the Federal Communications Commission or any successor thereto;
10.
Utility Permit means an authorization given by the City which grants permission to conduct specific regulated activities on, in, over, under or within any public right-of-way, and which may be subject to conditions specified in a written document or in a related provision of this ordinance;
11.
Right(s)-of-Way means the real property owned and controlled by a governmental agency for maintaining public infrastructure, including streets, sidewalks, pathways, mass transit rail line, drainage ditches and structures, shoulders, traffic control devices and vegetative buffers. The width of the right-of-way outside the pavement of any given street or road can be determined by the City Public Works Department;
12.
Service(s) means the offering of any service by a Utility for a fee directly to the public, or to such classes of users as to be effectively available directly to the public, or alternatively, the provision of any service by a Utility between two or more points for a proprietary purpose to a class of users other than the general public;
13.
Street or Streets means a dedicated and accepted right-of-way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as a highway, thoroughfare, land, road, boulevard, or otherwise;
14.
Transfer means the disposal by the Utility, directly or indirectly, by gift, assignment, sale, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of more than fifty percent (50%) at one time of the ownership or controlling interest in the Facilities, or of more than fifty percent (50%) cumulatively of such interests in the Facilities to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership, trust, or association, or person or group of persons acting in concert;
15.
Unused Facilities means Facilities located in the Rights-of-way which have remained unused for twelve (12) months and for which the Utility is unable to provide the City with a plan detailing the procedure by which the Utility intends to begin actively using such Facilities within the next twelve (12) months, or that it has a potential purchaser or user of the Facilities who will be actively using the Facilities within the next twelve (12) months, or, that the availability of such Facilities is required by the Utility to adequately and efficiently operate its Facilities;
16.
Utility or Utilities means any privately, publicly or cooperatively owned line, facility, or system for producing, transmitting or distributing communications, telecommunications, cable television, power, electricity, light, heat, gas, oil products, water, steam, clay, waste, storm water not connected to highway drainage, and other similar services and commodities, including river gages, fire and police signals, and street lighting systems, which directly or indirectly serve the public. The term "Utility", when capitalized, may also be used to refer to the owner of any above described utility or utility facility.
(Ord. No. 2018-08, § 1, 4-2-18)
6.20.02 - Utility Permit
A.
Utility Permit Required. It shall be unlawful for any Utility to excavate or to construct, install, maintain, renew, remove or relocate Facilities in, on, along, over or under the right-of-way of the City without a Utility Permit from the Public Works Department in accordance with the terms of this ordinance.
B.
Permit Procedure. Utility Permits shall be obtained from the Director of Public Works, or his/her designee upon application made on forms prescribed by the Public Works Department. The written application shall include the following:
1.
The name and principal office address of the Utility;
2.
The nature, extent, and location of any work proposed to be done, along with satisfactory plans as attachments showing in detail the location of the proposed Facility, Facilities, or operations as described in the application. The plans shall show the size or capacity of Facilities to be installed; their relationship to Street features such as right-of-way lines, pavement edge, structures, etc., horizontal and vertical clearance to critical elements of the roadway and any other information necessary to evaluate the impact on the Street and its operation;
3.
The name and address of the person or firm who is to perform such work;
4.
The name, street address, email address if applicable and telephone and facsimile numbers of one (1) or more Facilities Representative(s);
5.
The projected dates for the work to be initiated and completed;
6.
An indemnity bond or other acceptable security in an amount to be set by the City for damages incurred to any part of the City road system or other City property or to any city employee or member of the public caused by activity or work of the Utility performed under authority of the permit issued;
7.
A copy, if requested, of the Registrant's certificate of authority (or other acceptable evidence of authority to operate) from the Georgia Public Service Commission and/or the FCC and any other similar approvals, permits, or agreements;
8.
A copy, if requested and if applicable documentation (i.e. Resolution, Lease Right-of-Way Agreement) that authorizes the Utility to use or occupy the Right-of-way for the purpose described in the application; and
9.
A copy, if applicable, of documentation demonstrating that the Utility has written permission from privately-owned utility pole or facility owners that are located in the Right-of-way to locate or co-locate Facilities thereon.
C.
Permit Fees. Fees shall be determined by the Director, subject to the approval by resolution of the Mayor and City Council. A fee schedule shall be available at the offices of the Director and the City Clerk and open for public inspection.
D.
Issuance of Permit. The Director may issue a Utility Permit if the Director determines the Utility has satisfied the following requirements:
1.
Issuance of the Utility Permit is consistent with this ordinance and any other applicable local, state and federal regulation;
2.
The Utility has submitted a complete Application and has secured all certificates and other authorizations required by law, if applicable, in order to construct Facilities in the manner proposed by the Utility;
3.
The impacts on public safety, visual quality of the streets, traffic flow, and other users of the Right-of-way have been minimized giving due consideration to the scope, difficulty, duration, construction, and future maintenance of the project for which the Utility Permit is being issued; and
4.
The placement of the Facilities under the Utility Permit complies with any applicable documentation authorizing the Utility to occupy the Right-of-Way (i.e. Resolution, Lease, Right-of-Way Agreement).
E.
Emergency Situations.
1.
Each Utility shall, as soon as reasonably practicable, notify the Director of any event regarding its Facilities which is considered to be an Emergency. The Utility may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary in order to respond to the Emergency and abate the situation. A Utility who engages in an emergency response shall take all reasonable precautions to avoid and minimize damage to any existing Facilities.
2.
In the event that the City becomes aware of an Emergency related to a Facility located in the Right-of-way, the City may take whatever action it deems necessary in order to respond to the Emergency, including, but not limited to, cutting or moving or removing any of the Facilities. The City shall not incur any liability to the Utility for taking such emergency action(s), and the cost of such action(s) taken by the City shall be paid by each Utility involved by the Emergency.
F.
Effective Period of Permit.
1.
Each Utility Permit shall have a set commencement and expiration date based on information provided in the Utility's Permit application.
2.
The Utility Permit shall remain in place until Construction is completed or until its expiration date unless the Utility is in default. The Director may give written notice of default to a Utility if it is determined that a Utility has:
a.
Violated any provision or requirement of the issuance or acceptance of a Utility Permit application or any law of the City, state, or federal government;
b.
Attempted to evade any provision or requirement of this ordinance;
c.
Engaged in any fraud or deceit in connection with the Application or the Utility Permit;
d.
Made a material misrepresentation or omission of fact in connection with the Application or the Utility Permit;
e.
Unused Facilities located in the Right-of-way.
G.
Termination for Cause. If a Utility fails to cure a default after notice is provided to the Utility by the City, then such default shall be a material breach and the City may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in equity to terminate the Utility Permit. If the Director decides there is cause or reason to terminate, the following procedure shall be followed:
1.
The Director shall serve a Utility with a written notice of the reason or cause for proposed termination and shall allow a Utility a minimum of fifteen (15) business days to cure the breach.
2.
If the Utility fails to cure within fifteen (15) business days, the Director may declare the Utility Permit terminated.
H.
Expiration of Utility Permit. If construction under the Utility Permit is not initiated within six (6) months of the date of issuance, the Utility Permit will automatically expire and shall be null and void without further action by the City.
I.
Indemnification. Any Utility obtaining a Utility Permit as provided in this ordinance agrees, as a condition of the issuance thereof, to indemnify and hold the City harmless against any claim of liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting from or arising out of the negligence or willful misconduct of the Utility, its employees, contractors, or agents, including accidents or occurrences arising out of such Utility's operations under the Utility Permit. In addition, the Utility must sign a statement affirming that it will indemnify and save harmless the City, its officers, agents and employees from all liability for accidents and damage (personal and property) caused by any of the work covered under the Utility Permit, that it will fill up and place in good and safe condition all excavations and openings made in the street, that it will replace and restore the pavement over any opening it may made as near as can be to the state and condition in which it found it and keep and maintain the same in such condition, normal wear and tear excepted, to the satisfaction of the City.
J.
Insurance. Any Utility obtaining a Utility Permit as provided in this ordinance shall obtain and carry insurance per Section 3.5 (as amended from time to time) of the State of Georgia Department of Transportation Utility Accommodation Manual relating to certification of insurance, policy provisions, coverage and any other insurance requirement under the Manual.
K.
Performance bond. The City reserves the right, pursuant to Section 3.5.F (as amended from time to time) of the State of Georgia Department of Transportation Utility Accommodation Manual, to require a performance bond, a letter of credit, or letter of escrow, as a condition of the Utility Permit.
(Ord. No. 2018-08, § 1, 4-2-18)
6.20.03 - Required Minimum Standards
A.
Utility Accommodation Manual Adopted. The 2016 Utility Accommodation Policy and Standards manual, including all references contained therein to codes, rules, regulations, schedules, forms and appendix items, except Appendix B (Permit Forms and supporting Documents), promulgated by the State of Georgia Department of Transportation, as may be amended from time to time is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated in this ordinance as if fully set forth herein, subject to the amendments and modification contained herein. A copy of the manual shall be maintained at the offices of the Director or his/her designee and open for public inspection. Any conflicts between the provisions of this ordinance and the manual shall be resolved in favor of the manual. References to State personnel, agencies, and fees shall be interpreted, where required, as meaning the City of Kennesaw municipal equivalents.
B.
Protection of Traffic and Roadway. The normal operation of the Utility that is subject to the Utility Permit cannot interfere with the use of any portion of the City street system or any City extension of a county public road. Unless specifically in the Utility Permit, no Utility may occupy the City Rights-of-way unless sufficient space is available so that the free flow and safety of traffic and other capacity considerations are not unduly impaired and the installation does not prevent the City from reasonably maintaining the streets, structures, traffic control devices and other appurtenant Facilities, and further provided that maintenance and operations of the Facilities do not jeopardize the traffic, street structure, other users of the right-of-way or the right-of-way itself.
C.
Grading: If the grades or lines of any street within the City Right-of-way are changed at any time by the City during the term of the Utility Permit and this change involves an area in which the Utility's Facilities are located, then the Utility shall, at its own cost and expense and upon the request of the City giving at least 60-days written notice, protect or promptly alter or relocate the Facilities, or any part thereof, so as to conform with such new grades or lines. In the event the Utility refuses or neglects to so protect, alter, or relocate all or part of the Facilities, in addition to any other remedy allowed by law, the City shall have the right to break-through, remove, alter, or relocate all or any part of the Facilities without any liability to the Utility and the Utility shall promptly pay to the City the costs incurred in connection with such breaking-through, removal, alteration, or relocation. If the Utility has entered into a franchise agreement with the City and that agreement contains provisions that govern the relocation of facilities, the franchise agreement relocation provisions control over this paragraph.
D.
Installation of Poles and Other Wire holding Structures and Relocation. No placement of any pole or wire holding structure of the Utility is to be considered a vested interest in the Right-of-way, and such poles or structures are to be removed, relocated underground, or modified by the Utility at its own expense whenever the City determines that the public convenience would be enhanced thereby. The Facilities shall be so located and installed as to cause minimum interference with the rights and convenience of adjacent property owners.
E.
Blasting or Excavating. As provided in O.C.G.A § 25-9-6 (the Georgia Utility Facility Protection Act) and other applicable state law currently in place or as amended, no Utility shall commence, perform, or engage in blasting or in excavating with mechanized excavating Facilities unless and until the Utility planning the blasting or excavating has given 48 hours' notice by submitting a locate request to the Utility Protection Center, beginning the next Working Day after such notice is provided, excluding hours during days other than Working Days. In addition, the Utility shall comply in all respects with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 25-9-6 in connection with such blasting or excavating activity.
F.
Protection. No Utility is allowed to engage in Construction of any kind which may create or cause a dangerous condition in or near any street, alley, sidewalk or public place of the City without first placing and maintaining proper guardrails, signal lights, or other appropriate warnings as the circumstances may command, in or around the Construction work site, sufficient to warn the public of any such Construction, and to protect all persons using reasonable care from injuries on account of such Construction.
(Ord. No. 2018-08, § 1, 4-2-18)
6.20.04 - Restoration of Property
A.
Responsibility for Costs. Each Utility shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any Facilities in the Rights-of-way and adjoining property or other Facilities which it or its Facilities damage. A Utility shall be obligated, at its own cost and expense, to replace, restore, or repair, any Street, Facilities, or property or structure thereon, thereunder, there over or adjacent thereto that may be disturbed or damaged as a result of the Construction or installation, operation, upgrade, repair or removal of Facilities.
B.
Condition. The Utility shall replace, restore, or repair to a condition as good as or better than its condition before the work performed by the Utility that caused such disturbance or damage.
1.
The Utility is responsible for the proper backfilling and replacement of the surface of the Right-of-way. Any pavement settlement shall be immediately repaired at the expense of the Utility.
2.
The Utility shall conduct any such restoration so as to not obstruct the free flow or passage of water in the gutters of any streets in the City.
3.
The Utility performing the work under the Utility Permit shall be responsible for all defects in workmanship and shall be liable for all damages resulting from such defects.
C.
Reimbursement for Costs. If the Utility does not commence such replacement or repair after fifteen (15) business days following written notice by the Director, the City or the owner of the affected structure or property may make such replacement or repair and the Utility shall reimburse the actual cost of the same within thirty (30) calendar days of the City or the owner giving notice to the Utility of the actual cost. Such notice by the City or property owner may be accompanied with supporting documentation justifying the actual cost.
D.
Penalty. Any Utility neglecting, refusing, or failing to comply with any provision of this Chapter shall be guilty of a violation thereof; and where any neglect, refusal, or failure is continued, after notice from the Public Works Department, every day's continuance thereafter shall constitute a separate and distinct offense for which the Utility shall be liable.
(Ord. No. 2018-08, § 1, 4-2-18)
6.20.05 - Inspection
A.
Time for Inspection. The Utility shall make the Construction site available to the Director and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all reasonable times during the execution and upon completion of the Construction.
B.
Stop Work Order. At any time, including the time of inspection, the Director may order the immediate cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the health, safety, or welfare of the public, violates any law, or which violates the terms and conditions of the Utility Permit and/or this ordinance or issue an order to correct work which does not conform to the Utility Permit and/or applicable standards, conditions or codes.
C.
Notice of Completion. When the Construction under any Utility Permit is completed, the Utility shall notify the Director in writing.
(Ord. No. 2018-08, § 1, 4-2-18)
6.20.06 - Obstructions, Transfers, Signs
A.
Obstructions. It shall be unlawful for any person to place or maintain, or cause to be placed or maintained, in any of the streets or in any of the easements, or on any of the public sidewalks of the city an obstruction of any kind or character whatever, except by the consent of the mayor and council or a designated officer of the City, except in the case of an Emergency as defined herein.
B.
Transfer or Lease. The Utility shall notify the City in writing of any transfer or lease of its Facilities that are the subject of a Utility Permit under this ordinance. Such notice shall be given to the City no later than 30 days following any such transfer or lease. The notice shall include: (a) the name, address, telephone, and contact name of the person or company to whom the interest in the Facility was transferred or leased; (b) a copy of the document evidencing such transfer or lease; and (c) a copy of documentation that the Utility to whom the Facilities were transferred or leased (in whole or in part) has the legal authority to locate or co-locate on the Right-of-way, and if applicable, to locate or co-locate on public or privately owned Facilities located in the Right-of-way.
C.
Signs. All signs shall conform to the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways, 2009 Edition (including Revision 1 dated May 2012 and Revision 2 dated May 2012) as promulgated by the United States Department of Transportation and Federal Highway Administration (MUTCD), as the MUTCD is amended and/or revised from time to time. The Utility shall be required to give the City written notice at least one week prior to the erection of any signs in the Right-of-way. Such signs shall be subject to the City requiring relocation and/or removal of same.
(Ord. No. 2018-08, § 1, 4-2-18)
6.20.06 - Penalties
A.
Every Utility convicted of a violation of any provision of this ordinance shall be obligated to pay a civil fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation plus applicable surcharges. Each act of violation and each day upon which any such violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to the penalty prescribed above, the City may pursue other remedies at its election, including but not limited to abatement of nuisance, injunctive relief, or termination of the Utility Permit.
(Ord. No. 2018-08, § 1, 4-2-18)
6.20.07 - Other Provisions
A.
Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this ordinance is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court or administrative agency of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions thereof.
B.
Reservation of Regulatory and Police Powers. The City by issuing a Utility Permit under this ordinance, does not surrender or to any extent lose, waive, impair, or lessen the lawful powers and rights, which it has now or may be hereafter vested under the Constitution and Laws of the United States, State of Georgia and the City Charter, and under the provisions of the City's Codified Ordinances to regulate the use of the Rights-of-way. The Utility, by applying for and being issued a written Utility Permit, is deemed to acknowledged that all lawful powers and rights, regulatory power, or police power, or otherwise as are or the same may be from time to time vested in or reserved to the City, shall be in full force and effect and subject to the exercise thereof by the City at any time. A Utility is deemed to acknowledge that its interests are subject to the regulatory and police powers of the City to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to the safety and welfare of the public and is deemed to agree to comply with all applicable general laws enacted by the City pursuant to such powers.
C.
Compliance. No Utility shall be relieved of its obligation to comply with any of the provisions of this ordinance by reason of any failure of City to enforce compliance.
D.
Appeal of Administrative Decision. Any Utility aggrieved by a decision of the Director made under this ordinance may appeal that decision to the Board of Construction Appeals pursuant to Section 10.05.01 of the Unified Development Code within 30 days of the Director's decision. Any such appeal and shall be in writing and sent to the Director.
E.
Ordinance Headings. Ordinance headings are for convenience only and shall not be used to interpret any portion of this ordinance.
F.
Notice. All notices to the City or the Director required under this ordinance shall be made in writing and shall be sent via statutory overnight delivery to the Director.
(Ord. No. 2018-08, § 1, 4-2-18)
6.21.00 - ORDINANCE TO ADOPT LOCAL LAWS CONSISTENT WITH THE STREAMLINING WIRELESS FACILITIES AND ANTENNAS ACT

6.21.01 - Declaration of Findings and Purpose, Scope, Definitions
A.
Intent. The Georgia General Assembly enacted the Streamlining Wireless Facilities and Antennas Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-1 et. seq. (hereinafter the "Act") during the 2019 legislative session to streamline the deployment of wireless broadband in the public rights of way; to provide for definitions; to require certain meetings between applicants and authorities before applications are submitted under the Act; to provide the manner in which the Act may be implemented; to provide rate and fee caps and the process to be followed for the removal of small wireless facilities; to authorize wireless providers to collocate small wireless facilities on authority poles and decorative poles in the right of way subject to administrative review and to occupy the right of way for certain uses, including certain placements of poles and certain collocations of small wireless facilities, subject to administrative review; to provide a permit application process with certain exemptions and certain limitations on an authority's use and administration of the right of way; to provide certain time frames and other requirements for the application process, permits, relocations, reconditioning, make-ready work, abandonment, imminent risks to public safety, repair of damage to the right of way, and notices; to require certain applications for other uses to comply with applicable law; to require an applicant to comply with certain requirements in the right of way; to provide for certain requirements in historic districts; to provide a process by which an authority may propose alternative locations for new poles in the right of way in areas zoned for residential use; to provide for certain requirements for decorative poles; to provide for consolidated applications and the tolling of application processing once certain volumes have been reached; to provide for a process for the resolution of conflicting application requests; to provide for indemnification by wireless providers and limitations of liability for authorities and their officers, employees, or agents; to provide that, absent an agreement to the contrary, an authority may not require a wireless provider to provide services unrelated to the collocation for which approval is sought; to address the applicability of the Act to agreements between authorities and wireless providers entered into before October 1, 2019; to provide that, except to the extent authorized by federal law, nothing in the Act authorizes the state or any political subdivision thereof, including an authority, to require small wireless facility deployment or to regulate wireless services; to address any perceived conflicts between the Act and Chapter 66B of Title 36 of the Official Code of Georgia; to address the law applicable to certain activities relating to wireline backhaul facilities; to provide that the approval of certain activities relating to small wireless facilities shall not authorize for the provision of communications services; to provide for certain limitations on the regulation of certain communications facilities and the regulation and imposition of a tax, fee, or charge on certain communication facilities; to provide that the Act shall not apply to an authority to the extent such authority uses communications facilities to provide free Wi-Fi services to the public; to provide that nothing in the Act relieves any person of any duties provided for in Chapter 9 of Title 25; to provide for related matters; to provide for effective dates; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
B.
Scope, Purpose and Exemptions.
1.
The Act provides in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(j) that an authority shall approve an application to locate or collocate small wireless facilities and poles in the City right of way unless the requested collocation of a small wireless facility or the requested installation, modification, or replacement of a pole or decorative pole fails to, among other things, 1) comply with any objective, reasonable, and nondiscriminatory aesthetic and structural requirements for location or collocation in a historic district; or 2) comply with any objective, reasonable aesthetic and structural requirements for location or collocation on a decorative pole per O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-10 and § 36-66C-12 respectively.
2.
The purpose and scope of this ordinance is to enact objective, reasonable, and nondiscriminatory aesthetic and structural requirements for the location or collocation of small wireless facilities and poles in the City historic district and to enact objective, reasonable aesthetic and structural requirements for the location or collocation on a decorative pole.
3.
An applicant making application to seek a permit under the Act to collocate small wireless facilities or related poles and infrastructure in the City right of way is exempt from complying with the permit requirements under Section 6.20.00 (City Utility Accommodation Ordinance) to the extent that such requirement involves a request to locate small wireless facilities or related poles and infrastructure in the City right of way. The City recognizes that the Act legislates a permit process and other requirements surrounding small wireless facilities and related infrastructure and poles in the City right of way and therefore, to the extent that the Act contains procedures, process, restrictions and the like relating to small wireless facilities and poles in the City right of way, those procedures and processes govern.
C.
Definitions. For the purposes of the administration, interpretation, or enforcement of this ordinance and the Act, the City adopts the definitions contained in the Act, which are set forth below:
1.
'Administrative review' means review by an authority, including authority staff, of an application to determine whether the issuance of a permit is in conformity with the applicable provisions of this chapter.
2.
'Antenna' means:
a.
Communications equipment that transmits, receives, or transmits and receives electromagnetic radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services or other wireless communications; or
b.
Communications equipment similar to equipment described in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph used for the transmission, reception, or transmission and reception of surface waves.
Such term shall not include television broadcast antennas, antennas designed for amateur radio use, or satellite dishes for residential or household purposes.
3.
'Applicable codes' means uniform building, fire, safety, electrical, plumbing, or mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization to the extent such codes have been adopted by the state or an authority or are otherwise applicable in the jurisdiction in which the application is submitted.
4.
'Applicant' means any person that submits an application.
5.
'Application' means a written request submitted by an applicant to an authority for a permit to:
a.
Collocate a small wireless facility in a right of way; or
b.
Install, modify, or replace a pole or decorative pole in a right of way on which a small wireless facility is or will be collocated.
6.
'Authority' means any county, consolidated government, or municipality or any agency, district, subdivision, or instrumentality thereof. Such term shall not include an electric supplier.
7.
'Authority pole' means a pole owned, managed, or operated by or on behalf of an authority. Such term shall not include poles, support structures, electric transmission structures, or equipment of any type owned by an electric supplier.
8.
'Class I Authority' means any county which has 100,000 parcels or more of real property within the unincorporated area of such county, any consolidated government which has 100,000 parcels or more of real property within the consolidated area, or any municipality which has 100,000 parcels or more of real property within the municipality.
9.
'Class II Authority' means any county which has at least 10,000 parcels but less than 100,000 parcels of real property within the unincorporated area of such county, any consolidated government which has at least 10,000 parcels but less than 100,000 parcels of real property within the consolidated area, or any municipality which has at least 10,000 parcels but less than 100,000 parcels of real property within the municipality.
10.
'Class III Authority' means any county which has less than 10,000 parcels of real property within the unincorporated area of such county, any consolidated government which has less than 10,000 parcels of real property within the consolidated area, or any municipality which has less than 10,000 parcels of real property within the municipality.
11.
'Collocate' or 'collocation' means to install, mount, modify, or replace a small wireless facility on or adjacent to a pole, decorative pole, or support structure.
12.
'Communications facility' means the set of equipment and network components, including wires and cables and associated equipment and network components, used by a communications service provider to provide communications services.
13.
'Communications service provider' means a provider of communications services.
14.
'Communications services' means cable service as defined in 47 U.S.C. Section 522(6); telecommunications service as defined in 47 U.S.C. Section 153(53); information service as defined in 47 U.S.C. Section 153(24), as each such term existed on January 1, 2019; or wireless services.
15.
'Consolidated application' means an application for the collocation of multiple small wireless facilities on existing poles or support structures or for the installation, modification, or replacement of multiple poles and the collocation of associated small wireless facilities.
16.
'Decorative pole' means an authority pole that is specially designed and placed for aesthetic purposes.
17.
'Electric supplier' shall have the same meaning as provided in Code Section 46-3-3.
18.
'Eligible facilities request' means an eligible facilities request as set forth in 47 C.F.R. Section 1.40001(b)(3), as it existed on January 1, 2019.
19.
'Evidence of Need Report' means a report providing sufficient information to demonstrate why existing utility poles and street lights in the public right-of-way cannot reasonably accommodate the applicant's need.
20.
'Faux Street Light Facility' means a street light fixture, such as a street light standard or pole, pedestrian light, decorative street light, or decorative post-top luminaire (lamppost) which is primarily used for public lighting.
21.
'FCC' means the Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
22.
'Fee' means a one-time, nonrecurring charge based on time and expense.
23.
'Historic district' means:
a.
Any district, site, building, structure, or object included in, or eligible for inclusion in, the National Register of Historic Places maintained by the Secretary of the Interior of the United States in accordance with Section VI.D.1.a.i-v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified by 47 C.F.R. Part 1;
b.
Any area designated as a historic district under Article 2 of Chapter 10 of Title 44, the 'Georgia Historic Preservation Act'; or
c.
Any area designated as a historic district or property by law prior to the effective date of this Code section.
24.
'Law' means and includes any and all federal, state, or local laws, statutes, common laws, codes, rules, regulations, orders, or ordinances.
25.
'Metropolitan statistical area' means a standard metropolitan statistical area which is located within this state and recognized by the United States Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census, according to the United States decennial census of 2010 or any future such census.
26.
'Micro wireless facility' means a small wireless facility not larger in dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
27.
'Permit' means a written authorization, in electronic or hard copy format, required to be issued by an authority to initiate, continue, or complete the collocation of a small wireless facility or the installation, modification, or replacement of a pole or decorative pole upon which a small wireless facility is collocated.
28.
'Person' means an individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association, trust, or other entity or organization, including an authority.
29.
'Pole' means a vertical pole such as a utility, lighting, traffic, or similar pole made of wood, concrete, metal, or other material that is lawfully located or to be located within a right of way, including without limitation a replacement pole and an authority pole. Such term shall not include a support structure, decorative pole, or electric transmission structure.
30.
'Rate' means a recurring charge.
31.
'Reconditioning work' means the activities associated with substantially painting, reconditioning, improving, or repairing authority poles.
32.
'Replace,' 'replacement,' or 'replacing' means to replace a pole or decorative pole with a new pole or a new decorative pole, similar in design, size, and scale to the existing pole or decorative pole consistent with 47 C.F.R. 1.40001(b)(7) as it existed on January 1, 2019, in order to address limitations of, or change requirements applicable to, the existing pole to structurally support the collocation of a small wireless facility.
33.
'Replacement work' means the activities associated with replacing an authority pole.
34.
'Right-of-way' has the same meaning as provided in paragraph (25) of Code Section 32-1-3; provided, however, that such term shall apply only to property or an interest therein that is under the ownership or control of an authority and shall not include property or any interest therein acquired for or devoted to an interstate highway or the public rights, structures, sidewalks, facilities, and appurtenances described in subparagraph (K) or (R) of paragraph (24) of Code Section 32-1-3.
35.
'Small wireless facility' means radio transceivers; surface wave couplers; antennas; coaxial, fiber optic, or other cabling; power supply; backup batteries; and comparable and associated equipment, regardless of technological configuration, at a fixed location or fixed locations that enable communication or surface wave communication between user equipment and a communications network and that meet both of the following qualifications:
a.
Each wireless provider's antenna could fit within an enclosure of no more than six cubic feet in volume; and
b.
All other wireless equipment associated with the facility is cumulatively no more than 28 cubic feet in volume, measured based upon the exterior dimensions of height by width by depth of any enclosure that may be used. The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of the volume of all other wireless equipment associated with any such facility:
(i)
Electric meters;
(ii)
Concealment elements;
(iii)
Telecommunications demarcation boxes;
(iv)
Grounding equipment;
(v)
Power transfer switches;
(vi)
Cut-off switches; and
(vii)
Vertical cable runs for connection of power and other services.
Such term shall not include a pole, decorative pole, or support structure on, under, or within which the equipment is located or collocated or to which the equipment is attached and shall not include any wireline backhaul facilities or coaxial, fiber optic, or other cabling that is between small wireless facilities, poles, decorative poles, or support structures or that is not otherwise immediately adjacent to or directly associated with a particular antenna.
36.
'State' means the State of Georgia.
37.
'Support structure' means a building, billboard, water tank, or any other structure to which a small wireless facility is or may be attached. Such term shall not include a decorative pole, electric transmission structure, or pole.
38.
'Unipole' means a uniformly tapered pole with one or more antennas and associated equipment and cables contained within the interior of the pole, and with a radome located at the top of the pole being the same width as the pole at the point of attachment.
39.
'Wireless infrastructure provider' means any person, including a person authorized to provide telecommunications services in this state, that builds, installs, or operates small wireless facilities, poles, decorative poles, or support structures on which small wireless facilities are or are intended to be used for collocation but that is not a wireless services provider.
40.
'Wireless provider' means a wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services provider.
41.
'Wireless services' means any services provided to the public using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or mobile.
42.
'Wireless services provider' means a person that provides wireless services.
43.
'Wireline backhaul facility' means an aboveground or underground wireline facility used to transport communications data from a telecommunications demarcation box associated with small wireless facility to a network.
( Ord. No. 2019-06 , § 1(Exh. A), 9-16-19)
6.21.02 - Historic District Standards
A.
Subject to compliance with the other regulations set forth by City Ordinance, State or Federal law, including location, siting and design standards and requirements and the issuance of a small wireless permit facility right of way placement permit pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-1 et. seq. (and as amended from time to time) only the following types of facilities may be placed in the public right of way located in the City Historic District:
1.
Concealed attached small wireless facility mounted to one of the following types of alternative support structures:
a.
Utility pole or replacement utility pole (i.e., utility pole-mounted small wireless facility);
b.
Street light pole (i.e., streetlight-mounted small wireless facility);
c.
Traffic signal pole.
2.
Concealed freestanding support structures designed as a:
a.
Street light fixture, such as a street light standard or pole, pedestrian light, decorative street light, or decorative post-top luminaire (lamppost) which is primarily used for public lighting (i.e., faux streetlight facility); or
b.
Concealed Unipole.
B.
Siting Standards and Requirements for small wireless facilities in the City Historic District. In order to limit the proliferation of new support structures in the public right-of-way in the Historic District and so as to preserve the appearance of the public right-of-way and prevent physical or visual obstructions to pedestrian or vehicular traffic, inconveniences to public use of the right-of-way in the Historic District, safety hazards to pedestrians and/or motorists, and new visual and aesthetic impacts, a proposed small wireless facility in the City Historic District shall be sited in the public right-of-way in accordance with the siting alternatives order set forth below. In order to demonstrate that a siting is impracticable or technically infeasible, the applicant shall provide an evidence of need report to the City at its pre-application meeting or as part of the application showing why and how complying with the foregoing standard would be impractical or technically infeasible:
1.
Utility-Pole-Mounted small wireless facility. A new small wireless facility in the public rights-of-way in the City Historic District must be placed on utility poles or replacement utility poles (subject to and in accordance with the standards and regulations governing concealed utility-pole-mounted small wireless facilities and other requirements set forth herein), unless such siting is impracticable or technically infeasible as sufficiently demonstrated by an evidence of need report;
2.
Concealed Streetlight-Mounted Small Wireless Facility. When an applicant sufficiently demonstrates that there are no existing utility poles in the subject area of the public right-of-way to accommodate the proposed small wireless facility, the proposed small wireless facility shall be placed on an existing street light (subject to and in accordance with the standards and regulations governing concealed street-light-mounted small wireless facility and other requirements set forth herein), unless such siting is impracticable or technically infeasible as sufficiently demonstrated by an evidence of need report;
3.
Concealed Attached Small Wireless Facility Mounted to Traffic Signal Pole. When an applicant sufficiently demonstrates that there are no existing utility poles and street lights in the subject area of the public right-of-way to accommodate the proposed small wireless facility, the proposed small wireless facility may be placed on an existing traffic signal pole (subject to and in accordance with the standards and regulations governing concealed street-light-mounted small wireless facilities and other requirements set forth herein), unless such siting is impracticable or technically infeasible as sufficiently demonstrated by an evidence of need report; or
4.
New Concealed Freestanding Support Structures: Faux Streetlight Facility or Concealed Unipole. When a registrant sufficiently demonstrates that there are no existing utility poles, street lights or traffic signal poles in the subject area of the public right-of-way to accommodate the proposed small wireless facility, a faux streetlight facility or concealed unipole may be sited in the public right-of-way in the Historic District (subject to and in accordance with the standards and regulations governing faux streetlight facilities and concealed unipoles and other requirements set forth herein).
C.
Small Wireless Facility Equipment allowed in the Historic District. Only antennas, repeaters, radio units, equipment cabinets or pedestals, and other accessory equipment associated with small wireless facilities, which are physically much smaller and less visible and can be placed at much lower elevations than macro-cell antennas and accessory equipment, such that they can be more easily deployed with concealment enclosures and other concealment elements that blend with the non-tower support structure on or within which they are installed, may be located within the public right-of-way in the City Historic District; provided, however, a DAS hub may not be located within the public right-of-way. The foregoing provisions are provided for the purpose of generally describing in prevailing industry terminology the type of small wireless facility equipment (in terms of its size, scale, design and feasibility for location on alternative support structures or concealed freestanding support structures) allowed in public rights-of-way in the City Historic District in accordance with the further regulations provided herein; the foregoing provisions are not intended to restrict the technology used by the registrant.
D.
Concealment Elements. In order to preserve the appearance of the public right-of-way in the Historic District and minimize the visual impact of new facilities, all small wireless facilities and small wireless facility equipment located in the public rights-of-way in the Historic District shall be designed with concealment elements, as further prescribed herein. It is the intent of this ordinance to prescribe concealment elements that are technically feasible and reasonably directed to avoid or remedy the intangible public harm of unsightly or out-of-character deployments.
E.
Additional Regulations and Design Standards for Concealed Utility-Pole-Mounted Small Wireless Facilities.
1.
Location Standards. Utility-pole-mounted small wireless facilities shall be located in areas of the public right-of-way in which there are existing utility poles. Antenna(s) and pole-mounted accessory equipment of utility-pole-mounted small wireless facilities may only be located on a utility pole currently supporting such aerial lines or a replacement utility pole.
2.
Minimum Height of Utility Pole. Antenna(s) and pole-mounted accessory equipment of a utility-pole-mounted small wireless facilities may only be attached to a utility pole with a height of twenty-five (25) feet or greater, as measured from finished grade.
3.
Minimum Height Location of Antennas. Antenna(s) shall be mounted on the utility pole at a height of fifteen (15) feet or more above grade. Pole-mounted equipment cabinets/enclosures shall be mounted on the utility pole at a height of ten (10) feet or more above grade.
4.
Design Standards and Concealment Elements.
a.
General Concealment Measures. The size, shape and orientation of antenna(s) and accessory equipment mounted to a utility pole shall be consistent with the size, shape and orientation of existing utility equipment installed on the subject utility pole and other utility poles in the nearby area (within 500 linear feet of the subject utility pole and on the same side of the right-of-way). Such antenna(s) and accessory equipment shall be painted, textured, and designed in a manner consistent with the utility pole's style, color, texture and materials and otherwise camouflaged and designed to blend in with the existing utility pole such that the utility-pole-mounted small wireless facility is no more readily apparent or plainly visible from public rights-of-way than the existing utility equipment located on the utility pole.
b.
Type of Antennas; Maximum Number. No type of antenna other than a panel or whip antenna may be mounted to a utility pole unless such antenna is enclosed within a canister, radome, shroud or other similar concealment enclosures. No more than (a) four (4) side-mounted panel antennas, whip antennas, or antenna concealment enclosures, or any combination thereof, or (b) one (1) top-mounted canister, radome, shroud or similar antenna concealment enclosures with antenna(s) enclosed therein may be attached to a utility pole; provided, however, that, one (1) pole-top mounted whip antenna may be used in lieu of a side-mounted whip antenna when the other antennas or antenna concealment enclosures are side-mounted.
c.
Mounting of Antennas. A panel antenna or canister antenna (or other antenna concealment enclosure) mounted to the side of the utility pole, together with its mount, shall not extend horizontally from the side of the utility pole more than existing utility equipment with the same orientation (located on the utility pole), or more than three (3) feet, whichever is less. No antennas mounted to the side of a utility pole shall extend vertically above the height of the utility pole, other than one (1) flush-mounted whip antenna, which may extend vertically up to three (3) feet above the height of the utility pole. Alternatively, a whip antenna may be top-mounted on the utility pole but shall not extend vertically above the height of the utility pole by more than five (5) feet, and any vertical separation between the top of the pole and the base of the whip antenna shall not be plainly visible. Canisters, radomes, shrouds or other similar antenna concealment enclosures may be mounted to the side of a utility pole but shall not extend vertically above the height of the utility pole. Additionally, one (1) canister, radome, shroud or other similar antenna concealment enclosure may be top-mounted on the utility pole (vertically mounted to the top surface of the utility pole), provided that such canister, radome, shroud or other similar antenna concealment enclosure, including its mount, is centered on the top of the utility pole, is not wider than the diameter of the top of the utility pole, and does not extend vertically above the height of the utility pole by more than three (3) feet.
d.
Maximum Size of Antennas. A non-enclosed panel antenna shall be no larger than sixteen (16) inches in width and thirty (30) inches in length. A whip antenna shall be no larger than two-and-a-half (2.5) inches in diameter and five (5) feet in length.
e.
Maximum Antenna Volume. In addition to the foregoing size limitations, each antenna located on the utility pole shall either be (a) located within a canister, radome, shroud or other similar antenna concealment enclosure that is no more than three (3) cubic feet in volume, or (b) if the antenna is not enclosed within an antenna concealment enclosure, capable of fitting within an enclosure (i.e., an imaginary enclosure) that is no more than three (3) cubic feet in volume. The aggregate volume of actual concealment enclosures and/or imaginary enclosures of all antennas located on the utility pole, including any pre-existing antennas, shall not exceed six (6) cubic feet in volume.
f.
Accessory Equipment; Equipment Cabinets. All pole-mounted equipment cabinets/enclosures or, where permitted, radio units shall be flush-mounted to the utility pole. The vertical dimension of a pole-mounted equipment cabinet/enclosure (or, if permitted radio unit) shall not exceed 48 inches, and the width and depth of a pole-mounted equipment cabinet/enclosure shall not be more than twice the width (diameter) of the pole at the location of attachment. The volume of all pole-mounted equipment cabinets and accessory equipment located on the utility pole and, to the extent permitted, ground-mounted equipment cabinets and enclosures associated with wireless transmission equipment located on the utility pole, including any pre-existing wireless transmission equipment located on the utility pole, shall not exceed twenty-one (21) cubic feet.
F.
Additional Regulations and Design Standards for Concealed Streetlight-Mounted small wireless facilities.
1.
Prohibited Structures. No attached small wireless facilities may be mounted to a pedestrian light or post-top street light.
2.
Minimum Height of Streetlight Standard. Antenna(s) and pole-mounted accessory equipment of streetlight-mounted small wireless facilities may only be attached to a street light with a height of twenty (20) feet or more above grade.
3.
Minimum Height Location of Equipment Cabinets/Accessory Equipment. Pole-mounted equipment cabinets and other equipment enclosures or accessory equipment shall be mounted on the street light at a height of ten (10) feet or more above grade.
4.
Lighting, Operability and Maintenance. The streetlight-mounted small wireless facility shall not impair the existing function of the street light, including its lighting. Further, the streetlight-mounted small wireless facility must be separately metered for electric power to all wireless transmission equipment located thereon. The applicant shall be responsible for all maintenance to the wireless transmission equipment located on the street light or otherwise installed in association therewith.
5.
Design Standards and Concealment Elements.
a.
General Concealment Measures. Antenna(s) and pole-mounted accessory equipment of streetlight-mounted small wireless facilities shall be designed, camouflaged, screened and obscured from view in order to render the attached small wireless facilities as visually inconspicuous as possible. Such antenna(s) and accessory equipment shall be painted, textured, and designed in a manner consistent with the street light's style, color, texture and materials and otherwise camouflaged and designed to blend in with the existing street light in order to render the attached small wireless facilities visually inconspicuous as possible, such that the streetlight-mounted small wireless facilities is not readily identifiable or plainly visible from public rights-of-way. Antennas shall be concealed or screened by means of canisters, radomes, shrouds or other similar concealment enclosures, which shall be flush-mounted to the top of the street light pole and painted, textured, and designed in a manner consistent with the street light pole's style, color, texture and materials and otherwise camouflaged and designed to blend in with the existing street light.
b.
Type of Antennas. Only antenna enclosed within a canister, radome, shroud or other similar antenna concealment enclosure may be mounted to a street light. No more than one (1) antenna concealment enclosure may be attached to a street light standard.
c.
Mounting of Antennas. Canisters, radomes, or similar antenna concealment enclosures shall be flush-mounted (without vertical separation) to the top of the pole located above the point of attachment of the mast arm or horizontally mounted luminaire but shall not extend vertically above the height of the street light by more than three (3) feet. The canister, radome or similar antenna concealment enclosure shall be designed and camouflaged to appear as an integral part of the existing pole to which it is attached. If the diameter of an antenna concealment enclosure is greater than the diameter of the top end of the pole, the antenna concealment enclosure must be tapered in a manner consistent with style of the subject pole. Antennas shall not be mounted to the mast arm of the street light.
d.
Maximum Size of Antennas. The diameter of the canister, radome or similar antenna concealment enclosure shall not exceed the diameter of the existing pole at its mid-point.
e.
Accessory Equipment; Equipment Cabinets. Cable and conduit shall be located inside the pole and not attached to the exterior. All accessory equipment, other than antenna concealment enclosures, cables, conduit, and power meters and switches (and similar equipment installed by an electric utility), shall be located in equipment cabinets or smaller equipment enclosures. Equipment cabinets and enclosures shall be flush-mounted to the side of the street light standard. The height (length) of a pole-mounted equipment cabinet/enclosure shall not exceed 48 inches, and the width and depth of a pole-mounted equipment cabinet/enclosure shall not exceed the minimum width (diameter) of the pole at the location of attachment by more than fifty (50) percent. The volume of all pole-mounted equipment cabinets/enclosures and accessory equipment located on the street light and, to the extent permitted under state law, ground-mounted equipment cabinets/enclosures associated with the wireless transmission equipment located on the street light, including pre-existing accessory equipment located on or associated with the street light, shall not exceed seventeen (17) cubic feet.
G.
Additional Regulations and Design Standards for Concealed Attached Small Wireless Facilities Mounted to Traffic Signal Poles.
1.
General Location Standards. A small wireless facility may only be mounted on a traffic signal pole with sufficient space to accommodate the associated small wireless facility equipment, as reasonably determined and approved in writing by the Cobb County Department of Transportation (CDOT), based on the existing or planned use of the traffic signal pole, including the location of equipment used by the City (or CDOT or GDOT) for traffic control, transportation or similar public purposes. A small wireless facility shall not be mounted on a traffic signal pole when, in the reasonable opinion of the City (or, if applicable, CDOT or GDOT), it is determined that the proposed small wireless facility including its proposed location or manner of attachment, would not comply with the requirements set forth in subparagraph (b) below. Further, due to the finite amount of traffic signal poles available for attachment, applications will be denied when approval of same would effectively grant the applicant an exclusive license or right to placements on traffic signal poles within certain corridors or areas of the City.
2.
Interference with Operation and Maintenance of Traffic Signals and Other Devices. The placement of small wireless facilities on a traffic signal pole shall not obstruct, interfere with, impair or impede the use, operation or maintenance of the traffic signal pole or any equipment used by the City (or CDOT or GDOT) for traffic control, transportation or other governmental purposes, whether or not such equipment is mounted on the subject traffic signal pole, including, but not limited to, any equipment or devices used for or as part of any intelligent transportation system (ITS), dedicated short range communications (DSRC) system, vehicle detection system, video detection system, CCTV system, or transportation management system or any elements of any transportation communications network. Small wireless facilities attached to a traffic signal pole shall not obstruct, materially interfere with or adversely affect the safe and efficient maintenance, repair or installation of any infrastructure or equipment used by the City (or CDOT or GDOT) for traffic control, transportation or other governmental purposes, or otherwise compromise safety of workers maintaining, repairing or installing such infrastructure or equipment.
3.
Other Prohibited Attachments.
a.
Decorative Poles. No small wireless facilities may be attached to a traffic signal pole with a post-top luminaire or other decorative pole (decorative traffic signal pole).
b.
Mast Arm. No small wireless facility may be attached to the mast arm of a traffic signal pole.
c.
Conflicting Future Use. No small wireless facility may be attached to any space on the traffic signal pole needed or required by the City (or CDOT or GDOT) for the future expansion or placement of equipment used for traffic control, traffic management, traffic monitoring, transportation or similar public purposes.
d.
Minimum Height Location of Equipment Cabinets/Accessory Equipment. Pole-mounted equipment cabinets/shrouds or radio units shall be mounted on the traffic signal pole at a height often (10) feet or more above grade.
e.
Design Standards and Concealment Elements.
i.
General Concealment Measures. Antenna(s) and pole-mounted accessory equipment shall be designed, camouflaged, screened and obscured from view in order to render the attached small wireless facility as visually inconspicuous as possible. Such antenna(s) and accessory equipment shall be painted, textured, and designed in a manner consistent with the traffic signal pole's style, color, texture and materials and otherwise camouflaged and designed to blend in with the traffic signal pole in order to render the attached small wireless facility as visually inconspicuous as possible, such that the attached small wireless facility is not readily identifiable or plainly visible from public rights-of-way. Antennas shall be concealed or screened by means of canisters, radomes, shrouds or other similar concealment enclosures, which shall be flush-mounted to the top of the traffic signal pole and painted, textured, and designed in a manner consistent with the traffic signal pole's style, color, texture and materials and otherwise camouflaged and designed to blend in with the existing traffic signal pole.
ii.
Type of Antennas. Only antenna enclosed within a canister, radome, shroud or other similar antenna concealment enclosure may be mounted to a traffic signal pole. No more than one (1) antenna concealment enclosure may be attached to a traffic signal pole.
iii.
Mounting of Antennas. A canister, radome, or similar antenna concealment enclosure shall be flush-mounted (without vertical separation) to the top of the pole, but shall not extend vertically above the height of the traffic signal pole by more than three (3) feet. The canister, radome or similar antenna concealment enclosure shall be designed and camouflaged to appear as an integral part of the existing pole to which it is attached. If the diameter of an antenna concealment enclosure is greater than the diameter of the top end of the pole, the antenna concealment enclosure must be tapered in a manner consistent with style of the subject pole. Antennas shall not be mounted to the mast arm of the traffic signal pole.
iv.
Maximum Size of Antennas. The diameter of the canister, radome or similar antenna concealment enclosure shall not exceed the diameter of the existing pole at its mid-point.
v.
Accessory Equipment; Equipment Cabinets. Cable and conduit shall be located inside the pole and not attached to the exterior. All accessory equipment, other than antenna concealment enclosures, cables, conduit, and power meters and switches (and similar equipment installed by an electric utility), shall be located in equipment cabinets or smaller equipment enclosures. Equipment cabinets and enclosures shall be flush-mounted to the side of the traffic signal pole. The height (length) of a pole-mounted equipment cabinet/enclosure shall not exceed 48 inches, and the width and depth of a pole-mounted equipment cabinet/enclosure shall not exceed the minimum width (diameter) of the pole at the location of attachment by more than fifty (50) percent. The volume of all pole-mounted equipment cabinets/enclosures and accessory equipment located on the traffic signal pole and, to the extent permitted under this ordinance and the Act, ground-mounted equipment cabinets/enclosures associated with the wireless transmission equipment located on the traffic signal pole, including pre-existing accessory equipment located on or associated with the traffic signal pole, shall not exceed seventeen (17) cubic feet.
H.
Additional Regulations and Design Standards for Faux Streetlight Facilities.
1.
Purpose and Intent. The following regulations, standards and guidelines for the placement of faux streetlight facilities attempt to cover the large majority of situations which will occur and are general in application, particularly in regard to the location of new faux streetlight facilities in the public right-of-way. There may be instances where a proposed installation of a faux streetlight facility appears to meet the requirements set forth herein, but other prescribed considerations or regulations may make the installation inappropriate. Each requested location for placement of a faux streetlight facility is subject to the approval of the City Public Works Director and shall be reviewed by the City Public Works Director, in consultation with the City Engineer and/or the City Manager, on its own merit with regard to the policies and purposes of the Act, including, but not limited to, its impact on safety, visual quality of the public right-of-way, and the safe operation, maintenance or construction of the public right-of-way or improvements thereto and public utilities.
2.
Location Standards and Guidelines.
a.
A faux streetlight facility may only be installed in the public right-of-way in the Historic District when the location has been reviewed and approved by the City Public Works Director. In determining whether the location is appropriate, the City Public Works Director shall review the proposed location for compliance with the foregoing general standards, the additional standards and requirement set forth below, and such other applicable City, state and federal laws, codes, ordinances, regulations and policies, and further give due consideration to such other factors relevant to the protection of the public health, safety, and welfare in the use and regulation of the public rights-of-way.
b.
In addition to the standards set forth herein, the location of faux streetlight facilities, including required spacing and separation from existing or planned street lights, shall comply with all other design standards and guidelines related to street lights required by other applicable City or State laws, ordinances, codes or regulations, including design standards and guidelines that are applicable due to the proposed location lying within certain areas and corridors of the City (e.g., all Historic Districts). The spacing and separation of the faux streetlight facility from other existing or planned street lights shall be consistent and visually compatible with the existing and planned spacing of street lights located on the same side of the right-of-way; provided, however, visual compatibility may further or alternatively require that the faux streetlight facility be located in a manner consistent with the spacing and separation of existing or planned street lights located on the other side of the public right-of-way, such as requiring that the faux streetlight facility be located so as to be staggered with or opposite of street lights located on the other side of the right-of-way. When appropriate, faux street light facilities should be located midway between existing street trees located on the same side of the right-of-way when such street trees are aligned generally with existing street lights in other areas of the subject right-of-way corridor. Faux streetlight facilities shall be located to align with existing and/or planned street lights and street trees in the surrounding areas of the public right-of-way and have consistent setback distances from the curb as other street lights.
c.
In the event appropriate spacing and separation distances cannot be met, the applicant may include with its application a proposal to replace an existing street light fixture with a faux streetlight facility with a substantially similar design. A proposal to replace an existing street light fixture with a faux streetlight facility shall be subject to the approval of the Public Works Director and the owner of the street light.
3.
Height of Faux Streetlight Facility. The height of the faux streetlight facility shall comply with height requirements set forth in other applicable City regulations, policies and guidelines, including City design standards and guidelines applicable to the proposed location within the City, and/or be consistent with the height of the adjacent existing street lights that it is designed to replicate.
4.
Lighting, Operability and Maintenance. The faux streetlight facility shall function as a street light facility and comply with all City requirements applicable thereto, including, but not limited to, the lighting fixture must comply with all lighting and illumination standards required pursuant to other City laws, codes, regulations and policies. Further, the faux streetlight facility must be separately metered for electric power to its wireless transmission equipment and the lighting fixture. The applicant shall be responsible for all maintenance to and operations of the faux streetlight facility, including the operation, replacement and repair of the lighting fixture.
5.
Design Standards and Concealment Elements.
a.
Full Concealment. The faux streetlight facility shall be designed (i) in compliance with City design requirements and standards applicable to new street light fixtures generally and as further prescribed for the subject area of the right-of-way, (ii) in compliance with the specifications of street light fixtures that are planned for installation in the subject area of the right-of-way, and/or (iii) to replicate the design of existing street light fixtures in the surrounding area of the public right-of-way, such that the faux streetlight facility is indistinguishable by a casual observer from the existing, planned or other street light fixture(s) that it replicates. The size, shape, height, design, style, color, texture and materials of all components of the faux streetlight facility shall match the existing, planned or other street light fixture(s) that it replicates, and all wireless transmission equipment associated with the faux streetlight facility, other than any permitted ground-mounted equipment cabinet or electric meter, shall be concealed within the pole or post of the structure or otherwise designed and incorporated as a design element of the required style of street light fixture. When the faux streetlight facility is a replacement of an existing street light, the faux streetlight facility shall be designed to fully replicate the street light feature being replaced.
b.
Antennas. Antenna(s) shall be enclosed within a canister, radome, shroud or other similar antenna concealment enclosure designed to replicate a design element and to appear to be an integral part of the subject style of street light fixture, such that the antenna and concealment enclosure are indistinguishable from the related feature or design element of the street light fixture(s) that the faux streetlight facility is designed to replicate.
c.
Ground-Mounted Equipment Cabinets. The placement of ground-mounted equipment cabinets is subject to the regulations herein governing ground-mounted equipment.
I.
Additional Regulations and Design Standards for Concealed Unipoles.
1.
General. The installation of a concealed unipole in the public right-of-way will be permitted only when (i) the applicant sufficiently demonstrates that (a) no existing utility poles, street lights, or traffic signal poles are available for attachment and (b) the placement of a faux streetlight facility is impracticable or technically infeasible, and (ii) the concealed unipole is compatible and not out of character with the subject right-of-way corridor and the surrounding area based on its compliance with the standards and guidelines provided herein. The following regulations, standards and guidelines for the placement of concealed unipoles attempt to cover the large majority of situations which will occur and are general in application, particularly in regard to the location of such facilities in the public right-of-way. There may be instances where a proposed installation of a concealed unipole appears to meet the requirements set forth herein, but other prescribed considerations or regulations may make the installation inappropriate. Each requested location for placement of a concealed unipole is subject to the approval of the City Engineer/Public Works Director and shall be reviewed by the City Engineer/Public Works Director on its own merit with regard to the policies and purposes of the Act including, but not limited to, its impact on safety, visual quality of the public right-of-way, and the safe operation, maintenance or construction of the public right-of-way or improvements thereto and public utilities.
2.
Height. The height of a concealed unipole shall be visually compatible with other structures in the area and shall not exceed the height of other utility poles or street lights located within 500 feet of the proposed structure by more than ten (10) feet or twenty percent (20%), whichever is less; provided, however, no concealed unipole shall exceed fifty feet (50') in height.
3.
Design Standards and Concealment Elements. Concealed unipoles shall be painted, textured, and designed in a manner consistent with the style, width (pole diameter), color, texture and materials of street light poles or similar, non-wooden poles in the surrounding area so as to not be readily apparent to a casual observer; provided, however, that when a concealed unipole is located and sited so as to blend in with and utilize trees as the predominant visual backdrop or is screened by trees, the concealed unipole shall be painted a color that provides the greatest amount of visual blending or screening.
4.
Location. Where a concealed unipole is designed in a manner consistent with street light poles in the surrounding area, the concealed unipole pole shall be located in the same manner as faux streetlight facilities pursuant to this ordinance; provided, however, a concealed unipole may be placed at the midpoint lying between such spacing where same is more compatible with the existing conditions of the subject area. Additionally, a concealed unipole shall be located and sited to utilize existing natural features in the vicinity of the Historic District for which it is being proposed, including topography, trees and vegetation, to provide the greatest amount of visual screening or blending with the predominant visual backdrop. Further, a concealed unipole shall be sited to minimize adverse impacts to property site lines. A concealed unipole located in any portion of the public right-of-way adjacent to the front lot line (and if a corner lot, any side lot line with street frontage) of a property shall be located where the side lot line of the property intersects the right-of-way line (or if such side lot line were extended into the right-of-way, along such extended side lot line) if technically feasible, but in no event more than five (5) feet from such line.
J.
General Location, Siting and Design Standards for Ground-Mounted Equipment Cabinets.
1.
Purpose and Intent. For the purpose of preserving a safe traffic environment, the appearance of the right-of-way and the efficiency and economy of right-of-way maintenance, the installation of ground-mounted equipment cabinets in the City Historic District shall be avoided unless (i) the mounting of accessory equipment on the support structure is not technically feasible or (ii) the adverse impact caused by such ground-mounted equipment cabinet is no greater than the adverse impact caused by mounting an equipment cabinet on the side of the support structure in accordance with the requirement applicable thereto as set forth herein. The purpose of this Paragraph is to establish and prescribe uniform standards and controls for the location and placement of ground-mounted equipment cabinets within the public right-of-way in the Historic District in order to provide a basis for the planning of such installations when the foregoing conditions are present. These regulations, standards and guidelines for ground-mounted equipment cabinets are intended to cover most situations which will occur and are general in application, particularly in regard to the location of new ground-mounted equipment cabinets in the public rights-of-way. There may be instances where the location of a proposed installation of a ground-mounted equipment cabinet appears to meet the requirements set forth herein, but special circumstances, other considerations, or other regulations may make the location inappropriate. Each requested location for placement of a ground-mounted equipment cabinet is subject to the approval of the City Public Works Director and shall be reviewed on its own merit with regard to the foregoing general standards, including, but not limited to, its impact on safety, visual quality of the public right-of-way, and the difficulty of public right-of-way and public utility construction and maintenance, as well as the additional standards and requirements set forth herein.
2.
Authority. A ground-mounted equipment cabinet may only be installed in the public right-of-way in the Historic District when the location has been reviewed and approved by the City Public Works Director. In determining whether the location is appropriate, the City Public Works Director shall review the proposed location for compliance with the general standards, the additional standards and requirements applicable to the subject type of small wireless facility, and such other applicable City, state and federal laws, codes, ordinances, regulations and policies, and further give due consideration to such other factors relevant to the protection of the public health, safety, and welfare in relation to the use and regulation of the public rights-of-way.
3.
General Location Standards and Guidelines. A ground-mounted equipment cabinet associated with a small wireless facility shall be permitted only where consistent with the portion of the corridor in which it is to be placed, which may require that it be located underground or in alleys, screened with landscaping, or otherwise shielded from visibility. In no event may a ground-mounted equipment cabinet interfere with pedestrian or vehicular traffic. No dimension of a ground-mounted equipment cabinet (height/width/depth) shall exceed five (5) feet. Ground-mounted equipment cabinets shall be designed and placed so that the largest dimension is not vertical, and the height is such that same is not plainly visible from the roadway. Ground-mounted equipment cabinets shall only be located in areas of the public right-of-way with existing foliage or other aesthetic features that screen or obscure the view of the equipment cabinet or in which there is existing space and conditions such that landscaping can be installed to fully screen such equipment cabinet; provided, however, a ground-mounted equipment cabinet may be located adjacent to an existing utility cabinet in any area of the right-of-way in which there are aerial telecommunications and electric distribution lines. Accessory equipment and equipment cabinets not meeting the requirements hereof, may only be located on the support structure of the small wireless facility subject to and in accordance with the additional regulations set forth herein, or in flush-to-grade underground vault enclosures. Such flush-to-grade underground vault enclosures, including flush-to-grade vents, or vents that extend no more than twenty-four (24) inches above the finished grade and are screened from public view may be incorporated. Electrical meters required for the purpose of providing power to the proposed small wireless facility may be installed above ground on a pedestal in the public right-of-way provided such pedestal is designed or screened to blend in with the surrounding area and meets other applicable standards.
4.
General Design Standards for Ground-Mounted Equipment Cabinets. Subject to such additional design standards and regulations for the subject type of small wireless facility, ground-mounted equipment cabinets shall be painted, textured, and designed in a manner consistent with the style, color, texture and materials of other fixtures and features in the area in which located, or painted, textured and located to blend in with existing foliage/vegetation or additional landscaping, and otherwise camouflaged, screened and designed in such a manner to render the ground-mounted equipment cabinet as visually inconspicuous as possible, such that the ground-mounted equipment cabinet meets the visibility standard applicable to the subject type of small wireless facility, as further set forth herein. All ground-mounted equipment cabinets shall be screened by landscaping unless existing foliage and vegetation and/or other existing structures or fixtures provide sufficient screening to meet the subject standard of visibility.
5.
Ground-mounted equipment cabinets shall not be located in any area of the public right-of-way adjacent to an existing or planned sidewalk or pedestrian walkway, unless such equipment cabinet is camouflaged, screened and designed so as to render it as visually inconspicuous as possible such that it is not readily apparent or plainly visible (to a reasonable person of ordinary sensibilities) from public rights-of-way or any public place in the Historic District.
K.
General Design Standards for Pole-Mounted Equipment.
1.
Equipment Cabinets Required; Exception. All pole-mounted accessory equipment other than cables, conduit, and power meters and switches (and similar equipment installed by an electric utility) shall be placed in equipment cabinets or shrouds; provided, however, radio units may be mounted on support structures or poles without being placed within an equipment cabinet or shroud where placing the radio unit(s) within an equipment cabinet or shroud increases the visibility of the small wireless facility, is more detrimental to the visual quality of the public right-of-way or surrounding area, or has a more adverse aesthetic effect or other impact such that it is less desirable from an aesthetic, public safety or similar standpoint.
2.
Location and Design. Pole-mounted equipment cabinets or, to the extent permitted pursuant to the foregoing provisions, pole-mounted radio units shall be:
a.
placed on a support structure or pole as high as technically and legally feasible to minimize visual impacts and to avoid interfering with or creating any hazard to other public uses of the public right-of-way;
b.
located on only one (1) side of the support structure or pole;
c.
designed and placed so that the largest dimension is vertical, and the width is such that the equipment cabinets or radio units are not plainly visible from the opposite side of the support structure on which they are placed when viewed from the roadway; and
d.
installed as close to the pole as technically and legally feasible and oriented to minimize impacts to the visual profile.
L.
Standards for Replacement Utility Pole. When the modification of a utility pole is necessary to accommodate the attachment of a small wireless facility or small wireless facility equipment on the utility pole, a replacement utility pole may be installed to replace such utility pole if the following requirements are met:
1.
The replacement utility pole shall be placed no more than ten feet (10') from the original utility pole, as measured from the center-point of each pole, and aligned with the centerlines of other utility poles within the public right-of-way;
2.
The height of the replacement utility pole shall not exceed the height of the original utility pole by more than five feet (5') or ten percent (10%) of the height of the original utility pole, whichever is greater; and
3.
The existing utility pole was not installed to accommodate the attachment of a small wireless facility or small wireless facility equipment on such pole or for the primary purpose of supporting a wireless facility.
( Ord. No. 2019-06 , § 1(Exh. A), 9-16-19)
6.21.03 - Decorative Pole Standards
A.
Subject to compliance with other regulations set forth by City Ordinance, State or Federal law, including location, siting and design standards and requirements and the issuance of a small wireless permit facility right of way placement permit pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-1 et. seq. (and as amended from time to time) the following standards shall apply to the co-location of small wireless facilities on a decorative pole located within the City limits of Kennesaw:
1.
Small wireless Facility Equipment allowed to be co-located with decorative pole. Only antennas, repeaters, radio units, equipment cabinets or pedestals, and other accessory equipment associated with small wireless facilities, which are physically much smaller and less visible can be placed at much lower elevations than macro-cell antennas and accessory equipment, such that they can be more easily deployed with concealment enclosures and other concealment elements that blend with the non-tower support structure on or within which they are installed, may be co-located on a decorative pole in the City of Kennesaw; provided, however, a DAS hub may not be co-located on a decorative pole. The foregoing provisions are provided for the purpose of generally describing n prevailing industry terminology the type of small wireless facility equipment (in terms of its size, scale, design and feasibility for location on alternative support structures or concealed freestanding support structures) allowed in the public rights of way on decorative poles within the City limits of Kennesaw in accordance with further regulations provided herein; the foregoing provisions are not intended to restrict the technology used by the registrant.
2.
Concealment elements. In order to preserve the appearance of the public right of way in the City of Kennesaw and minimize the visual impact of new facilities, all small wireless facilities and small wireless facilities equipment located or co-located in the public right of way shall be designed with concealment elements, as further described herein. It is the intent of this ordinance to prescribe concealment elements that are technically feasible and reasonably directed to avoid or remedy the intangible public harm of unsightly or out-of-character deployments. The size, shape and orientation of antenna(s) and accessory equipment mounted to a decorative pole shall be consistent with the size, shape and orientation of existing utility equipment installed on the subject decorative pole and other decorative poles in the nearby area (within 500 linear feet of the subject decorative pole and on the same side of the right-of-way). Such antenna(s) and accessory equipment shall be painted, textured, and designed in a manner consistent with the decorative pole's style, color, texture and materials and otherwise camouflaged and designed to blend in with the existing decorative pole such that the decorative pole mounted small wireless facility is no more readily apparent or plainly visible from public rights of way than the existing decorative equipment located on the decorative pole.
3.
Additional Regulations and Design Standards for Concealed Decorative Pole-Mounted Small Wireless Facilities.
a.
Type of Antennas; Maximum Number. No type of antenna other than a panel or whip antenna may be mounted to a decorative pole unless such antenna is enclosed within a canister, radome, shroud or other similar concealment enclosures. No more than (a) four (4) side-mounted panel antennas, whip antennas, or antenna concealment enclosures, or any combination thereof, or (b) one (1) top-mounted canister, radome, shroud or similar antenna concealment enclosures with antenna(s) enclosed therein may be attached to a decorative pole; provided, however, that, one (1) pole-top mounted whip antenna may be used in lieu of a side-mounted whip antenna when the other antennas or antenna concealment enclosures are side-mounted.
b.
Mounting of Antennas. A panel antenna or canister antenna (or other antenna concealment enclosure) mounted to the side of the decorative pole, together with its mount, shall not extend horizontally from the side of the decorative pole more than existing utility equipment with the same orientation (located on the decorative pole), or more than three (3) feet, whichever is less. No antennas mounted to the side of a decorative pole shall extend vertically above the height of the decorative pole, other than one (1) flush-mounted whip antenna, which may extend vertically up to three (3) feet above the height of the decorative pole. Alternatively, a whip antenna may be top-mounted on the decorative pole but shall not extend vertically above the height of the decorative pole by more than five (5) feet, and any vertical separation between the top of the pole and the base of the whip antenna shall not be plainly visible. Canisters, radomes, shrouds or other similar antenna concealment enclosures may be mounted to the side of a decorative pole but shall not extend vertically above the height of the decorative pole. Additionally, one (1) canister, radome, shroud or other similar antenna concealment enclosure may be top-mounted on the decorative pole (vertically mounted to the top surface of the utility pole), provided that such canister, radome, shroud or other similar antenna concealment enclosure, including its mount, is centered on the top of the decorative pole, is not wider than the diameter of the top of the decorative pole, and does not extend vertically above the height of the decorative pole by more than three (3) feet.
c.
Maximum Size of Antennas. A non-enclosed panel antenna shall be no larger than sixteen (16) inches in width and thirty (30) inches in length. A whip antenna shall be no larger than two-and-a-half (2.5) inches in diameter and five (5) feet in length.
d.
Maximum Antenna Volume. In addition to the foregoing size limitations, each antenna located on the decorative pole shall either be (a) located within a canister, radome, shroud or other similar antenna concealment enclosure that is no more than three (3) cubic feet in volume, or (b) if the antenna is not enclosed within an antenna concealment enclosure, capable of fitting within an enclosure (i.e., an imaginary enclosure) that is no more than three (3) cubic feet in volume. The aggregate volume of actual concealment enclosures and/or imaginary enclosures of all antennas located on the decorative pole, including any pre-existing antennas, shall not exceed six (6) cubic feet in volume.
e.
Accessory Equipment; Equipment Cabinets. All pole-mounted equipment cabinets/enclosures or, where permitted, radio units shall be flush-mounted to the decorative pole. The vertical dimension of a pole-mounted equipment cabinet/enclosure (or, if permitted radio unit) shall not exceed 48 inches, and the width and depth of a pole-mounted equipment cabinet/enclosure shall not be more than twice the width (diameter) of the pole at the location of attachment. The volume of all pole-mounted equipment cabinets and accessory equipment located on the decorative pole, including any pre-existing wireless transmission equipment located on the decorative pole, shall not exceed twenty-one (21) cubic feet.
f.
Ground Mounted Equipment. Any ground mounted equipment that needs to be installed in connection with a small wireless facility co-location on or near a decorative pole in the City limits shall comply with the same general location, siting and design standards for ground-mounted equipment cabinets as referenced in Section 6.21.02 as applied to ground mounted equipment cabinets in the Historic Districts.
( Ord. No. 2019-06 , § 1(Exh. A), 9-16-19)
6.21.04 - Appeals
Notwithstanding any other provision of the City Code or Unified Development Code to the contrary, any decision or determination of the Director of Public Works in the administration of this ordinance or any interpretation of the provisions hereof, may only be appealed to the City Council pursuant to Section 10.05.01 of the UDC. The decisions of the Director of Public Works, including any decision to deny, suspend or revoke a small wireless facility right-of-way placement permit for location or collocation in the City Historic District, are final and conclusive unless appealed to the Mayor and City Council. An appeal must be filed with the City within thirty (30) days of the date of the written notice of the decision being appealed. The hearing of the appeal shall occur within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the appeal, and the appeal shall be heard and decided in accordance with procedures to be published in writing by the City, which at a minimum shall include notice to all affected parties and the opportunity to be heard. The decision of the Mayor and City Council shall be final.
( Ord. No. 2019-06 , § 1(Exh. A), 9-16-19)
6.21.05 - Enforcement
The City Director of Public Works shall be responsible for the administration and enforcement of this ordinance and is authorized to give any notice required by law. The remedies and penalties set forth herein are nonexclusive and the exercise of one or more of such remedies or penalties shall not preclude the exercise of another. In addition to the other remedies previously set forth herein, violations of the provisions of this Section shall be enforced, prosecuted and punished in the same manner as violations of other provisions of the UDC. Additionally, the City may take all necessary civil action to enforce the provisions hereof and may seek appropriate legal or equitable remedies or relief, including injunctive relief. The remedies set forth for in this Section are in addition to and cumulative of all other remedies provided by law.
( Ord. No. 2019-06 , § 1(Exh. A), 9-16-19)
6.21.06 - Applicability and Effective Date
The City may further amend this Section as it shall find necessary in the lawful exercise of its police powers and in the management of the public rights-of-way. The provisions hereof shall be applicable to all small wireless facilities placed in the public rights-of-way in the City Historic District on or after the effective date of the ordinance adopting or amending these provisions, as applicable. Further, to the full extent permitted by state and federal law, the provisions hereof shall be applicable to all existing small wireless facilities placed in the public rights-of-way in the City Historic District prior to the effective date of the ordinance adopting or amending these provisions, as applicable, except that any provision of this article regarding the design, size, composition, or location of wireless telecommunications facilities shall not apply to any facilities lawfully placed within any City right-of-way prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which such provision is derived.
( Ord. No. 2019-06 , § 1(Exh. A), 9-16-19)
Chapter 7 - DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE ORDINANCE
SECTION 7.01. - SHORT TITLE, AUTHORITY, AND APPLICABILITY

7.01.01. - Short title
This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the "Development Impact Fee Ordinance of Kennesaw, Georgia," or, for brevity, the "Impact Fee Ordinance."
7.01.02. - Authority
This ordinance has been prepared and adopted by the City Council of Kennesaw, Georgia, in accordance with the authority provided by Article 9, Section 2, Paragraph 3 of the Constitution of the State of Georgia, the Georgia Development Impact Fee Act (O.C.G.A. 36-71-1 et seq. as amended), and such other laws as may apply to the provision of public facilities and the power to charge fees for such facilities.
7.01.03. - Applicability
A.
The provisions of this ordinance shall not be construed to limit the power of Kennesaw, Georgia, to use any other legal methods or powers otherwise available for accomplishing the purposes set forth herein, either in substitution of or in conjunction with this ordinance.
B.
This ordinance shall apply to all areas under the regulatory control and authority of Kennesaw, Georgia, and such other areas as may be included by intergovernmental agreement.
SECTION 7.02. - FINDINGS, PURPOSE, AND INTENT

7.02.01 - Findings
The City Council of Kennesaw, Georgia, finds and declares:
A.
That an equitable program for planning and financing public facilities to serve new growth and development is necessary in order to promote and accommodate orderly growth and development and to protect the public health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of Kennesaw; and
B.
That certain public facilities as herein defined have been and must be further expanded if new growth and development is to be accommodated at the same level of service available to existing development; and
C.
That it is fair and equitable that new growth and development shall bear a proportionate share of the cost of such public facilities necessary to serve new growth and development.
7.02.02 - Purpose
A.
The purpose of this ordinance is to impose impact fees, as hereinafter set forth, for certain public facilities, as hereinafter defined.
B.
It is also the purpose of this ordinance to ensure that adequate public facilities are available to serve new growth and development in Kennesaw and to provide that new growth and development bears a proportionate share of the cost of new public facilities needed to serve them.
7.02.03 - Intent
This ordinance is intended to implement and be consistent with the Kennesaw Comprehensive Plan, as it may be adopted or amended in accord with the Georgia Comprehensive Planning Act (O.C.G.A. 50-8-1 et seq.); and the applicable Minimum Standards and Procedures for Local Comprehensive Planning and the Development Impact Fee Compliance Requirements, both as adopted by the Georgia Board of Community Affairs and amended from time to time.
SECTION 7.03. - RULES OF CONSTRUCTION AND DEFINITIONS
The provisions of this ordinance shall be construed so as to effectively carry out its purpose in the interest of the public health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of Kennesaw.

7.03.01 - Rules of Construction
Unless otherwise stated in this ordinance, the following rules of construction shall apply to the text of this ordinance:
A.
In the case of any difference of meaning or implication between words or phrases as used in this ordinance and as used in other codes, regulations or laws of Kennesaw, such difference shall not affect the meaning or implication of such words or phrases as used in this ordinance.
B.
In the case of any difference of meaning or implication between the text of this ordinance and any caption, illustration, summary table or illustrative table, the text shall control.
C.
The word "shall" is always mandatory and not discretionary; the word "may" is permissive.
D.
Words used in the present tense shall include the future and words used in the singular number shall include the plural and the plural the singular, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
E.
The word "person" includes an individual, a corporation, a partnership, an incorporated association, or any other legal or similar entity.
F.
The conjunction "and" indicates that all the connected terms, conditions, provisions, or events shall apply.
G.
The conjunction "or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or events may apply singly or in any combination.
H.
The use of "either . . . or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or events shall apply singly and not in combination.
I.
The word "includes" or "including" shall not limit a term to the specific example but is intended to extend its meaning to all other instances or circumstances of like kind or character.
J.
The Article, Section, and paragraph headings and enumerations used in this ordinance are included solely for convenience and shall not affect the interpretation of this ordinance.
7.03.02 - Definitions
As used in this ordinance, the following terms shall have the meaning set forth below.
ADMINISTRATOR means the City Manager of Kennesaw, Georgia, or the City Manager's designee, who is hereby charged with implementation and enforcement of this ordinance.
BUILDING PERMIT is the permit required for new construction, completion of construction, or an interior finish pursuant to the applicable Building Code. As used herein, the term shall not include permits required for remodeling, rehabilitation, or other improvements to an existing structure provided there is no increase in the demand placed on those Public Facilities as defined herein.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT means an improvement with a useful life of ten years or more, by new construction or other action, which increases the service capacity of a public facility.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS ELEMENT means that portion of the Kennesaw Comprehensive Plan that sets out projected needs for system improvements during the planning horizon established therein, which provides a schedule that will meet the anticipated need for system improvements, and which provides a description of anticipated funding sources for each required improvement, as most recently adopted or amended by the City Council.
CITY means Kennesaw, a municipal corporation of the State of Georgia.
CITY COUNCIL means the City Council of Kennesaw, Georgia.
COMMENCEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION, for private development, means initiation of physical construction activities as authorized by a development or building permit and leading to completion of a foundation inspection or other initial inspection and approval by a public official charged with such duties; and for public projects, means expenditure or encumbrance of any funds, whether they be Development Impact Fee funds or not, for a Public Facilities project, or advertising of bids to undertake a Public Facilities project.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN means the Kennesaw Plan or Planning Elements as adopted or amended in accord with the Georgia Comprehensive Planning Act (O.C.G.A. 50-8-1 et seq.) and the applicable Minimum Standards and Procedures for Local Comprehensive Planning as adopted by the Georgia Board of Community Affairs.
DAY means a calendar day, unless otherwise specifically identified as a "work" day or other designation when used in the text.
DEVELOPER means any person or legal entity undertaking development.
DEVELOPMENT means any action which creates demand on or need for public facilities, as defined herein, and includes any construction or expansion of a building, structure, or use; any change in use of land, a building, or structure; or the connection of any building or structure to a public utility.
DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL means written authorization, such as issuance of a building permit, land disturbance permit or other approval for grading or site development, or other forms of official action required by local law or regulation prior to commencement of construction.
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE means the payment of money imposed upon and paid by new development as a condition of development approval as its proportionate share of the cost of system improvements needed to serve it.
ENCUMBER means to legally obligate by contract or otherwise commit to use by appropriation or other official act of Kennesaw, Georgia.
EXCESS CAPACITY means that portion of the capacity of a public facility or system of public facilities which is beyond that necessary to provide adequate service to existing development at the adopted level-of-service standard.
FEEPAYOR means that person or entity who pays a development impact fee, or his or her legal successor in interest when the right or entitlement to any refund of previously paid development impact fees which is required by this ordinance has been expressly transferred or assigned to the successor in interest.
INDIVIDUAL ASSESSMENT DETERMINATION means a finding by the Administrator that an Individual Assessment Study does or does not meet the requirements for such a study as established by this ordinance or, if the requirements are met, the fee calculated therefrom.
INDIVIDUAL ASSESSMENT STUDY means the engineering, financial, or economic documentation prepared by a feepayor or applicant to allow individual determination of a development impact fee other than by use of the applicable fee schedule.
LEVEL OF SERVICE means a measure of the relationship between service capacity and service demand for specified public facilities as established by Kennesaw, Georgia in terms of demand to capacity ratios or the comfort and convenience of use or service of such public facilities or both.
PRESENT VALUE means the current value of past, present, or future payments, contributions, or dedications of goods, services, materials, construction, or money, as calculated using accepted methods of financial analysis for determination of "net present value."
PROJECT means a single improvement or set of interrelated improvements undertaken together within a finite time period at a specific location. With regard to land development, a project may be identified as those construction activities authorized collectively by a building permit or other development approval, or for an interrelated collection of buildings and common public facilities such as a residential subdivision or an office park.
PROJECT IMPROVEMENTS means site specific improvements or facilities that are planned, designed, or built to provide service for a specific development project and that are necessary for the use and convenience of the occupants or users of that project only, and that are not "system" improvements. The character of the improvement shall control a determination of whether an improvement is a "project" improvement or a "system" improvement, and the physical location of the improvement on-site or off-site shall not be considered determinative of whether an improvement is a "project" improvement or a "system" improvement. A project improvement may provide no more than incidental service or facility capacity to persons other than users or occupants of the particular project they serve. No improvement or facility included in a plan for public facilities and approved for public funding by Kennesaw, Georgia shall be considered a project improvement.
PROPERTY OWNER means that person or entity that holds legal title to property.
PROPORTIONATE SHARE means that portion of the cost of system improvements that is reasonably and fairly related to the service demands and needs of a project.
PUBLIC FACILITIES means: (A) Parks, open space, and recreation areas and related facilities; and (B) Public safety facilities, including police facilities.
SERVICE AREA means a geographically defined area as designated in the Capital Improvements Element of the Comprehensive Plan in which a defined set of public facilities provide or are proposed to provide service to existing or future development.
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT COSTS means costs incurred to provide public facilities capacity to serve new growth and development, including the costs of planning, design, engineering, construction, land acquisition, and land improvement for the construction or reconstruction of facility improvements or expansions. System improvement costs include the construction contract price, surveying and engineering fees, related land acquisition costs (including land purchases, court awards and costs, attorneys' fees, and expert witness fees), and expenses incurred for qualified staff or any qualified engineer, planner, architect, landscape architect, or financial consultant for preparing or updating the capital improvements element, and administrative costs of up to three (3) percent of the total of all other system improvement costs. Projected interest charges and other finance costs may be included if the impact fees are to be used for the payment of principal and interest on bonds, notes, or other financial obligations issued to finance system improvements, but such costs do not include routine and periodic maintenance expenditures, personnel training, and other operating costs.
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS means capital improvements that are public facilities designed to provide service to more than one project or to the community at large, in contrast to "project" improvements.
UNIT OF DEVELOPMENT means the standard incremental measure of land development activity for a specific type of land use upon which the rate of demand for public service and facilities is based, such as a dwelling unit, square foot of floor area, motel room, etc.
UNUSED OR EXCESS IMPACT FEE means any individual impact fee payment from which no amount of money or only a portion thereof has been encumbered or expended according to the requirements of this ordinance.
SECTION 7.04. - IMPOSITION OF DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
Any person who after the effective date of this ordinance engages in development shall pay a development impact fee in the manner and amount set forth in this ordinance.

7.04.01 - Construction Not Subject to Impact Fees
The following projects and construction activities do not constitute "development" as defined in this ordinance, and are therefore not subject to the imposition of impact fees:
A.
Rebuilding no more than the same number of units of development as defined in this ordinance that were removed by demolition, or destroyed by fire or other catastrophe, on the same lot or property.
B.
Remodeling or repairing a structure that does not result in an increase in the number of units of development.
C.
Replacing a residential housing unit with another housing unit on the same lot or property.
D.
Placing or replacing a manufactured home in a manufactured home park on a prepared manufactured home pad in existence and operation prior to the effective date of this ordinance.
E.
Placing a temporary construction or sales office on a lot during the period of construction or build-out of a development project.
F.
Constructing an addition to or expansion of a residential housing unit that does not increase the number of housing units.
G.
Adding uses that are typically accessory to residential uses and intended for the personal use of the residents, such as a deck or patio, satellite antenna, pet enclosure, or private recreational facilities such as a swimming pool.
7.04.02 - Grandfathered Projects
A.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this ordinance, that portion of a project for which a valid building permit has been issued prior to the effective date of this ordinance shall not be subject to development impact fees so long as the permit remains valid and construction is commenced and is pursued according to the terms of the permit.
B.
Any building for which a valid and complete application for a building permit has been received prior to the effective date of this ordinance may proceed without payment of fees otherwise imposed by this ordinance, provided that:
all fees and development exactions in effect prior to the effective date of this ordinance shall be or have been paid in full; and,
said construction shall be commenced, pursued and completed within the time established by the building permit, or within 180 days, whichever is later.
7.04.03 - Method of Calculation
A.
Any development impact fee imposed pursuant to this ordinance shall not exceed a project's proportionate share of the cost of system improvements, shall be calculated on the basis of the establishment of service areas, and shall be calculated on the basis of levels of service for public facilities that are the same for existing development as for new growth and development, as established in the Capital Improvements Element of the Comprehensive Plan.
B.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this ordinance, the calculation of impact fees shall be net of credits for the present value of ad valorem taxes or other revenues as established in the Capital Improvements Element of the Comprehensive Plan, and which:
are reasonably expected to be generated by new growth and development; and
are reasonably expected on the basis of historical funding patterns to be made available to pay for system improvements of the same category and in the same service area for which an impact fee is imposed.
C.
The method of calculating impact fees for public facilities under this ordinance shall be maintained for public inspection as a part of the official records of Kennesaw, Georgia, and may be amended from time to time by official act.
D.
In addition to the cost of new or expanded system improvements needed to be built to serve new development, the cost basis of a development impact fee may also include the proportionate cost of existing system improvements to the extent that such public facilities have excess service capacity and new development will be served by such facilities, as established in the Capital Improvements Element of the Comprehensive Plan.
E.
Development impact fees shall be based on actual system improvement costs or reasonable estimates of such costs, as set forth in the Capital Improvements Element of the Comprehensive Plan.
SECTION 7.05. - FEE ASSESSMENT AND PAYMENT

7.05.01 - Fee Schedule
A.
Payment of a development impact fee pursuant to the fee schedule attached hereto and incorporated herein as Attachment A for a property located inside of Kennesaw, shall constitute full and complete payment of the project's proportionate share of system improvements as individually levied by Kennesaw, and shall be deemed to be in compliance with the requirements of this ordinance.
B.
When a land development activity for which an application for a building permit has been made includes two or more buildings, structures or other land uses in any combination, including two or more uses within a building or structure, the total development impact fee shall be the sum of the fees for each and every building, structure, or use, including each and every use within a building or structure.
C.
In the event that an applicant contends that the land use category of the proposed development is not shown on the fee schedule or fits within a different category, then:
The Administrator in his or her reasonable discretion shall make a determination as to the appropriate land use designation and the appropriate development impact fee.
In making such determination, the Administrator may require such additional information from the applicant as necessary to form a logical fee determination relative to the impact fees shown on the adopted fee schedule.
If a land use designation is not in a category contained in this ordinance, then an appropriate new category may be added by the Administrator and an appropriate fee established under the City's current impact fee methodology, subject to annual confirmation by the City Council.
Appeals from the decision of the Administrator shall be made to the City Council in accordance with the Administrative Appeals Section of this ordinance.
7.05.02 - Timing of Assessment and Payment
A.
Development impact fees shall be assessed at the time of application for a building permit.
B.
All development impact fees shall be collected at the time of issuance of a building permit.
C.
For projects not involving issuance of a building permit, all development impact fees shall be collected at the time of approval of the development permit or such other authorization to commence construction or to commence use of a property.
D.
If the final use of a building cannot be determined at the time of the initial building permit, the Administrator shall have the authority to assess a development impact fee based on the most likely use of the building, and shall adjust the fee in accordance with the actual use prior to issuance of an interior finishes permit or approval of a Certificate of Occupancy. An adjustment may result in a refund to the feepayor or payment of the marginal increase of the adjusted fee over the amount already paid.
E.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this ordinance, any future change in demand for public facilities in excess of the average demand anticipated at the time of issuance of the building permit shall be assessed such additional fee as would otherwise have been due. Future changes in demand may result from a change in the land use category of the occupant of the building or property, the expansion of a building or use on a property that results in an increase in the units of development (as defined herein), or the subsequent discovery of facts unknown or misrepresented at the time of issuance of the building permit.
7.05.03 - Individual Assessment Determinations
Individual assessments of development impact fees may be established as follows:
A.
At their option, an applicant for development approval may petition the Administrator for an individual assessment determination of development impact fees due for their project in lieu of the fee established on the fee schedule attached hereto and incorporated herein as Attachment A.
B.
In the event that an applicant elects an individual assessment, the applicant shall submit an individual assessment study. Each individual assessment study shall:
be based on relevant and credible information from an accepted standard source of engineering or planning data; or,
be based on actual, relevant, and credible studies or surveys of facility demand conducted in Kennesaw or its region, carried out by qualified engineers or planners pursuant to accepted methodology; and,
provide any other written specifications as may be reasonably required by the Administrator to substantiate the individual assessment determination.
C.
The Administrator in his or her reasonable discretion shall determine whether the content of an individual assessment study satisfies the requirements of this ordinance. A negative determination by the Administrator may be appealed to the City Council in accordance with the Administrative Appeals Section of this ordinance.
D.
Any fee approved as an individual assessment determination shall have standing for 180 days following the date of approval. Payment of such an approved individual assessment determination shall constitute full and complete payment of the project's proportionate share of system improvements as individually levied by Kennesaw, and shall be deemed to be in compliance with the requirements of this ordinance.
7.05.04 - Fee Certification
Upon application to the Administrator, a developer may receive a certification of the development impact fee schedule attached hereto and incorporated herein as Attachment A or a certified fee for a particular project, as applicable. Such certified schedule or fee shall establish the development impact fee due for a period of 180 days from the date of certification, even if new or revised rate schedules are adopted in the interim.
SECTION 7.06. - EXEMPTIONS

7.06.01 - Exemption Policy
The City of Kennesaw recognizes that certain office, retail trade and industrial development projects provide extraordinary benefit in support of the economic advancement of the city's citizens over and above the access to jobs, goods and services that such uses offer in general. To encourage such development projects, the City Council may consider granting a reduction in the impact fee for such development projects upon either the determination and relative to the extent that the business or project represents extraordinary economic development and employment growth of public benefit to City of Kennesaw, in accordance with adopted exemption criteria. It is also recognized that the cost of system improvements otherwise foregone through exemption of any impact fee must be funded through revenue sources other than impact fees.
7.06.02 - Process for Exemption Approval
An application for exemption shall be considered under the following procedures:
A.
Application for exemption approval must be made by the building permit applicant to the Administrator. A building permit may be issued upon approval of an exemption, or may be issued without payment of applicable impact fees following receipt of a complete exemption application and pending its approval, but a Certificate of Occupancy shall not be issued until a decision regarding the exemption has been made, or until such time that the application for exemption is otherwise withdrawn by the applicant and payment of impact fees have been paid.
B.
Documentation must be provided to the Administrator that demonstrates the applicant's eligibility for an exemption. This documentation shall address, but need not be limited to, all applicable exemption criteria adopted by the City. This documentation constitutes the application for exemption.
C.
The Administrator in his or her reasonable discretion shall determine whether an application for exemption addresses the exemption criteria adopted by the City and is complete. A negative determination by the Administrator may be appealed to the City Council in accordance with the Administrative Appeals Section of this ordinance.
D.
The Administrator or the City Council shall determine the eligibility for and extent of exemption, in accordance with the standards and procedures contained in the exemption criteria adopted by the City Council. If action by the City Council is required, the application for exemption shall be considered at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the City Council that falls at least two weeks after a complete application for exemption has been received by the Administrator.
SECTION 7.07. - DEPOSIT AND EXPENDITURE OF FEES

7.07.01 - Maintenance of Funds
A.
All development impact fee funds collected for future expenditure on construction or expansion of facilities pursuant to this ordinance shall be maintained in one or more interest-bearing accounts until encumbered or expended. Restrictions on the investment of development impact fee funds shall be the same that apply to investment of all such funds generally.
B.
Separate accounting records shall be maintained for each category of system improvements within each service area wherein fees are collected.
C.
Interest earned on development impact fees shall be considered funds of the account on which it is earned and shall be subject to all restrictions placed on the use of development impact fees under this ordinance.
7.07.02 - Expenditures; Restrictions
A.
Expenditures from the impact fee accounts shall be made only for the category of system improvements within the service area for which the development impact fee was assessed and collected.
B.
Except as provided below, development impact fees shall not be expended for any purpose that does not involve building or expanding system improvements that create additional capacity available to serve new growth and development.
C.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this ordinance, the following shall be considered general revenue of Kennesaw, and may be expended accordingly:
impact fees collected to recover the present value of excess capacity in existing system improvements;
any portion of an impact fee collected as a repayment for expenditures made by Kennesaw for system improvements intended to be funded by such impact fee; and,
any portion of the impact fee (but not to exceed three percent of the total) collected and allocated by the Administrator for administration of the impact fee ordinance, and such additional amount assessed for repayment of the cost of preparing the Capital Improvements Element of the Comprehensive Plan.
7.07.03 - Annual Report
A.
The Administrator shall prepare an annual report to the City Council as part of the annual audit describing the amount of any development impact fees collected, encumbered, and used during the preceding fiscal year by category of public facility and service area.
B.
Such annual report shall be prepared following guidelines of the Georgia Department of Community Affairs (DCA), and submitted to DCA in conjunction with the annual update of the Capital Improvements Element of the Comprehensive Plan.
SECTION 7.08. - CREDITS
When eligible, feepayors shall be entitled to a credit against impact fees otherwise due and owing under the circumstances and in the manner set forth in this Section.

7.08.01 - Credits; Restrictions
A.
Except as provided in Paragraph 2 below, no credit shall be given for construction, contribution, or dedication of any system improvement or funds for system improvements made before the effective date of this ordinance.
B.
If the value of any construction, dedication of land, or contribution of money made by a developer (or his or her predecessor in title or interest) prior to the effective date of this ordinance for system improvements that are included for impact fee funding in the Capital Improvements Element of the Comprehensive Land Use Plan, is greater than the impact fee that would otherwise have been paid for the Project, then the developer shall be entitled to a credit for such excess construction, dedication, or funding. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this ordinance, any credit due under this section shall not constitute a liability of Kennesaw, and shall accrue to the developer to the extent of impact fees assessed for new development for the same category of system improvements within the same service area.
C.
In no event shall credit be given for project improvements, or for system improvements not included for impact fee funding in the Capital Improvements Element of the Comprehensive Plan.
7.08.02 - Granting of Credits
A.
Credit shall be given for the present value of any construction of improvements, contribution or dedication of land, or payment of money by a developer or his or her predecessor in title or interest for system improvements of the same public facilities category and in the same service area for which a development impact fee is imposed, provided that:
the system improvement is included for impact fee funding in the Capital Improvements Element of the Comprehensive Land Use Plan;
the amount of the credit does not exceed the portion of the system improvement's cost that is eligible for impact fee funding, as shown in the Capital Improvements Element; and,
the City Council shall have explicitly approved said improvement, contribution, dedication, or payment and the value thereof prior to its construction, dedication, or transfer.
B.
The credit allowed pursuant to this Section shall not exceed the impact fee due for such system improvement unless a greater credit is authorized under a private agreement executed under the provisions of Section 9 of this ordinance.
7.08.03 - Guidelines for Credit Valuation
Credits under this Section shall be valued using the following guidelines:
A.
For the construction of any system improvements by a developer or his or her predecessor in title or interest and accepted by the City, the developer must present evidence satisfactory to the Administrator of the original cost of the improvement, from which present value may be calculated.
B.
For any contribution or dedication of land for system improvements by a developer or his or her predecessor in title or interest and accepted by the City, the original value of the land shall be the same as that attributed to the property by the validated tax appraisal at the time of dedication, from which present value may be calculated.
C.
For any contribution of capital equipment that qualifies as a system improvement by a developer or his or her predecessor in title or interest and accepted by the City, the value shall be the original cost to the developer of the capital equipment or the cost that Kennesaw, Georgia would normally pay for such equipment, whichever is less.
D.
For any contribution of money for system improvements from a developer or his or her predecessor in title or interest accepted by the City, the original value of the money shall be the same as that at the time of contribution, from which present value may be calculated.
E.
In making a present value calculation, the discount rate used shall be the net of the interest returned on a State of Georgia, AA rated or better municipal bond less average annual inflation, or such other discount rate as the City Council in its sole discretion may deem appropriate.
7.08.04 - Credits; Application
A.
Credits shall be given only upon written request of the developer to the Administrator. A developer must present written evidence satisfactory to the Administrator at or before the time of development impact fee assessment.
B.
The Administrator, in his or her reasonable discretion, shall review all claims for credits and make determinations regarding the allowance of any claimed credit, and the value of any allowed credit.
C.
Any credit approved by the Administrator shall be acknowledged in writing by the Administrator and calculated at the time of impact fee assessment.
7.08.05 - Credits; Abandoned Building Permits
In the event that an impact fee is paid but the building permit is abandoned, credit shall be given for the present value of the impact fee against future impact fees for the same parcel of land, upon submission of adequate evidence to the Administrator that an impact fee was received by the City, the amount paid, and that the building permit was abandoned.
SECTION 7.09. - REFUNDS

7.09.01 - Eligibility for a Refund
A.
Upon the request of a feepayor regarding a property on which a development impact fee has been paid, the development impact fee shall be refunded if:
capacity is available in the Public Facilities for which the fee was collected but service is permanently denied; or,
the development impact fee has not been encumbered or construction has not been commenced within six years after the date the fee was collected.
B.
In determining whether development impact fees have been encumbered, development impact fees shall be considered encumbered on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis.
7.09.02 - Notice of Entitlement to a Refund
When the right to a refund exists due to a failure to encumber the development impact fees, the Administrator shall provide written notice of entitlement to a refund to the feepayor who paid the development impact fee at the address shown on the application for development approval or to a successor in interest who has given adequate notice to the Administrator of a legal transfer or assignment of the right to entitlement to a refund and who has provided a mailing address. Such notice shall also be published in a newspaper of general circulation in Kennesaw within 30 days after the expiration of the six-year period after the date that the development impact fee was collected and shall contain a heading "Notice of Entitlement to Development Impact Fee Refund." No refund shall be made for a period of 30 days from the date of said publication.
7.09.03 - Filing a Request for a Refund
All requests for refunds shall be made in writing to the Administrator within one year of the time the refund becomes payable or within one year of publication of the notice of entitlement to a refund, whichever is later. Failure to make a claim for a refund within said time period shall result in a waiver of all claims to said funds.
7.09.04 - Payment of Refunds
A.
All refunds shall be made to the feepayor within 60 days after it is determined by the Administrator that a sufficient proof of claim for refund has been made, but no sooner than 30 days after publication of the notice of entitlement to the refund.
B.
A refund shall include a refund of a pro rata share of interest actually earned on the unused or excess impact fee collected.
C.
In no event shall a feepayor be entitled to a refund for impact fees assessed and paid to recover the cost of excess capacity in existing system improvements, for any portion of an impact fee collected as a repayment for expenditures made by Kennesaw for system improvements intended to be funded by such impact fee, or for that portion of the fee payment that was assessed for administration of the impact fee ordinance or for recovery of the cost of preparation of the Capital Improvements Element of the Comprehensive Plan.
SECTION 7.10. - PRIVATE CONTRACTUAL AGREEMENTS

7.10.01 - Private Agreements; Authorized
Nothing in this ordinance shall prohibit the voluntary mutual approval of a private contractual agreement between the City and any developer or property owner or group of developers and/or property owners in regard to the construction or installation of system improvements and providing for credits or reimbursement for system improvement costs incurred by a developer, including interproject transfers of credits or providing for reimbursement for project improvement costs which are used or shared by more than one development project, provided that:
A.
The system improvements are included for impact fee funding in the Capital Improvements Element of the Comprehensive Plan; and,
B.
The amount of any credit or reimbursement granted shall not exceed the portion of the system improvement's cost that is eligible for impact fee funding.
7.10.02 - Private Agreements; Provisions
A private contractual agreement for system improvements may include, but shall not be limited to, provisions which:
A.
Modify the estimates of impact on public facilities according to the methods and provisions concerning the calculation of impact fees, provided that any such agreement shall allow the City to assess additional development impact fees after the completion of construction according to schedules set forth in this ordinance.
B.
Permit construction of, dedication of property for, or other in-kind contribution for specific public facilities of the type for which development impact fees would be imposed in the same service area in lieu of or with a credit against applicable development impact fees.
C.
Permit a schedule and method of payment appropriate to particular and unique circumstances of a proposed project in lieu of the requirements for payment under this ordinance, provided that acceptable security is posted ensuring payment of the development impact fees. Forms of security that may be acceptable include a cash bond, irrevocable Letter of Credit from a bank authorized to do business within the State of Georgia, a surety bond, or lien or mortgage on lands to be covered by the building permit.
7.10.03 - Private Agreements; Procedure
A.
Any private agreement proposed by an applicant pursuant to this Section shall be submitted to the Administrator for review, negotiation, and submission to the City Council.
B.
Any such agreement must be presented to and approved by the City Council of Kennesaw, Georgia prior to the issuance of a building permit.
C.
Any such agreement shall provide for execution by mortgagees, lien holders or contract purchasers in addition to the landowner, and shall require the applicant to submit such agreement to the Clerk of Superior Court for recording.
SECTION 7.11. - PERIODIC REVIEW AND AMENDMENTS

7.11.01 - Ordinance Amendments
A.
This ordinance may be amended from time to time as deemed appropriate or desirable.
B.
Interim amendments to the impact fee schedule regarding the establishment of new land use categories by the Administrator under Section 0 are expressly authorized, and shall be confirmed by the City Council when this ordinance is subsequently amended.
7.11.02 - Capital Improvements Element Periodic Review
A.
Update. At least once each year, the City Council shall review and may update the Capital Improvements Element so as to maintain, at a minimum, a schedule of system improvements for each of the subsequent five years. The Capital Improvements Element Update may include changes in funding sources or project costs, or changes in the list or scheduling of projects. The Capital Improvements Element Update shall be submitted to the Regional Development Center for their review, in accordance with the Development Impact Fee Compliance Requirements as adopted by the Board of Community Affairs of the State of Georgia.
B.
Amendment. In conducting a periodic review of the Capital Improvements Element and calculation of development impact fees, the City Council may determine to amend the Capital Improvements Element. Amendments to the Capital Improvements Element shall comply with the procedural requirements of the Development Impact Fee Compliance Requirements as adopted by the Board of Community Affairs of the State of Georgia, and shall be required for any change to the Capital Improvements Element that would:
redefine growth projections, land development assumptions, or goals or objectives that would affect system improvements proposed in the Capital Improvements Element;
add new public facility categories for impact fee funding, modify impact fee service areas or make changes to system improvement projects;
change service levels established for an existing impact fee service area; or
make any other revisions needed to keep the Capital Improvements Element up to date.
7.11.03 - Continuation of Validity
Failure of the City Council to undertake a periodic review of the Capital Improvements Element shall result in the continued use and application of the latest adopted development impact fee schedule and other data. The failure to periodically review such data shall not invalidate this ordinance.
SECTION 7.12. - ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS

7.12.01 - Eligibility to File an Appeal
Only applicants or feepayors who have already been assessed an impact fee by the City or who have already received a written determination of individual assessment, refund or credit amount shall be entitled to an appeal.
7.12.02 - Appeals Process
A.
The aggrieved applicant or feepayor (hereinafter, the "appellant") must file a written appeal with the Administrator within 15 days of the decision or receipt of written determination from which the appeal is taken.
B.
Such written appeal shall constitute an application for relief, shall be of sufficient content to set forth the basis for the appeal and the relief sought, and shall include:
The name and address of the appellant;
The location of the affected property;
A copy of any applicable written decision or determination made by the Administrator (from which the appeal is taken);
C.
Within 15 days after receipt of the appeal, the Administrator shall make a written final decision with respect to the appeal, such decision to be of sufficient content to set forth the basis for the determination.
D.
Appeals from the final decision of the Administrator shall be made to the City Council within 30 days of receipt by the appellant of the Administrator's decision. Delivery by hand or certified mail to, or posting upon the property at, the address given by the appellant in the application for relief shall constitute "receipt by the appellant" under this provision.
E.
The City Council shall thereafter hold a hearing on the appeal within 30 days provided that at least 2 weeks written notice thereof can be given to the appellant. The City Council shall decide the issue within a reasonable time following the hearing, but in no case more than 15 days following the hearing, unless the appellant agrees to an extension to a later date. Any party making an appeal shall have the right to appear at the hearing to present evidence and may be represented by counsel.
7.12.03 - Payment of Impact Fee during Appeal
A.
The filing of an appeal shall not stay the collection of a development impact fee as a condition to the issuance of development approval.
B.
A developer may pay a development impact fee under protest to obtain a development approval, and by making such payment shall not be stopped from exercising this right of appeal or receiving a refund of any amount deemed to have been collected in excess.
SECTION 7.13. - ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES

7.13.01 - Enforcement Authority
A.
The enforcement of this ordinance shall be the responsibility of the Administrator and such personnel as the Administrator may designate from time to time.
B.
The Administrator shall have the right to inspect the lands affected by this ordinance and shall have the right to issue a written notice, a stop work order or citation for violations, as the Administrator in his or her reasonable determination may deem appropriate to the circumstances. Refusal of written notice of violation, stop work order or citation under this ordinance shall constitute legal notice of service. The citation shall be in the form of a written official notice issued in person or by certified mail to the owner of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person performing the work. The receipt of a citation shall require that corrective action be taken within thirty (30) days unless otherwise extended at the discretion of the Administrator.
C.
The Administrator may suspend or revoke any building permit or withhold the issuance of other development approvals. if the provisions of this ordinance have been violated by the developer or the owner or their assigns.
7.13.02 - Violations
A.
Knowingly furnishing false information on any matter relating to the administration of this ordinance shall constitute an actionable violation.
B.
Proceeding with construction of a project that is not consistent with the project's impact fee assessment, such as the use category claimed or units of development indicated, shall constitute an actionable violation.
C.
Failure to take corrective action following the receipt of a citation shall constitute an actionable violation.
D.
A violation of this ordinance shall be a misdemeanor punishable according to law, including the general penalty provisions of the Kennesaw Code of Ordinances. In addition to or in lieu of criminal prosecution, the City Council shall have the power to sue in law or equity for relief in civil court to enforce this ordinance, including recourse to such civil and criminal remedies in law and equity as may be necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this ordinance, including but not limited to injunctive relief to enjoin and restrain any person from violating the provisions of this ordinance and to recover such damages as may be incurred by the implementation of specific corrective actions.
SECTION 7.14. - REPEALER, SEVERABILITY, AND EFFECTIVE DATE

7.14.01 - Repeal of Conflicting Laws
Any and all ordinances, resolutions, or regulations, or parts thereof, in conflict with this ordinance are hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict.
7.14.02 - Severability
If any sentence, clause, part, paragraph, section, or provision of this ordinance is declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the validity of the Ordinance as a whole or any other part hereof shall not be affected.
7.14.03 - Incorporation by Reference of Georgia Law
It is the intent of the City Council that the Development Impact Fee Ordinance of Kennesaw, Georgia comply with the terms and provisions of the Georgia Development Impact Fee Act (O.C.G.A. 36-71-1 et seq. as amended). To the extent that any provision of this ordinance is inconsistent with the provisions of said Chapter 36-71, the latter shall control. Furthermore, to the extent that this ordinance is silent as to any provision of said Chapter 36-71 that is otherwise made mandatory by said Chapter 36-71, such provision shall control and shall be binding upon the City.
7.14.04 - Effective Date
This ordinance shall take effect on February 16, 2010.
BE IT SO ORDAINED this _____ th day of ________, 2010, by the CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF KENNESAW, GEORGIA.
City Manager, City of Kennesaw
Attachment A
Fee Schedule—Kennesaw, GA
The attached fee schedule reflects the adoption of an impact fee schedule that is below the maximum allowable impact fee, as calculated in the City of Kennesaw Impact Fee Methodology Report as adopted February 15, 2010. Insert Attachment A.
Chapter 8 - BOARDS AND AGENCIES
8.00.00 - GENERALLY
The Boards, and Commissions described in Chapter 8 are established for the purpose of implementing the provisions of the UDC. The Boards and Commissions described in this chapter shall have the powers and duties described necessary to achieve the purpose of this UDC.
8.01.00 - CITY OF KENNESAW PLANNING COMMISSION

8.01.01 - Members
A.
The Kennesaw Planning Commission, referred to in this UDC as the Planning Commission, shall consist of seven (7) members.
B.
A chairperson shall be elected by the Planning Commission at the first meeting of each year.
C.
A vice-chairperson shall be elected at the first meeting of each year and shall serve in the absence of the chairperson.
D.
Members of the Planning Commission shall be appointed by the Mayor and City Council for a three (3)-year term or to fulfill an unexpired term.
E.
All members shall be residents and registered voters of the city.
8.01.02 - Quorum and Meetings
A.
To establish a quorum for the meeting, four (4) members must be present, one (1) of whom may be the chairperson.
B.
The meetings of the Planning Commission shall be conducted according to Robert's Rules of Order, Newly Revised, unless otherwise stated prior to the meeting.
8.01.03 - Duties and Responsibilities
A.
The Planning Commission shall hear all matters pertaining to zoning and use of land.
B.
The Planning Commission shall act as an advisory board to the Mayor and City Council in all matters pertaining to zoning, present or future, and use of land.
8.02.00 - KENNESAW HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION

8.02.01 - Establishment of a Historic Preservation Commission
The authority to establish a Historic Preservation Commission is granted per Title 44. "Property," Chapter 10 "Historic Preservation," Article 2 "Ordinances Providing for Historical Preservation," O.C.G.A. 44-10-24 enacted March 1, 1980:
A.
The local governing body of a municipality or county electing to enact an ordinance to provide for the protection, enhancement, perpetuation, or use of historic properties or historic districts shall establish or designate a Historic Preservation Commission. Such local governing body shall determine the number of members of the Commission, which shall be at least three, and the length of their terms, which shall be no greater than three years. A majority of the members of any such Commission shall have demonstrated special interest, experience, or education in history or architecture; all the members shall reside within the historic preservation jurisdiction of their respective municipality or county except as otherwise provided by subsection (b) of this Code section; and all shall serve without compensation. In establishing such a Commission and making appointments to it, a local governing body may seek the advice of any state or local historical agency, society, or organization.
B.
The local governing body of a county and the local governing body or bodies of one or more municipalities lying wholly or partially within such county may establish or designate a joint Historic Preservation Commission. If a joint Commission is established, the local governing bodies of the county and the municipality or municipalities involved shall determine the residence requirements for members of the joint Commission.
8.02.02 - Creation
A.
The Kennesaw Historic Preservation Commission is hereby created, consisting of not more than seven (7) members appointed by the Mayor and City Council.
B.
The term of office of the members shall be for two (2) years. One-half of the initial members shall be appointed for two (2) years, and the remaining half for one (1) year. Subsequently, members shall be appointed for terms of two (2) years as vacancies occur.
C.
Members shall be eligible for reappointment.
D.
All members shall be residents of Cobb County, and a majority of the members shall be residents of the city.
8.02.03 - Meetings
A.
The Kennesaw Historic Preservation Commission shall meet monthly.
B.
A public record shall be kept of the Commission's resolutions, proceedings, and actions.
C.
Meetings shall be conducted according to Robert's Rules of Order, most recent edition.
8.02.04 - Conflicts of Interest
A.
At any time the Historic Preservation Commission reviews a project in which a member of the Commission has ownership or other economic or vested interest including the involvement of relatives, that member will be restricted from presenting, voting or discussing the project, other than answering a direct question.
B.
Provided, however, the Commission member may be excused from sitting in attendance with the Commission on such matter and may then address the Commission as an affected citizen.
8.02.05 - Duties, Responsibilities and Powers
The Kennesaw Historic Preservation Commission shall be authorized and encouraged to:
1.
Prepare an inventory of all property within the historic preservation jurisdiction having the potential for designation as historic property;
2.
Recommend to the Mayor and City Council of the City of Kennesaw specific places, sites, buildings, structures, works of art, and districts to be designated by ordinance as historic properties or historic districts;
3.
Review all applications of historic properties requesting the issuance of a certificate of appropriateness and grant or deny a certificate of appropriateness in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance;
4.
Recommend to the Mayor and City Council that the designation of any place, district, site, building, structure or work of art as a historic property be revoked or removed;
5.
Review the change in exterior architectural appearance or exterior environmental appearance of any city-owned property designated as a historic property and, further, make recommendations on such proposed change;
6.
Monitor the condition of all historic properties and determine if a condition of demolition by neglect exists; further, if such a condition does exist, recommend appropriate steps to the building official to correct it;
7.
Promote the acquisition by the City of Kennesaw of facade easements and conservation easements in accordance with the provisions of the "Facade and Conservation Easements Act of 1976" (Georgia Laws 1976, page 1181);
8.
Conduct an educational program on historic properties located within its historic preservation jurisdiction;
9.
Make such investigations and studies of matters relating to historic preservation as the Mayor and City Council or the Commission itself may, from time to time, deem necessary or appropriate for the purpose of preserving historic resources;
10.
Seek out state and federal funds for historic preservation, and make recommendations to the City Council concerning the most appropriate uses of any funds acquired;
11.
Submit to the historic preservation section of the department of natural resources or its successor any historic property(ies) determined by the Commission to promote historic interests of the community and provide the historic preservation section whatever information is needed to nominate these to the National Register of Historic Places;
12.
Perform historic preservation activities as the official agency of the Kennesaw Historic Preservation Program;
13.
Employ persons, if necessary, to carry out the responsibilities of the Commission; the Commission shall not employ any person which obligates the City of Kennesaw without prior consent of the Mayor and City Council;
14.
Receive donations, grants, funds or gifts for use as determined by the Commission. To acquire or sell historic properties upon approval of the Mayor and City Council. Further, the Commission shall not obligate the City of Kennesaw without prior consent of the Kennesaw Mayor and City Council;
15.
Restore or preserve any historic properties acquired by the City of Kennesaw upon approval of the Mayor and City Council; and
16.
Consult with historic preservation experts in the historic preservation section of the department of natural resources or its successor, the Georgia Trust for Historic Preservation, Inc., and the National Trust for Historic Preservation, the Georgia Certified Local Government Program, other historic Commissions, and the Atlanta Regional Commission or other similar agencies.
8.02.06 - Appeals
A.
Any person or persons jointly or severally aggrieved by any decision of the Kennesaw Historic Preservation Commission may appeal to the Mayor and City Council.
B.
The appeal must be filed within seven (7) days of the decision of the Commission and must be made by written petition delivered to the Zoning Administrator.
C.
The appeal shall be on the application exactly as presented to the Commission.
D.
The appeal shall be advertised for public notice in accordance with this UDC.
E.
Appeals from decisions of the Mayor and City Council may be taken to the superior court of Cobb County in the manner provided by law for appeals from a conviction for municipal or county ordinance violation(s).
8.02.07 - Guidance standards and maintenance of consistent policies
In order to provide guidance and insight into desirable goals and objectives for the Historic Preservation Commission, the Commission shall maintain a file containing records of all applications brought before the Commission for review. Each file shall include: the action taken by the Commission; drawings submitted; amendments of drawings approved pertaining thereto; and drawings and photographs or reproductions thereof showing structures in authentic Kennesaw character. Where in the Commission's opinion these files or records serve as general guides to appropriateness or as expressions of objectives to prospective developers or property owners, these files may be referred to for use on other applications. Such documents shall remain the property of the City of Kennesaw and be held in the custody of the Zoning Administrator.
8.03.00 - CITY TREE BOARD

8.03.01 - Establishment of a City Tree Board
There is hereby created and established a City Tree Board and shall consist of the Keep Kennesaw Beautiful Board sitting as the City Tree Board. Members of the board shall serve without compensation. The Board shall choose its own officers, and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
Tree Board Duties and Responsibilities—It shall be the responsibility of the Tree Board to:
A.
Study, develop and update annually, specifications for the care, conservation, pruning, planting, and replanting of publicly owned trees and shrubs in parks, along streets, and in other public areas.
B.
Develop and maintain arboricultural specifications for tree care and replacement.
C.
To conduct a public Arbor Day tree planting activity and develop or secure and distribute tree care and tree benefit information as part of a county/city wide tree benefit educational program.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, 5-7-12)
8.04.00 - CITY OF KENNESAW ART AND CULTURE COMMISSION

8.04.01 - Establishment of the Art and Culture Commission
A.
The local governing body or bodies of one or more municipalities lying wholly or partially within such county may establish or designate an art and culture commission. If a joint commission is established, the local governing bodies of the county and the municipality or municipalities involved shall determine the residence requirements for members of the joint commission.
(Ord. No. 2013-15, 9-16-13; Ord. No. 2015-03, 2-16-15)
8.04.02 - Creation
A.
The Kennesaw Art and Culture Commission is hereby created, consisting of not more than seven members of which at least four members must be City of Kennesaw residents appointed by the Mayor and Council. The members shall include:
1.
A practicing architect licensed in the State of Georgia;
2.
An active participant in local or state art councils or member of art/cultural foundations with professional background in art programs or art culture education;
3.
An active student or professor from a college, university, technical school or other educational institution;
4.
A business owner within the city limits of Kennesaw;
5.
A current Cobb County resident;
6.
Of the seven (7) members, four shall be residents of the City of Kennesaw.
B.
The members of the commission shall be appointed for two-year staggered terms as vacancies occur.
C.
Members shall be eligible for reappointment.
D.
Members serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and Council and may be removed at any time with or without cause by a majority vote of the Mayor and Council.
(Ord. No. 2013-15, 9-16-13; Ord. No. 2014-09, 7-21-14; Ord. No. 2015-03, 2-16-15)
8.04.03 - Meetings
A.
The City of Kennesaw Art and Culture Commission shall meet as needed.
B.
A public record shall be kept of the commission's resolutions, proceedings, and actions.
C.
Meetings shall be conducted according to the most recent version of the Robert's Rules of Order, unless it is announced at the beginning of the meeting that those Rules will not be used.
(Ord. No. 2013-15, 9-16-13; Ord. No. 2014-09, 7-21-14; Ord. No. 2015-03, 2-16-15)
8.04.04 - Conflicts of Interest
At any time the Kennesaw Art and Culture Commission reviews a project in which a member of the commission has ownership or other economic or vested interest including the involvement of relatives, that member will be restricted from presenting, voting or discussing the project, other than answering a direct question.
(Ord. No. 2013-15, 9-16-13; Ord. No. 2014-09, 7-21-14; Ord. No. 2015-03, 2-16-15)
8.04.05 - Duties, Responsibilities and Powers
The City of Kennesaw Art and Culture Commission shall be authorized and encouraged to:
A.
Recommend to the Mayor and Council, city departments and boards regarding programs and community outreach activities that promote local cultural and artistic awareness and education.
B.
Review all applications requesting the issuance of a site plan permit and to provide a recommendation to Mayor and Council to grant or deny submitted applications in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2013-15, 9-16-13; Ord. No. 2014-09, 7-21-14; Ord. No. 2015-03, 2-16-15)
8.04.06 - Appeals
Appeals from decisions of the Mayor and Council may be taken to the Superior Court of Cobb County in the manner provided by law for appeals from a conviction for municipal or county ordinance violation(s).
(Ord. No. 2013-15, 9-16-13; Ord. No. 2014-09, 7-21-14; Ord. No. 2015-03, 2-16-15)
8.04.07 - Guidance standards and maintenance of consistent policies
In order to provide guidance and insight into desirable goals and objectives for the City of Kennesaw Art and Culture Commission, the commission shall maintain a file containing records of all applications brought before the commission for review. Each file shall include: the action taken by the commission; drawings submitted; amendments of drawings approved pertaining thereto; and drawings and photographs or reproductions thereof showing structures in authentic Kennesaw character. Where in the commission's opinion these files or records serve as general guides to appropriateness or as expressions of objectives to property owners or artists, these files may be referred to for use on other applications. Such documents shall remain the property of the City of Kennesaw and be held in the custody of the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. No. 2013-15, 9-16-13; Ord. No. 2015-03, 2-16-15)
Chapter 9 - VARIATIONS
9.00.00 - GENERALLY
The purpose of this chapter is to provide mechanisms for obtaining relief from the provisions of this UDC. There are several ways that potential relief from hardship is addressed. Section 9.01.00 addresses relief through requirements regarding nonconforming development. Section 9.02.00 addresses relief through the grant of a variance in a particular situation due to the characteristics of the land to be developed based on the required site design standards. Section 9.03.00 addresses relief through specific exceptions to the conditions of zoning. Section 9.04.00 addresses relief through the grant of an administrative waiver in specific situations.
(Ord. No. 2018-23, § 2(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
9.01.00 - NONCONFORMING USES[16]
A.
The lawful use of any building, structure or land existing at the time of the enactment of this UDC may be continued even though such use does not conform with the provisions of this UDC except that the use of a principal nonconforming building, structure or land shall not be:
Changed to another nonconforming use;
Re-established after discontinuance or abandonment for one (1) year. Discontinuance or abandonment means the failure to devote the property to the permitted nonconforming use evidenced by an overt act or failure to act (or combination of the two) sufficient to support the implication of an intent to relinquish the right to continue the nonconforming use.
Expanded, enlarged or extended, either on the same or adjoining parcel, except in conformity with this ordinance;
Rebuilt, altered, replaced, or repaired after damage exceeding fifty percent (50%) of its replacement cost at the time of destruction as determined by the building official except in conformity with this ordinance. For those situations where the damage does not exceed fifty percent (50%) of its replacement value, any such rebuilding, alteration, replacment or repair shall be completed within twelve (12) months of such damage;
Altered, except if less than thirty percent (30%) of the floor space of a building or structure is found by the building inspector to be structurally unsafe then a permit may be issued to correct the unsafe condition.
B.
At the time of the enactment of this UDC, every owner of a nonconforming building or structure shall have sixty (60) days to indicate in writing to the Zoning Administrator which building or structure or group of buildings or structures will be considered the "principal" nonconforming building or structure defined in Section A above. In the event that more than one (1) building or structure is classified as "principal" under this section, said classification must be justified by the owner and accepted in writing by the Zoning Administrator. In the event that multiple buildings or structures are accepted by the Zoning Administrator as being the "principal" nonconforming building or structure as defined in Section A above, then all percentage figures stated in this section will pertain to the total area of the multiple buildings or structures so accepted.
C.
All nonconforming buildings, structures and uses shall be discontinued and made to conform within the time periods set forth below:
1.
All nonconforming uses of land where no buildings are involved—Six (6) months from date of adoption of this UDC.
2.
All nonconforming uses of land on which are located demountable or portable buildings or structures—twelve (12) months from date of adoption of this ordinance unless approved by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs (DCA).
(Ord. No. 2018-23, § 2(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
Footnotes:
--- (16) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2018-23, § 2(Exh. B), adopted Oct. 15, 2018, amended § 9.01.00 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former § 9.01.00 pertained to nonconforming lots, structures, and uses.

9.02.00 - VARIANCES

9.02.01 - Generally
A.
The Mayor and City Council may authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the terms of this UDC as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this ordinance will, in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship.
B.
A variance shall be authorized only so that the spirit of this UDC shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done.
C.
A variance shall not be granted to allow a use of land that is otherwise prohibited in the zoning district applicable to the property.
D.
The existence of a nonconforming use on adjacent land, buildings, or structures in the same or in other districts shall not constitute a reason for a variance.
E.
The Mayor and City Council shall be responsible for consideration and a decision regarding requests for variances, pursuant to the notice and hearing requirements set forth in Chapter 10.
(Ord. No. 2018-23, § 2(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
9.02.02 - Types of Variances
A request for a variance shall be limited to vary the following : 1) maximum building height; 2) minimum lot width; 3) required spacing for driveways; 4) minimum front, side, or rear yard setbacks; or 5) dimensional standards for parking or loading spaces.
(Ord. No. 2018-23, § 2(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
9.02.03 - Requirements for Variances
Variances may be granted using the following criteria:
A.
There is extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the property because of its size, shape or topography;
B.
The application of the UDC standards to property creates practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship;
C.
The practical difficulty and/or unnecessary hardship are conditions which are peculiar to the property involved; and
D.
Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impede the purposes and intent of the UDC .
(Ord. No. 2018-23, § 2(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
9.02.04 - Requirements for Making Variance Applications
A.
An applicant for a variance shall file with the zoning department the following:
1.
A completed application on forms prescribed by the zoning department;
2.
The notarized signature of the applicant and record titleholder upon the application.
3.
The application fee.
a.
These fees shall be established from time to time by resolution of the Mayor and City Council.
b.
A copy of the fee schedule shall be maintained in the City Clerk's Office.
4.
A current boundary survey and plot plan, to scale, that bears the signature and seal of a registered surveyor, engineer, architect or landscape architect. Such plans shall also include such other information thereon as may be required by the zoning department, including preliminary plans for development, building locations, parking areas, access points, adjacent streets, land lot lines, buffer areas, future right-of-way, wetlands, floodplains, utilities, and retention.
5.
Private sewage disposal must be approved by the Cobb County Health Department, and written approval from the health department must be filed with the application.
6.
Any other information required by the zoning department which they deem necessary or desirable in processing the application which is related to the present or proposed use of the property.
B.
Posting of public notice. The posting shall be the same as set forth in Chapter 10 for zoning applications.
C.
Rejected applications. Any variance request may not be reconsidered for a period of twelve (12) months after it has been rejected by the Mayor and City Council, unless by court order or pursuant to a settlement of litigation.
D.
Expiration of variance approval. Any variance authorized by the Mayor and City Council, for which construction has not commenced within one (1) year from the date on which the decision of the Mayor and City Council becomes final, shall be deemed abandoned and be void and of no further force and effect.
E.
An appeal of a decision of the Mayor and City Council on a variance application shall be to the Superior Court of Cobb County within 30 days of the Mayor and City Council's decision on the application. The date of the decision is the date that the Mayor and City Council vote to grant or deny the application.
(Ord. No. 2018-23, § 2(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
9.03.00 - EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS

9.03.01 - Conditional Zoning
A.
Each zoning use category described in this UDC shall have a subhead thereunder to be known as "conditional" for that category.
B.
The Planning Commission may hear and act upon requests for "conditional zoning" of the petition as originally presented which are imposed to protect the health, safety and welfare.
1.
The Planning Commission and Mayor and City Council may hear and act upon new conditions requested by the petitioner which were not contained in the original "conditional" petition.
2.
Further, the Planning Commission and the Mayor and City Council may hear and act upon new conditions recommended by the Zoning Administrator which were not contained in the original "conditional" petition.
3.
Further, the Mayor and City Council may impose new conditions not contained in the original petition.
C.
The City Council may act on any petition where new conditions on the petition have been included which were not contained in the "conditional" petition heard and acted upon by the Planning Commission or may send such petition back to the Planning Commission for further study and recommendation before rendering a decision within sixty (60) days from the date of the public hearing held by the Mayor and City Council.
D.
All other requirements of the UDC must be complied with.
E.
Whenever the City Council, after holding a public hearing as provided in Chapter 10, approves such specific plans and design for a particular development and use and also approves a change in the district maps, then the property may be rezoned for the proper category as set forth in the UDC of the City of Kennesaw as "conditional" under the category and the Zoning Administrator shall issue a permit for the development of such property in substantial accordance with the plan submitted.
F.
Upon approval by the City Council of the plans supporting the approval and procedure outlined in Subsection E above, said plans shall bear a certificate by the Zoning Administrator indicating said approval. One copy of said plan will be filed with the record of rezoning.
G.
If for any reason, development and use of the property approved in accordance with the procedure outlined in Subsections E and F above cannot be accomplished, such plans shall not be substantially altered, changed, or varied; nor shall gross square footage, number of dwelling units or lot coverage be increased except after approval of the City Council.
H.
Nevertheless, when conditional zoning has been granted, but no affirmative action to perform said conditions or to obtain a building permit subject to such conditions, and such status shall continue for twelve (12) months from the date of approval of such conditional zoning, the property shall revert to its original status prior to such conditional zoning.
1.
Provided, however, the owner of the property conditionally zoned may request the Mayor and City Council to extend the conditional zoning or the Mayor and City Council on its own action may consider extension of the conditional zoning.
2.
If the Mayor and City Council find just cause for extending the conditional zoning, such conditional zoning may be extended for a period of up to twelve (12) months from the date of approval of such zoning period if the Mayor and City Council find just cause for extending conditional zoning, additional periods of up to twelve (12) months each may be granted.
3.
It is the responsibility of the owner to notify the Zoning Administrator and to petition the Mayor and City Council for an extension of the conditional zoning.
4.
Such petition must be presented by the owner and/or the owner's representatives to the Zoning Administrator at least thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date so as to be in time for the Mayor and City Council act thereon before the twelve (12) months expire.
5.
If no extension is granted by the Mayor and City Council prior to the expiration date, the property concerned reverts to its zoning before the conditional zoning was approved by the Mayor and City Council.
6.
If an extension of such conditional zoning is approved by the Mayor and City Council, such approval will be made on the conditional zoning originally approved by the Mayor and City Council, provided however, additional conditions approved by the Mayor and City Council may be included in the "conditional" petition.
9.03.02 - Lots of Record
A.
Where the owner of a plot of land consisting of one (1) or more adjacent lots of record at the time of the enactment of this ordinance did not at that time own sufficient contiguous land to enable him to conform to the minimum lot size requirements of this ordinance, such plot may nevertheless be used as a building site.
B.
The yard and other space requirements of the district in which the plot is located may be reduced by the smallest amount permitting a principal building of minimum acceptable size to be built upon the lot.
9.03.03 - Height Limitations
Except for antennas in single-family residential districts, the height limitations of this ordinance shall not apply to the following:
A.
Religious assembly spires
B.
Belfries
C.
Cupolas
D.
Domes
E.
Ornamental towers
F.
Water towers
G.
Chimneys and smokestacks
H.
Conveyors
I.
Silos
J.
Barns, when located on a working farm, not intended for human occupancy or public utility facilities.
(Ord. No. 2015-05, § 13, 4-20-15)
9.03.04 - Fences and Walls
Fences and freestanding walls shall be permitted on single-family residential properties when constructed in conjunction with a single-family detached residential use, provided the following requirements are met:
A.
No fence or freestanding wall in a required yard, other than a retaining wall or necessary fencing encompassing a tennis court on private property, shall be more than eight (8) feet in height, or be constructed in a public right-of-way.
B.
Fences or freestanding walls constructed in front yard, as defined in this UDC shall not exceed four (4) feet in height.
C.
In the case of a corner lot or double frontage lot, a fence located along a street property line shall not exceed four (4) feet in height.
D.
The height of a fence shall be measured from grade to the highest point of the fence and shall be no taller than eight (8) feet or four (4) feet at any point, respectively.
E.
No wall or fence constructed of woven wire or metal fabric (chain link, hog wire or barbed wire) shall extend into a front yard, except that a woven wire or metal fabric fence may extend into a front yard when the property contains a minimum of two (2) acres and any wall or fence shall not be constructed of exposed concrete block, tires, junk or other discarded materials.
F.
Any walls or fence which extends into the required front yard on property less than two (2) acres shall be decorative and constructed of brick, stone, wood, stucco, wrought iron, split rail, and shall not be constructed of exposed concrete block, tires, junk or other discarded materials.
G.
The exterior surface of any fence shall not be unfinished along abutting properties.
H.
Any subdivision entrance wall or fence shall not exceed eight (8) feet in height and shall be subject to architectural approval by the Kennesaw Community Development Department.
I.
The Mayor and City Council of the City of Kennesaw shall hear and decide appeals and request for variance from this section of the UDC.
9.03.05 - Corner Lots
A.
All corner lots setbacks subject to Chapter 4 site design standards
9.04.00 - ADMINISTRATIVE VARIANCES AND REQUIREMENTS[17]

Footnotes:
--- (17) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2018-23, § 2(Exh. B), adopted Oct. 15, 2018, amended § 9.04.00 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former § 9.04.00 pertained to administrative waiver and derived from Ord. No. 2016-32, adopted Oct. 17, 2016.

9.04.01 - Administrative Variance
A.
The Planning and Zoning Administrator has authority to grant the following administrative variances:
1.
A reduction in the minimum front, side, or rear yard setbacks for a single lot, provided that the reduction is limited to a maximum of five (5) feet.
2.
An increase in the maximum floor area ratio limitations for a single lot provided that the increase is limited to a maximum of five percent (5%) of the maximum standard.
3.
An increase in the maximum building coverage ratio limitations for a single lot provided that the increase is limited to a maximum of five percent (5%) of the maximum standard.
4.
Maximum height of structures—Height variance not to exceed averaged roof height of the area by ten percent (10%) maximum. The height variance will take into consideration the scale and character of the area and the intention of the zoning district being affected.
5.
Parking spaces reduction—Reduction of minimum parking spaces required not to exceed six percent (6%) of total required spaces required under the UDC.
(Ord. No. 2018-23, § 2(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
9.04.02 - Requirements for Submittal of Administrative Variance Application
A.
An application for an administrative variance shall be filed with the Planning and Zoning Department through the Zoning Administrator.
B.
The following documents will be required for processing:
1.
A completed administrative variance application with all applicable signatures.
2.
All required fees submitted with completed application as per master fee schedule adopted by the City of Kennesaw.
3.
All supportive drawings, surveys, reports and any other information required by the Planning and Zoning Department deemed necessary that conveys all relevant information referenced in the application.
C.
Processing of application.
1.
Upon submittal and receipt of completed administrative variance application, the Zoning Administrator will attempt to process and render a decision within 15 business days.
2.
The applicant will have the responsibility to notify all adjoining property owners (including property owners for property located across the street or streets from the property on which the variance is requested) of the intention and purpose of the variance application. The applicant must forward all written responses either recommending approval or denial of the applicants request for administrative to the Zoning Administrator.
3.
If the Zoning Administrator receives objections from adjoining property owners regarding the administrative variance application then the Zoning Administrator will contact all parties who have objected to see if the matter can be settled between all parties.
4.
If the matter cannot be settled, the Zoning Administrator will deny the variance and advise the applicant that he or she may appeal this decision to the Mayor and City Council under provisions of Chapter 10 of the UDC.
5.
The above provision may be waived if all the adjoining property owners sign consent to the variance on the forms provided by the Planning and Zoning Administrator and staff.
6.
The applicant will be responsible for securing all signatures if consent from the adjoining property owners and submittal to the Planning and Zoning Department.
(Ord. No. 2018-23, § 2(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
9.04.03 - Required Reports
Prior to a vote by the Mayor and Council on any project, the Zoning Administrator shall report to the Mayor and Council all administrative variances associated with said project. Any administrative variances considered by the Planning and Zoning Administrator related to any project previously approved by the Mayor and Council shall be put forth for review and comment by the Mayor and Council at a work session, regular meeting or special meeting prior to any action being taken.
A.
A monthly written report of all administrative variances shall be prepared by the Planning and Zoning Administrator and submitted at the first regular meeting of each month to the Mayor and Council for review and comment.
B.
An annual written report of all administrative variances shall be prepared by the Planning and Zoning Administrator and submitted to the Mayor and Council for review and comment at the first regular meeting of each calendar year.
C.
All reports shall contain:
1.
A summary of each administrative variance application made during the period, including a description of why the variance from any law, ordinance, rule or regulation is necessary;
2.
The action taken on each application;
3.
The name, address and telephone number of the person or entity making each application; and
4.
The name, address and telephone number of any attorney who represented the applicant.
(Ord. No. 2018-23, § 2(Exh. B), 10-15-18)
Chapter 10 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
10.00.00 - GENERALLY

10.00.01 - Purpose
This Chapter sets forth the procedures for receiving, reviewing, and rendering decisions on applications for permits, rezoning, subdivisions, multi-family and nonresidential development, mixed use development, and planned developments. This Chapter also sets forth the requirements for appealing decisions and for enforcement. It is the City's intent that the procedures and requirements set forth in this Chapter shall be followed in order to seek approval for any development.
10.00.02 - Approvals Required
modified
A.
Building Permit Required. No building, sign, except "for sale" or "for rent" signs or other structure shall be erected, moved, extended or enlarged, or structurally altered; nor shall any excavation or filling of any lot for the construction of any building be commenced until the Building Services Director has issued a building permit for such work in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance.
1.
Application. Each application to the Building Services Director for a building permit shall be accompanied by plot plans in duplicate drawn to a scale showing: the actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon; the size, height and use of the building to be erected; the location of the building on the lot; the location of the existing structures on the lot, if any; the number of the dwelling units the building is designed to accommodate; the approximate setback lines of buildings on adjoining lots; and such other information as may be essential for determining whether the provisions of this ordinance are being observed. One (1) copy of said plot plan shall remain on file in the office of the Building Services Director.
2.
Duration of Validity. Any building permit issued shall become invalid unless the work authorized by it shall have been commenced within six (6) months of its date of issue, or if the work authorized by it is suspended or abandoned for a period of six (6) months after work is commenced.
3.
Conditions and Intent of the Permit.
a.
A permit issued shall be construed to be a license to proceed with the work and not as authority to violate, cancel, alter, or set aside any of the provisions of the technical codes, nor shall issuance of a permit prevent the Building Services Director from thereafter requiring a correction of errors in plans, construction, or violations of this ordinance.
b.
Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work authorized by such permit is commenced within six (6) months after its issuance, or if the work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of six (6) months after the time the work is commenced.
c.
One (1) or more extensions of time, for periods not more than ninety (90) days each, may be allowed for the permit.
d.
The extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause demonstrated.
e.
Extensions shall be in writing by the Building Services Director.
B.
Certificate of Occupancy Required.
1.
A Certificate of Occupancy issued by the Building Services Director is required in advance of occupancy or use of:
a.
Any lot change or extension in the use thereof;
b.
A building or structure hereafter erected or a change in the use of an existing building or structure; or
c.
Any nonconforming use that is existing at the time of the enactment of this ordinance or an amendment thereto or that is changed, extended, altered or rebuilt thereafter, the Certificate of Occupancy shall state specifically wherein the nonconforming use fails to meet the provisions of this ordinance.
2.
A Certificate of Occupancy, either for the whole or part of a building, shall be applied for, coincident with the application for a building permit and shall be issued within ten days after the erection or structural alterations of such building, or part, shall have been completed in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance.
3.
A Certificate of Occupancy shall not be issued unless the proposed use of a building or land conforms to the applicable provisions of this ordinance.
4.
If the Certificate of Occupancy is denied, the Building Services Director shall state in writing the reason for refusal and the applicant shall be notified of the refusal.
5.
A record of all certificates shall be kept on file in the office of the Building Services Director and copies shall be furnished on request to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building or land involved.
( Ord. No. 2023-12 MEETING , § 3, 6-19-23)
10.00.03 - Expiration of Approvals
modified
A.
Any permit shall become void if the work authorized by the permit has not begun within six (6) months after the date of issuance of the permit.
B.
The time period for which a permit is valid may be extended for one (1) or more periods of not more than ninety (90) days each where an application for such extension is filed and such extension has been granted in writing by the Planning and Zoning Administrator or Building Services Director.
C.
The expiration of a Certificate of Appropriateness shall conform to Items A, B and C of this section.
( Ord. No. 2023-12 MEETING , § 3, 6-19-23)
10.00.04 - Fees Required
A.
All applications shall be accompanied by payment of application fees, as set forth in the City of Kennesaw Fee Schedule adopted by the Mayor and Council and as may be amended from time to time. An application shall not be complete until all required fees are paid. Such fees shall include the filing fee, and where notice is required, shall include an additional fee to defray the expense of preparing and mailing such notices.
B.
For land clearing permits, a fee in addition to local permitting fees will be assessed pursuant to Georgia statutes. All applicable fees shall be paid prior to issuance of the land disturbance permit.
10.00.05 - Public Notice Requirements
modified
A.
All applications pertaining to zoning decisions as defined in O.C.G.A. 36-66-3(4) shall require a public hearing before the Mayor and Council or the Planning Commission.
B.
At least fifteen (15) but not more than forty-five (45) days prior to the date of the public hearing, the Mayor and Council or Planning Commission shall cause to be published in a newspaper (Marietta Daily Journal) of general circulation within the County notice of the hearing.
1.
Such notice shall be published once in such newspaper.
2.
The notice shall state:
a.
The time, place, and purpose of the hearing.
b.
Location of the property.
c.
Present zoning classification of the property.
d.
Proposed zoning classification of the property.
C.
The City of Kennesaw shall be required to post and maintain signs supplied by the zoning division on or near the right-of-way of the nearest public street, so as to be visible from the street, for at least fifteen (15) days immediately preceding the date for any public hearings on the application, which shall remain posted until a final decision by the Mayor and Council.
1.
It is the responsibility of the City of Kennesaw to post the signs. Acts of vandalism or natural occurrences which may diminish the effectiveness of the public notice provided shall not void any proceedings or actions taken by the Planning Commission or Mayor and Council.
2.
The Planning Commission or Mayor and Council may also, in its sole discretion, continue, hold, approve or dismiss the application.
3.
Any dismissal under the provisions of this subsection shall be with prejudice unless specifically noted as being without prejudice by the Planning Commission or Mayor and Council.
D.
In addition to the requirements herein stated in subsection (A) above, it shall be the duty of the applicant for zoning to notify in writing all surrounding property owners within a 200-foot radius of the boundary lines of the property as shown on the most current tax records.
1.
Such notice shall be satisfied by the applicants mailing of a copy of the proposed site plan and copy of application to the surrounding property owners by both first class mail and certified mail, return receipt requested.
2.
Return receipt addressee for all notifications mailed will be the community development department.
3.
The notice shall be mailed no later than fifteen (15) days before the first public hearing.
4.
The cost of the notices shall be borne by the applicant.
E.
When a proposed zoning decision relates to or will allow the location of a halfway house, drug rehabilitation center, or other facility for the treatment of drug dependency, a public hearing shall be held on the proposed action. Such public hearing shall be held at least six months and not more than nine months prior to the date of final action on the zoning decision. The hearing required by this paragraph shall be in addition to any hearing required under paragraph A. of Section 10.00.05 of the UDC. The City shall give notice of such hearing by: (1) posting notice on the affected premises in the manner prescribed by O.C.G.A. § 36-66-4(b); and (2) publishing in a newspaper of general circulation within the territorial boundaries of the local government a notice of the hearing at least 15 days and not more than 45 days prior to the date of the hearing. Both the posted notice and the published notice shall include a prominent statement that the proposed zoning decision relates to or will allow the location or relocation of a halfway house, drug rehabilitation center, or other facility for the treatment of drug dependency. The published notice shall be at least six column inches in size and shall not be located in the classified advertising section of the newspaper.
F.
The provisions of subsections (A) and (B) above shall apply to "other business" items as well except that the zoning division staff shall cause notice to be mailed no later than fifteen (15) days before the action is to be heard.
G.
(1)
Notwithstanding any other provisions of section 10.00.05 to the contrary, when a proposed zoning decision relates to an amendment of the zoning ordinance to revise one or more zoning classifications or definitions relating to single-family residential uses of property so as to authorize multifamily uses of property pursuant to such classification or definitions, or to grant blanket permission, under certain or all circumstances, for property owners to deviate from the existing zoning requirements of a single-family residential zoning, such zoning decision must be adopted in the following manner:
(A)
The zoning decision shall be adopted at two regular meetings of the Mayor and Council or Planning Commission making the zoning decision, during a period of not less than 21 days apart; and
(B)
Prior to the first meeting provided for in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, at least two public hearings shall be held on the proposed action. Such public hearings shall be held at least three months and not more than nine months prior to the date of final action on the zoning decision. Furthermore, at least one of the public hearings must be held between the hours of 5:00 P.M. and 8:00 P.M. The hearings required by this paragraph shall be in addition to any hearing required under subsection (A) of section 10.00.05. The Mayor and Council or Planning Commission shall give notice of such hearing by:
(i)
Posting notice on each affected premises in the manner prescribed by subsection (C) of this Code section; provided, however, that when more than 500 parcels are affected, in which case posting notice is required every 500 feet in the affected area; and
(ii)
Publishing in a newspaper of general circulation within the territorial boundaries of the local government a notice of each hearing at least 15 days and not more than 45 days prior to the date of the hearing.
Both the posted notice and the published notice shall include a prominent statement that the proposed zoning decision relates to or will authorize multifamily uses or give blanket permission to the property owner to deviate from the zoning requirements of a single-family residential zoning of property in classification previously relating to single-family residential uses. The published notice shall be at least nine column inches in size and shall not be located in the classified advertising section of the newspaper. The notice shall state that a copy of the proposed amendment is on file in the office of the city clerk and in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county of the legal situs of the local government for the purpose of examination and inspection by the public. The city shall furnish anyone, upon written request, a copy of the proposed amendment, at no cost.
(2)
The provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection shall also apply to any zoning decisions that provide for the abolition of all single-family residential zoning classifications within the territorial boundaries of the city or zoning decisions that result in the rezoning of all property zoned for single-family residential uses within the territorial boundaries of the city to multifamily residential uses of property.
(3)
This subsection shall not apply to zoning decisions for the rezoning of property from a single-family residential use of property to a multifamily residential use of property when the rezoning is initiated by the owner or authorized agent of the owner of such property.
( Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 14(Exh. G), 6-21-21; Ord. No. 2023-12 MEETING , § 3, 6-19-23)
10.00.06 - Procedures for Conducting Public Hearings
modified
The following rules of procedure shall govern public hearings pertaining to development subject to the provisions of this UDC:
A.
Hearings before the Planning Commission.
1.
All persons who wish to address the Planning Commission at a hearing on the proposed zoning application under consideration by the Planning Commission shall first sign up on a form to be provided by the Planning and Zoning Administrator prior to the commencement of the hearing.
2.
The Chairman of the Planning Commission will read the proposed zoning application under consideration and any departmental reviews pertaining thereto prior to receiving public input on the proposed zoning decision. Proposed zoning applications shall be called in the order in which they were filed.
3.
The Chairman shall then call each person who has signed up to speak on the zoning application before the Planning Commission in the order in which the persons have signed up to speak.
a.
The applicant will always speak first.
b.
Prior to speaking, the speaker will identify himself or herself and state his/her current address.
4.
Each speaker shall be allowed sufficient time to address the Planning Commission concerning the zoning application then under consideration.
a.
It shall be the responsibility of the Chairman of the Planning Commission to allocate sufficient time according to the complexity of the pending issue.
b.
One (1) member of the Planning Commission shall be designated as the time keeper to record the time expended by each speaker.
c.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-66-5, and as amended from time to time, both proponents and opponents of any proposed zoning decision shall be given a minimum of ten (10) minutes per side for their presentation.
5.
Each speaker shall:
a.
Speak only to the merits of the proposed zoning application under consideration and shall address his/her remarks only to the members of the Planning Commission.
b.
Refrain from personal attacks on any other speaker or the discussion of facts or opinions irrelevant to the proposed zoning application under consideration.
c.
The chair may limit or refuse a speaker the right to continue, if the speaker, after first being cautioned, continues to violate this subsection.
6.
Nothing contained herein shall be construed as prohibiting the chair from conducting the hearing in an orderly and decorous manner to assure the public hearing on a proposed zoning application is conducted in a fair and orderly manner.
B.
Hearings before the Mayor and Council.
1.
All persons who wish to address the Mayor and Council at a hearing concerning a proposed zoning decision or application under consideration by the Mayor and Council shall first sign up on a form to be provided by The Planning and Zoning Administrator/City Clerk prior to the commencement of the hearing.
2.
The Mayor and Council or their designee will read the proposed zoning decision or application under consideration and any department reviews pertaining thereto prior to receiving public input on such proposed zoning decision or application. Proposed zoning decisions or applications shall be called in the order in which they were filed.
3.
The Mayor or his designee shall then call each person who has signed up to speak on the zoning decision or application in the order in which the persons have signed up to speak.
a.
The applicant will always speak first.
b.
Prior to speaking, the speaker will identify himself or herself and state his/her current address.
c.
Only those persons who signed up to speak prior to the commencement of the hearing shall be entitled to speak.
4.
Each speaker shall be allowed sufficient time to address the Mayor and Council concerning the zoning decision or application then under consideration.
a.
The City Clerk shall be designated as the time keeper to record the time expended by each speaker.
b.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-66-5, and as amended from time to time, both proponents and opponents of any proposed zoning decision shall be given a minimum of ten (10) minutes per side for their presentation.
5.
Each speaker shall:
a.
Speak only to the merits of the proposed zoning decision or application under consideration and shall address his/her remarks only to the Mayor and Council.
b.
Refrain from personal attacks on any other speaker or the discussion of facts or opinions irrelevant to the proposed zoning decision or application under consideration.
c.
The Mayor and Council may limit or refuse a speaker the right to continue, if the speaker, after first being cautioned, continues to violate this subsection.
6.
Nothing contained herein shall be construed as prohibiting the Mayor and Council from conducting the hearing in an orderly and decorous manner to assure the public hearing on a proposed zoning decision or application is conducted in a fair and orderly manner.
( Ord. No. 2023-12 MEETING , § 3, 6-19-23)
10.00.07 - Requirements for Developments of Regional Impact (DRI)
A.
The Georgia Department of Community Affairs (DCA), pursuant to the Georgia Planning Act, as it is amended from time to time, has established thresholds and criteria for the identification of certain large-scale developments, which have the potential to cause land use impacts beyond the boundaries of the respective local government where a project might be proposed. These developments, known as Developments of Regional Impact (DRIs), shall be submitted, based on established DCA thresholds, standards, procedures, and format, to the Atlanta Regional Commission for review and recommendation prior to issuance of any local building or development permit, utility tap, or rezoning, whichever occurs first. The City will recommend for DRI review any development that meets or could potentially meet the DCA thresholds, as those thresholds are amended from time to time.
B.
The City shall delay its final decision with respect to the issuance of a building or development permit, issuance of a utility tap, or the grant or denial of zoning until such time as the ARC has submitted its final recommendations and findings with respect to the proposed development. The City will consider any such recommendations and findings in makings its final decision.
( Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 14(Exh. G), 6-21-21)
10.00.08 - Procedures for Annexation of Property
modified
A.
Authority. The City of Kennesaw is authorized to annex real property into the City limits as granted under O.C.G.A., Title 36, Chapter 36 and all supplemental State of Georgia enabling legislation.
B.
Initiation of Proposals for Annexation. Annexations may be accomplished by:
1.
Local Act of the General Assembly as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-36-15 et seq.;
2.
Application by 100 percent of the landowners as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-36-20 et seq.;
3.
Application by owners of 60 percent of the land and 60 percent of electors as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-36-30 et seq.; or
4.
Pursuant to Resolution and Referendum as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-36-50 et seq.
5.
The application by owners shall be accompanied by a payment payable to the City of Kennesaw as specified by the adopted master fee schedule adopted by the City of Kennesaw.
C.
Processing of Application by Planning and Zoning Department Staff.
1.
The annexation application will follow the same procedures as the rezoning process under Section 10.01.02 and the procedures set forth in O.C.G.A., Title 36, Chapter 36.
2.
The City of Kennesaw will comply with the procedures set forth in O.C.G.A., Title 36, Chapter 36, which requires intergovernmental agreement coordination with Cobb County regarding the processing of annexation applications.
3.
The City of Kennesaw will comply with all State laws and procedures regarding the annexation and all potential land use dispute processes and regulation required under State law.
4.
All annexation of property must also follow the rezoning process in order to designate the subject property for annexation with a city zoning designation.
5.
Staff Report as required under Section 10.01.02 must also incorporate a report that demonstrates service delivery capability from the City of Kennesaw.
( Ord. No. 2023-12 MEETING , § 3, 6-19-23)
10.01.00 - PROCEDURES FOR AMENDING OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS

10.01.01 - Procedures for Amending the Unified Development Code
10.01.02 - Rezoning Procedures for Amending the Official Zoning Map
modified
A.
Authority to Amend. The Kennesaw City Council may from time to time amend the number, shape, boundary, or area of any district, or may amend any regulation pertaining to any district; or may amend any article or section of this ordinance. The procedure for amending the ordinance shall be as provided in this article.
B.
Initiation of Proposals for Zoning Amendment. A petition to amend this ordinance or map may be initiated by:
1.
The Kennesaw City Council;
2.
Any person, firm, corporation or agency, provided said individual, firm, corporation or agency is the owner of the property involved in petition for amendment, and further provided that the petition is accompanied by fees as per the City Master Fee Schedule payable to the City of Kennesaw to defray the normal cost of processing.
3.
If a petition to amend this ordinance requires a special meeting of the Planning Commission, an additional payment to the City of Kennesaw shall be required as per the City Master Fee Schedule.
C.
Limitation of Amendment Initiations. A review of any petition to amend the zoning ordinance or map shall be conducted by the Planning and Zoning Administrator to ensure compliance with all applicable provisions of the ordinance. If a petition to amend this ordinance or map does not comply with all provisions of the ordinance, the Planning and Zoning Administrator may hold the petition from action until such time as the petition is amended to comply with all applicable provisions of the ordinance. Upon a finding by the Planning and Zoning Administrator that the application complies with the requirements of this ordinance, the petition shall be initiated for public hearing before the Mayor and City Council in the following manner:
1.
The application shall be marked received and approved for initiation of public hearing and the date of such action shall be affixed to the application; and
2.
The petition shall be assigned a number on a chronological basis at the time of finding by the Planning and Zoning Administrator that the petition meets the requirements established for a petition to amend this ordinance.
D.
Processing of Applications by Staff. After the filing of a proper application, the zoning department shall make a written recommendation and zoning analysis ("Staff Report") relating to the application.
E.
Planning Commission.
1.
The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on each application for rezoning. The Staff Report on each application shall be submitted to and considered by the Planning Commission at the public hearing. The Planning Commission shall investigate and consider each of the matters listed in subection (G) below.
2.
As to each application, the Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to the Mayor and City Council for approval, denial, deferral, continuance, hold, withdrawal with or without prejudice, or no recommendation. Written minutes of the Planning Commission's recommendation to the Mayor and City Council shall be prepared and maintained. Additionally, the Staff Report and application shall be submitted to the Mayor and City Council. All documents shall thereafter become public record.
F.
Mayor and City Council Rezoning.
1.
Before taking action on an application for rezoning, and after receipt of the Staff Report, Planning Commission's recommendations, and the application where required, the Mayor and Council shall conduct a public hearing on the application.
2.
So that the purpose of this section will be served and the health, public safety and general welfare secured, the Mayor and City Council may approve or deny the application, reduce the land area for which the application is made, change the zoning classification, district or category requested, add or delete conditions of the application, including but not limited to, site specific conditions, or allow an application to be withdrawn without prejudice with respect to the twelve (12) month limitation of this article. An action by the Mayor and City Council to defer, hold or continue the application shall include a statement of the date and time of the next meeting at which the application will be considered, which statement shall constitute public notice of the hearing on the application and no further notice except posting is required.
3.
Unless applicant requests or consents to additional time, within sixty (60) days following public hearing, the Mayor and City Council shall issue a decision on the zoning application. Such decision shall be issued to the applicant in writing with the reasons stated therein. In the event changes are made to the application, then the time period for decision as set forth hereunder shall be extended for an additional sixty (60) days.
G.
Standards for Decision. The decision by the Mayor and City Council or Planning Commission to approve in whole or part, reject, condition, or delete application for rezoning shall be based on, but not limited to, a consideration of the following criteria:
1.
Would the proposed amendment be consistent and compatible with the city's land use and development plans, goals and objectives?
2.
Would the proposed amendment tend to increase, decrease, or have no impact on traffic safety and congestion in the streets?
3.
Would the proposed amendment tend to increase, decrease, or have no relationship to safety from fire and other dangers?
4.
Would the proposed amendment tend to promote, diminish, or have no influence on the public health and general welfare of the city?
5.
Would the proposed amendment tend to increase, decrease, or have no influence on the adequate [provision] of light and air?
6.
Would the proposed amendment tend to cause, prevent, or have no influence on the overcrowding of land?
7.
Would the proposed amendment tend to cause, prevent, or have no relationship on the population distribution within the city, thus creating any area so dense in population as to adversely affect the health, safety, and general welfare of the city?
8.
Would the proposed amendment tend to impede, facilitate, or have no impact on the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, other public services, utilities or facilities?
9.
Would the proposed amendment tend to be compatible with environmental conditions in light of surrounding developments? If compatible, what factors, if any, would diminish the value, use and enjoyment of surrounding properties?
10.
Would the proposed amendment tend to require only reasonable expenditures of public funds, or would the amendment tend to require an excessive or premature expenditure of public funds?
11.
Would the proposed amendment tend to promote, diminish, or have no influence upon the aesthetic effect of existing and future uses of the property and the surrounding area?
12.
Would the proposed amendment have measurable adverse economic effect on the value of surrounding or adjacent property?
13.
Would the proposed amendment create an isolated district unrelated to adjacent and nearby districts?
14.
In conducting a hearing, the Mayor and Council and the Planning Commission shall follow the lines of inquiry as hereinafter set out:
a.
Existing uses and zoning of the subject and nearby property;
b.
The extent to which property values are diminished by the existing zoning restrictions;
c.
The adverse economic effect of existing zoning in relation to the promotion of the health, safety, morals or general welfare of the public;
d.
The relative gain to the public, as compared to the hardship, if any, imposed upon the individual property owner;
e.
The suitability of the subject property for zoned purposes;
f.
The length of time the property, if vacant, has been vacant as zoned, considered in the context of land development in the area and vicinity of the subject property.
15.
The existing zoning classification shall be considered presumptively valid and it shall be the responsibility of the applicant to present evidence in rebuttal of this presumption. The Planning Commission and the Mayor and Council may determine from the evidence presented that the existing zoning classification is unduly burdensome to the petitioner and is not offset by the considerations of the public's health, safety, and general welfare, and may impose upon the property any appropriate zoning classification, including conditions which might be consistent with the considerations hereinabove set forth.
H.
Zoning Approval does not Ensure Utilities, Infrastructure, or Business License Approval. Approval of an application for rezoning does not ensure the availability of utilities or other infrastructure in connection with development of the site, or ensure the issuance of a business license.
I.
Site Plan/Stipulation Amendments. On any rezoning which is conditioned upon a site plan, proposed minor modifications which do not alter or conflict with the basic intent of the plan may be approved by the Planning and Zoning Administrator after presentation and approval by the Mayor and City Council at any regularly scheduled meeting or hearing. All other modifications must be advertised and rezoned in accordance with the provisions set forth above.
J.
Sale, Refinancing, and Leasing. The sale, refinancing or leasing of any portion of commercial, office, or industrial zoned properties shall not be considered to constitute a subdivision of such property as long as all other applicable zoning, site specific, development guidelines, approved site plans, and other imposed conditions are met and maintained. This provision shall not be applicable to grandfathered or nonconforming uses as defined herein. This provision is limited only to those portions of the property which are actually developed and shall not be construed as to allow expansions of modifications or existing sites.
K.
Dedication of Property to City.
1.
The Zoning Administrator or the Planning Commission may, in all zoning and/or rezoning actions if deemed such to be necessary and proper and in the best interest of the City of Kennesaw, include in a recommendation to the City Council a condition that part of the property being zoned or rezoned be dedicated to the City of Kennesaw, County of Cobb or the State of Georgia for road, street, alley, highway, or other purpose(s).
2.
The Mayor and City Council may in all zoning and/or rezoning actions, if deemed necessary and proper and in the best interest of the City of Kennesaw, include as a condition of the zoning amendment that part of the property being zoned or rezoned be dedicated to the City of Kennesaw, County of Cobb or the State of Georgia for road, street, alley, highway, or other purpose(s).
3.
Any such dedication will be by warranty deed. Any condition imposed by the Mayor and City Council requiring that part of the property being zoned or rezoned be dedicated to the City of Kennesaw, County of Cobb or the State of Georgia for road, street, alley, highway, or other purpose(s), and said condition is the only requirement imposed by the City of Kennesaw, such dedication shall not constitute by its application to categorize the zoning use district as "conditional."
L.
Attendance Requirement. The applicant or representative of the applicant shall be required to attend all public hearings on the application. The failure to attend may result in dismissal with prejudice, rejection of the application, or continuance of the hearing at the Planning Commission or City Council's sole discretion. Failure of the applicant or applicant's representative to appear at the next regularly scheduled hearing shall result in automatic dismissal with prejudice. Planning and Zoning Administrator may waive the attendance requirement for land use permits based upon medical hardship.
M.
Withdrawal of Application.
1.
An application may only be withdrawn upon a joint written request of the record titleholder and applicant. All requests to withdraw must be given at the zoning office at least seven days prior to the hearing. In no event shall an application be withdrawn more than once without prejudicing the right of the application or owner to apply for a land use or rezoning within twelve (12) months of the first application.
2.
Applications which have been publicly heard by either the Planning Commission or the City Council which have been withdrawn without permission of a majority of the applicable members shall be deemed a rejected application with prejudice.
N.
Rejected applications; time for resubmission.
1.
If an application for rezoning is rejected or deleted to another zoning classification, then any portion of the same property may not again be considered for rezoning for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of the original City Council's hearing. An applicant may reapply for rezoning to a more restrictive classification than the application previously denied, or denied without prejudice, following the expiration of six (6) months in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 36-66-4, and as may be amended from time to time.
2.
The Council may only consider property for rezoning within the six (6) month time period in connection with settlement of litigation or pursuant to an order by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, the Council, if time permits, shall advertise, post the property, and notify the applicant and owner in writing prior to taking such action.
( Ord. No. 2023-12 MEETING , § 3, 6-19-23)
10.01.03 - Procedures for Amending the Future Development Maps
modified
The Future Development Maps are composed of two, individual maps:
A)
The Area Map, and
B)
The Future Land Use Map.
The Future Development Maps were developed over the course of two separate planning processes. The Area Map shows the areas as identified for Kennesaw during the 2007 update to the Comprehensive Plan. The areas function as broad, high level categories for planning and development concept formation. The Area Map was created in response to a requirement by the Department of Community Affairs and may be revised with each update to the Comprehensive Plan or as needed by staff and adopted by Mayor and Council.
The Future Land Use Map presents the types of land uses allowed at the individual parcel level. The current Future Land Use Map was adopted in 2007 along with Future Land Use Category descriptions. The Future Land Use Map may be revised from time to time as recommended by city staff and adopted by Mayor and Council.
The areas correspond closely with the Future Land Use Map, but there are minor differences. In the event of a land use conflict, the most current Future Land Use Map will function as the controlling Future Development Map.
10.01.04 - Procedures for Amending the Historic District Boundaries
modified
A.
Any amendment to the boundary of historic properties or the "Official Historic Properties Map of the City of Kennesaw" shall be recommended by the Historic Preservation Commission and adopted by the Mayor and City Council. The City Council and the Historic Preservation Commission shall hold a public hearing before taking action of any such proposed amendment.
B.
Notice of the public hearing held by the Mayor and City Council and the public hearing held by the Historic Preservation Commission shall be advertised as follows:
(1)
An advertisement providing notice of the hearing shall be published at least two times in the principal newspaper of general circulation within the municipality.
(2)
The Historic Preservation Commission shall cause written notice of the hearing to be mailed to all owners and occupants of the property(ies) proposed to be designated.
(3)
All written notices to property owners or occupants of property(ies) shall be mailed not less than ten nor more than 20 days prior to the date set for the public hearing before the Historic Preservation Commission and again for the public hearing before the Mayor and City Council.
(4)
At least one published notice shall appear in the principal newspaper of general circulation within the municipality not less than 15 days nor more than 20 days prior to the date set for the public hearing before the Historic Preservation Commission and again for the public hearing before the Mayor and City Council.
The Historic Preservation Commission shall make or cause to be made an investigation and shall report on the historic, cultural, architectural, or aesthetic significance of each place, district, site, building, structure, or work of art proposed for designation or acquisition. This report shall be submitted to the historic preservation section of the Department of Natural Resources or its successor at least 30 days prior to any public hearing held to designate any property or any amendment thereto as a historic property.
( Ord. No. 2023-12 MEETING , § 3, 6-19-23)
10.02.00 - APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS

10.02.01 - General
A.
Jurisdiction of Chapter. This chapter shall govern the use of all land and developments thereof within the corporate limits of the city.
B.
Purpose of Chapter. The purpose of this chapter shall be to promote the public health, safety, morals and general welfare and to require the harmonious, orderly and progressive development of land within the jurisdiction of the city. Further, the purpose of the regulation of the subdivision of land are to, among others:
1.
Encourage the development of economically sound and stable communities;
2.
Assure the provision of required streets, utilities and other facilities and services to new land developments;
3.
Assure the adequate provision of safe and convenient traffic access and circulation, both vehicular and pedestrian, in new land developments;
4.
Assure the provision of needed open spaces and building sites in new land developments through the dedication or reservation of public land for recreational, educational and other public purposes; and
5.
Assure, in general, the wise development of new areas in harmony with the comprehensive plan of the city.
C.
Conformance with Zoning Regulations. No subdivision shall be accepted for review which does not conform with the zoning regulations applicable to the land for which it is proposed.
D.
Conformance with Chapter. Any sub-divider of land within the corporate limits of the city shall submit to the Planning Commission plats of the subdivision which shall conform to all requirements set forth in this chapter.
E.
Approval Required Prior to Construction. No sub-divider shall proceed with any construction work on the proposed subdivision, including grading, before obtaining preliminary plat approval from the Planning Commission, as certified thereon, and approval of plans and profiles by the city engineer.
F.
Installation of Improvements. Improvements may be made in a subdivision as are depicted on the preliminary plat previously approved by the Planning Commission, with final plat approval to be obtained in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 10 of the UDC.
G.
Final Approval Prior to Subdividing. No land dedicated as a public street or other public purpose shall be opened, extended or accepted as a public street or for any other purpose, and no subdivision of land shall be made, or subdivision plat, or part thereof, shall be recorded before obtaining final approval from the Mayor and Council; and such approval shall be entered on the final plat.
H.
Issuance of Building Permits.
1.
No building permit shall be issued for and no building or other structure shall be erected on any lot within the incorporated area of the city unless the street giving access to the lot upon which such building is proposed to be placed shall be accepted or opened as, or shall have otherwise received the legal status of, a public street prior to that time. Provided, however, the Mayor and Council, meeting in regular session, may, in their discretion, issue building permits for the purpose of model homes, up to five percent of the total number of lots in the phase unit of the subdivision approved by the Mayor and Council in the preliminary plat, after the bonds specified in this chapter have been posted by the owner or sub-divider and after all final engineering plans have been completed and before the actual installation of curbs, gutters and base and binder of the streets therein, where such street corresponds in its location and lines with a street shown on the preliminary subdivision plat as approved by the Mayor and Council or on a street located and accepted by the city. However, if the percentage is equal to less than two building permits, then two permits may be issued. Provided, however, that private streets and other private access ways may be approved under the terms of those rules and regulations in group development plans, condominium projects, apartment projects, townhouses, commercial developments, shopping centers or other development.
2.
If permits are issued prior to street acceptance, it shall be the sole responsibility of the sub-divider/developer to ensure that all setback requirements as well as all other requirements as specified in this Code are upheld.
I.
Approval by Individual Agencies. No subdivision plat shall be recorded with the clerk of superior court of the county without the plat having first been submitted to and approved by the Mayor and Council. The Mayor and Council shall not approve any subdivision plat without such plat having first been reviewed and approved by the city engineer and the health department to the extent that each has jurisdiction.
J.
Fees.
1.
Fees are hereby established to cover the cost of administration expenses. All required fees and charges are specified by other ordinances and resolutions by the Mayor and Council. The schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the city clerk and may be altered or amended only by the Mayor and Council.
2.
Upon the submission of any preliminary plat, final plat or other regulatory plan or plat required to be reviewed or approved under this chapter, any person who submits such plan shall deposit and pay to the city the fee as noted in the City Wide Master Fee Schedule. After the approval of any plat or plan required to be approved under this chapter, the actual cost of engineering and approval of the plan shall be determined, and any person submitting such plat or plan shall pay the fee as noted in the City Wide Master Fee Schedule of the actual cost of the engineering services for the approval of such plat or plan. The initial deposit shall be credited against the total cost determined in this subsection. This section shall also apply to plans for all commercial and industrial developments and shall be in addition to all other charges required by this Code.
K.
Administration of Chapter. This chapter shall be administered by the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission may from time to time issue instructions and operating procedures to be followed in the administration of this chapter to inform the public and expedite plat approvals.
L.
Amendments, Hearings, and Variances.
1.
The Mayor and Council shall have the authority to amend this chapter after a public hearing thereon.
2.
Notice of the time and place of such public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation at least three days prior to such meeting.
3.
In cases of undue hardship under this chapter, any property owner may petition the Planning Commission for relief. The Planning Commission shall prepare and forward to the Mayor and Council any recommended amendments for the Mayor and Council's consideration. In cases where the Planning Commission fails to recommend amendments due to individual hardships, the property owner may then appeal to the Mayor and Council for relief.
M.
Violation of Chapter; Penalty.
1.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this UDC chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in the City of Kennesaw Code of Ordinance, Section 1-11. Each day's continuance of a violation shall be considered a separate offense. The owner of any lands or parts thereof, where anything in violation of this chapter shall be placed or shall exist, and any person who may have assisted in the Commission of any such violation, shall be guilty of a separate offense.
2.
In any case in which any land is or is proposed to be used in violation of this chapter or amendment thereto adopted by the Mayor and Council, the legal counsel of the city or any owner of real estate within the district in which such land is situated, may, in addition to other remedies provided by law, institute injunction, abatement, or any appropriate action or proceeding to prevent, enjoin or abate the unlawful use.
10.02.02 - Pre-Application Conference Required
A.
A pre-application conference is a meeting between an applicant and the City's Economic Development Director, the Planning and Zoning Administrator, or the Building Services Director for the purposes of:
1.
Discussing the development/redevelopment goals and objectives of the City;
2.
Exchanging information on the potential development of a site;
3.
Providing information on permissible uses of the site proposed for development;
4.
Providing information to an applicant regarding the design standards set forth in this UDC that are applicable to a potential application;
5.
Providing information to an applicant regarding standards of regional, state, or federal agencies that may be applicable to a potential application;
6.
Determining the need and requirements for supporting plans, documents, and studies;
7.
Providing information to an applicant regarding infrastructure requirements and the construction of required improvements; and
8.
Providing information to an applicant regarding the appropriate procedures and schedules for receiving and reviewing applications and rendering decisions regarding a potential application.
B.
Prior to the submission of an application for a subdivision plat, development plan, or improvements plan, an applicant shall submit a written request for a pre-application conference.
C.
A pre-application conference shall be held not more than two (2) weeks following the date of submission of the written request for such conference.
D.
A pre-application conference shall be held not more than six (6) months prior to submission of an application.
E.
It is the intent of the Mayor and Council that all requirements be identified during the pre-application conference. However, no person may rely upon any comment concerning a proposed development, or any expression of any nature about the proposal, made by a participant at the pre-application conference, as a representation or implication the proposal will be ultimately approved or rejected in any form.
F.
A prospective applicant may bring members of his project team, such as, but not limited to, the project engineer, land planner, architect, surveyor, or other person who will assist in the preparation of an application. A prospective applicant may provide an informal sketch plan to aid in the discussion. However, such an informal sketch plan shall not be reviewed in any way for compliance with the standards and requirements of this UDC, and shall be used only as an aid to the conduct of the pre-application conference. A proposed subdivision plat, improvement plan, development plan, or other such plan shall not be considered or discussed during a pre-application conference.
G.
Property owners or their agents introducing projects that involve modifications, removals or additions to existing property or structures that will not cause a change in zoning categories and land use classification or will not require a special land use permit, should contact the Planning and Zoning Administration, directly, for instructions.
10.02.03 - Application for Preliminary Approval
modified
A.
Generally. Following the pre-application review of a proposed subdivision, the sub-divider shall submit to the Planning and Zoning Administrator no later than five days prior to the next Planning Commission meeting, an application for review and approval of a preliminary plat, which shall consist of:
1.
A letter requesting review and approval of a preliminary plan and giving the name and address of a person to whom the notice of the hearing by the Planning Commission on the preliminary plat shall be sent.
2.
Three copies of the preliminary plat and other documents as specified in Section 10.02.04 of this chapter.
3.
Preliminary plat filing fees as specified by the city.
B.
Purpose. The purpose of the preliminary plat is to safeguard the sub-divider from unnecessary loss of time and expense in preparation of a subdivision plat which does not conform to the specifications of this chapter. The preliminary plat only requires approximate accuracy of scale and dimension. Public agencies having jurisdiction will review the preliminary plat regarding matters within their jurisdiction. During the review process the sub-divider or his agent may be called upon for consultation.
C.
Future Tract Plan. The sub-divider shall submit to the Planning Commission a reasonably accurate plat in sketch form of the entire tract which will show the tentative future street system for the entire tract.
( Ord. No. 2023-12 MEETING , § 3, 6-19-23)
10.02.04 - Preliminary Approval
modified
A.
An application for preliminary plat approval shall be studied by the Planning Commission for compliance with this chapter and with other relevant governmental and public utility company regulations.
B.
No preliminary plat shall be acted upon by the Planning Commission without review at a scheduled Planning Commission meeting.
C.
The Planning Commission shall indicate on the plat, or by written memorandum attached thereto, comments and any suggested changes that are necessary to meet the intent of this chapter or to serve the best interests of the city.
D.
Not more than 30 days after the submission of an application for preliminary plat approval, the Planning Commission shall provide recommendation to the applicant. The Planning Commission shall:
1.
Issue a certificate of preliminary plat approval;
2.
Issue a certificate of conditional preliminary plat approval, subject to any necessary modifications, the nature of which shall be indicated on the preliminary plat or attached to it in writing; or
3.
Disapprove the preliminary plat or any portion thereof, in which case the Planning and Zoning Administrator shall so notify the sub-divider in writing, stating the reasons therefore.
E.
Action of the Planning Commission shall be noted on three copies of the preliminary plat. One copy shall be returned to the applicant, one made a part of the Planning Commission's records and the other zoning records.
F.
Failure of the Planning Commission to take action on the preliminary plat within 30 days shall be deemed approval of the plat, and the plat shall be transmitted to the applicant, provided:
1.
The plat is submitted for preliminary approval not later than five days prior to the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission; and
2.
The sub-divider does not agree upon an extension of time, if requested in writing by the Planning Commission to further study the preliminary plat.
G.
Approval of all preliminary plats shall be governed by the following qualifications:
1.
Approval of a preliminary plat is only tentative pending submission of the final plat.
2.
Approval of the preliminary plat shall be effective and binding upon the city for a period not to exceed one year, and shall thereafter expire and be null and void except to the extent that work on the subdivision has progressed, unless a request for an extension of the time has been submitted to and is subsequently approved by the city.
3.
No improvements, including clearing or grading, shall be undertaken until final engineering plans based on runoff calculations and three-line profiles for the subdivision, or unit division thereof, have been submitted to and approved by the city engineer.
H.
Tentative approval of the preliminary plat does not constitute approval of a final plat. It indicates only approval of the layout as a guide to the preparation of a final plat.
( Ord. No. 2023-12 MEETING , § 1, 6-19-23)
10.02.05 - Improvements Authorized
A.
Approval of preliminary plat and the final engineering plans is authorization to proceed with installation of any improvements as required in the UDC, subject to the approval of agencies having proper authority, and the preparation of the final plat or unit division thereof as specified. Provided, however, no installation of improvements shall be made, and no work shall be commenced, in connection with such preliminary plat, or unit division thereof, until a contractor's performance bond, in an amount equal to the acquisition and developmental loan, shall be filed by the sub-divider in the office of the city clerk, which performance bond shall:
1.
Be conditioned upon the faithful performance by the sub-divider or developer of all work required to complete all improvements and installation for the subdivision, or unit division thereof, in compliance with this chapter within a specified time.
2.
Be payable to and for the indemnification of the city.
3.
Be with surety by a company entered and licensed to do business in the state.
4.
Contain a provision for the maintenance of installations and improvements required by this chapter in the subdivision for a period of two years following the date of final acceptance of streets by the Mayor and Council.
5.
Be approved by the city engineer in writing on the preliminary plat and the city attorney.
10.02.06 - Application for Final Approval
A.
Generally. Whenever the provisions of this chapter have been complied with and while the certificate of preliminary plat approval is in effect, the sub-divider may submit to the Mayor and Council an application for review and approval of the final plat, which shall consist of:
1.
An application requesting review and approval of a final plat.
2.
Five copies of the final plat one digital/electronic version and other documents as specified in the UDC. The original shall be drawn in permanent ink on cloth or be plastic reproducible material.
3.
Final plat filing fees as specified in the adopted City Master Fee Schedule.
B.
Conformance. The final plat shall conform with the approved preliminary plat. If desired by the sub-divider, the final plat may constitute only that portion of the preliminary plat he proposes to record and develop at that time, provided that such portion conforms with all requirements of this chapter.
10.02.07 - Final Approval
A.
The final plat and other supplementary material required shall be transmitted to the Mayor and Council for final action. No final plat shall be considered by the Mayor and Council until all requirements of this Chapter have been met and the Plan Review Committee has certified by endorsement by an approval letter document.
1.
All improvements and installations to the subdivision required for its approval under the terms of this UDC have been completed in accordance with the appropriate specifications; or
2.
A performance bond or cash deposit or escrow account has been provided by the sub-divider or developer to satisfy the requirements of UDC Section 10.02.05
B.
Whenever a final plat has been submitted to the Mayor and Council and is in conformance with an approved preliminary plat and the provisions of UDC Section 10.03.08 the Mayor and Council shall consider and take action on the plat.
C.
If action on a final plat is not taken by the Mayor and Council within 30 days of the date of the final plat submittal, the final plat shall be considered approved and a certificate of approval shall be issued on demand, provided:
1.
The plat is submitted for final plat approval not later than 15 days prior to the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Mayor and Council.
2.
The sub-divider does not agree upon an extension of time if requested in writing by the Mayor and Council to further study the final plat.
D.
The approval of the final plat shall not be deemed to constitute an acceptance by the city of any street or other public areas so designated on the plat.
E.
Approval by the Mayor and Council shall appear on the original tracing.
10.02.08 - Recording of Final Plat
A.
Upon final approval by the Mayor and Council, the approved final plat with all endorsements shall be recorded in the office of the clerk of superior court of the county.
B.
The sub-divider shall be responsible for the payment of the recording fee.
C.
Upon recording of the approved final plat, documents and copies of the final plat as specified in the UDC shall be provided by the sub-divider.
D.
The map book, volume and page numbers where the plat is recorded shall be indicated on all copies.
E.
If, however, the sub-divider requests the Mayor and Council to delay having the plat recorded, the sub-divider shall authorize the Council, in writing, to have the approved final plat recorded within 12 months from the date of the final plat approval; otherwise, the approved final plat shall be deemed to have been withdrawn.
10.02.09 - Revisions to a Recorded Plat
Proposed revisions which change the street and/or utility layout in any way shall be submitted as a preliminary plat in accordance with the UDC. Proposed revisions which do not change in any way the street and/or utility layout shall be submitted as a final plat in accordance with UDC Section 10.03.08. In addition, a revision to a recorded plat shall show the name, phase (if any), date of the recorded subdivision plat being revised and the exact citation with regard to the county land records and the book and page number wherein such plat is recorded.
10.02.10 - Subdivision Completion
Upon completion of the installation of the improvements required by this chapter, the sub-divider shall present to the Community Development office three complete sets of the construction plans and drawings showing the subdivision and its improvements. This set of plans and drawings shall include:
1.
"As-built" plans of all streets and alleys showing the planned and actual location of all utility lines.
2.
"As-built" centerline profiles of all streets.
3.
Profiles and invert elevations of all storm and sanitary sewer lines as such improvements shall have actually been installed by the sub-divider.
4.
A letter submitted by a registered professional engineer and/or registered surveyor certifying that all sewers, storm drains, curbing and paving have been placed according to grade stakes set by him or his representatives to conform with construction plans submitted to and approved by the city engineer.
10.02.11 - Public Acceptance of Improvements
Streets and other public land as shown upon the final plat shall be accepted by the Mayor and Council on behalf of the public, when and only when the conditions as specified in the UDC are fulfilled.
10.02.12 - Sale, Refinancing or Leasing of Portion of Property
The sale, refinancing or leasing of any portion of a commercial, office or industrial zoned property shall not be considered to constitute a subdivision of such property as long as all other applicable zoning guidelines, site-specific guidelines, site development guidelines, approved site plans and other imposed conditions are met and maintained. This section shall not be applicable to grandfathered or nonconforming uses as defined in this chapter. This section is limited only to those portions of the property which are actually developed and shall not be construed as to allow expansions or modifications of existing sites.
(Ord. No. 2018-05, 1-16-18)
10.03.00 - APPLICATION SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS

10.03.01 - Submittal Requirements for All Applications
Prior to processing any application for rezoning, special land use permit or land use permit, the applicant shall be required to file documentation and follow certain procedures as set forth below:
A.
The applicant shall be required to file an application with the Planning and Zoning Department containing the following:
1.
A completed application on forms provided by the Planning and Zoning Department.
2.
The notarized signatures of the applicant and record titleholder upon the application.
3.
The application fee which has been established from time to time by resolution of the Mayor and City Council. A copy of the fee schedule shall be maintained for public inspection in the Planning and Zoning office.
a.
Any special called meeting shall require an additional fee as adopted under the City Wide Master Fee Schedule.
4.
A current boundary survey and plot plan, to scale, that bears the signature and seal of a registered surveyor, engineer, architect or landscape architect. Such plans shall also include such other information thereon as may be required by the zoning department, including preliminary plans for development, building locations, parking areas, access points, adjacent streets, land lot lines, buffer areas, future right-of-way, wetlands, floodplains, utilities, and retention.
5.
Private sewage disposal must be approved by the Cobb County Health Department, and written approval from the health department must be filed with the application.
6.
Any other information required by the zoning staff or other departments which they deem necessary or desirable in processing the application which is related to the present or proposed use of the property.
7.
Disclosure forms as required by O.C.G.A. § 36-67A-1 et seq., and as may be required from time to time.
10.03.02 - Determination of Application Completeness (Reserved)
10.03.03 - Submittal Requirements for a Preliminary Subdivision Plat
A.
Preliminary specifications.
1.
The submittal to the Planning Commission shall consist of three black or blue-line prints on white background, and such other documents in three copies as are necessary to meet the requirements of this section.
2.
The preliminary plats shall be clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of not less than 100 feet to one (1) inch. The Planning Commission may approve other scales as deemed appropriate.
3.
The proposed name of the subdivision and proposed street names shall not duplicate or too closely approximate, phonetically, the name of any other subdivision or street in the county. If shown to the contrary, the Planning Commission may refuse to accept such subdivision and street names. The subdivision may use letter designations in place of street names on the preliminary plat.
4.
The preliminary plat shall contain the following:
a.
Proposed name of subdivision.
b.
Name and address of the owner of record.
c.
Name, address and telephone number of the sub-divider.
d.
Date of survey, north point and graphic scale, source of data, date of plat drawing and space for revision dates.
e.
Preliminary certificates and statements specified.
f.
Location (land district and land lot), acreage and lots.
g.
A sketch locating the subdivision in relation to the surrounding area with regard to well known landmarks such as major thoroughfares, railroads or others. Sketches may be drawn in freehand and at a scale sufficient to show clearly the information required, but not less than one inch to 2,000 feet. U.S. Geological Survey maps may be used as a reference guide for the location sketch.
h.
Name of former subdivision, if any or all of the preliminary plat for land which had been previously subdivided.
i.
Exact boundary lines of the tract indicated by a heavy line giving length and bearings. The boundary lines shall include the entire tract to be subdivided eventually and data as required in this section shall apply to the entire tract.
j.
Contour lines based on sea level data. These shall be drawn at intervals of not more than five feet. Contour lines shall be based on field surveys or photogrammetric methods from aerial photographs. The basis for the topographic contour shown shall be specified.
k.
Natural features within the proposed subdivision, including drainage channels, bodies of water, wooded areas and other significant features. On all watercourses leaving the tract the direction of flow shall be indicated, and for all watercourses entering the tract the direction and acreage of the drainage area above the point of entry shall be noted. Floodplains shall be outlined.
l.
Cultural features within the proposed subdivision, including right-of-way and pavement widths and names of existing and platted streets, bridges, culverts, utility lines such as gas, electric, water and sewer lines, and structures, all easements, buildings, city and county lines, land lot lines, zoning districts and lines, and other significant information.
m.
Proposed layout including lot lines with rough dimensions, lot numbers, block letters, street and alley lines with letter designations for proposed street names, right-of-way widths, sites reserved through covenants, easements, dedication or otherwise for public uses, for nonpublic or community uses exclusive of single-family dwellings, for nonresidential uses and for multifamily dwellings. Provided that nothing in this section shall be construed to mean that the city has accepted the above dedications for public use.
n.
Proposed unit division or stage development, if any, as proposed by the sub-divider.
o.
Location and results of percolation tests for lots which will not be served by a public or community sanitary sewage system, as required by the health department.
p.
Location, site plan and other information as may be required by the health department for all community sewage disposal plants.
10.03.04 - Submittal Requirements for a Condominium or Multifamily Residential Preliminary Plat
modified
A.
General. The preliminary plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn on Mylar or vellum at a scale no smaller than 1" = 100'. The plat shall not exceed 24" X 36". In no case shall sheet size be less than 8-1/2" X 11". The final plat shall contain the following information:
1.
Name of the project and street names.
2.
Property address numbers (furnished by the Community Development Department).
3.
Reference to record subdivision plats of adjoining land by record name.
4.
Date of plat drawing, graphic scale, and north point.
5.
Location of tract (land lot and district).
6.
Location sketch at a scale of 1" = 2,000'. See note below.
7.
Index map on each sheet when more than one sheet is required.
8.
Courses and distances to the nearest existing street, intersections, or other recognized permanent monuments or benchmarks.
9.
Exact boundary lines of the tract, to be indicated by a heavy line, giving distances to the nearest one-tenth foot and angles to the nearest minute shall be balanced and closed. The error of closure shall be stated, and further, the error of closure shall not exceed 1 to 10,000. The error of closure shall be stated. Tract boundaries shall be determined by accurate survey in the field.
NOTE: Unit plats shall provide a location sketch for location within the master plat.
10.
Land lot lines shall be accurately tied to boundary lines of the subdivision by angles and distances when such lines traverse the subdivision; when the subdivision does not intersect a land lot line, then the lines of a major controlling street shall be projected and tied to a land lot line by angles and distances. In both cases, the measured distance from land lot tie to a respective land lot corner shall be shown with the magnetic bearing of the land lot line. No approximate land lot lines shall be shown on the subdivision plat.
11.
Exact locations, widths, and names of all streets and alleys within and immediately adjoining the plat, and the exact locations and widths of all crosswalks.
12.
Street centerlines showing angles of deflection and standard curb data of intersection, radii, length of tangents and arcs, and degree of curvature with basis of curve data.
13.
Lot lines with dimensions to the nearest 1/10-foot, necessary internal angles, arcs, and chords and tangent or radii or rounded corners.
14.
Building setback lines with dimension.
B.
Requirements for Legal Descriptions. The legal description of individual condominium units shall be as follows:
1.
The individual condominium unit shall be referenced as a lot by numeric data only (limited to 999 units).
2.
Each building shall be referenced as Unit by numeric data only (limited to 99 units).
3.
Each development phase shall be referenced as a block by alpha data.
4.
Parcel numbers shall be assigned by the tax office.
5.
Plats of the development shall be separated into different development phases when individual units or buildings reach the limits set forth above.
6.
Locations, dimensions, drainage areas, and purpose of all drainage structures and of any easements (including slope easements), flood hazard areas, public service utility right-of-way lines, and any areas to be reserved, donated, or dedicated to public use or sites for other than residential use with notes stating their purpose and limitations; and of any areas to be reserved by deed covenant for common uses of all property owners.
7.
Accurate locations, materials, and descriptions of monuments and markers.
8.
A statement referencing the protective covenants by record book and page number.
9.
Registered land surveyor's certification and stamp required for master plat.
10.
Registered professional engineer certification and stamp accepted for "as built" condition on unit plats only.
11.
Registered architect certification and stamp may be used to certify the acceptability of the structural work.
12.
Variances (if any) and date approved by the City Council.
13.
Recording of plats and plans; contents; completion of structural improvements; certification by registered architect or engineer.
C.
Requirements for Conveyance. The following sections reflect the requirements for the recording of plats and plans, contents, the completion of structural requirements, and certification by registered architects or engineers as described in O.C.G.A § 44-3-83. Because State regulations may be modified from time to time, all parties interested in developing condominiums in the City of Kennesaw should be knowledgeable of the most current regulations described in Title 44, Chapter 3, Article 3 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated. The following regulations are accurate as of December 31, 2008.
1.
Recording of plats and certification
a.
Prior to the first conveyance of a condominium unit, there shall be recorded one or more plats of survey showing the location and dimensions of:
i.
the submitted property;
ii.
the location and dimensions of all structural improvements located on any portion of the submitted property;
iii.
the intended location and dimensions of all contemplated structural improvements committed to be provided by the declaration on any portion of the submitted property; and,
iv.
to the extent feasible, the location and dimensions of all easements appurtenant to the submitted property or otherwise submitted to this article as part of the common elements.
b.
With respect to all such structural improvements, the plats shall indicate which, if any, have not begun by use of the phrase "NOT YET BEGUN." No structural improvement which contains or constitutes all or part of any unit or units and which is located on any portion of the submitted property shall be commenced on any portion of the submitted property after the recording of the plats.
i.
The declarant shall complete all structural improvements depicted on the plats, subject only to such limitations, if any, as may be expressly stated in the declaration with respect to those labeled "NOT YET BEGUN" on the plats, provided that, within six months after written notice from the association, the declarant shall be obligated to complete within a reasonable time every structural improvement actually commenced on the submitted property, notwithstanding any provision of the declaration, unless the declarant removes within a reasonable time all portions of any such structural improvement and restores the surface of the land affected thereby to substantially the same condition as that which existed prior to commencement of any such structural improvement; and provided, further, that nothing contained in this sentence shall exempt the declarant from any contractual liability to complete any such structural improvement.
ii.
If the submitted property consists of noncontiguous parcels, the plats shall indicate the approximate distances between such parcels unless such information is disclosed in the declaration. If, with respect to any portion or portions, but less than all, of the submitted property, the unit owners are to own only a leasehold or estate for three years, the plats shall show the location and dimensions of any such portion or portions and shall label each such portion by use of the phrase "LEASED LAND."
iii.
To the extent feasible, the plats shall show all easements to which the submitted property or any portion thereof is subject.
iv.
The plats shall also show all encroachments by or on any operation of the submitted property. In the case of any units which have vertical boundaries lying wholly or partially outside of structures for which plans pursuant to subsection C.2 of this UDC section are recorded, the plats shall show the location and dimensions of the vertical boundaries to the extent that they are not shown on the plans; and the units or portions thereof thus depicted shall bear their identifying numbers.
v.
Each plat shall be certified as to its accuracy and compliance with this subsection by a registered land surveyor. The specification within this subsection of items that shall be shown on the plats shall not be construed to mean that the plats shall not also show all other items customarily shown or required by law to be shown for land title surveys.
2.
Recording of Plans and Certification. The following items shall be recorded prior to the first conveyance of a condominium unit:
a.
Plans which have been prepared, signed, and sealed by a registered architect or registered engineer of every structure which contains or constitutes all or part of any unit or units located on or within any portion of the submitted property, which plans shall show:
i.
The location and dimensions of the exterior walls and roof of such structures;
ii.
The walls, partitions, floors, and ceilings as constitute the horizontal boundaries, if any, and the vertical boundaries of each unit, including convertible space, to the extent that such boundaries lie within or coincide with the boundaries of such structures; and
iii.
The identifying numbers of all units or portions thereof depicted on the plans; and
iv.
A certification by such architect or engineer to the effect that (s)he has visited the site and viewed the property and that, to the best of his/her knowledge, information, and belief:
a.
The exterior walls and roof of each structure are in place as shown on the plans; and
b.
Such walls, partitions, floors, and ceilings, to the extent shown on said plans, as constitute the horizontal boundaries, if any, and the vertical boundaries of each unit, including convertible space, have been sufficiently constructed so as to establish clearly the physical boundaries of such unit.
c.
Each convertible space depicted in the plans shall be labeled as such by use of the phrase "CONVERTIBLE SPACE." Unless the condominium instruments expressly provide otherwise, it shall be presumed that, in the case of any unit not wholly contained within or constituting one or more of the structures, the horizontal boundaries extend, in the case of each unit, at the same elevation with regard to any part of such unit lying outside of such structures, subject to the following exception:
i.
In the case of any unit which does not lie over any other unit other than basement units, it shall be presumed that the lower horizontal boundary, if any, of that unit lies at the level of the ground with regard to any part of that unit lying outside of the structures.
ii.
This subsection shall apply to any condominium created on or after July 1, 1980, or to the expansion of any such condominium.
3.
Completion of Structural Improvements and Certification. The following items shall be recorded prior to the first conveyance of a condominium unit:
a.
Plans of every structure which contains or constitutes all or part of any unit or units located on or within any portion of the submitted property and a certification by a registered architect or registered engineer to the effect that (s)he has visited the site and viewed the property and that, to the best of his/her knowledge, information, and belief:
b.
The foundation, structural members, exterior walls, and roof of each such structure are complete and in place as shown on the plans;
c.
The walls, partitions, floors, and ceilings, to the extent shown on the plans, as constituting or coinciding with the vertical and horizontal boundaries of each unit, including convertible space, within each such structure, are sufficiently complete and in place to establish clearly the physical boundaries of such unit and that such physical boundaries are as shown on the plans; and
d.
Each such structure, to the extent of its stage of completion at that time, is constructed substantially in accordance with such plans.
The plans shall show the location and dimensions of the horizontal boundaries, if any, and the vertical boundaries of each unit to the extent that such boundaries lie within or coincide with the boundaries of such structures, and the units, or portions thereof, thus depicted shall bear their identifying numbers. In addition, each convertible space depicted in the plans shall be labeled as such by use of the phrase "CONVERTIBLE SPACE." Unless the condominium instruments expressly provide otherwise, it shall be presumed that, in the case of any unit not wholly contained within or constituting one or more of the structures, the horizontal boundaries extend, in the case of each unit, at the same elevation with regard to any part of such unit lying outside of such structures, subject to the following exception: in the case of any unit which does not lie over any other unit other than basement units, it shall be presumed that the lower horizontal boundary, if any, of that unit lies at the level of the ground with regard to any part of that unit lying outside of the structures. This subsection shall apply to any condominium created prior to July 1, 1980, or to the expansion of any such condominium.
e.
Prior to the first conveyance of a condominium unit located on any portion of any additional property being or having been added to an expandable condominium, there shall be recorded new plats of survey conforming to the requirements of subsection C.1 of this UDC section and, with regard to any structures on the property being or having been added, plans conforming to the requirements of subsection C.2 of this UDC section or certifications, conforming to the certification requirements of subsection C.2 of this UDC section, of plans previously recorded pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 44-3-84.
f.
When converting all or any portion of any convertible space into one or more units or limited common elements, the declarant shall record, with regard to the structure or portion thereof constituting that convertible space, plans showing the location and dimensions of the horizontal boundaries, if any, and the vertical boundaries of each unit formed out of such space. The plans shall be certified by a registered architect or registered engineer in accordance with the certification requirements of subsection C.2 of this UDC section.
g.
When any portion of the submitted property is withdrawn, there shall be recorded a plat or plats showing the portion of the submitted property withdrawn and the remaining submitted property, which plat or plats shall be certified as provided in subsection C.2 of this UDC section.
10.03.05 - Submittal Requirements for a Non-Residential Preliminary Plat
A.
General. The preliminary plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn at a scale no larger than 1" = 100'. The plat shall not exceed 24" X 36". In no case shall sheet size be less than 8-1/2" X 11". Subject to state law requirements, the preliminary or overall development plat shall be prepared by a registered landscape architect, land surveyor, or civil engineer and shall show the following:
1.
Proposed name of the non-residential subdivision.
2.
Name, address, and telephone number of owner of record.
3.
Name, address, and telephone number of the developer.
4.
Date of survey, north point with magnetic north shown and graphic scale, source of data, date of plat drawing, and space for revision dates.
5.
Location (land lot and district) and gross acreage of tract.
6.
Original vicinity map locating the subdivision in relation to the surrounding area with regards to well known landmarks such as major thoroughfares, railroads, or others. Sketches may be drawn in freehand and at a scale sufficient to clearly show the information required, but not less than 1" = 2,000'. Photocopies of a local atlas are not acceptable. Previously developed non-residential properties must be reflected on the plat.
7.
Exact boundary lines of the tract indicated by a heavy line giving the lengths and bearing. The boundary lines shall include the entire tract to be eventually subdivided and data as required herein shall apply to the entire tract.
8.
Ground elevations on the tract based on field surveys or photogrammetric methods from aerial photographs. The basis for the topographic information shall be shown. Contour lines shall be drawn at intervals of 2 feet.
9.
Natural features within the proposed non-residential development, including drainage channels, tributaries or state mandated buffers or corridors, bodies of water, wooded areas, and other significant features. On all water courses leaving the tract, the directional flow and acreage of the drainage area above the point of entry into the site shall be noted. Floodplains shall be outlined and elevations and total area of floodplain noted. Wetland areas should also be located on the plat and total area specified. Local benchmarks shall be established and properly described and the mean sea level elevation noted.
10.
Cultural features, including cemeteries or other historic features, around and within the proposed non-residential subdivision, right-of-way, pavement widths, and names of existing and platted streets; all easements, city and county boundaries, and other significant information. Locations and dimensions of bridges, proposed and existing utility lines and structures, existing or proposed easements, street culverts, and other features are to be indicated.
11.
Proposed layout including lot lines with rough dimensions, lot numbers, street and alley lines with proposed street names, right-of-way widths, buffers, open space, and easements dedicated for public use shall be noted.
12.
Proposed outparcels, supported by internal utilities and interparcel access points, must be clearly shown.
13.
Proposed unit division or stage development, if any, as proposed by the owner or developer including but not limited to outparcel development.
14.
Present zoning of the proposed development and the present zoning of abutting lands.
15.
Zoning and variance conditions placed on the project by the City Council.
16.
Each preliminary plat submitted shall carry the following certifications printed or stamped thereon substantially as set forth in UDC Section 10.03.06.
17.
Development agreement recording information.
18.
Show adjoining roadways, with names, pavement widths, lengths of streets, access locations, and right-of-way widths. Also include dimensions from the centerline of the existing street to the required right-of-way width.
10.03.06 - Preliminary Plat Certificates
Each preliminary plat submitted to the Planning Commission shall carry the following certificates printed or stamped thereon substantially as follows:
A.
Engineer and owner certificate:
"I certify that all measurements are correct and were prepared from an actual survey of the property made under my supervision, that monument locations are correctly shown and that the property will drain as shown. Monuments are shown by ________________.
Signed _____ (Seal)  Date _________
________________ Engineer, (Surveyor), (Architect), Georgia Regis. No. ________
We, the undersigned, owner(s) and/or mortgagee(s) of the ________________ subdivision, hereby offer to dedicate and/or reserve for public use the rights-of-way, easements and other ground so shown on this plat."
EXPAND
Owner Date Mortgagee Date
_____ _____ _____ _____
_____ _____ _____ _____
_____ _____ _____ _____
  "The offer contained herein shall not constitute acceptance of the dedicated public rights-of-way, easement and other ground by the City of Kennesaw."
B.
Certificate of preliminary plat approval. "All requirements of the Kennesaw UDC relative to the posting of a performance bond having been fulfilled, approval of the bond is hereby granted."
EXPAND
_____ _____
Date of Execution City Engineer
  "All requirements of the Kennesaw UDC relative to the preparation and submittal of a preliminary plat having been fulfilled, approval of this plat is hereby granted, subject to further provisions of said regulation and to such additional requirements as listed and attached hereto. This certificate shall expire _________ (date)" _________.
EXPAND
_____ _____
Date of Execution Chairman, Planning Commission
  "Preliminary Plat—Not to be recorded."
The preliminary plat shall be accompanied by the following information when same is not shown in, or evident from, the preliminary plat:
1.
A written summary of the proposal giving information as to the overall development plan, giving type of structures, number of housing units, types of business and industry, so the effects of the development can be determined by the Planning Commission.
2.
Existing and proposed covenants and restrictions.
3.
Source of water supply.
4.
Provisions for sewage disposal, drainage, and flood control, as specified in UDC Chapter 4.06.02.
5.
The sub-divider shall obtain letters or certificates of approval or disapproval from city, county or state agencies, as well as from the utility companies, as applicable.
10.03.07 - Street Improvement Data
An application for street improvements for the subdivision or for a unit division thereof shall be supported by the following, submitted to the Community Development Department:
A.
A plat drawn to the preliminary plat specifications, prescribed in UDC Section 10.03.00, showing the following information:
1.
Location and size of all proposed drainage structures, including catch basins, grates, headwalls and any extensions thereof.
2.
Acreage of drainage area and constant used in determining size of structures by use of a formula approved by the city engineer.
3.
Location of land subject to flooding, indicated by flood crest contour as provided by the city, county or other sources.
4.
Location of all proposed sewer lines, and of any easements required therefore, together with sufficient dimensions to locate same on ground.
B.
Engineering data as listed below:
1.
Three-line profile as proposed streets, showing centerline elevations and elevations along right-of-way lines on either side of street, exposed rock to be indicated, drawn on standard plan and profile sheets with plan section showing street, layout, width, curvature and drainage required.
2.
Where sanitary or storm sewers are to be installed, the grate, size of pipe and location of manholes shall be indicated on the road profile.
3.
Profiles covering roadways that are extensions of existing roadways shall include elevations of fifty (50) feet intervals for a minimum distance of 300 feet back of beginning point and forward of ending point, or such additional distances as may be required by the city engineer.
4.
All elevations shall be coordinated and tied into U.S. Coastal and Geological Survey benchmarks, where feasible.
5.
The submittals listed in this subsection shall be drawn to a scale no less than as follows:
i.
Horizontal scale of one (1) inch to 100 feet.
ii.
Vertical scale of one (1) inch to ten (10) feet.
When a proposed road abuts the plat boundary, a properly executed slope easement shall be submitted. A slope easement shall also be submitted under such other conditions as may be required by the city engineer.
10.03.08 - Submittal Requirements for Final Subdivision Plat
A.
Final Specifications
1.
The submittal shall consist of the original Mylar or vellum reproducible material and twelve (12) prints.
2.
The final plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn in black ink on suitable permanent reproducible material. The scale of the final plat shall be 100 feet to one (1) inch (one inch equals 100 feet). Sheet size shall not exceed forty-eight (48) inches by thirty-six (36) inches. If the complete plat cannot be shown on one sheet of this size, such plat shall be shown on several sheets with an index map indicated on each sheet. In no case shall sheet size be less than 8-1/2" x 11"; provided, however, that space is thereby available for statements, approvals and certificates as required in this section.
3.
The final plat shall conform to the preliminary plat and it may constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary plat which the sub-divider proposed to record and develop at any one time, provided that such portion conforms to the staging established in preliminary plat procedure and to the requirements of this chapter.
4.
The final plat shall contain the following information:
i.
Name of subdivision and street names.
ii.
Name and address of owner of record.
iii.
Name and address of sub-divider.
iv.
Date of plat drawing, graphic scale, north point, notation as to the reference of bearings to magnetic, true north or grid north, and indication whether bearings shown are calculated from angles turned or taken from compass readings.
v.
Location of tract, acres, number of lots.
vi.
Name of former subdivision, if any or all of the final plat for any land which had been previously subdivided.
vii.
Location sketch as provided for in UDC Section 10.03.05.
viii.
Courses and distances to the nearest existing street intersections or benchmarks or other recognized permanent monuments. Not less than three (3) shall be accurately described on the plat.
ix.
Exact boundary lines of the tract, to be indicated by the heavy line, giving distances to the nearest one-tenth foot and angles to the nearest minute, which shall be balanced and closed with an error of closure not to exceed one 1: 5,000. The error of closure shall be stated. Tract boundaries shall be determined by accurate survey in the field. Surveys shall be coordinated and tied into U.S. Geological Survey maps where same are available.
x.
Municipal, county or land lot lines accurately tied to the lines of the subdivision by distance and angles when such lines traverse the subdivision.
xi.
Exact locations, widths and names of all streets and alleys within and immediately adjoining the plat and the exact location and widths of all crosswalks.
xii.
Street centerlines showing angles of deflection, angles of intersection, radii, length of tangents and arcs and degree of curvature with basis of curve data.
xiii.
Lot lines with dimensions to the nearest one-tenth foot, necessary internal angles, arcs and chords and tangent or radii of rounded corners.
xiv.
Building setback lines with dimensions.
xv.
When lots are located on a curve or when side lot lines are at angles other than ninety (90) degrees, the lot width at the building line shall be shown.
xvi.
Lots or sites numbered in numerical order and blocks lettered alphabetically.
xvii.
Location, dimensions and purpose of all drainage structures and of any easements, including slope easements, if required, and public service utility right-of-way lines, and any areas to be reserved, donated or dedicated to public use or sites for other than residential use with notes stating their purpose and limitations; and of any areas to be reserved by deed covenant for common uses of all property owners.
xviii.
A statement of the private covenants, if they are brief enough to be put directly on the plat; otherwise, a statement as follows:
"This plat is subject to the covenants set forth in the separate document(s) attached hereto dated _________, which hereby become(s) a part of this plat," recorded on _________ (date) and signed by the owner.
xix.
Accurate location, material, and description of monuments and markers. Monuments to be placed after final street improvement shall be designated as "future."
xx.
Place for certificates and statements specified in subsection (Final Plat Certificates) of this UDC chapter.
xxi.
Signature lines for the following departments:
Mayor and City Council, Public Works, Planning and Zoning, City Engineer, Building Services, Cobb County Department of Transportation (if applicable)
10.03.09 - Submittal Requirements for Final Condominium/Multi-Family Residential Plats
A.
General. The final plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn on Mylar, vellum or paper at a scale no smaller than 1" = 100'. The plat shall not exceed 36" X 48". In no case shall sheet size be less than 8-1/2" X 11". The final plat shall contain the following information:
1.
Name of the project and street names.
2.
Property address numbers (furnished by the Plan Review Section of Development and Inspections).
3.
Reference to record subdivision plats of adjoining land by record name.
4.
Date of plat drawing, graphic scale, and north point.
5.
Location of tract (land lot and district).
6.
Location sketch at a scale of 1" = 2,000'. See note below.
7.
Index map on each sheet when more than one sheet is required.
8.
Courses and distances to the nearest existing street, intersections, or other recognized permanent monuments or benchmarks.
9.
Exact boundary lines of the tract, to be indicated by a heavy line, giving distances to the nearest 1/10 foot and angles to the nearest minute shall be balanced and closed. The error of closure shall be stated, and further, the error of closure shall not exceed 1:10,000. Tract boundaries shall be determined by accurate survey in the field.
NOTE: Unit plats shall provide a location sketch for location within the master plat.
10.
Land lot lines shall be accurately tied to boundary lines of the subdivision by angles and distances when such lines traverse the subdivision; when the subdivision does not intersect a land lot line, then the lines of a major controlling street shall be projected and tied to a land lot line by angles and distances. In both cases, the measured distance from land lot tie to a respective land lot corner shall be shown with the magnetic bearing of the land lot line. No approximate land lot lines shall be shown on the subdivision plat.
11.
Exact locations, widths, and names of all streets and alleys within and immediately adjoining the plat, and the exact locations and widths of all crosswalks.
12.
Street centerlines showing angles of deflection and standard curb data of intersection, radii, length of tangents and arcs, and degree of curvature with basis of curve data.
13.
Lot lines with dimensions to the nearest 1/10-foot, necessary internal angles, arcs, and chords and tangent or radii or rounded corners.
14.
Building setback lines with dimension.
15.
Signature lines for all applicable departments.
B.
Requirements for Legal Descriptions. The legal description of individual condominium units shall be as follows:
1.
The individual condominium unit shall be referenced as a lot by numeric data only (limited to 999 units).
2.
Each building shall be referenced as Unit by numeric data only (limited to 99 units).
3.
Each development phase shall be referenced as a block by alpha data.
4.
Parcel numbers shall be assigned by the tax office.
5.
Plats of the development shall be separated into different development phases when individual units or buildings reach the limits set forth above.
6.
Locations, dimensions, drainage areas, and purpose of all drainage structures and of any easements (including slope easements), flood hazard areas, public service utility right-of-way lines, and any areas to be reserved, donated, or dedicated to public use or sites for other than residential use with notes stating their purpose and limitations; and of any areas to be reserved by deed covenant for common uses of all property owners.
7.
Accurate locations, materials, and descriptions of monuments and markers.
8.
A statement referencing the protective covenants by record book and page number.
9.
Registered land surveyor's certification and stamp required for master plat.
10.
Registered professional engineer certification and stamp accepted for "as built" condition on unit plats only.
11.
Registered architect certification and stamp may be used to certify the acceptability of the structural work.
12.
Variances (if any) and date approved by the City Council.
13.
Recording of plats and plans; contents; completion of structural improvements; certification by registered architect or engineer.
C.
Requirements for Conveyance. The following sections reflect the requirements for the recording of plats and plans, contents, the completion of structural requirements, and certification by registered architects or engineers as described in O.C.G.A § 44-3-83. Because State regulations may be modified from time to time, all parties interested in developing condominiums in the City of Kennesaw should be knowledgeable of the most current regulations described in Title 44, Chapter 3, Article 3 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated. The following regulations are accurate as of December 31, 2008.
1.
Recording of Plats and Certification
a.
Prior to the first conveyance of a condominium unit, there shall be recorded one or more plats of survey showing the location and dimensions of:
i.
the submitted property;
ii.
the location and dimensions of all structural improvements located on any portion of the submitted property;
iii.
the intended location and dimensions of all contemplated structural improvements committed to be provided by the declaration on any portion of the submitted property; and,
iv.
to the extent feasible, the location and dimensions of all easements appurtenant to the submitted property or otherwise submitted to this article as part of the common elements.
b.
With respect to all such structural improvements, the plats shall indicate which, if any, have not been begun by use of the phrase "NOT YET BEGUN." No structural improvement which contains or constitutes all or part of any unit or units and which is located on any portion of the submitted property shall be commenced on any portion of the submitted property after the recording of the plats.
i.
The declarant shall complete all structural improvements depicted on the plats, subject only to such limitations, if any, as may be expressly stated in the declaration with respect to those labeled "NOT YET BEGUN" on the plats, provided that, within six months after written notice from the association, the declarant shall be obligated to complete within a reasonable time every structural improvement actually commenced on the submitted property, notwithstanding any provision of the declaration, unless the declarant removes within a reasonable time all portions of any such structural improvement and restores the surface of the land affected thereby to substantially the same condition as that which existed prior to commencement of any such structural improvement; and provided, further, that nothing contained in this sentence shall exempt the declarant from any contractual liability to complete any such structural improvement.
ii.
If the submitted property consists of noncontiguous parcels, the plats shall indicate the approximate distances between such parcels unless such information is disclosed in the declaration. If, with respect to any portion or portions, but less than all, of the submitted property, the unit owners are to own only a leasehold or estate for years, the plats shall show the location and dimensions of any such portion or portions and shall label each such portion by use of the phrase "LEASED LAND."
iii.
To the extent feasible, the plats shall show all easements to which the submitted property or any portion thereof is subject.
iv.
The plats shall also show all encroachments by or on any operation of the submitted property. In the case of any units which have vertical boundaries lying wholly or partially outside of structures for which plans pursuant to subsection C.2 of this UDC section are recorded, the plats shall show the location and dimensions of the vertical boundaries to the extent that they are not shown on the plans; and the units or portions thereof thus depicted shall bear their identifying numbers.
v.
Each plat shall be certified as to its accuracy and compliance with this subsection by a registered land surveyor. The specification within this subsection of items that shall be shown on the plats shall not be construed to mean that the plats shall not also show all other items customarily shown or required by law to be shown for land title surveys.
2.
Recording of Plans and Certification. The following items shall be recorded prior to the first conveyance of a condominium unit:
a.
Plans which have been prepared, signed, and sealed by a registered architect or registered engineer of every structure which contains or constitutes all or part of any unit or units located on or within any portion of the submitted property, which plans shall show:
i.
The location and dimensions of the exterior walls and roof of such structures;
ii.
The walls, partitions, floors, and ceilings as constitute the horizontal boundaries, if any, and the vertical boundaries of each unit, including convertible space, to the extent that such boundaries lie within or coincide with the boundaries of such structures;
iii.
The identifying numbers of all units or portions thereof depicted on the plans;
iv.
A certification by such architect or engineer to the effect that (s)he has visited the site and viewed the property and that, to the best of his/her knowledge, information, and belief:
a)
The exterior walls and roof of each structure are in place as shown on the plans; and
b)
Such walls, partitions, floors, and ceilings, to the extent shown on said plans, as constitute the horizontal boundaries, if any, and the vertical boundaries of each unit, including convertible space, have been sufficiently constructed so as to establish clearly the physical boundaries of such unit.
b.
Each convertible space depicted in the plans shall be labeled as such by use of the phrase "CONVERTIBLE SPACE." Unless the condominium instruments expressly provide otherwise, it shall be presumed that, in the case of any unit not wholly contained within or constituting one or more of the structures, the horizontal boundaries extend, in the case of each unit, at the same elevation with regard to any part of such unit lying outside of such structures, subject to the following exception:
i.
In the case of any unit which does not lie over any other unit other than basement units, it shall be presumed that the lower horizontal boundary, if any, of that unit lies at the level of the ground with regard to any part of that unit lying outside of the structures.
ii.
This subsection shall apply to any condominium created on or after July 1, 1980, or to the expansion of any such condominium.
3.
Completion of Structural Improvements and Certification. The following items shall be recorded prior to the first conveyance of a condominium unit:
a.
Plans of every structure which contains or constitutes all or part of any unit or units located on or within any portion of the submitted property and a certification by a registered architect or registered engineer to the effect that he has visited the site and viewed the property and that, to the best of his knowledge, information, and belief:
b.
The foundation, structural members, exterior walls, and roof of each such structure are complete and in place as shown on the plans;
c.
The walls, partitions, floors, and ceilings, to the extent shown on the plans, as constituting or coinciding with the vertical and horizontal boundaries of each unit, including convertible space, within each such structure, are sufficiently complete and in place to establish clearly the physical boundaries of such unit and that such physical boundaries are as shown on the plans; and
d.
Each such structure, to the extent of its stage of completion at that time, is constructed substantially in accordance with such plans. The plans shall show the location and dimensions of the horizontal boundaries, if any, and the vertical boundaries of each unit to the extent that such boundaries lie within or coincide with the boundaries of such structures, and the units, or portions thereof, thus depicted shall bear their identifying numbers. In addition, each convertible space depicted in the plans shall be labeled as such by use of the phrase "CONVERTIBLE SPACE." Unless the condominium instruments expressly provide otherwise, it shall be presumed that, in the case of any unit not wholly contained within or constituting one or more of the structures, the horizontal boundaries extend, in the case of each unit, at the same elevation with regard to any part of such unit lying outside of such structures, subject to the following exception: in the case of any unit which does not lie over any other unit other than basement units, it shall be presumed that the lower horizontal boundary, if any, of that unit lies at the level of the ground with regard to any part of that unit lying outside of the structures. This subsection shall apply to any condominium created prior to July 1, 1980, or to the expansion of any such condominium.
e.
Prior to the first conveyance of a condominium unit located on any portion of any additional property being or having been added to an expandable condominium, there shall be recorded new plats of survey conforming to the requirements of subsection C.1 of this UDC section and, with regard to any structures on the property being or having been added, plans conforming to the requirements of subsection C.2 of this UDC section or certifications, conforming to the certification requirements of subsection C.2 of this UDC section, of plans previously recorded pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 44-3-84.
f.
When converting all or any portion of any convertible space into one or more units or limited common elements, the declarant shall record, with regard to the structure or portion thereof constituting that convertible space, plans showing the location and dimensions of the horizontal boundaries, if any, and the vertical boundaries of each unit formed out of such space. The plans shall be certified by a registered architect or registered engineer in accordance with the certification requirements of subsection C.2 of this UDC section.
g.
When any portion of the submitted property is withdrawn, there shall be recorded a plat or plats showing the portion of the submitted property withdrawn and the remaining submitted property, which plat or plats shall be certified as provided in subsection C.2 of this UDC section.
10.03.10 - Submittal Requirements for Final Non-Residential Plats
A.
General. The final plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn on Mylar, vellum or paper sheets. The scale of the final plat shall not exceed 1 in. = 100 ft. The plat shall not exceed 36 in. X 48 in. If the complete plat cannot be shown on one sheet, several sheets with an index map indicated on each sheet shall be used. In no case shall sheet size be less than 8-1/2 in. X 11 in.
The final plat shall conform to the preliminary plat and it may constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary plat which the sub-divider proposes to record and develop at any time, provided that such portion conforms to the staging established on the preliminary plat procedure and to the requirements of these rules and regulations.
The final plat shall contain the following information:
1.
Names of the subdivision and streets.
2.
Property address numbers furnished by City of Kennesaw Community Development Department
3.
Reference to recorded subdivision plats of adjoining land by record name.
4.
Date of plat drawing, graphic scale, and magnetic north point.
5.
Gross acreage of tract, square footage of out parcel.
6.
Location of tract (land lot and district).
7.
Former name of subdivision, if any or all of the final plat has been previously subdivided.
8.
Vicinity map at a scale of 1" = 2000'.
9.
Index map on each sheet when more than one sheet is required.
10.
Courses and distances to the nearest existing street, intersections, or other recognized permanent monuments or benchmarkers.
11.
Exact boundary lines of the tract, to be indicated by a heavy line, giving distances to the nearest 1/10-foot and angles to the nearest second, which shall be balanced and closed. The error of closure shall not exceed 1:10,000. The error of closure shall be stated. The tract boundaries shall be determined by accurate survey in the field.
12.
Land Lot lines shall be accurately tied to lines of the subdivision by angles and distances when such lines traverse the subdivision; when the subdivision does not intersect a land lot line, the lines of a major controlling street shall be projected and tied to a land lot line by angles and distance. In both cases, the measured distance from land lot tie to a respective land lot corner shall be shown with the magnetic bearing of the land lot line. No approximate land lot lines shall be shown on the subdivision plat.
13.
Exact locations, widths, and names of all streets, alleys, and sidewalks within and immediately adjoining the plat and the exact locations and widths of all sidewalks.
14.
Street centerlines showing angles of deflection and standard curve data of intersection, radii, length of tangents and arcs, and degree of curvature with basis of curve data, design speeds, horizontal and vertical site distances.
15.
Lot lines with dimensions to the nearest 1/10-foot, necessary internal angles, arcs and chords and tangent or radii of rounded corners.
16.
Building setback lines with dimension.
17.
Lots or sites numbered in numerical and clockwise order. Blocks shall be identified alphabetically.
18.
Cultural features, including cemeteries and historic features.
19.
Property/lease lines clearly delineated.
20.
References to recorded and unrecorded access/cross parking, easements, utilities, and off-site stormwater management facility.
21.
Location, dimensions, drainage areas, and purposes of all drainage structures, stormwater management structures, access easements, and any other easements, including slope easements, tributary and state mandated buffers and corridors, flood hazard areas and elevations, new or existing water and sewer easements with setback requirements that are or shall be maintained by the Water System, and any areas to be reserved, donated, or dedicated to public use or sites for other than residential use with notes stating their purpose and limitations; and of any areas to be reserved by deed covenant for common uses of all property owners. Delineation of protected wetlands with total acreage noted.
22.
For purposes of dedication of stormwater management easements and facilities, reference should be made to the Cobb County Comprehensive Stormwater Management Quantity and Quality Ordinance.
23.
Accurate locations, materials, and descriptions of monuments and markers. Monuments to be placed after final street improvements shall be designated as "future".
24.
Seal of appropriate design professional.
25.
Zoning stipulations and variances (if any) and the date approved by the City Council.
26.
State law prohibits the private construction, planting, or otherwise making improvements on the dedicated public right-of-way. The sole responsibility for repairing of any damage of any such improvement shall be the property owners.
27.
Tabular chart which specifies the length of each public street or right-of-way.
28.
Signature line for approvals from all applicable departments and Mayor and City Council.
10.03.11 - Final Plat Certificates
modified
Each final plat submitted to the Mayor and Council for approval shall carry the following certificates printed or stamped thereon substantially as follows:
A.
Engineer and Land Surveyor Acknowledgement. "It is hereby certified that this plat is true and correct and was prepared from an actual survey of the property made by me or under my supervision; that all monuments shown hereon actually exist or are marked as "future," and their location, size, type and material are correctly shown; and that all engineering requirements of the Kennesaw Subdivision Regulations have been fully complied with."
EXPAND
_____
(Print Name) _____
(Print Name)
_____
(Print Name) _____
Registered C.E. No.
________
Date
  B.
Owner's acknowledgement: "The owner of the land shown on this plat and whose name is subscribed thereto, and in person or through duly authorized agents, acknowledges that this plat was made from an actual survey and dedicates to the use of the public forever all streets, parks, drains, easements and public grounds thereon shown, which comprises a total of ________ acres, for the purposes therein expressed."
EXPAND
Subdivider
_____
(Print Name) Owner
_____
(Print Name)
_____
Signature _____
Signature
________
Date ________
Date
  "Provided, however, that nothing herein nor acceptance shall create liability on the part of the City of Kennesaw, its officers, agents or employees for flooding or erosion from storm drains or from flooding from high water of natural creeks or rivers, and the City of Kennesaw is hereby specifically released from any such liability or from liability for the negligent construction or maintenance of all drainage structures, roads, sediment control facilities and all other work performed by the owner or developer of the property, their agent, servants, employees or contractors."
C.
Place for statement of slope easement.
D.
Place for approval of the Mayor and Council as follows: "Pursuant to the Land Subdivision sections of this UDC of the City of Kennesaw, Georgia, all the requirements of approval having been fulfilled, this final plat was given final approval by the Mayor and Council of Kennesaw, Georgia on _________ (Date).
_______________________________________________
Mayor, Kennesaw, Georgia
E.
Place for approval by the following Departments:
•
Planning and Zoning
•
Building and Construction
•
Public Works
•
City Engineer
•
Mayor and City Council
"Nothing herein shall be construed to mean that the City of Kennesaw has accepted the dedication of any rights-of-way, easements or other area as being dedicated to public use."
F.
Place for certificate of recording.
G.
Final plat distribution:
1.
City records: Original Mylar, vellum or paper reproducible material and one (1) print.
2.
City Engineer: Three (3) prints; two (2) to be filed and one (1) to the Building Services Director.
3.
Cobb County Tax Assessor: One (1) print.
4.
Cobb County Fire Department offering service to the proposed subdivision: One (1) print.
5.
Total: One (1) original Mylar, vellum or paper reproducible material and twelve (12) prints.
[H.
Reserved.]
I.
Suitability of land. Land subject to flooding or erosion, and any land deemed to be unsuitable for development by the city engineer or health department, shall not be platted for any uses as may continue such conditions or increase danger to health, safety, life or property unless the hazards can be and are corrected.
( Ord. No. 2023-12 MEETING , § 3, 6-19-23)
10.03.12 - Submittal Requirements for Amendments to Approved Development Plans and Zoning Conditions
A.
Submittal requirements as established by the Plan Review Committee and the building services department.
10.03.13 - Submittal Requirements for Certificate of Appropriateness through the Historic Preservation Commission
modified
A.
All applications to comply with submittal requirements of Kennesaw Design Review application process under Chapter One of the adopted Design Standards for the Historic District.
B.
All applications to be submitted through the Planning and Zoning Department at least two weeks prior to the scheduled Historic Preservation Commission meeting. The Planning and Zoning Administrator will confirm completeness of the application.
C.
All fees to accompany the completed application will be as per adopted master fee schedule adopted by the City of Kennesaw.
D.
After confirmation that applications are deemed complete the Planning and Zoning Administrator and Planning and Zoning staff will post property referenced in application as part of the public notification process for any exterior changes to historic properties.
E.
All applications require at least one consultation with Planning and Zoning staff to be conducted prior to submittal of applications.
F.
All applications for demolition of structures within the historic district will require a public hearing before the Historic Preservation Commission. The Public hearing will be advertised in the local newspaper and adjoining property owners will be notified by mail by City of Kennesaw Planning and Zoning Department. A sign will be posted as part of this process.
G.
The Planning and Zoning Administrator shall ask for any additional data as deemed necessary to add clarification to the request of all applications.
H.
If project is located in the Central Business District but not located in the Historic District then a conceptual project approval by the Historic Preservation Commission will be required.
I.
CBD (Central Business District) conceptual project approval will follow the same COA (Certificate of Appropriateness) application information submittal process to the City of Kennesaw.
( Ord. No. 2023-12 MEETING , § 3, 6-19-23)
10.03.14 - Subdivision Construction Plan
10.03.15 - Subdivision Record Plat
10.04.00 - PENALTIES, AND REMEDIES

10.04.01 - Penalties for Violation
A.
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $50.00 nor more than the maximum amount as defined by O.C.G.A. § 36-32-5, as amended from time to time, for each offense.
B.
Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
10.04.02 - Remedies
modified
A.
In case any building or structure is or is proposed to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted or maintained, or any building, structure or land is or is proposed to be used in violation of any provision of this UDC, the Planning and Zoning Administrator or any other appropriate authority of the city may, in addition to other remedies, and after due notice of at least ten (10) days to the owner of the violation, issue a citation for violation of the City Code requiring the presence of the violator in the recorder's [municipal] court; institute injunction, or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance or use to correct or abate such violation or to prevent the occupancy of such building, structure or land.
B.
Where a violation of these regulations exist with respect to a structure or land, the Planning and Zoning Administrator may, in addition to other remedies, notify the Building Services Director of such violation and require that public utility service be withheld there from until such time as the structure or premises is no longer in violation of these regulations.
C.
In any case in which any sign shall be installed, erected, or constructed in violation of any of the terms of this ordinance, the Building Services Director shall notify by personal notice or registered mail the owner or lessee thereof to alter such sign so as to comply with this ordinance and to secure the necessary permit therefore or to remove the sign.
D.
If such an order is not complied with within ten days, the City shall remove the sign at the expense of the owner or lessee thereof.
E.
In the event that such a sign or wall bulletin should become insecure, or in danger of falling, the person maintaining the same shall, upon written notice from the Building Services Director, forthwith in case of immediate danger, and in any case, within ten days secure it in a manner approved by the Building Services Director.
10.05.00 - APPEALS AND PROCEDURE FOR APPEALS

10.05.01 - Applicability
modified
A.
Any person or entity aggrieved by a decision made by the Planning and Zoning Administrator, the Public Works Director, or the Building Services Director ("Department Head") that involves the administration or enforcement of the UDC or the City Code of Ordinances is entitled to an appeal to the Mayor and City Council. That person or entity may appeal to the Mayor and City Council by filing a notice of appeal with the Department Head; however, such appeal must be filed within ten days from the date of the decision being appealed. Upon failure to file such appeal within ten days, the decision shall be binding and final upon all parties.
B.
The Department Head shall review the timely notice of appeal provided for in this section and transmit to the Mayor and City Council a written report of its findings and recommendations, which shall become a part of the official record. The City Clerk shall certify the official record for any such appeal.
C.
The Mayor and City Council, having received the report of the Department Head under this section, making it a part of the official certified record, and having considered the written and oral statements of the appellant and any other evidence, is authorized to hear and shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that there is an error in any decision made by the Department Head in the administration or enforcement of the UDC or the City Code of Ordinances. The decision of the Mayor and City Council shall not result in a violation or circumvention of any applicable condition of zoning, provision of city zoning laws, subdivision regulations, or any other regulation or ordinance.
D.
A written copy of the findings and decision of the Mayor and City Council on an appeal under this section shall be transmitted to the appellant and to the Department Head.
E.
Provided sovereign immunity has been waived to allow for an appeal, any person or entity aggrieved by the decision of the Mayor and City Council on an appeal under this section shall have a right to appeal such decision within thirty days from the date of the actual vote of the Mayor and Council that formulates the basis for the decision in the manner provided by law under O.C.G.A. § 36-66-5.1.
F.
Legal Action stayed. The filing of an appeal authorized under this Section shall operate as a stay of any administrative or enforcement proceedings by the City of Kennesaw until final adjudication or settlement of the appeal. No Mayor and City Council or administrative action shall be taken on any property which is the subject of any litigation pending in state or federal court where the City of Kennesaw or its agents or officials (individually or collectively) are parties.
( Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 14(Exh. G), 6-21-21; Ord. No. 2023-12 MEETING , § 3, 6-19-23)
