Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances, resolutions and other enactments embraced in this and the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as the "Code of Ordinances, Kennesaw, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1986, § 1-1-1)
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances of the city, the following definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless it shall be otherwise expressly provided in any section or ordinance, or unless inconsistent with the manifest intent of the mayor and council, or unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
City. The words "the city" or "this city" shall mean the City of Kennesaw, Georgia.
City manager. The words "city manager" shall mean the city manager of Kennesaw, Georgia.
Code. The word "Code" shall mean the Code of Ordinances, Kennesaw, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
Council. The word "council" shall mean the mayor and council of the City of Kennesaw, Georgia.
County. The words "the county" or "this county" shall mean Cobb County, Georgia.
Day. The word "day" means a calendar day of 24 hours.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department of the city to do some act or make certain inspections it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Governing body. Whenever the words "governing body" or "elected officials" are used, they shall mean the mayor and council of the City of Kennesaw, Georgia.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving that authority to a majority of those persons or officers; provided, that for any provision to be adopted by the mayor and council, at least three affirmative votes are required.
Keeper and proprietor. The words "keeper" and "proprietor" shall mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and copartnerships, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.
Limits or corporation. The word "limits" or "corporation" shall mean the corporate limits, or legal boundary, of the city.
Month. The word "month" shall mean a calendar month.
Municipality. Wherever the word "municipality" appears in this Code, it shall mean the City of Kennesaw, Georgia.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and any others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to that meaning.
Number. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural includes the singular number.
Oath. The word "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Or, and. "Or" may be read "and" and "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
Other officials, boards and commissions, etc. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., by title only, i.e., city clerk, chief of police, etc., such reference shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards, commissions and departments of the City of Kennesaw, Georgia; and shall also include duly authorized deputies or assistants of such officers, etc.
Owner. The word "owner," applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership or joint tenant of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to firms, partnerships, corporations, associations, clubs, trustees, receivers, organizations, and bodies politic and corporate, or any combination thereof, as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property, as defined in this section.
Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The word "property" includes real, personal and mixed estates and interests.
Public park means any public property that contains a grassy area or wooded area and upon which any recreational facilities and equipment are located.
Public place. The term "public place" shall mean any place including, but not limited to, buildings or conveyances to which the public has or is permitted to have access, including restaurants, soda fountains, hotel dining rooms, lobbies and corridors of hotels, and any highway, street, lane, park or place of public resort or amusement.
Public property means any land or lands controlled by, operated by, or owned by the city, any county of this state, any municipality of this state, the state, the United States of America, or any subdivision of any of them.
Real property. The term "real property" shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Recreational facilities and equipment means one or more of the following: baseball diamond, basketball court, bicycling trail or road, dog park, a dock or pier, football field, golf cart trails or roads, golf course, jogging trail or road, lacrosse field, permanent grill to be used by the public, picnic shelter, picnic table, playground equipment of any type, skate board park, skating rink of any type, skeet or trap range, soccer field, tetherball equipment, swimming pool, tennis court, or walking trail.
Residence. The word "residence" shall be construed to mean the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation, and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Schedule of fees and charges. The term "schedule of fees and charges" shall mean the official consolidated list maintained in the city clerk's office which lists rates for utility or other public enterprises, fees of any nature, deposit amounts and various charges as determined from time to time by resolution of the mayor and council. Official copies of such resolutions are on file in the city clerk's office.
Shall, may. The word "shall" is mandatory. The word "may" is permissive.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature or subscription. The word "signature" or "subscription" includes a mark when the person cannot write.
Sponsor or sponsored means the city is providing access to public property for the event or activity or paying for some or all of the services provided at the event or activity, and the city produces advertising or marketing materials indicating in tangible form that the city is a sponsor of the event or activity. In referring to entities or persons other than the city, an entity or person is a sponsor of an event or activity within the city if the entity or person provided goods, services, or labor at no cost to city, the event or the activity.
State. The words "the state" or "this state" shall be construed to mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public streets and ways in the city and shall embrace all parts thereof constituting the designated right-of-way, unless otherwise stated.
Tenant or occupant. The word "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of, that building or land, either alone or with others.
Time. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Week. The word "week" shall be construed to mean seven days.
Written, in writing. The term "written" or "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
(Code 1986, § 1-1-2; Ord. No. 2011-09, 8-15-11)
State Law reference— Computation of time, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1; statutory definitions and rules of construction, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3; time, O.C.G.A. § 9-11-6.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes and references.
The catchlines of sections in this Code printed in boldface type, italics or otherwise are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section, and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
(Code 1986, § 1-1-3)
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Amendments to Code.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code by the mayor and council.
(b)
The style of all ordinances shall be: "Be it ordained by the mayor and council of Kennesaw, Georgia, as follows:"
(c)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of the Code of Ordinances, Kennesaw, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
If a new section not then existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That the Code of Ordinances, Kennesaw, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which section reads as follows:…." The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
(e)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1986, § 1-1-6)
Sec. 1-5. - Provisions considered continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances adopted prior to the adoption of this Code and included in such Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-6. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness.
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the city.
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any city officer or employee.
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the city.
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the city.
(7)
Any appropriation ordinance.
(8)
Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term.
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor.
(10)
Any zoning ordinance.
(11)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat.
(12)
Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the city.
(13)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(14)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code.
(15)
Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the city.
No such ordinance shall be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this chapter; and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
Sec. 1-7. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the mayor and council without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 1986, § 1-1-5)
State Law reference— Severability, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-8. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1986, § 1-1-4)
Sec. 1-9. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared at least on an annual basis. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the mayor and council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier, meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement, may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____," inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code.
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-10. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the mayor and council, which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Code 1986, § 1-1-7)
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-11. - General penalty.
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of an act is required or the failure to do an act is declared to be unlawful, unless otherwise provided by state law, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any ordinance shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, and by imprisonment in the city or county jail not to exceed six months, and to work on the city streets and public works not exceeding 60 days. Any one or more of these punishments may be inflicted, and the fines imposed therefor may be collected by execution. Each day any such violation shall continue shall be a separate offense.
(Code 1986, § 1-1-8)
State Law reference— Violations of the dangerous dog control, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-28; imposition of additional penalty for certain drug offenses, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-100; imposition of additional penalty for offense of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-112; additional penalty to be imposed in criminal and traffic cases to provide training to law enforcement officers and prosecuting officials, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; additional penalty assessments for jail construction and staffing, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-93; punishment for misdemeanors generally, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; deposit of drivers license for violations of laws pertaining to traffic and motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-11; limitations on home rule powers of municipalities with respect to duplication of state criminal offenses, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2); confinement of violators of municipal ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-8; payments to peace officers annuity and benefit fund from revenues collected from fines and fees, O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 et seq.; alternative punishments for violations involving a traffic offense, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3(e); authorization of municipal courts to impose any punishment up to the maximum specified by general law, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1(c); jurisdiction of municipal courts over misdemeanor traffic offenses, O.C.G.A. § 40-13-21(a).
Sec. 1-12. - Conflicting ordinances.
Whenever the regulations of this Code as adopted on July 20, 1998 are in conflict with any previously adopted ordinance or amendment, the regulations of this Code shall control.
(Ord. No. 1998-07, 7-20-98)
