Chapter 6 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Authority to prescribe fire safety regulations, § 1.13(9).
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, Ch. 5; nuisances, Ch. 9; burning garbage, § 13-41; burning trash, § 13-42.
State Law reference— Municipal authority to provide for fire protection, Ga. Const. 1983, Art. IX, Sec. II, Para. III(a)(1); fire protection and safety, O.C.G.A. Title 25.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Fire hydrants—Minimum sizes, location.
(a)
In the city single-family approved subdivisions, at least eight-inch pipe shall be installed, six-inch pipe may be used when it constitutes a good gridiron and then only up to six hundred (600) feet in length between interconnecting mains. Fire hydrants shall be spaced not to exceed six hundred (600) feet. Two-way hydrants may be used in single-family subdivisions.
(b)
In multifamily residential subdivisions or multifamily apartment complexes, at least eight-inch or larger pipe shall be installed, six-inch pipe may be used when it constitutes a good gridiron and then only up to six hundred (600) feet in length between interconnecting mains. Fire hydrants shall be three-way hydrants and shall be spaced not to exceed five hundred (500) feet with additional fire hydrants located as necessary to permit all portions of buildings to be reached by hose lays of not more than four hundred (400) feet.
(c)
In industrial and commercial areas, including motels, hotels, nursing homes, hospitals, educational buildings and office buildings, eight-inch pipe or larger water line shall be installed to provide a water flow of over one thousand (1,000) gpm or larger if flow is required. Fire hydrants shall be spaced not to exceed three hundred (300) feet.
(d)
In mobile home parks, fire hydrants shall not exceed five hundred (500) feet with a minimum of a six-inch water line installed to provide a water flow of seven hundred (700) to one thousand (1,000) gallons per minute. Where county water is not available, water supplies for fire department operations should be provided to permit the effective operation of a minimum of one and one-half-inch hose streams on any fire in a mobile home or elsewhere in the mobile home park. "Effective operation" means the ability to deliver at least seventy-five (75) gallons per minute to each of two (2) nozzles, held four (4) feet above the ground, at a flowing pressure of at least thirty (30) pounds per square inch at the highest elevation in the park.
(Ord. of 6-10-74, § 14)
Sec. 6-2. - Same—Specifications.
(a)
Water mains and fire hydrants shall be installed, under water pressure and ready for firefighting before any sheating may be installed on walls and roofs of buildings other than fire resistive construction.
(b)
Hydrants, fittings, valves and fire department connections shall be approved by the city water and county fire departments. Fire department connections shall be not less than eighteen (18) inches nor more than thirty-six (36) inches above the level of the adjoining ground or paving. The thread of such connections shall be uniform with that used by the fire department.
(c)
Hydrants shall meet the requirements of NFPA No. 24, Private Fire Service Mains and Their Appurtenances, and have not less than six-inch connection with the mains. The number, size and arrangement of the outlets, the size of the main valve opening and the size of barrel shall be suitable for protection to be provided and shall be approved by the city water and county fire departments. For average conditions hydrants should be placed fifty (50) feet from the buildings protected. Where it is impossible to place them at this distance, they may be put nearer, provided they are set in locations where the chance of injury by falling walls is small, and from which men are not likely to be driven by smoke or heat.
(d)
The size and shape of the operating nut, as well as the direction the hydrant stem operates shall be uniform with hydrants in the city water distribution system specifications.
(Ord. of 6-10-74, § 15; Ord. No. O-2022-32, § VIII, 10-10-22)
Sec. 6-3. - Same—Obstruction.
It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct with building materials or in any other manner whatsoever an area within fifteen (15) feet of any cistern or fire hydrant which would obstruct approaches to the same by any member of the fire department. No person shall put any post or installation of any nature whatsoever nearer than eighteen (18) inches to any fire hydrant without first obtaining written permission from the mayor and council.
(Ord. of 6-10-74, § 16)
Sec. 6-4. - Persons allowed in the vicinity of fire.
No person except fire fighters, members of the mayor and council, members of the county or city police departments, the owners of the property, their agents, and the agents of insurance companies shall be allowed within the immediate vicinity of any fire without being ordered there by the fire chief or the officer in charge at the time. Any person refusing to obey the orders and directions of the fire chief or other person in the fire department in charge of a fire shall be in violation of this section.
(Ord. of 6-10-74, § 17)
Sec. 6-5. - Following fire apparatus.
The driver of any vehicle other than one (1) on official business shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than five hundred (500) feet, or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Ord. of 6-10-74, § 18)
Sec. 6-6. - Crossing fire hose.
No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the fire department when laid down on any street, roadway or private driveway, to be used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the fire department official in command.
(Ord. of 6-10-74, § 19)
Sec. 6-7. - Open burning.
(a)
Prohibited; exceptions. No person shall cause, suffer, allow, or permit open burning in any area located within the corporate boundaries of the city at any time except as follows:
(1)
The burning is for the purpose of carrying out recognized agricultural procedures necessary for production or harvesting of crops;
(2)
The burning is for the cooking of food for immediate human consumption in a grill, barbeque pit or like cooking apparatus or involves the use of a chiminea or similar outdoor fireplace;
(3)
The fire is set for the purpose of training fire fighting personnel and has been authorized by the appropriate government entity and the guidelines set by the state department of natural resources and other appropriate government agencies are strictly observed;
(4)
The fire is in connection with the operation of devices using open flames such as tar kettles, blow torches, welding torches, portable heaters and other flame making equipment;
(5)
The fire is a small fire established and maintained by a contractor or tradesman which is necessary for activities such as street paving work or installation or repair of utilities. All such fires shall be kept small in size, shall produce no smoke emissions exceeding forty (40) percent opacity and shall comply with all other regulations which may prohibit or regulate all such activities;
(6)
The fire is for the disposal of packaging materials previously containing explosives and is used in accordance with U.S. Department of Labor Safety Regulations.
(7)
Burning of leaves, limbs and other natural vegetation that may fall on one's own property, provided that said burning is conducted during daylight hours when prevailing winds are not in excess of fifteen (15) m.p.h. and the fire is located at least two hundred (200) feet from the nearest property line.
(8)
Following a tornado, natural disaster, severe storm, or other similar occurrence, the mayor and council or the city manager may suspend the prohibitions set forth in this ordinance to allow for the disposal of leaves, limbs, trees or other natural vegetation which has fallen on one's own property.
(b)
Enforcement. This section may be enforced by the city manager and the city manager's designees including, but not limited to, the staff of the planning and development department. In addition, the city police department will have concurrent enforcement authority and may summarily abate any conditions which are in violation of any other provisions of this section or which may constitute an immediate threat to life or property.
(c)
Adoption of county regulation. The city expressly adopts and incorporates by reference the regulation of open burning set forth in Gwinnett County Code article II, section 46-54 entitled "Rules and regulation for outdoor and open burning," to the extent that said provisions are consistent with the restrictions contained in this section.
(Ord. of 6-10-74, § 20; Ord. of 5-8-2006)
Editor's note— City administrator changed to city manager at the direction of the city.
State Law reference— Air quality control programs authorized, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(13).
Sec. 6-8. - Setting fire to vehicle, notice required.
No person shall set fire to an automobile, truck or any other type vehicle without first obtaining written permission from the chief of the fire department.
(Ord. of 6-10-74, § 21)
Sec. 6-9. - Burning certain materials prohibited.
No material or substance which emits noxious or poisonous gases, such as nitrogen dioxide, hydrogen cyanide or chlorine or other poisonous gases that will not readily dissipate in the atmosphere, may be burned within the city limits.
(Ord. of 6-10-74, § 22)
Sec. 6-10. - Chief and officers vested with police powers.
The chief of the fire department or other authority acting under him shall be sworn in as police officers with the powers to make arrests pertaining to arson within the city.
(Ord. of 6-10-74, § 23)
Sec. 6-11. - Authority to cut electric wires.
The chief of the fire department or other authority acting under him is hereby authorized to cut any electric wire which he shall deem necessary on the occurrence of any fire, without expense to the city for so doing; nothing herein contained shall imply that the city authorized any person to undertake the risk of cutting any such wires or renders itself liable for any injury to the person doing so.
(Ord. of 6-10-74, § 24)
Sec. 6-12. - Obstructing fire station.
It shall be unlawful for any person willfully or knowingly to put any trash or obstruction of any nature whatsoever in front of any engine house or hook and ladder house or place where fire department equipment is located.
(Ord. of 6-10-74, § 25)
Sec. 6-13. - False alarms.
No person shall intentionally make, turn in or give a false alarm of fire or of need for police or ambulance assistance, or aid or abet in the commission of such act.
(Ord. of 6-10-74, § 26)
Sec. 6-14. - Accessibility for firefighting equipment.
(a)
Reasonable accessibility shall be provided to and around all buildings for firefighting equipment, including ladder trucks on multiple story projects.
(b)
Accessibility for firefighting equipment shall be maintained throughout all stages of construction.
(c)
Minimum widths of access driveways, excluding parking, shall be twenty (20) feet. Minimum turning radius shall be thirty-two (32) feet.
(Ord. of 6-10-74, § 28)
Sec. 6-15. - Fire-extinguishing equipment in restaurants, etc.
(a)
Approved fire-extinguishing equipment of the following types shall be installed in restaurants or other public food facilities having commercial cooking appliances, such as ranges, deep-fat fryers, grills and broilers.
(b)
The standards for approval shall comply with NFPA No. 96, 2021 Edition, Standard for Ventilation Control and Fire Protection of Commercial Cooking Operation.
(Ord. of 6-10-74, § 30; Ord. No. O-2022-32, § IX, 10-10-22)
Sec. 6-16. - Roof construction.
(a)
Combustible roof construction shall comply with sections 718.1 and 1208.2 of the International Building Code.
(b)
Attic spaces shall be provided with interior access opening not less than twenty-two (22) inches by thirty-six (36) inches. Access openings shall be readily accessible every two thousand (2,000) square feet. Access shall be provided with a lid or device of noncombustible material that may be easily removed or operated.
(Ord. of 6-10-74, § 31; Ord. No. O-2022-32, § X, 10-10-22)
Sec. 6-17. - Mobile homes.
(a)
Mobile homes used as portable classrooms for educational or religious purposes shall provide adequate support for the placement in tie-downs of such portable rooms of buildings thereby securing the superstructure against sliding, uplift, rotation and overturning.
(b)
Such portable building shall be provided with anchors and tie-downs such as cast-in place concrete dead-men, eyelets embedded in concrete slabs, or runways, screw augers, arrowhead anchors or other devices to be used to stabilize the portable building used for educational or religious purpose.
(c)
Anchors and tie-downs shall be placed at each corner of the portable building and shall be able to sustain a minimum load of four thousand eight hundred (4,800) pounds.
(Ord. of 6-10-74, § 32)
Secs. 6-18—6-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FIRE PREVENTION CODE

Sec. 6-41. - Adoption.
There is hereby adopted by the mayor and council for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, the International Fire Code, with Georgia amendments, 2000 edition, as amended, and the Gwinnett County Fire Prevention and Protection Code, 2000 edition, and the whole thereof, save and except such portions as are deleted, modified or amended, of which code not less than three (3) copies have been and are now filed in the office of the city clerk and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and the provisions shall be controlling within the limits of the city.
(Ord. of 6-10-74, § 1; Ord. of 9-11-95; Ord. of 3-11-96; Ord. of 6-24-96; Ord. of 6-9-97; Ord. of 3-26-01; Ord. of 5-12-03)
State Law reference— Municipal authority to adopt fire codes, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-4.
Sec. 6-42. - Establishment, duties of bureau of fire prevention.
(a)
The fire prevention code shall be enforced by the bureau of fire prevention in the fire department of the county and which shall be under the supervision of the chief of the county fire department.
(b)
The chief in charge of the bureau of fire prevention shall be appointed by the chief of the county fire department on the basis of examination to determine his qualifications.
(c)
The chief of the county fire department may detail such members of the fire department as inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary. The chief of the fire department shall recommend to the county board of commissioners the employment of technical inspectors, who, when such authorization is made, shall be selected through an examination to determine their fitness for the position. The examination shall be open to members of the fire department, and appointments made after examination shall be for an indefinite term with removal only for cause.
(d)
A report of the bureau of fire prevention shall be made annually and transmitted to the mayor and council. It shall contain all proceedings under this article, with such statistics as the chief of the fire department may wish to include therein. The chief of the fire department shall also recommend any amendments to the code which, in his judgment, shall be desirable.
(Ord. of 6-10-74, § 2)
Sec. 6-43. - Definitions.
(a)
Whenever the word "municipality" is used in the fire prevention code, it shall be held to mean the City of Duluth.
(b)
Whenever the term "corporation counsel" is used in the fire prevention code, it shall mean the attorney for the City of Duluth.
(Ord. of 6-10-74, § 3)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 6-44. - Where storage of explosives, blasting agents prohibited.
The limits referred to in section 12.5B of the fire prevention code, in which storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited, shall comply with the rules set forth by the state safety fire commissioner, chapter 120-3-10, Rules and Regulations for Explosives for Blasting Agents.
(Ord. of 6-10-74, § 4)
Sec. 6-45. - Where storage of flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks prohibited.
The limits referred to in section 16.22a of the fire prevention code in which storage of flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks is restricted shall comply with city zoning regulations.
(Ord. of 6-10-74, § 5)
Sec. 6-46. - Bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gases restricted.
The limits referred to in section 21.6 of the fire prevention code, in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted shall comply with city zoning regulations.
(Ord. of 6-10-74, § 6)
Sec. 6-47. - Modifications.
The chief of the bureau of fire prevention shall have power to recommend or modify any of the provisions of the fire prevention code upon application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his duly authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the fire prevention code, provided that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice done. The particulars of such modifications when granted or allowed and the decision of the chief of the bureau of fire prevention thereon shall be entered upon the records of the department and a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
(Ord. of 6-10-74, § 7)
Sec. 6-48. - Appeals.
Whenever the chief of the fire department shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the fire prevention code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision of the chief of the fire department by filing a notice of appeal in writing to the mayor and council within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision appeal.
(Ord. of 6-10-74, § 8)
Sec. 6-49. - New materials, processes, occupancies which may require permits.
The mayor and council, the chief of the fire department, the building department, and the chief of the bureau of fire prevention shall act as a committee to determine and specify, after giving affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes, or occupancies, which shall require permits, in addition to those now enumerated in the fire prevention code. The chief of the bureau of fire prevention shall post such list in a conspicuous place in his office.
(Ord. of 6-10-74, § 9)
Sec. 6-50. - Penalties.
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the fire prevention code hereby adopted or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, or who shall build a violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the mayor and council or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall severally for each and every such violation and noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable in accordance with section 1-6.
(Ord. of 6-10-74, § 10)
