ARTICLE XII. - PUBLIC ART COMMISSION

Sec. 2-270. - Membership, appointment, terms.
(a)
The Duluth Public Arts Commission, hereinafter known as "DPAC" shall consist of six (6) regular members and one (1) member of the mayor and council. At a minimum five (5) members shall reside in the city limits of Duluth. The city manager will designate the appropriate city staff member(s) who can offer input, guidance, procedural support and program management. Said members of the commission are non-voting members.
(b)
DPAC members shall serve four-year terms and the membership terms shall be staggered when possible.
(c)
Members of DPAC serve at the pleasure of mayor and council and may be removed and replaced by mayor and council with or without cause at any time.
(d)
Members of DPAC shall be subject to the same term limits as other boards in the city as set forth in section 2-49 of this Code.
(e)
DPAC members shall be subject to and comply with the code of ethics found in chapter 2, article X, of this Code.
(f)
DPAC members are volunteers and shall serve without compensation or reimbursement for personal expenses, unless specifically approved by the city council.
(Ord. of 3-11-13; Ord. of 10-14-13; Ord. of 3-12-18 ; Ord. of 10-14-19 , § I)
Sec. 2-271. - Duties.
(a)
Officers. There shall be a chair and vice-chair of the commission. DPAC shall elect all officers from its membership for a term of one (1) year and shall determine responsibilities of the officers.
(b)
Meetings. DPAC shall hold regularly scheduled meetings; the commission shall determine the frequency, time and location of meetings. The commission shall provide notice of all meetings to the Duluth city clerk a minimum of forty-eight (48) hours prior to the meeting to ensure public notice requirements are met. All meetings shall be conducted in accordance with the Georgia Open Meetings Act and any amendments thereto. Meetings shall be held at a location within the corporate limits of Duluth that is open to the public and accessible to persons with disabilities. All minutes and records of the commission shall be public records and kept in the custody of the city clerk. A majority of the commission shall at all times constitute a quorum.
(c)
Master plan. DPAC shall prepare, maintain and update a public art master plan which identifies locations for public art in the city and identifies specific performing arts venues or locations for development thereof.
(d)
Authorization of expenditures. The chair of the DPAC or designee and the city manager or city clerk shall be jointly required to authorize expenditures of the performing art and acquisition fund pursuant to decisions of the DPAC. These expenditures shall be for art acquisition, performances, art programming, art education, fund raising and other purposes consistent with the promotion of public and performing art in Duluth.
(e)
Creation of committees. From time to time DPAC shall have the authority to create a study committee or task force to assist in matters consistent with duties associated with the commission. No committee or task force shall have voting power or authority to obligate funds from the Performing Art and Acquisition Fund (PAAF). The mayor or council representative to DPAC or their designee shall chair any committee or task force.
(Ord. of 3-11-13; Ord. of 3-12-18 )
Sec. 2-272. - Performing art and acquisition fund (PAAF).
(a)
Accounting. The performing art and acquisition fund ("PAAF") shall be a separate, special revenue fund as part of the city's overall fund structure into which public art donations and funding are deposited, transferred and used for the acquisition, commissioning, performance, exhibition and conservation of public art as recommended by DPAC and approved by the city manager or designee. The funds shall be included as part of the city's main operating account for banking purposes.
(b)
Developer/builder contributions. The planning and development department shall institute a process whereby prior to the issuance of any development permit, certificate of completion, or certificate of occupancy, the applicant must meet with DPAC representatives. Donations shall not be required, nor shall there be any bias for or against any applicant based on their decision to participate in the art program. The purpose of the meeting shall be for education and awareness of the impact of art on the community and the economy. As part of the development and/or construction process, all applicants with projects in excess of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) in value shall be referred to DPAC for the purpose of educating the applicant on opportunities for contribution to the arts as articulated in the city public arts master plan. Developers and builders shall be encouraged by designated members of the DPAC to voluntarily contribute an art project or amount of money equal to the value of one (1) percent of new, non-city initiated, construction or renovation projects, excluding projects that have their own master art plan.
(c)
PAAF funds may be authorized for the following purposes:
(1)
Artist fees and artist travel related to the training, education and performance of art open to the general public;
(2)
Artist fees and artist travel and expenses that are related to the city's commission or purchase of public art;
(3)
Purchase of equipment to be used in performing arts;
(4)
Leasing of equipment and space for education, practice and performance;
(5)
Studies and planning documents to further the arts;
(6)
Promotions and marketing of activities associated with educational activities and performances;
(7)
Fabrication, storage, and installation of a commissioned work of art;
(8)
Acquisition of existing works of art;
(9)
Decorative, ornamental or functional elements that are designed by an artist selected specifically for the project and through the processes established in the guidelines, but not by a member of the pre-existing design team working on the related capital project (if applicable);
(10)
Fees associated with the lease of works of art for temporary display;
(11)
Required permits and insurance during the fabrication and installation of the public art per contract;
(12)
Project consultants and contracted services;
(13)
Curatorial services;
(14)
Public art planning services;
(15)
Documentation and interpretive plaques;
(16)
Publicity for public art projects;
(17)
Education and outreach, including symposia and special events;
(18)
Conservation, cleaning and routine maintenance of works in the City of Duluth Public Art Collection; and
(19)
Expenses associated with art donations/sponsorships.
(d)
PAAF may not be used for:
(1)
Mass produced work, with the exception of limited editions controlled by the artist.
(2)
Professional graphics, unless designed or executed by an artist or used in the development of collateral material for the city's public art program.
(3)
Routine maintenance, which is covered under the maintenance fund.
(4)
City staff costs.
(e)
PAAF annual report. Each year, the city manager or designee will assist the commission in preparing the public art annual report, which presents a detailed accounting of monies spent or earmarked for future expenditures in the PAAF. The annual report should include the public art projects, related community and educational programs, and art conservation projects that were completed in the previous year, that are ongoing, or that will be initiated during the coming fiscal year. This presentation to city council should fall within the regular annual budget cycle of the city.
(Ord. of 3-11-13; Ord. of 12-12-16 ; Ord. of 3-12-18 ; Ord. of 10-14-19 , §§ II, III)
Secs. 2-273—2-279. - Reserved.
