DIVISION 2. - TERMS AND DEFINITIONS

Sec. 5-218. - Terms and definitions.
Words stated in the present tense include the future; words stated in the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter; the singular number includes the plural and the plural, the singular.
Where terms are not defined in this article and are defined in the International Building Code, International Existing Building Code, International Fire Code, International Fuel Gas Code, International Mechanical Code, International Plumbing Code, International Residential Code, International Zoning Code or NFPA 70, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as stated in those codes. Where terms are not defined through the methods authorized by this section, such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings such as the context implies.
Whenever the words "dwelling unit," "dwelling," "premises," "building," "rooming house," "rooming unit," "housekeeping unit" or "story" are stated in this article, they shall be construed as though they were followed by the words "or any part thereof."
Anchored means secured in a manner that provides positive connection.
Approved means acceptable to the code official.
Basement means that portion of a building that is partly or completely below grade.
Bathroom means a room containing plumbing fixtures including a bathtub or shower.
Bedroom means any room or space used or intended to be used for sleeping purposes in either a dwelling or sleeping unit.
Boarding house means a building containing one (1) or more dwelling units but not more than twenty (20) dwelling units, all of which offer non-transient lodging accommodations. Meals, if provided, may only be provided from a single central kitchen and compensation for such meals shall be included in the rental rate. No restaurant, meeting, reception or banquet facilities shall be provided.
Code official means the official who is charged with the administration and enforcement of this article, or any duly authorized representative.
Condemn means to adjudge unfit for occupancy.
Cost of such demolition or emergency repairs means the costs shall include the actual costs of the demolition or repair of the structure less revenues obtained if salvage was conducted prior to demolition or repair. Costs shall include, but not be limited to, expenses incurred or necessitated related to demolition or emergency repairs, such as asbestos survey and abatement if necessary; costs of inspectors, testing agencies or experts retained relative to the demolition or emergency repairs; costs of testing; surveys for other materials that are controlled or regulated from being dumped in a landfill; title searches; mailing(s); postings; recording; and attorney fees expended for recovering of the cost of emergency repairs or to obtain or enforce an order of demolition made by a code official or the governing body.
Detached means when a structural element is physically disconnected from another and that connection is necessary to provide a positive connection.
Deterioration means to weaken, disintegrate, corrode, rust or decay and lose effectiveness.
Dwelling unit means a single unit providing complete, independent living facilities for one (1) or more persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
Easement means that portion of land or property reserved for present or future use by a person or agency other than the legal fee owner(s) of the property. The easement shall be permitted to be for use under, on or above said lot or lots.
Equipment support means those structural members or assemblies of members or manufactured elements, including braces, frames, lugs, snuggers, hangers or saddles, that transmit gravity load, lateral load and operating load between the equipment and the structure.
Exterior property means the open space on the premises and on adjoining property under the control of owners or operators of such premises.
Garbage means the animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
Ground cover means low growing, spreading plant, other than turf grass, used in landscaping to cover the ground and protect soil from erosion and drought.
Guard means a building component or a system of building components located at or near the open sides of elevated walking surfaces that minimizes the possibility of a fall from the walking surface to a lower level.
Habitable space means space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or cooking. Bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls, storage or utility spaces, and similar areas are not considered habitable spaces.
Historic building means any building or structure that is one (1) or more of the following:
(1)
Listed or certified as eligible for listing, by the state historic preservation officer or the keeper of the National Register of Historic Places, in the National Register of Historic Places.
(2)
Designated as historic under an applicable state or local law.
(3)
Certified as a contributing resource within a national register or state or locally designated historic district.
Housekeeping unit means a room or group of rooms forming a single habitable space equipped and intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating that does not contain, within such a unit, a toilet, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
Imminent danger means a condition that could cause serious or life-threatening injury or death at any time.
Infestation means the presence, within or contiguous to, a structure or premises of insects, rodents, vermin or other pests.
Inoperable motor vehicle means any automobile, motor vehicle, vehicle or trailer that cannot be driven upon the public streets for reason including but not limited to being unlicensed, wrecked, abandoned, in a state of disrepair, dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperative, does not have a valid license plate attached thereto or otherwise incapable of being moved under its own power.
Labeled means equipment, materials or products to which have been affixed a label, seal, symbol or other identifying mark of a nationally recognized testing laboratory, approved agency or other organization concerned with product evaluation that maintains periodic inspection of the production of the above-labeled items and whose labeling indicates either that the equipment, material or product meets identified standards or has been tested and found suitable for a specified purpose.
Let for occupancy [or] let means to permit, provide or offer possession or occupancy of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, building, premise or structure by a person who is or is not the legal owner of record thereof, pursuant to a written or unwritten lease, agreement or license, or pursuant to a recorded or unrecorded agreement of contract for the sale of land.
Mulch means a layer of material applied to the surface of soil to prevent erosion, conserve soil moisture, improve fertility and health of the soil, insulate plants, reduce weed growth and enhance the aesthetics of an area. Types of mulch include, but are not limited to, wood chips, bark chips, pine straw and synthetic mulch.
Neglect means the lack of proper maintenance for a building or structure.
Occupancy means the purpose for which a building or portion thereof is utilized or occupied.
Occupant means any individual living or sleeping in a building, or having possession of a space within a building.
Openable area means that part of a window, skylight or door which is available for unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
Operator means any person who has charge, care or control of a structure or premises that is let or offered for occupancy.
Owner means any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation having legal or equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of the state, county or municipality as holding title to the property; or otherwise having control of the property, including the guardian of the estate of any such person, and the executor or administrator of the estate of such person if ordered to take possession of real property by a court.
Person means an individual, corporation, partnership or any other group acting as a unit.
Pest elimination means the control and elimination of insects, rodents or other pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible materials that serve as their food or water; by other approved pest elimination methods.
Premises means a lot, plot or parcel of land, easement or public way, including any structures thereon.
Public way means any street, alley or other parcel of land that: is open to the outside air; leads to a street; has been deeded, dedicated or otherwise permanently appropriated to the public for public use.
Rooming house means a building arranged or occupied for lodging, with or without meals, for compensation and not occupied as a one- or two-family dwelling.
Rooming unit means any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit occupied or intended to be occupied for sleeping or living, but not for cooking purposes.
Rubbish means combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage, [and] shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and other combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass, crockery and dust and other similar materials.
Sleeping unit means a room or space in which people sleep, which can also include permanent provisions for living, eating and either sanitation or kitchen facilities, but not both. Such rooms and spaces that are also part of a dwelling unit are not sleeping units.
Strict liability offense means an offense in which the prosecution in a legal proceeding is not required to prove criminal intent as a part of its case. It is enough to prove that the defendant either did an act which was prohibited, or failed to do an act which the defendant was legally required to do.
Structure means that which is built or constructed.
Tenant means a person, corporation, partnership or group, whether or not the legal owner of record, occupying a building or portion thereof as a unit.
Toilet room means a room containing a water closet or urinal but not a bathtub or shower.
Ultimate deformation means the deformation at which failure occurs and that shall be deemed to occur if the sustainable load reduces to eighty (80) percent or less of the maximum strength.
Ventilation means the natural or mechanical process of supplying conditioned or unconditioned air to, or removing such air from, any space.
Weeds means all rank vegetative growth including but not limited to grasses, kudzu, poison ivy, jimsonweed, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur, dandelion, plants of obnoxious odors, or other similar unsightly vegetative growths; however, this term shall not include cultivated flowers, fruits and vegetables, and gardens.
Workmanlike means executed in a skilled manner; e.g. generally plumb, level, square, in line, undamaged and without marring adjacent work.
Yard means an open space on the same lot with a structure.
Yard trimmings means leaves, brush, grass clippings, pruned shrubs, tree debris and other vegetative matter.
(Ord. No. O-2020-23 , Exh. A, 9-14-20)
