ARTICLE VIII. - ACCEPTANCE OF CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS BY THE CITY

Sec. 2-110. - All sums due city may be paid by credit card.
All sums due the city including, but not limited to, occupation taxes, fines, forfeitures, penalties, license fees, permit fees and registration fees, may be paid by the use of credit cards. The city manager shall establish the procedures for acceptance of credit card payments for amounts due the city. The city manager is authorized to enter into agreements with credit card issuers to facilitate the acceptance of credit card payments by the city.
(Ord. of 4-8-02; Ord. of 4-12-04)
Editor's note— City administrator changed to city manager at the direction of the city.
Sec. 2-111. - Discounts provided by credit card agreements.
A credit card agreement may provide for the acceptance of the credit card payments from the credit card company at a discount from the face amount of the payment or for the withholding of administrative fees from the face amount of the payment. Such discounted fee is granted in exchange for the improved governmental cash flow, reduction of administrative overhead expenses and increased public convenience as a result of credit card payments.
(Ord. of 4-8-02)
Sec. 2-112. - Surcharges.
A surcharge equal to the administrative fees charged by the credit card issuer to the city shall be imposed upon any person making a payment by credit card, when such surcharges are permitted by the operating rules and regulations of the credit card issuer.
(Ord. of 4-8-02)
Sec. 2-113. - Cancellation provisions.
Any agreement with a credit card issuer for the acceptance or payments via credit shall contain a provision that the agreement may be canceled at any time by the city.
(Ord. of 4-8-02)
Sec. 2-114. - Liability for obligations.
No person making payment by credit card to the city is relieved from liability for the underlying obligation except to the extent that the city actually receives final payment of the obligation in cash or its equivalent. If final payment is not made by the credit card issuer or other guarantor of payment in the credit card transaction, the underlying obligation for the money due is not extinguished. All applicable penalties, interest and collection fees on the unpaid amount shall be due from the person making the payment by credit card.
Such penalties, interest and fees on an unpaid amount shall accrue from the date the unpaid obligation was first due under the applicable statute or ordinance. The city shall follow the collection procedures for the unpaid amount that would have otherwise been applicable had the credit card payment not been attempted.
(Ord. of 4-8-02)
Secs. 2-115—2-199. - Reserved.
