SECTION 11. - SIGNS

11.1 - Purpose.
The purpose of this section is to provide for the use, location and size of signs throughout the unincorporated areas of the county, in an orderly manner that will promote traffic safety, provide for adequate identification of uses and minimize confusion, unsightliness and eliminate the excessive number of unnecessary signs of any size.
11.1 [11.2] - Permitted signs in any district.
[The following signs shall be permitted in any district:]
a.
Signs incidental to any legal control process and necessary for the public health, safety and welfare. No fee shall be required.
b.
One nonilluminated real estate sign, not [to] exceed four square feet in area, pertaining only to the sale, lease or rent of a particular building or piece of property. Such signs shall not be any closer than ten feet from any county or state right-of-way. Such sign shall also be removed within five days after the time the building is sold, leased, rented or if the real estate listing of the property is withdrawn. No fee shall be required.
c.
Projects that are proposed to be developed in phases may be permitted one sign, not exceeding 40 square feet in area, and located no closer than 25 feet from any county or state right-of-way. See section 16 for the appropriate fee schedule.
d.
The code enforcement officer may permit the placement of two temporary signs, not exceeding 20 square feet, for a period not to exceed 30 days, announcing a special event. Said signs shall not be located any closer than 25 feet on any county or state right-of-way. No fee is required, but a $50.00 cash bond shall be deposited with the county clerk for the placement of said signs. The bond shall be refunded by the county upon the approval of the removal of the signs by the code enforcement officer. If the signs are not removed within seven days after the event, the cash bond shall be forfeited to the county to defray the cost of removing the signs.
11.2 [11.3] - Permitted signs only in commercial and industrial districts.
a.
Identification signs. Not more than one wall or building face identification sign shall be fixed flat against a wall, building or marquee wall. Such sign shall not exceed 5% of the total of the area of the face of the building to which the sign is affixed. See section 16 for the appropriate fee schedule.
b.
Directive signs. Not more than two directive signs, not to exceed eight square feet may be located not closer than ten feet from any road right-of-way. See section 16 for the appropriate fee schedule.
11.3 [11.4] - Maintenance of signs.
The code enforcement officer may order any sign to be painted or refinished if needed to keep the sign in a neat and safe condition. All supports, guys, braces and anchors for such signs shall be maintained in a safe condition or the code enforcement officer may order the removal of said sign.
