SECTION 13. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS' APPEALS

13-1 - Designation.
The Berrien County Board of Commissioners shall serve as the "appeals board" for the enforcement of this ordinance.
13-2 - Rules and procedures.
Meetings of the board of the county commissioners, acting on an appeal, shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such other times as said board may determine. The decisions of the board shall be by motion, which motion shall contain a statement of the grounds of its decision or action. No appeal requesting the same relief in regard to the same property shall be received or heard by the board for a period of 12 months following the date of said motion, except that this limitation shall not affect the right of said board to grant a rehearing if provided in the rules of procedure adopted by said board.
13-3 - Staff assistance.
The county code enforcement officer may provide such technical, county attorney such legal, county manager such administrative, and county clerk such clerical assistance as is needed by the board to carry out its function under the provisions of these regulations.
13-4 - Appeals process.
[The appeals process shall be as follows:]
13-4.1 Presentation of evidence. The appellant and any public agency or private individual shall be entitled to present evidence on matters before the board, and said board may request technical service, advice, data or factual evidence from the planning commission in reaching decisions.
13-4.2 Extent of board of commissioners' power. The board may, in conformity with the provisions of these regulations, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination of the land development administrator. The board may direct the issuance of a permit. It shall be [the responsibility of the] land development administrator to carry out the decisions of the board.
13-5 - Public hearing.
13-5.1 Notice of hearing shall be given. Before making its decision on an administrative appeal, request for a variance or any other matter within the board's authority, said board shall hold a public hearing thereon. At least 15 days', but not more than 45 days' notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be sent to the appellant or petitioner, to the planning commission, the land development administrator and to the owners of all properties either adjoining the property with which the hearing is concerned or situated directly across a public right-of-way from said property. Such notice shall contain the name of the appellant or petitioner, the date, time and place set for the hearing and a brief statement of the nature of the hearing.
13-5.2 Public notice in newspaper. The board shall give a public notice of the hearing in a newspaper published and circulated in Berrien County, Georgia, by advertisement published at least 15 days, but not more than 45 days prior to the date of the public hearing.
13-5.3 Who may appear. Any party may appear at the public hearing in person or by agent or by attorney.
13-5.4 Time limit on board's decision. The board shall reach a decision following a public hearing within 30 days.
13-6 - Powers and duties.
13-6.1 Appeals from actions of the land development administrator. The board shall hear and decide upon appeals where it is alleged there is an error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the land development administrator in the enforcement of these regulations.
13-6.2 Request for a variance. The board may grant a variance from these regulations not contrary to the public interest or in an individual case, result in an unnecessary hardship. Such variance may be granted in an individual case based upon the finding by the board that:
a.
There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape or topography;
b.
The application of these regulations to this particular piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship;
c.
Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purposes and intent of these regulations;
d.
The board of commissioners may impose or require such additional restrictions and standards (i.e., increased setbacks, buffer strips, screening, etc.) as may be necessary to protect the health and safety of residents and workers in the community, and to protect the value and use of property in the general neighborhood.
13-7 - Request for extension of nonconforming residential uses.
The board may authorize, upon appeal in specific cases, an extension or replacement of an existing nonconforming residential use which the board is specifically authorized to pass on under the terms of this ordinance. Said extension may be granted in an individual case upon a finding by the board that:
a.
The use is a nonconforming use as defined in these regulations; and
b.
The use is in full compliance with all requirements of these regulations applicable to nonconforming uses; and
c.
The extension of said use will not further injure a permitted use on adjacent property in the same district.
d.
This section is specifically designed to allow for the replacement of homeowner occupied residential units in areas no longer zoned for residential uses.
13-8 - Forms.
Appeals from actions of the land development administrator, requests for variances and requests for extensions of nonconforming residential uses shall be made on forms provided by the county for such purposes. All information required on said forms shall be provided by the applicant. Forms shall be filed with the land development administrator, and the applicant shall pay Berrien County a fee as indicated in section 16 for expenses incidental to the appeal. No form shall be accepted by the land development administrator unless it contains all pertinent information and is accompanied by the required fee to defray expenses as set.
