Chapter 38 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Law enforcement, ch. 30; traffic and vehicles, ch. 62.
State Law reference— Authority to adopt ordinances for the purpose of preserving public health, safety and welfare, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 38-1. - Depositing dirt or debris in ditches; covering ditches.
(a)
Property owners are prohibited from depositing any debris/dirt in or covering up any county ditches.
(b)
It is a criminal trespass offense and interference with government property for any property owner to deposit any debris/dirt in or cover up a county ditch. The board of commissioners will prosecute any person violating this subsection, which violation results in damage to any county road and flooding of adjacent properties.
(c)
In addition to any penalty, violators of this section shall be required to pay the cost of clearing and re-digging the ditch.
(Res. No. 93.014, 3-22-1993)
Cross reference— Solid waste, ch. 50.
State Law reference— Littering, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40 et seq.; trespass, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-21.
Secs. 38-2—38-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MASS GATHERINGS[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Control of mass gatherings, O.C.G.A. § 31-27-1.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 38-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Mass gathering means any event likely to attract between 100 and 4,999 persons.
Permit means written authorization to a person by the board of commissioners to operate a mass gathering.
(Res. of 5-24-1993, § 1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 38-32. - Exemptions.
(a)
The provisions of this article shall not apply to mass gathering of 5,000 or more regulated under O.C.G.A. tit. 31, ch. 27 (O.C.G.A. § 31-27-1 et seq.).
(b)
This article shall not apply to any mass gathering which is to be held in any regularly established permanent place of worship, athletic field, auditorium, coliseum or other similar permanently established building within the maximum seating capacity. The provisions of this article shall not apply to fairs and similar industrial-agricultural exhibitions which have been in existence for at least five consecutive years prior to May 24, 1993. The provisions of this article shall not apply to recognized religious gatherings, public sponsored events, family reunions, and agricultural auctions.
(c)
Any other exclusion shall be reviewed and approved by the board of commissioners on a case-by-case basis.
(Res. of 5-24-1993, §§ 7, 8)
Sec. 38-33. - Sanitation facilities.
Adequate sanitation facilities shall be installed and operational not later than 48 hours before the first day of the mass gathering.
(Res. of 5-24-1993, § 3)
Secs. 38-34—38-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 38-51. - Required.
No person shall hold or promote, by advertising or otherwise, a mass gathering, unless a permit has been issued for a gathering. Such permits shall be in writing and shall specify the conditions under which issued, and shall remain in effect until suspended or revoked or until the mass gathering is terminated. The permit shall not be transferable or assignable, and a separate permit shall be required for each mass gathering.
(Res. of 5-24-1993, § 2)
Sec. 38-52. - Application; fee.
(a)
The application form for a permit to promote or hold a mass gathering shall provided by the clerk's office. A completed application is required. A properly completed application shall be submitted to the board of commissioners on a form and in a manner prescribed by the board of commissioners by the person who will promote or hold a mass gathering. Application for a permit to promote or hold a mass gathering shall be made at least 15 days before the first day of advertising and at least 45 days before the first day of the gathering.
(b)
The application shall disclose the names and addresses of all the persons providing financial backing to the mass gathering, and the amounts of such backing.
(c)
The application shall be accompanied by such plans, reports and specifications as the board of commissioners shall deem necessary. The plans, reports and specifications shall provide for adequate and satisfactory water supply and sewage facilities, adequate drainage, adequate toilet and lavatory facilities, adequate refuse storage and disposal facilities, adequate sleeping areas and facilities, wholesome food and sanitary food service, adequate medical facilities, insect control, adequate fire protection, and such other matters as may be appropriate for security of life or health.
(d)
The cost of the permit shall be as established by the board of commissioners.
(Res. of 5-24-1993, §§ 3, 9)
Sec. 38-53. - Actions required prior to issuance.
Prior to the issuance of a permit under this division, the applicant must:
(1)
Provide a plan for limiting attendance, including methods of entering the area, number and location of ticket booths and entrances, and provisions for keeping nonticket holders out of the area;
(2)
Provide a statement verifying that all construction and installation of facilities, including water supply, sewage disposal, insect control, food service equipment and garbage handling facilities, will be completed at least 48 hours prior to the commencement of the event;
(3)
Provide a detailed plan for food service, which must be approved by the county board of health, including a description of food sources, menu, mandatory use of single-service dishes and utensils, refrigeration, and food handling and dispensing;
(4)
Provide a detailed plan for use of signs to locate all facilities and roadways;
(5)
Provide a statement from local fire and police authorities having jurisdiction over the area acknowledging that they can supply adequate security, traffic control and law enforcement for the proposed gathering, or prove that adequate personnel have been retained for police and/or fire protection;
(6)
Provide a detailed plan for emergency situations including:
a.
Food supplies;
b.
Medical supplies, facilities and personnel;
c.
An evacuation plan; and
d.
Emergency access roads;
(7)
Provide a statement from the local emergency management director indicating that he has been advised of the event and has approved the plan from a civil defense standpoint; and
(8)
Provide a command post to be used by county health department personnel consisting of a minimum of one building or trailer equipped with an adequate communication system.
(Res. of 5-24-1993, § 4)
Sec. 38-54. - Excess attendance assessment.
The person promoting or holding a mass gathering shall be assessed at the rate as established by the board of commissioners for each person in attendance beyond the specified number in the application for such mass gathering. Any such assessment shall be remitted to the board of commissioners and credited to the general fund.
(Res. of 5-24-1993, § 6)
Sec. 38-55. - Bond.
(a)
The person holding or promoting a mass gathering shall provide a bond of $1,000,000.00 issued by a surety company authorized to transact business in this state. The bond shall be to guarantee full compliance with this article as well as the other applicable provisions of the state health code and rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. The bond shall also cover up cleanup of the site. This bond shall be in favor of the board of commissioners for the benefit of any person who is damaged as a result of the activity of a mass gathering. Any person claiming against the bond may maintain an action at law against the person holding or promoting the mass gathering and the surety.
(b)
In lieu of furnishing the bond, the person holding or promoting a mass gathering may furnish a deposit in like amount.
(c)
The bond specified in this section shall not be required in cases where the other requirements of this article are met by the applicant for a permit and an incorporated municipality, county or state owns the area upon which the mass gathering is to be held and commits itself, in writing, to clean up the site upon which the gathering is to be held.
(Res. of 5-24-1993, § 5)
Sec. 38-56. - Notice of denial, suspension or revocation.
If it appears necessary and proper that an application for a permit under this division be denied or that a permit previously granted be suspended or revoked, the applicant or holder of the permit shall be notified thereof in writing and shall be afforded an opportunity for hearing.
(Res. of 5-24-1993, § 4)
