Chapter 50 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 10; environment, ch. 22; manufactured homes and trailers, ch. 34; depositing dirt or debris in ditches; covering ditches, § 38-1.
State Law reference— Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; authorization to provide garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(2).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 50-1—50-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Solid waste management, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.

Sec. 50-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Board means the legally designated and qualified governing authority of the county, the county board of commissioners.
Collector means a person who, under agreement, verbal or written, with or without compensation, does the work of collecting and/or transporting and/or disposing of solid waste from industries, offices, retail outlets, businesses, institutions and/or similar locations, or from residential dwellings; provided, however, that this definition shall not include an individual collecting and/or transporting waste from his own single-family dwelling unit.
County clerk means the person, or his duly qualified representative, authorized by the board to implement and enforce the provisions of this article. If the board hires a full-time county manager, the county manager shall assume the duties of the county clerk set forth in this article. The clerk will reassume these duties during periods when the county does not have a manager.
Disposal facility means any facility or location where any treatment, utilization, processing or deposition of solid waste occurs.
Disposal operation means the performance of solid waste disposal, and includes administration, personnel, land, equipment, design and other elements necessary or useful in the work of solid waste disposal.
Disposal site means the location or land area where the final disposition of solid waste occurs.
Garbage means food waste, including waste accumulation of animal or vegetable matter used or intended for use as food, or that attends the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetables.
Hazardous waste means solid or liquid waste material resulting from the manufacture or use of pesticides and drugs (other than normal household use), pathological wastes, highly flammable or explosive wastes, toxic wastes, sewage sludge, and other waste material determined to be a likely hazard to the public health, safety or the environment.
Nonresident solid waste means solid waste which is brought into the county by individuals or businesses located outside of the county.
Scavenge means the uncontrolled picking from discarded waste materials.
Solid waste means putrescible and nonputrescible wastes, except water-carried body waste, and shall include garbage, rubbish, ashes, street refuse, dead animals, sewage sludge, animal manures, industrial wastes, residues from incineration, food processing wastes, construction wastes, hazardous wastes and any other waste material in a solid or semisolid state not otherwise defined in this article.
Solid waste handling means the storage, collection, transportation, treatment, utilization, processing, or disposing of solid wastes, or any combination thereof.
Transfer station means a facility used to transfer solid wastes from one transportation vehicle to another for transportation to a disposal facility.
(Ord. of 11-8-1993, § II)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 50-32. - Penalties.
The following penalties apply to unlawful dumping or storing of waste:
(1)
First offense:
a.
County residents: Written warning plus costs of removal.
b.
Nonresidents: $50.00 fine plus costs of removal.
(2)
Second offense.
a.
County residents: $50.00 fine plus cost of removal.
b.
Nonresidents: $100.00 fine plus costs of removal.
(3)
Third or greater offense.
a.
County residents: $250.00 fine plus cost of removal.
b.
Nonresidents: $700.00 fine plus costs of removal.
(Ord. of 11-8-1993, § X(H))
Sec. 50-33. - Administration and enforcement; appeals.
(a)
The county clerk is authorized and directed to administer and enforce the provisions of this article. He shall have control of solid waste facilities, equipment and personnel and shall organize and operate a publicly owned solid waste collection, transportation, and disposal system, and he shall inspect and regulate the operations of private collectors and private transportation and disposal systems to the end that such operations shall be in compliance with this article. All regulatory actions of the county clerk shall be subject to the review of the board of commissioners.
(b)
Any duly sworn law officer of the county is hereby authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this article.
(c)
Any person aggrieved by a requirement of or fee charged by the county clerk shall have the right to appeal to the board of commissioners, which may, upon hearing, confirm, modify, or revoke such requirements or fees.
(Ord. of 11-8-1993, § III)
Sec. 50-34. - Financing of solid waste management program.
To ensure adequate financing of a comprehensive solid waste management program, the county clerk shall annually submit to the board a proposed budget for the ensuing fiscal year. The board shall take such action as it deems appropriate as to the budget and shall give due consideration to the budget, in its final form, in the establishment of the required tipping fee/user fee for the ensuing fiscal year. If the county elects to close its landfill, as is now projected, this section shall be amended accordingly.
(Ord. of 11-8-1993, § IX)
Sec. 50-35. - Unauthorized accumulations of waste; storage of waste; containers.
(a)
No person shall keep or store solid waste outside of any residence or building in the county except in proper containers or otherwise prepared as set forth in this article. Any unauthorized accumulation of solid waste is hereby declared a nuisance and is prohibited. The county clerk by written notice shall notify the owner or occupant of any premises with such accumulation and failure to remove such accumulation by the owner within ten days of the date of such written notice to do so shall be deemed a violation of this article and shall subject the owner to the penalties set forth in this article. Each day's failure to remove such accumulation shall be a separate violation. This subsection shall apply whether the owner or occupant of such premises disposes of his own solid waste on the premises or not.
(b)
All solid wastes that are likely to attract flies, rodents, dogs, cats, or other animals, or to blow and litter the landscape, or to create odors or vapors, or in any way to create a nuisance, are required to be placed in approved containers. Approved containers may be cans constructed of metal or plastic, essentially leakproof, rodentproof and flyproof and with tightfitting lids, or may be disposable paper or plastic bags intended for garbage and essentially flyproof and rodentproof.
(c)
All materials provided for collection shall be containerized/bagged pursuant to the requirements of the current county waste management collection contract.
(Ord. of 11-8-1993, § IV)
Sec. 50-36. - Green boxes.
(a)
The county has provided green metal solid waste storage containers located at strategic sites throughout the county. These containers are designed and intended for use for household solid waste only.
(b)
No person shall place any construction refuse, land clearing or tree trimming refuse, appliances, bed springs, scrap iron, rocks, dead animals, incinerator residues, concrete, furniture, or similar bulky noncompatible materials within these containers, nor shall any substance classed as hazardous waste be placed therein. Scavenging in or around the containers is prohibited.
(c)
Collection from these storage containers by county collection vehicles should be performed at least two times per week and more often in high solid waste generation areas.
(d)
No persons located outside of the county shall be allowed to use the county green boxes for the disposal of nonresident solid waste. Those persons found in violation of this section shall be subject to the penalties set forth in this article, except as otherwise provided in this article.
(Ord. of 11-8-1993, § V)
Sec. 50-37. - Disposal of dead animals.
(a)
Disposition of dead animals is the exclusive responsibility of the owner of such animals. In specific instances, if the owner is not known, the county will dispose of dead animals, but as soon as the owner of such animal is determined he shall be liable to the county for the full costs of disposing of such animals.
(b)
No person shall allow dead animals to remain on or in front of his premises more than 24 hours without proper burial or other approved disposition. Each 24-hour period excepting the first shall be deemed a separate violation subject to the penalties set forth in this article.
(Ord. of 11-8-1993, § VIII)
Sec. 50-38. - Disposal of yard trimmings.
(a)
Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
Commercial solid waste means all types of solid waste generated by stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses and other nonmanufacturing activities, excluding residential and industrial wastes.
Composting means the controlled biological decomposition of organic matter into a stable, odor-free humus.
County solid waste means any solid waste derived from households, including garbage, trash and sanitary waste in septic tanks, and includes solid waste from single-family and multifamily residences, hotels and motels, bunkhouses, campgrounds, picnic grounds, and day use recreation areas. The term includes yard trimmings and commercial solid waste but does not include solid waste from mining, agricultural or silvacultural operations or industrial processes or operations.
County solid waste disposal facility means any facility or location where the final deposition of any amount of county solid waste occurs, whether or not mixed with or including commercial or industrial solid waste, including but not limited to municipal solid waste landfills.
County solid waste landfill means a disposal facility where any amount of county solid waste, whether or not mixed with or including commercial waste, industrial waste, nonhazardous sludges or small quantity generator hazardous waste, is disposed of by means of placing an approved cover thereon.
Leachate collection system means a system at a landfill for collection of the leachate which may percolate through the waste and into the soils surrounding the landfill.
Yard trimmings means leaves, brush, grass clippings, shrub and tree prunings, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals, and vegetative matter resulting from landscaping development and maintenance, other than mining, agricultural and silvacultural operations.
(b)
Disposal restricted.
(1)
It shall be unlawful to place or mix yard trimmings with county solid waste within the unincorporated areas of the county.
(2)
Yard trimmings shall not be disposed of at any county solid waste disposal facility located within the unincorporated areas of the county.
(c)
Penalty. Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall, upon conviction in the magistrate court, be punished as provided in section 1-7 and section 50-32.
(Ord. of 9-23-1996)
Sec. 50-39. - Disposal of hazardous materials or construction waste at county-operated collection site.
The deposit of hazardous waste materials or construction waste materials, including lumber, masonry materials and roofing shingles, into any county-operated solid waste collection site is prohibited. Violations of this section are punishable in accordance with section 1-7.
(Ord. of 4-30-2001, § I)
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 22.
Sec. 50-40. - Scavenging at county-operated collection site.
Scavenging through solid waste deposited at a county-operated solid waste collection sites is prohibited. Violations of this section are punishable in accordance with section 1-7.
(Ord. of 4-30-2001, § II)
Sec. 50-41. - Private collection, transportation and disposal.
(a)
Standards for vehicles. Vehicles used for collection and transportation of solid waste shall be kept clean and in good repair. They shall be constructed in such a manner that the contents thereof cannot be spilled, leaked or blown from the vehicle. In addition, vehicles used by collectors shall be readily identifiable by letters not less than three inches high and easily legible, painted on the door of the cab or in an equally conspicuous place, showing the owner's name and telephone number, vehicle number if more than one, state permit number, and rated load capacity in cubic yards.
(b)
Collector's license.
(1)
Required; contents of application. No person may act as a private collector of solid waste within the confines of the county unless he has first applied for and received a valid license from the board of commissioners' office. No license shall be issued to any person unless that person has obtained and currently possesses a current state permit issued pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-8-24. Applications for the license must be received by the county clerk at least 15 days prior to January 1 of each year. The application must supply, but shall not be limited to, the following information:
a.
The number and date of the applicant's state permit for a solid waste collection and/or disposal site.
b.
Number of vehicles, capacity, type and vehicle identification number, and number of employees for each vehicle.
c.
The names of industrial and commercial establishments and the number of residences to be served.
d.
If the applicant does not operate a disposal site, the name and state permit number of any disposal site to which he transports solid waste.
(2)
Processing of application. The county clerk shall consider such applications within 14 working days of receipt. He shall evaluate the accuracy of data submitted and the applicant's capacity to perform his proposed solid waste operation within the requirements of this article in a satisfactory manner.
(3)
Action on application. The application with appropriate signed recommendations shall then be forwarded by the county clerk to the board, which shall take such action upon the application as it deems advisable and shall thereupon notify the applicant of the action taken and, in case of denial, the reason therefor.
(4)
Fee. The license fee for approved applications shall be as determined by the board of commissioners. It shall be payable at the time the initial license is issued and annually on or before January 1 thereafter. Such payment may be prorated per month or fraction of a month for the remainder of the year in which the license is first approved. Licenses shall not be transferable and license fees shall not be refundable. Licenses shall be subject to suspension or revocation for violation of this article; provided that, prior to suspension or revocation, the board shall afford the alleged violator an opportunity to be heard as to reasons, if any, why such order for suspension or revocation should not be issued, and following such hearing the board shall take such action as it deems to be fit and proper.
(5)
Penalties. Any license holder that fails to renew such license by January 1 of each year shall pay a penalty of ten percent in addition to the regular license fee. If such license renewal fee is not paid by January 15, the clerk shall notify the license holder to cease solid waste collection in the county until such license is reinstated.
(c)
Out-of-county solid waste disposal.
(1)
Only a generator authorized by the board as provided in this section shall be authorized to dispose of its solid waste within the boundaries of the county.
(2)
No operator shall be given permission by the board to dispose within the county solid waste that is generated outside the county unless the county's comprehensive solid waste management plan indicates there is available projected excess capacity.
(3)
If projected excess capacity exists in permitted solid waste handling facilities within the county, the board will authorize (give permission) for the disposal in the county of solid waste generated outside its corporate limits subject to the following conditions:
a.
The generator must have a comprehensive solid waste management plan meeting the requirements of the state department of community affairs as required under O.C.G.A. tit. 12, ch. 8 (O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1 et seq.). If the generator is outside the state, it must have adopted a comprehensive solid waste plan that meets or exceeds the minimum standards and specifications required by the state department of community affairs under the referenced code sections.
b.
The generator must petition the board in writing and provide any supporting documentation the board may reasonably require. The board will then schedule a public hearing to consider the petition.
c.
Permission cannot exceed the requested timeframe of the generator's plan at the time of application or ten years from the date of permission, if granted, whichever is less.
d.
All recycling and other volume reduction measures required in the generator's plan must be accomplished prior to the solid waste crossing county boundaries.
e.
The board shall review each petition and make its determination based on:
1.
The generator's amount and volume of solid waste to be disposed of within the county.
2.
The generator's planned reduction in solid waste generation.
3.
The generator's permitted and planned disposal capacity within the generator's boundaries.
4.
The generator's recycling and composting activities, both planned and existing.
5.
The generator's public information and education efforts.
6.
The generator's participation within a regional comprehensive solid waste management plan.
7.
Compatibility with the state solid waste management plan.
8.
The generator's ability to fund expenses of implementing authorization.
9.
Other items that relate to effective solid waste management.
f.
Each generator authorized to dispose of solid waste within the county shall be responsible for ensuring that each vehicle of conveyance of solid waste entering the county shall be accompanied by a manifest of the solid waste being transported, a copy of which manifest shall be maintained as a permanent record at the facility accepting the solid waste.
(Ord. of 11-8-1993, § VI; Ord. of 3-10-2003)
State Law reference— Solid waste plan, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; transport of trash and garbage across state and county lines, O.C.G.A. § 31-1-16.
Sec. 50-42. - Authorized disposal sites.
All disposal of solid waste shall be at disposal sites licensed by the state environmental protection division and operated in accordance with the rules and regulations of the state department of natural resources and at no other place.
(Ord. of 11-8-1993, § VII)
State Law reference— Permit for solid waste facility, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-24.
