Chapter 16 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 16-1—16-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT

Sec. 16-19. - Fire department to answer calls in areas served with city water.
The fire department of the city is hereby authorized and directed to answer all calls within the city and all fire calls within areas served by city water.
(Code 1986, § 10-1)
Sec. 16-20. - Compensation of volunteer department.
The city shall pay the volunteer fire department a fee in the amount established by the city for services performed at all fires.
(Code 1986, § 10-3)
Sec. 16-21. - Fire protection outside the city's limits.
The members of the fire department of the city are authorized and directed to render firefighting service to owners or occupants of premises outside the corporate limits of the city within the area described in the following section, on the terms and conditions set forth in this article.
(1)
The area covered by this article shall include all the land lying within three miles from the corporate limits in all directions.
(2)
Such services shall be rendered only to premises the owner of which shall have signed an agreement to abide by and accept the terms of this article and shall have paid the rates herein prescribed. That agreement may be in the following form:
To the City of Oglethorpe, Georgia:
I hereby request that the city extend its firefighting service to the property owned by me, described as follows:
This agreement shall be for a period of one year from the date of this request.
I hereby tender payment of the sum of $ _____ as consideration for the services hereby requested.
I accept all the terms and conditions of the ordinances of the city governing such service, and such terms and conditions are hereby made a part of this agreement.
I further understand and agree that nothing in this agreement shall place any liability on the city nor any member of the fire department for any failure to respond to a call for service to any of the premises covered by the terms of this agreement or for any act performed or failure to act, when responding to such a call or on the premises in response thereto.
Dated this _____ day of _____ 20___.
Signature of owner or occupant ___________
(3)
The rate for such service shall be as established by the city. All fees so paid shall be used for the maintenance of the fire department.
(4)
No such service shall be offered to cover any premises that have not been inspected by the fire marshal or fire inspector and found to be in proper condition and free from undue hazards. All premises covered in accordance with terms of this agreement shall be open to inspection by the fire marshal, or by anyone else designated by the city council, at any time; and the agreement for extending service evidenced by this article and the payment of the rate herein described may be canceled by the city any time by refunding the proportionate part of the rate paid for the unexpired term.
(5)
The rights created by accepting the provisions hereof and paying the charge prescribed shall run with the land and the benefits thereof shall accrue to any person acquiring title to any premises covered thereby; provided such person shall sign an agreement accepting the provisions of this article.
(6)
The fire department shall not leave the city in rendering service under this article at any time when it is actually responding to an alarm within the city or fighting a fire therein, and no service shall be rendered to premises outside to city, unless at the time one complete unit of firefighting apparatus and sufficient members of the fire department to operate it remain in the city.
(7)
Neither the city nor any member of the fire department shall be under any liability for failure to respond to a call for service to any of the premises covered by the terms of this article or for any act performed, or failure to act when responding to such call or on the premises in response thereto.
(8)
Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the fire department from rendering assistance to fire departments in neighboring cities even though they may be outside the above-described limits.
(Code 1986, § 10-4)
