Chapter 6 - ANIMALS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Animals generally, O.C.G.A. § 4-1-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - City designated bird sanctuary.
(a)
The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the city is hereby designated as a bird sanctuary.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to shoot or molest in any manner any bird or wild fowl or to rob bird nests or wild fowl nests. Provided, however, if vandal birds are found to be congregating in such numbers in a particular locality that they constitute a nuisance or menace to health or property in the opinion of the proper health authorities of the city, such authority is authorized to approve the destruction of such birds.
(c)
Any individual may prevent any such vandal birds from destroying crops of fruit without authority of a health officer.
(Code 1986, § 5-1)
Sec. 6-2. - Livestock—Running at large prohibited.
It shall be unlawful to allow any dog, cat, horse, mule, cow, hog, goat, or other domestic animal, to run at large on the streets of the city.
(Code 1986, § 5-2)
Sec. 6-3. - Same—Impounding required.
The police are required to seize and impound any livestock found running at large in violation of section 6-2, and to safely keep the same until it shall be redeemed by its owner, upon the payment of a pound fee in the amount established by the city for each head so impounded, and all costs of caring for and feeding the same while so impounded.
(Code 1986, § 5-3)
Sec. 6-4. - Same—Redemption or sale.
In case said livestock shall not be redeemed within five days from the date of its seizure, the police shall cause same to be advertised and sold as an estray, as provided by the laws of the state, if the owner is unknown. But if the owner is known, and he shall fail to redeem such livestock within five days after notice of its impoundment, he shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
(Code 1986, § 5-4)
Sec. 6-5. - Fowl running at large.
It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or person having control of any chickens, ducks, turkeys or other domestic fowl to permit same to run at large upon any street or public ground or upon the property of any other person.
(Code 1986, § 5-5)
Sec. 6-6. - Cleanliness of premises for animals, fowl.
All places and premises in the city where horses, mules, cattle, rabbits, dogs, pigs, hogs, chickens, or other animals or fowl are harbored or confined shall be kept clean, sanitary, and free of noxious odors and shall be maintained in such a manner as will effectively prevent the propagation of flies in or about such premises. The maintaining or ownership of a place or premises in violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor, and, in addition, such place or premises shall be deemed a nuisance and may be abated in accordance with law.
(Code 1986, § 5-7)
Sec. 6-7. - Care of animals.
It shall be unlawful for any person whether owner, person in possession, or any person in charge of any animal to fail, refuse, or neglect to provide such animal with the necessary food and water as well as necessary medical treatment for such animal.
(Code 1986, § 5-25; Ord. of 8-18-1986, art. II, § 5-25)
Secs. 6-8—6-32. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DOGS AND CATS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Dogs, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-1 et seq.

Sec. 6-33. - Definitions.
Whenever used in this article, unless a contrary intention is clearly evident, the following terms shall be interpreted as herein defined:
Cat means and includes all members of the feline family, three months or more of age.
Dog means and includes all members of the canine family, three months or more of age, and also pet foxes, wolves, etc.
Inoculation against rabies means the injection, subcutaneously or otherwise as approved by the state department of public health.
Owner means and includes any person having a right of property in the dog or cat, or who keeps or harbors a dog or cat, or who has it in such person's care, or acts as its custodian, or who permits a dog or cat to remain on or about any premises occupied by him.
(Code 1986, § 5-13)
Sec. 6-34. - Impoundment.
(a)
In addition to the penalties hereinafter provided, any police officer of the city or any other person designated by the mayor and council will impound any dog which does not carry the inoculation and registration tags. Said animal shall be impounded in whatever facility that has been established by the mayor and council for that purpose including any veterinary hospital under contract with the city. The owner may obtain possession of any dog so impounded or seized by paying an impounding fee in the amount established by the city as well as paying the costs of keeping such dog during the time that it is impounded; provided, however, that said dog shall not be released until proof has been furnished to the impounding facility that the dog has been inoculated with anti-rabies vaccine and has been licensed as provided herein.
(b)
Any dog impounded for any reason authorized by this article which has been licensed and carries a registration tag shall have its owner notified immediately by the impounding officers and not later than 24 hours after impoundment.
(c)
Any dog so impounded which has not been licensed and does not carry a license tag shall have a description of the animal posted with the impounding facility and a copy posted with the police department and at the city hall, which notice shall be posted for a period of seven days. If at the end of seven days no person claims ownership of that dog, the impounding facility is authorized to dispose of that animal in a humane manner or may allow any one to adopt the animal; provided the person adopting the animal has the animal vaccinated and licensed as provided herein.
(Code 1986, § 5-21; Ord. of 8-18-1986, art. I, § 5-21)
Sec. 6-35. - Authority to destroy dogs or cats that cannot be caught.
The city police and dog catcher, after once attempting to catch a dog or cat and failing to catch said dog or cat, may destroy the dog or cat, male or female found running at large without registration and inoculation tags as required by this article.
(Code 1986, § 5-16)
Sec. 6-36. - Authority to destroy dangerous dogs.
The city police and dog catcher shall destroy all dangerous, vicious and mad dogs or cats found within the city, whether they shall be tagged or not.
(Code 1986, § 5-17)
Sec. 6-37. - Licenses.
(a)
Each owner or person residing within the limits of the city in possession of a dog, being any canine more than six months of age on January 1 of any year or six months of age at any time within the year after the January 1 of each year and within 30 days from the date such dog becomes six months of age, must pay a dog license tax to the city and obtain a license therefor. The license year shall commence on January 1 of each year. Such dog license tax shall be as established by the city. Such license tax shall be paid at the city hall.
(b)
Any owner or person in possession of a dog residing outside of the limits of the city may obtain a license by complying with this article.
(Code 1986, §§ 5-18, 5-22; Ord. of 8-18-1986, art. I, §§ 5-18, 5-22)
Sec. 6-38. - Vaccination.
It shall be the duty of each dog owner or person in possession thereof to have such dog inoculated with anti-rabies vaccine or any other similar vaccine by a veterinarian as required by the laws of the state. It shall be the duty of each dog owner or person in possession thereof, to have an inoculation tag firmly affixed to that dog at all times. No license can issue for registration of a dog without the owner or person in possession presenting evidence to the city that said dog has been inoculated for rabies.
(Code 1986, § 5-19; Ord. of 8-18-1986, art. I, § 5-19)
Sec. 6-39. - Certificate and tag.
Upon payment of the license fee, the city clerk shall deliver to the owner or person in possession of the dog an appropriate certificate and tag for each dog registered. The certificate shall include the name and address of the owner of the dog, date of vaccination, tag number, breed, color, age, sex, and such other information as may be required. Each owner or person in possession of the dog must firmly affix the tag to that dog, which tag must be worn at all times, and it shall be unlawful for any owner or person in possession of a dog to allow the dog to go about without having the inoculation tag and license tag affixed to said dog.
(Code 1986, § 5-20; Ord. of 8-18-1986, art. I, § 5-20)
