Chapter 26 - HEALTH AND SANITATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 10; environment, ch. 18; manufactured homes, ch. 34; planning, ch. 42; solid waste, ch. 54; subdivisions, app. A.
State Law reference— Promulgation of rules, regulations and standards by state department of human resources and county boards of health, O.C.G.A. § 26-2-373; power of county board of health to adopt and enforce rules and regulations, O.C.G.A. § 31-3-4(a)(4); power of county board of health to adopt rules and regulations of local application, O.C.G.A. § 31-3-6.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 26-1. - Requests for county assistance in disposal of dead animals.
Persons who desire assistance from the county in the disposal of large dead animals must make a request through the county board of health (county health sanitarian). The health sanitarian must certify that a health hazard exists and that to the best of his knowledge the owner does not possess equipment to complete disposal of the animals. A fee in an amount as provided in the schedule of fees and charges must be paid, and the owner must sign a hold harmless agreement and certification before any disposal action is taken by employees of the county.
(Code 1992, § 18-1)
Editor's note— The form to request assistance in the disposal of dead animals is on file in the county health department.
Secs. 26-2—26-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6.

Sec. 26-36. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any person who shall violate this article shall, upon conviction, be punished for a misdemeanor in the magistrate court of the county. Persons convicted shall be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 1992, § 18-26)
Sec. 26-37. - Fee.
An annual fee will be charged for each food service establishment. These charges will be payable upon notification by health authorities.
(Code 1992, § 18-27)
Sec. 26-38. - Display of inspection certificate.
Every food service establishment in the county shall display, in a place designated by the county health department, the most recent inspection certificate of the food service establishment.
(Code 1992, § 18-28)
Sec. 26-39. - Operation and maintenance standards.
Operation and maintenance of food service establishments in the county shall be based upon the rules and regulations for food service as adopted by the state department of human resources on September 3, 1986. Such rules and regulations are attached to the ordinance from which this article is derived and are hereby incorporated into and made a part of this article.
(Code 1992, § 18-29)
Sec. 26-40. - Permit required.
(a)
Prior to the commencement of operations of a new food service establishment, mobile food unit, temporary food service operation or a restricted food service operation in the county, and/or prior to transfer of ownership or relocation of an existing food service establishment, mobile food unit, temporary food service operation or a restricted food service operation in the county, a food service establishment permit must be obtained from the county health department.
(b)
The application for the food service establishment permit shall be filed ten days prior to commencement of operations with the county health department environmental health section and disclose the following information:
(1)
The name of the food service establishment;
(2)
The address of the physical location of the food service establishment or commissary in the case of a mobile unit;
(3)
The name, address, telephone number of the business owner and authorized agent; and
(4)
The date operation is to begin and/or end;
(c)
It shall be the duty of the county health department environmental health officer to evaluate and issue food service permits for those sites that comply with the county board of health's rules and regulations for food service establishments. Any cost of said permit shall be set by the county board of health. It shall be the duty of the business owner to request evaluation by the environmental health officer to determine if the food service establishment complies with the rules and regulations for food service establishments as promulgated by the county health department prior to the commencement of operations.
(d)
Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate the provisions of this section by operating a food service establishment in the county without first having applied for and been granted a permit for a food service establishment permit for the proposed location by the environmental health officer of the county, shall be punished by fine or imprisonment or both not exceeding a fine of $500.00 or imprisonment for 60 days or both. (O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20)
Violators of this section shall be prosecuted by the county environmental health officer in the magistrate court of the county without a jury. The magistrate court may suspend any fine or sentence upon statement by the person signing affidavit that satisfactory compliance with the requirements of this section have been met. Review of convictions shall be certiorari to the superior court.
(e)
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provisions of the county department of health's rules and regulations for food service establishments and has not fully corrected such violation after 30 days notice by the environmental health officer shall be punished by fine or imprisonment not exceeding a fine of $500.00 or imprisonment for 60 days or both. (O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20)
Violators of this section shall be prosecuted by the county environmental health officer in the magistrate court of the county without a jury. The magistrate court may suspend any fine or sentence upon statement by the person signing affidavit that satisfactory compliance with the requirements of this section have been met. Review of convictions shall be certiorari to the superior court.
(f)
The county environmental health officer as used in this section shall be the person appointed by the county board of health as the board's employee or agent responsible for the environmental health duties of the county board of health.
(g)
The county board of health rules and regulations for food service establishments used in this section shall be those adopted and approved for use by the county board of health. (O.C.G.A. § 31-5)
(Ord. of 6-15-1998(1), §§ 1—5, 7, 8)
Secs. 26-41—26-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - SEWAGE DISPOSAL

Sec. 26-71. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any person who shall violate this article shall, upon conviction, be punished for a misdemeanor in the magistrate court of the county pursuant to 1955 Ga. Laws, page 3204. Persons convicted shall be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 1992, § 18-51)
Sec. 26-72. - Suitable toilet facilities required.
(a)
Each and every premises shall be provided with at least one separate pit privy or one separate flush toilet in accordance with the provisions of this article. No other types of toilets shall be permitted.
(b)
All toilets shall be kept clean, sanitary and in good repair. No person shall abuse or misuse a toilet or place anything therein which the toilet was not intended to accommodate.
(Code 1992, § 18-52)
Sec. 26-73. - Disposal of wastes.
(a)
Disposal of human excrement.
(1)
It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of any human excrement except in a toilet.
(2)
In areas where permanent toilet facilities are not available, approved portable facilities shall be provided. These facilities shall be kept clean, sanitary and in good repair.
(b)
Disposal of other wastes.
(1)
All sinks, lavatories, basins, showerbaths, bathtubs, stationary laundry tubs or automatic washing machines, or similar plumbing fixtures or appliances, shall be connected to a public sewer or to septic tanks; provided that, where no sewer is available and where the use of a septic tank is not suitable or possible, other private sewage disposal facilities approved by the health officer shall be used.
(2)
No industrial or commercial wastes shall be discharged into any watercourse, impoundment, storm sewer or public thoroughfare, except in such manner and after such treatment as the health officer may deem satisfactory.
(Code 1992, § 18-53)
Sec. 26-74. - Flush toilets.
(a)
Every flush toilet shall be connected to a public sewer or to a septic tank; provided that, where a public sewer is not available and where the use of a septic tank is not suitable or possible, other private or semiprivate sewage disposal facilities approved by the health officer shall be used.
(b)
Flush toilets shall be provided at all times with sufficient running water under pressure to flush the toilet clean after each use.
(Code 1992, § 18-54)
Sec. 26-75. - Minimum size of residential lots when served by individual disposal system.
(a)
A residential lot which will be served by a water supply other than an individual water supply, but which will require the installation of an individual sewage disposal system, shall have a minimum area of 16,000 square feet, except in special cases deemed to be a hardship. Upon a finding by the board of commissioners, based on information furnished by the developer at the time of the application for development plan approval, that safe and sanitary installations cannot be made on lots of 16,000 square feet, the board of commissioners may require that the lot size be increased.
(b)
Except in special cases deemed to be a hardship, a residential lot which will require installation of a private water supply and private sewage disposal system shall have an area of not less than 32,000 square feet, exclusive of easements within which septic tank fields will not be permitted. Upon a finding by the board of commissioners, based on information furnished by the developer at the time of application for development plan approval, that safe and sanitary installations cannot be made on lots of 32,000 square feet, the board of commissioners may require that the lot size be increased.
(Code 1992, § 18-55)
Sec. 26-76. - Operation and maintenance of individual disposal systems.
Operation and maintenance of individual sewage disposal systems in the county, with the exceptions stated in this article, shall be based upon rules and regulations for on-site sewage management systems as adopted by the state department of human resources on April 27, 1984. Such rules and regulations are attached to the ordinance from which this article is derived and are hereby incorporated into and made a part of this article.
(Code 1992, § 18-56)
