Chapter 42 - PLANNING[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Any zoning ordinance saved from repeal, § 1-4(10); administration, ch. 2; buildings and building regulations, ch. 10; environment, ch. 18; health and sanitation, ch. 26; manufactured homes, ch. 34; roads, ch. 46; signs, ch. 50; subdivisions, app. A.
State Law reference— The Zoning Procedures Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.; coordinated and comprehensive planning by counties and municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-70-1 et seq.; regional development centers, O.C.G.A. § 50-8-30 et seq.; area planning and development commissions succeeded by regional development centers, O.C.G.A. § 50-8-41.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 42-1—42-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LAND USE

Sec. 42-31. - Purpose.
While the county does not have and is not presently considering the adoption of a comprehensive zoning ordinance, nonetheless, the county must consider policies and procedures affecting land use within the unincorporated areas of the county. The purpose of this article is to delineate the procedures that will be employed when a land use policy is being considered and the various factors that will be employed by the board of commissioners in considering the adoption of any new land use policy or any amendment to an existing policy.
Sec. 42-32. - Notice of hearing.
Anytime a policy or procedure affecting land use within the unincorporated areas of the county is to be considered by the commissioners the public shall be given notice by advertisement in the legal organ of the county at least 15 days prior to the date of the hearing. The notice shall state the matters which will be brought before the commissioners for consideration and the time, place and date of the hearing. If third parties are requesting the consideration of the adoption of the new policy or a change in existing policy then it shall be their responsibility to comply with this provision for public notice; otherwise, it shall be the responsibility of the board of commissioners.
Sec. 42-33. - Hearing procedures.
(a)
Hearings under this article before the board of commissioners shall be at all times public and all discussions and deliberations shall be conducted in an open meeting; provided, however, that nothing contained in this article shall prohibit the board from going into executive session for the purpose of discussing legal ramifications involving the matter under consideration with the county attorney and such discussions shall be considered occurring by virtue of the attorney-client relationship.
(b)
The chairman or his designee shall conduct the hearing and shall have the right to reasonably limit the time which any person supporting the proposal or any person opposing the proposal shall have to address the commissioners. The chairman shall also, in his discretion, have the right to limit the number of persons who will be allowed to address the board.
(c)
The proponents of the proposal shall be given the first opportunity to present their case and the opponents shall then follow. At the end of the presentations, one person representing the proponents and one person representing those opposing the proposal shall be given the opportunity to make a brief summary to the board.
(d)
If either the proponents or those opposing the proposal are represented by an attorney, then such representation shall be disclosed to the chairman or his designee immediately prior to the hearing; and the attorney's clients' statements during the hearing will be limited to answering questions propounded by their attorney.
(e)
Once the chairman has determined that all third party presentations have been completed the board shall then discuss the matter and vote upon any appropriately presented motion. Once board discussion has begun then no further evidence may be presented or arguments made either for or against the proposal. Nothing contained in this article shall limit the ability of the chairman or individual commissioners to ask questions of the proponents or opponents which may be raised as a result of board member discussions.
Sec. 42-34. - Standards and factors to be considered for all land use proposals.
(a)
The following are standards and factors to be considered for all land use proposals:
(1)
Existing land use patterns.
(2)
Changes in property conditions or land use patterns since the time of any prior consideration of a similar proposal.
(3)
Effect upon the public health and welfare, if any, of the county as a whole or any particular segment of the county.
(4)
The cost to local government for providing, improving, increasing or maintaining public services.
(5)
Whether the proposal requires a major change in existing levels of public service which the county is not feasibly prepared to offer.
(6)
Effect upon public transportation.
(7)
Effect upon public safety.
(8)
The general aesthetic affect, if any, of the proposal.
(9)
Impact on the environment, including, but not limited to drainage, soil erosion and sedimentation, flooding, air quality and water quality and quantity.
(10)
Whether there exists a substantial need for the proposal.
(11)
The relative gain to the public, as compared to any alleged hardship that might be imposed upon an individual property owner and the relative loss to the public, as compared to any benefit that might be gained by any individual property owner.
(12)
Whether there are other existing or changing conditions within the county affecting the use and development of the property which gives supporting grounds for either approval or disapproval of the proposal.
(13)
Any other factors relevant to the balancing of the public interest in protecting and promoting the public health, safety and general welfare of the county and its citizens as compared to the right of unrestricted use of property.
(14)
Any other good and sufficient cause mitigating either for or against the proposal so long as such causes can legally be considered by the commissioners in rendering a land use decision.
(b)
Whenever any municipality within the county proposes to annex any portion of the unincorporated area of the county, the annexing municipality shall provide the county with reasonable notice in writing of the proposed land use classification, including zoning (if applicable), of the area that is proposed for annexation. Such written notice shall be provided to the county no less than 90 days prior to the final action necessary to accomplish the annexation.
(c)
If the county objects in writing to any part of the proposed land use classifications, the municipality and the county shall each appoint representatives to negotiate and resolve the dispute.
(d)
If the dispute cannot be resolved by the representatives appointed pursuant to subsection (c) of this section, the municipality and the county will engage in mediation to resolve the dispute with a mediator selected from the list of mediators approved by the state department of community affairs.
(e)
If the dispute cannot be resolved through mediation pursuant to subsection (d) of this section, the municipality and the county shall submit the dispute to a panel of three arbitrators. One arbitrator shall be selected by the municipality, one arbitrator shall be selected by the county, and the third arbitrator shall be selected by the two arbitrators selected by the municipality and the county. The parties agree that the results of the arbitration shall be binding on the municipality and the county, and either party may enforce the decision of the arbitrators in any court of competent jurisdiction through mandamus, specific performance or any other available equitable remedy.
