ARTICLE XIII. - CONTRIBUTIONS

Section 13.01. - Adopting Employer Contributions.
The Adopting Employer shall make the necessary Contributions to fund the Plan. The amount of these Contributions shall be based upon the actuarial assumptions adopted by the Board of Trustees, the benefits provided in the Plan, and the number of Participants and their respective ages, Earnings, and lengths of Creditable Service and such other factors as the Board of Trustees shall deem appropriate to assure proper funding of the Plan. Contributions by the Adopting Employer shall be applied as necessary to assure the payment of Accrued Benefits to Participants and Beneficiaries. Employer Contributions received by GMEBS by the last day of any month shall accrue Interest from the first day of the following month.
Section 13.02. - Employee Contributions.
Participants or certain classes of Participants may be required to make Contributions to the Plan as specified in the Adoption Agreement. Unless otherwise specified by the Adopting Employer, Employee Contributions shall accrue interest at the same rate and in the same manner as Employer Contributions. When elected by the Adopting Employer to be picked up, the Adopting Employer shall pick up and pay contributions in accordance with Code Section 414(h)(2) as follows:
(1)
The contributions, although designated as Employee contributions, shall be paid by that Adopting Employer in lieu of contributions by the Employee as elected by the Adopting Employer in the Adoption Agreement, which shall be effective on a prospective basis and constitute written formal action to implement the pick-up, and
(2)
The Employee must not be given the option, on or after the effective date of the pick-up, to have a cash or deferred election right (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.401(k)-1(a)(3)) with respect to designated Employee contributions, which includes not having the option of receiving the amounts directly instead of having them paid to the Plan.
Section 13.03. - Withdrawal of Employee Contributions.
(a)
Unless otherwise specified in the Adoption Agreement, if a non-vested Participant's employment is terminated for any reason other than death, he shall request that his Employee Contributions plus interest, if any, be withdrawn.
(b)
Unless otherwise specified in the Adoption Agreement, if a vested Participant's employment is terminated for any reason other than death or Retirement, he may request that his Employee Contributions (including any Contributions made to purchase prior service credit) plus interest be withdrawn, unless he chooses to claim his vested benefit, in which case his Employee Contributions shall not be withdrawn.
(c)
Upon the Participant's termination, the Pension Committee shall provide notice to the Participant of his opportunity to withdraw his Employee Contributions (including any Contributions made to purchase prior service credit, if permitted under the Adoption Agreement), and the Participant shall have sixty (60) days after receipt of such notice to submit a request for withdrawal on an Applicable Form provided for that purpose. Failure to make such a request within this sixty (60) day period shall result in the forfeiture of a vested Participant's right to request withdrawal upon termination and shall result in forfeiture of a non-vested Participant's right to the accrual of further interest. Unless otherwise specified in the Adoption Agreement, upon withdrawal of Employee Contributions (including any Contributions made to purchase prior service credit, if permitted under the Adoption Agreement) pursuant to this Section, the Participant shall forfeit for himself, his heirs and assigns all his rights, title, and interest in the Plan, except as provided in subsection (d) below. Employee Contributions shall be returned to the Participant within ninety (90) days of the receipt of the Participant's request. A Participant may not withdraw his Employee Contributions (including any Contributions made to purchase prior service credit, if permitted under the Adoption Agreement) as long as he remains in the employment of the Adopting Employer and he may not borrow against Employee Contributions (including any Contributions made to purchase prior service credit, if permitted under the Adoption Agreement) at any time. A partial withdrawal of Employee Contributions is not permitted.
(d)
Except as otherwise provided in the Employer's Adoption Agreement, if a Participant withdraws his Employee Contributions (including any Contributions made to purchase prior service credit, if permitted under the Adoption Agreement) in accordance with this Section, and if he later resumes employment with the Adopting Employer in an Eligible Employee class, then any service credit or benefit amount he forfeited by virtue of his withdrawal may be reinstated upon his reemployment with the Adopting Employer, provided: (1) he repays during said period of reemployment all amounts previously withdrawn plus interest at a rate determined by the Board, compounded annually from the date of return of contributions through the date of repayment; and (2) provided the amount due is paid in full in accordance with any time limits and other requirements established by the Board for repayment of said Employee Contributions. A Participant may repay Employee Contributions (including any Contributions made to purchase prior service credit) under this subsection in a single lump sum, by after-tax payroll deductions, or any other method established by the Board, subject to any limitations included in the Adoption Agreement. Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection, in the event that withdrawal of Contributions made to purchase prior service credit is permitted by the Adoption Agreement, repayment will be permitted only to the extent permitted by the Adoption Agreement, and in accordance with any re-purchase or other repayment restrictions specified in the Adoption Agreement.
(e)
For purposes of this Section, the amount of "interest" shall be determined as of the date that the withdrawal under this Section is made, and the amount of interest shall comply with any applicable provisions of Section 4(i)(10)(B)(i) of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act ("ADEA").
Section 13.04. - Cessation of Contributions Without Penalty.
The Employer may provide in the Adoption Agreement that Participants who have met certain retirement benefit eligibility requirements shall no longer be required to make contributions to the Plan.
Section 13.05. - Continued Contributions During Leave of Absence.
Subject to the applicable limits of Code Section 415, if the terms of an authorized leave of absence permit the Participant to continue accumulating Credited Service during said leave of absence, the Participant shall be required to continue making Employee Contributions in the same amount and at the same rate as immediately prior to the commencement of the leave of absence.
Section 13.06. - Return of Contributions Upon Failure to Exhaust.
If a Retired Participant elects the Option A or Option E form of benefit payment, and if upon the death of the Participant the sum of all benefits paid to him does not equal or exceed the amount of the Participant's Employee Contributions plus interest posted thereon, then a lump sum payment in the amount of the difference shall be paid to the Retired Participant's estate. If a Retired Participant elects retirement benefit payment Option B, C, or D, and upon the death of the Retired Participant, or if later the death of his Post-Retirement Beneficiary, the sum of all benefits paid does not equal or exceed the amount of the Participant's Employee Contributions plus interest posted thereon, then a lump sum payment in the amount of the difference shall be paid to the Retired Participant's estate, unless the Post-Retirement Beneficiary dies after he has begun receiving survivor benefit payments, in which case said lump sum payment shall be paid to the Post-Retirement Beneficiary's estate. If a Participant dies in the Service of an Adopting Employer before he satisfies the eligibility requirements for an in-service death benefit, his Employee Contributions plus interest posted thereon shall be paid to the Participant's estate. In the event the sum of all pre-retirement benefits paid to a Pre-Retirement Beneficiary(ies) by virtue of the death of a Participant or Terminated Participant, as applicable, do not equal or exceed the amount of the Participant's or Terminated Participant's Employee Contributions plus interest posted thereon, a lump sum payment in the amount of the difference shall be paid to the estate of the Pre-Retirement Beneficiary (or last surviving Pre-Retirement Beneficiary as applicable). For purposes of this Section, the amount of "interest posted" shall be determined as of the date that the lump sum payment payable under this Section is distributed, and the amount of interest posted shall comply with any applicable provisions of Section 4(i)(10)(B)(i) of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act ("ADEA").
