ARTICLE IX. - TERMINATION BEFORE RETIREMENT; VESTING

Section 9.01. - Vesting Requirement for Deferred Retirement Benefit.
An Employer may establish different vesting requirements for different classes of Eligible Employees in the Adoption Agreement. A Participant whose employment is terminated for any reason other than death or Retirement shall be entitled to a Vested right in his Accrued Benefit only if he meets the Qualifications for a deferred Vested Retirement benefit specified in the Adoption Agreement. Payment of such Vested Retirement Benefit shall commence on the last day of the month in which his effective Retirement Date occurs and shall be payable on the last day of each month thereafter during the lifetime of the Participant, unless the Participant elects an optional form of benefit payment under Article VII. The amount of such Monthly Retirement Benefit shall be computed in the manner prescribed for Normal or Early Retirement in Article VI, as applicable, but based upon the Participant's Final Average Earnings (if applicable) and Total Credited Service up to the Participant's date of Termination of Employment with the Adopting Employer. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, if a Participant has satisfied the requirements for Normal Retirement as of the date of his Termination, the Participant shall be one hundred percent (100%) Vested in his Normal Retirement benefit. Effective November 1, 2007, all references in this Section to "last day" shall be changed to "first day."
Section 9.02. - Termination of Tenure of Office Before Retirement.
Unless otherwise specified by the Employer in the Adoption Agreement, a Participant who is an elected or appointed member of the Governing Authority or a Municipal Legal Officer, and who vacates office for any reason other than death or Retirement shall be entitled to a Vested right in his Accrued Benefit only if he meets the Qualifications for a deferred Vested Retirement benefit applicable to elected or appointed members of the Governing Authority and Municipal Legal Officers as specified in the Adoption Agreement. A Participant who is an elected or appointed member of the Governing Authority or a Municipal Legal Officer and who has Credited Service as an Eligible Regular Employee of the Adopting Employer, shall have a Vested Right to his Credited Service both as an Eligible Regular Employee and as an elected or appointed member of the Governing Authority or a Municipal Legal Officer, provided he has completed the minimum service requirement for Vesting applicable to Eligible Regular Employees designated by the Employer in the Adoption Agreement. If his Total Credited Service is less than said minimum, the Participant's Vested Right shall be determined based only on his Total Credited Service as an elected or appointed member of the Governing Authority or his tenure of office as a Municipal Legal Officer and the vesting schedule applicable to Eligible Employees in said class.
Section 9.03. - Immediate Vesting in Disability Retirement Benefit.
If the Employer elects in the Adoption Agreement to provide Disability benefits, and unless otherwise specified in the Adoption Agreement, a Participant who is Disabled and otherwise meets the Plan's eligibility requirements for payment of a Disability Retirement Benefit shall be considered 100% Vested in such benefit.
Section 9.04. - Involuntary Termination Without Cause.
Notwithstanding any more restrictive vesting requirement imposed by the Employer in the Adoption Agreement, a Participant whose employment is terminated involuntarily and without cause shall be entitled to a Vested Benefit if he has completed five (5) years of Total Credited Service. For the purpose of this condition, "cause" for dismissal shall mean negligence or inefficiency in performing the duties of the position held, unfitness to perform assigned duties, insubordination, or misconduct reflecting discredit on the Adopting Employer or upon the Governing Authority.
Section 9.05. - Portability Between Adopting Employers.
(a)
This Section applies to a Participant, other than an elected or appointed member of the Governing Authority or Municipal Legal Officer, whose employment is terminated either voluntarily or involuntarily for any reason other than death or Retirement, after participation in the Plan.
(b)
Subject to any limitations or conditions contained in the Employer's Adoption Agreement, in determining whether a Participant has satisfied the minimum service requirements for Vesting and the Service requirements for Retirement eligibility under the Adoption Agreement of any GMEBS Adopting Employer, the Participant's Total Credited Service with all other of the Participant's past and future Adopting Employers shall be taken into account. In no event, however, shall service with one GMEBS Employer be used to calculate the benefit amount due the Participant from another GMEBS Employer. Except as otherwise provided in Section 4.02(b)(7) concerning immediate participation for Participants who transfer from one GMEBS Employer to another, Service with one GMEBS Adopting Employer may not be used to establish participation in another Adopting Employer's plan.
Section 9.06. - Forfeiture of Benefits for Public-Employment Related Crimes, Other Crimes.
(a)
Benefits otherwise payable under the Plan shall be forfeited upon final conviction for a public employment-related crime or final conviction for a drug-related crime, in accordance with and subject to the applicable provisions of O.C.G.A. ยง 47-1-20 through 47-1-23 (a copy of which is included in the Appendix hereto). The terms of O.C.G.A. ยง 47-1-20 et seq. are incorporated herein by reference, including any future amendments thereto.
(b)
Survivor benefits or refunds otherwise payable to a person upon the death of a Participant, Terminated Participant, Retired Participant, or Beneficiary shall be forfeited if the person commits or conspires to commit murder or involuntary manslaughter against a Participant, Terminated Participant, Retired Participant, or Beneficiary, in accordance with and subject to the applicable provisions of O.C.G.A. ยง 47-1-24 (a copy of which is included in the Appendix hereto). The terms of said code section are incorporated herein by reference, including any future amendments thereto.
(c)
If the Adopting Employer receives information that a Participant, Terminated Participant, Retired Participant or Beneficiary has been convicted of any crime referenced in this Section which could potentially result in forfeiture of benefits, the Adopting Employer shall notify the Administrator when it receives notice of such conviction.
Section 9.07. - Forfeitures.
Forfeitures arising from Termination of Employment, withdrawal or any other reason may not be applied to increase the benefits any individual would otherwise receive under the Plan. However, forfeitures will remain Trust assets, and as such, may be used to reduce an Adopting Employer's contribution.
