ARTICLE X. - DISTRIBUTION AND ROLLOVER RULES

Section 10.01. - Distribution Rules Imposed by Federal Law.
Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, any distribution under the Plan shall be made in accordance with Code Section 401(a)(9) and the Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, including the incidental benefit rules under Code Section 401(a)(9)(G), and shall comply with the following rules:
(a)
With respect to distributions under the Plan made for calendar years beginning on or after January 1, 2002, the Plan shall apply the minimum distribution requirements of Code Section 401(a)(9) in accordance with the Final Regulations under Code Section 401(a)(9) that were issued on April 17, 2002, and June 15, 2004, notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary. GMEBS is coordinating the compliance with the Final Regulations to comply with the good faith reasonable standard of PPA Section 823.
(b)
Participant's entire interest will be distributed, or begin to be distributed, to the Participant no later than the Participant's required beginning date. For purposes of this Section, "required beginning date" means April 1 of the calendar year following the later of (i) the calendar year in which the Participant reaches age seventy and one-half (70 1/2), or (ii) the calendar year in which the Participant Retires.
(c)
If the Participant dies before distributions begin, the Participant's entire interest will be distributed, or begin to be distributed, no later than as follows:
(1)
If the Participant's surviving spouse is the Participant's sole designated beneficiary, then distributions to the surviving spouse will begin by December 31 of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which the Participant died, or by December 31 of the calendar year in which the Participant would have attained age seventy and one-half (70 1/2), if later.
(2)
If the Participant's surviving spouse is not the Participant's sole designated beneficiary, then distributions to the designated beneficiary will begin by December 31 of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which the Participant died, over the life of the designated beneficiary or over a period certain not exceeding:
(A)
Unless the annuity starting date is before the first distribution calendar year, the life expectancy of the designated beneficiary determined using the beneficiary's age as of the beneficiary's birthday in the calendar year immediately following the calendar year of the Participant's death; or
(B)
If the annuity starting date is before the first distribution calendar year, the life expectancy of the designated beneficiary determined using the beneficiary's age as of the beneficiary's birthday in the calendar year that contains the annuity starting date.
(3)
If there is no designated beneficiary as of September 30 of the year following the year of the Participant's death, the Participant's entire interest will be distributed by December 31 of the calendar year containing the fifth anniversary of the Participant's death.
(4)
If the Participant's surviving spouse is the Participant's sole designated beneficiary and the surviving spouse dies after the Participant but before distributions to the surviving spouse begin, this subsection (c), other than (c)(1), will apply as if the surviving spouse were the Participant.
If annuity payments irrevocably commence to the Participant before the Participant's required beginning date (or to the Participant's surviving spouse before the date distributions are required to begin to the surviving spouse under this subsection (c)), the date distributions are considered to begin is the date distributions actually commence.
(d)
The amount that must be distributed on or before the Participant's required beginning date (or, if the Participant dies before distributions begin, the date distributions are required to begin under subsection (c)) is the payment that is required for one payment interval. The second payment need not be made until the end of the next payment interval even if that payment interval ends in the next calendar year. Payment intervals are the periods for which payments are received, e.g., bi-monthly, monthly, semi-annually, or annually. All of the Participant's benefit accruals as of the last day of the first distribution calendar year will be included in the calculation of the amount of the annuity payments for payment intervals ending on or after the Participant's required beginning date.
(e)
Any additional benefits accruing to the Participant in a calendar year after the first distribution year will be distributed beginning with the first payment interval ending in the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which such amount accrues.
(f)
If the Participant's interest is being distributed in the form of a joint and survivor annuity for the joint lives of the Participant and a non-spouse beneficiary, annuity payments to be made on or after the Participant's required beginning date to the designated beneficiary after the Participant's death must not at any time exceed the applicable percentage of the annuity payment for such period that would have been payable to the Participant using the applicable table set forth in the Treasury Regulations. If the form of distribution combines a joint and survivor annuity for the joint lives of the Participant and a non-spouse beneficiary and a period certain annuity, the requirement in the preceding sentence will apply to annuity payments to be made to the designated beneficiary after the expiration of the period certain.
(g)
Unless the Participant's spouse is the sole designated beneficiary and the form of distribution is a period certain and no life annuity, the period certain for an annuity distribution commencing during the Participant's lifetime may not exceed the applicable distribution period for the Participant under applicable simple life table set forth in the Treasury Regulations for the calendar year that contains the annuity starting date. If the annuity starting date precedes the year in which the Participant reaches age seventy (70), the applicable distribution period for the Participant is the distribution period for age seventy (70) under the applicable single life table as set forth in the Treasury Regulations plus the excess of seventy (70) over the age of the Participant as of the Participant's birthday in the year that contains the annuity starting date. If the Participant's spouse is the Participant's sole designated beneficiary and the form of distribution is a period certain and no life annuity, the period certain may not exceed the longer of the Participant's applicable distribution period, as determined under this Section, or the joint life and last survivor expectancy of the Participant and the Participant's spouse as determined under the applicable joint life table set forth in the Treasury Regulations, using the Participant's and spouse's attained ages as of the Participant's and spouse's birthdays in the calendar year that contains the annuity starting date.
Section 10.02. - Rollover of Distributions.
Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary that would otherwise limit a Distributee's election under this Section, a Distributee may elect, at the time and in the manner prescribed by the Administrator, to have any portion of an Eligible Rollover Distribution paid directly to an Eligible Retirement Plan specified by the Distributee in a Direct Rollover. The following definitions shall apply to this Section:
(a)
An "Eligible Rollover Distribution" is any distribution of all or any portion of the balance to the credit of the Distributee, except that an Eligible Rollover Distribution does not include: (i) any distribution that is one of a series of substantially equal periodic payments (not less frequently than annually) made for the life (or life expectancy) of the Distributee or the joint lives (or joint life expectancies) of the Distributee and the Distributee's designated beneficiary, or for a specified period of ten (10) years or more; (ii) any distribution to the extent such distribution is required under Code Section 401(a)(9); (iii) the portion of any distribution that is not includible in gross income; or (iv) any other distributions which the Internal Revenue Service does not consider eligible for rollover treatment, such as certain corrective distributions necessary to comply with the provisions of Code Section 402(g) or 415. Effective January 1, 2002, an Eligible Rollover Distribution also includes a distribution to a surviving spouse. Effective January 1, 2002, a portion of a distribution will not fail to be an Eligible Rollover Distribution merely because the portion consists of after-tax Employee Contributions that are not includible in gross income.
(b)
An "Eligible Retirement Plan" is any one of the following that accepts the Distributee's Eligible Rollover Distribution: (i) an individual retirement account described in Code Section 408(a); (ii) an individual retirement annuity described in Code Section 408(b); (iii) an annuity plan described in Code Section 403(a); or (iv) a qualified trust described in Code Section 401(a). Effective for distributions made after December 31, 2001, an Eligible Retirement Plan will also include an eligible deferred compensation plan described in Code Section 457(b) which is maintained by an eligible employer described in Code Section 457(e)(1)(A) or an annuity plan described in Code Section 403(b), and effective for distributions made after December 31, 2007, an Eligible Retirement Plan will also include a Roth IRA described in Code Section 408A. The portion of an Eligible Rollover Distribution that is not includible in gross income may be transferred only to an individual retirement account or individual retirement annuity described in Code Sections 408(a) or 408(b), a qualified defined contribution plan described in Code Section 401(a), a qualified plan described in Code Section 403(a), or on or after January 1, 2007, to a qualified defined benefit plan described in Code Section 401(a) or an annuity contract described in Code Section 403(b), that agrees to separately account for amounts so transferred, including separately accounting for the portion of such distribution which is includible in gross income and the portion of such distribution which is not so includible.
(c)
A "Distributee" includes an employee or former employee. A Distributee also includes the employee's or former employee's surviving spouse. Effective January 1, 2008, a Distributee further includes a nonspouse beneficiary who is a designated beneficiary as defined by Code Section 401(a)(9)(E). However, a nonspouse beneficiary may only make a direct rollover of the distribution to an individual retirement account or individual retirement annuity established for the purpose of receiving the distribution, and the account or annuity will be treated as an "inherited" individual retirement account or annuity.
(d)
A "Direct Rollover" is a payment by the Plan to the Eligible Retirement Plan specified by the Distributee.
(e)
Notwithstanding subsection (a), if an Eligible Rollover Distribution is expected to total less than Two Hundred Dollars ($200) during a year, such payment may not be directly rolled over.
Section 10.03. - Acceptance of Eligible Rollover Distributions.
To the extent permitted by the applicable provisions of the Code and regulations issued thereunder, for the purpose of purchasing Credited Service as permitted under the Plan and the Employer's Adoption Agreement (i) a Participant may contribute to the Plan as a rollover contribution a qualified rollover amount from a qualified plan under Code Section 401(a), an annuity plan under Code Section 403(a), an individual retirement account or annuity under Code Sections 408(a) or (b), a governmental deferred compensation plan under Code Section 457(b), or a tax-sheltered annuity under Code Section 403(b), that is includible in taxable income; or (ii) effective as of June 24, 2009, a Participant may make a direct rollover to the Plan of a qualified rollover amount from a qualified plan under Code Section 401(a) consisting of after-tax employee contributions that is not includible in taxable income provided that such amount will be separately accounted for under the Plan; provided, further, that the Administrator, in its discretion, determines that the contribution satisfies all applicable requirements of the Code. Such rollovers will be allowed to the extent permitted by law, subject to any conditions, proofs, or acceptance the Administrator deems appropriate.
Section 10.04. - Acceptance of Trustee-to-Trustee Transfers.
A Participant may make a direct trustee-to-trustee transfer from a governmental deferred compensation plan under Code Section 457(b) or a tax-sheltered annuity under Code Section 403(b) for the purchase of permissive service credit, as defined in Code Section 415(n)(3)(A) and as permitted under the Plan and the Employer's Adoption Agreement, or for a repayment to which Code Section 415 does not apply by reason of Code Section 415(k)(3), as permitted under the Plan and the Employer's Adoption Agreement. Such transfers will be allowed to the extent permitted by law, subject to any conditions, proofs, or acceptance the Administrator deems appropriate.
