Chapter 3 - ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION
Article I - GENERAL

Sec. 3.10. - Administrative departments; creation.
The mayor and council by ordinance shall establish such city departments, offices or agencies in addition to those created by this charter as they shall deem necessary to administer the affairs and government of the city. They shall prescribe the functions and duties of any such departments, offices and agencies created, except that no function assigned by this charter to a particular department, office or agency may be discontinued or, unless this charter specifically so provides, assigned to any other.
Sec. 3.11. - Consolidation, transfer and merger of departments and functions.
Except as otherwise provided herein by section 3.10 of this charter, the mayor and council may by ordinance abolish, merge or consolidate offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city; may provide that the same person shall fill any number of offices and positions of employment; and may transfer or change the functions and duties of offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city.
Article II - CITY MANAGER

Sec. 3.20. - Appointment; compensation.
The mayor and council shall appoint for an indefinite term an officer whose title shall be city manager and who shall be the head of the administrative branch of the city government. The city manager shall be chosen by the mayor and council solely on the basis of his administrative qualifications with special reference to his actual experience in, and knowledge of, the duties of the office as hereinafter prescribed. At the time of his appointment he need not be a resident of the city, but shall reside therein during his tenure of office. The city manager shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor and council and shall receive such salary as the mayor and council shall fix.
State Law reference— Compensation of employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4; residence prohibited as condition of employment, O.C.G.A. § 45-2-5.
Sec. 3.21. - Acting city manager.
By letter filed with the assistant city manager, the city manager shall designate[,] subject to approval of the mayor and council, a qualified city administrative officer to execute the powers and perform the duties of the city manager during his temporary absence or disability.
(Ord. No. 07-13, § 1, 4-24-07; Ord. No. 16-11, § 1, 12-13-16)
Sec. 3.22. - Chief administrator.
The city manager shall be responsible to the mayor and council for the proper administration of all affairs of the city. As chief administrator, the city manager shall have the power to appoint and remove all officers, department heads, and employees in the administrative service of the city, except the city attorney who shall be appointed as provided for in Article III hereof. The city manager shall report to the mayor and council every appointment and removal of a department head at the next council meeting following the appointment or removal. It shall be the duty of the city manager to supervise the administration of the affairs of the city; to see that the ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the mayor and council and the laws of the state are faithfully executed and enforced; to make such recommendations to the mayor and council concerning the affairs of the city as he shall deem expedient; to keep the mayor and council advised of the financial condition and future financial needs of the city; to attend all meetings of the mayor and council and to prepare and to submit to the mayor and council such reports as he may deem expedient or as may be required of him by the mayor and council; and to perform all other duties as may be required of him by the mayor and council.
Article III - CITY ATTORNEY

Sec. 3.30. - Appointment; qualifications; term; compensation.
The mayor and council shall appoint a city attorney who shall be an attorney-at-law licensed to engage in the practice of law in Georgia and who shall be a resident of the city during his tenure. The city attorney shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor and council and shall receive such compensation as they shall determine.
State Law reference— Attorneys, O.C.G.A. § 15-19-1 et seq.; compensation of employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4; residence prohibited as condition of employment, O.C.G.A. § 45-2-5.
Sec. 3.31. - Duties of the city attorney.
It shall be the duty of the city attorney to prosecute and defend suits for and against the city; to serve as legal advisor to the mayor, councilmen, city manager and other city officials with respect to the affairs of the city; to draw all legal documents relating to the affairs of the city; to draw proposed ordinances when requested to do so; to inspect and pass on the legality and form of all agreements, contracts, franchises, and other instruments with which the city may be concerned; to attend meetings of the mayor and council; and to perform such other duties as may be required of him by virtue of his position as city attorney.
Article IV - ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS

Sec. 3.40. - Assistant city manager.
The city manager shall appoint an officer who shall perform the duties of assistant city manager as may be required by law or as the city manager may direct.
(Ord. No. 07-13, § 1, 4-24-07; Ord. No. 16-11, § 2, 12-13-16; Ord. No. 18-05, § 5, 7-10-18)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 16-11, § 2, adopted December 13, 2016 changed "deputy city manager-administration and finance" to "assistant city manager."
Sec. 3.41. - Tax collector.
The city manager may appoint a tax collector to collect all taxes, licenses, fees and other monies belonging to the city, subject to the provisions of this charter and ordinances of the city, and the tax collector shall diligently comply with and enforce all ordinances of the City of LaGrange and applicable laws of Georgia relating to the collection and sale, foreclosure of taxes.
State Law reference— Revenue and taxation, O.C.G.A. Title 48.
Sec. 3.42. - City clerk.
The city manager shall appoint an officer who shall perform the duties of city clerk and who shall keep a journal of the proceedings of the city council and maintain in a safe place all records and documents pertaining to the affairs of the city. The city clerk shall be the custodian of the records of the city, and shall perform such other duties as may be required by law or as the city manager may direct.
(Ord. No. 18-05, § 6, 7-10-18)
Article V - PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 3.50. - Position classification and pay plans.
The city manager shall be responsible for the preparation of a position classification and pay plan which shall be submitted to the mayor and council for approval. Said plans may apply to all employees of the City of LaGrange and to any of its agencies and offices. When a pay plan has been adopted, the mayor and council shall not increase or decrease the salaries of individual employees except by amendment of said pay plan.
Sec. 3.51. - Personnel policies.
The mayor and council may adopt rules and regulations consistent with this charter concerning:
(1)
The method of employee selection and probationary periods of employment;
(2)
The administration of the position classification and pay plan;
(3)
Hours of work; vacation, sick leave, and other leaves of absence, overtime pay, retirement, and the manner in which layoff shall be effected; and
(4)
Such other personnel policies as may be necessary to provide for adequate and systematic handling of the personnel affairs of the City of LaGrange.
