Chapter 20-6 - ENERGY SERVICES

Sec. 20-6-1. - Surge protection program.
The surge protection program offered in this section is not and is not intended to be service or retail electric service as that term is defined in the "Georgia Territorial Electric Service Act" (section 46-3-1, O.C.G.A., et. seq.) but is a service offered and which is independent of electrical service.
(1)
Availability: Available to electric customers located in and beyond the corporate limits of the city but within the limits of Troup County.
(2)
General description:
a.
The city recognizes that electrical surges and spikes can cause extensive damage to appliances and electronic devices within a home or business. These voltage fluctuations can enter a building through electric, telephone, and/or cable television writing. The city's surge protection program is designed to improve the quality of utility services through the installation of surge protection devices.
b.
Whole-house protection of all motor driven appliances and some types of electronic devices can be provided through a meter socket or knockout mounted surge protection device. These surge protectors will be installed by city utility personnel and leased to customers at the monthly price listed below.
c.
1.
Sensitive electronics and equipment connected to telephone or cable television wiring may be protected by point-of-use surge protectors. These products are designed for installation by the customer and can be purchased directly from city. If desired, a customer may pay for these devices through a maximum of six (6) monthly installments billed through the utility bill.
2.
Wholehouse protection of sensitive electronics and equipment connected to telephone, cable, television wiring or A/C power may be protected by a whole house surge protection center. Such products are designed for installation by the city and are available to new and existing homes and small businesses with drop points in the same vicinity for the three (3) primary paths of surge entry, A/C power, cable television wiring and telephone lines. The home surge protection center, a parallel surge protection device designed to eliminate transient surges before such enter the home, may be either leased or purchased from the city at the prices listed below.
d.
All products come with "connected equipment protection" when applied on residential customer installations. Damage claims will be handled directly by the supplier of the surge protection equipment. The city does not warrant or guarantee the proper performance of surge protection devices sold or installed.
(3)
Pricing.
Whole-house motor-driven protection up to 200 amps, per month .....$ 5.50
Whole-house motor-driven protection over 200 amps, per month ..... 8.00
Whole-house motor-driven protection over 200 amps with one point-of-use protector, per month ..... 6.75
plus service contract
Whole-house motor-driven protection over 200 amps with one point-of-use protector, per month ..... 9.25
plus service contract
Point-of-use protection devices ..... Cost
plus twenty-five percent (25%)
Home surge protection center device, per month ..... 8.75
Lease purchase ..... 229.04
(Ord. No. 96-43, § 1, 7-9-96; Ord. No. 97-25, § 1, 7-22-97; Ord. No. 99-32, § 1, 9-28-99)
