Chapter 10-15 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[6]
Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Charter reference— Emergency ordinances, § 2.41.
Cross reference— Administration, Ch. 5-1 et seq.; police, Ch. 10-5; fire prevention and protection, Ch. 10-10.
State constitution reference—Emergency, special session of General Assembly, Art. 5, § 2, Par. 7.
State Law reference— Forest fires, O.C.G.A. § 12-6-89; state militia, O.C.G.A. § 38-2-1 et seq.; emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; retirement of employees of state emergency management division, O.C.G.A. § 47-5-2; emergency funds for local government, O.C.G.A. § 50-8-2; liability of firemen for emergency activities, O.C.G.A. § 51-1-30.

Article I - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-15-1. - Definition.
As used in this chapter the term "civil defense" or "emergency management" shall mean the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency and disaster functions, other than functions for which military forces or other state and federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters or the imminent threat thereof, of man-made or natural origin caused by enemy attack, sabotage, civil disturbance, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, wave action, oil spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot or other hostile action, or other causes. These functions include, without limitation, fire fighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, defense from radiological, chemical and other special weapons, evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency welfare services, emergency transportation, plant protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to total emergency and disaster preparedness for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
(Code 1972, § 8-1)
State Law reference— Definitions, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3.
Sec. 10-15-2. - Violations.
No person shall violate any provision of this article, nor any rule, order or regulation made pursuant to this article.
(Code 1972, § 8-6)
State Law reference— Local orders, rules and regulations, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-28.
Sec. 10-15-3. - Construction.
This article shall be construed liberally in order to effectuate its purpose.
(Code 1972, § 8-7)
Sec. 10-15-4. - Civil defense office; local director.
There is hereby established the LaGrange Civil Defense Office. The mayor, with concurrence of other city officials, shall nominate, for appointment by the governor, a local director of civil defense for the city. When appointed, the local director shall:
(1)
Represent the mayor and council on matters pertaining to civil preparedness and emergency management;
(2)
Assist city officials in organizing city departments for emergency operations;
(3)
Develop, in conjunction with city departments and agencies, the city plan for emergency functions set forth in section 10-15-1. Such plan will be in consonance with the state emergency management plan and program and shall be submitted to the mayor and council and thence to the state director of emergency management for approval;
(4)
Maintain the civil defense office in carrying out the day-to-day administration of the city civil preparedness and emergency management program including the rendering of required reports to the emergency management division of the state department of defense;
(5)
Render reports such as financial, daily activity, etc., as required by the mayor and council in keeping with good business practices;
(6)
Procure, with the authority of the mayor and council, a facility to be used as the City of LaGrange Emergency Operating Center; and
(7)
Coordinate the activities of the City of LaGrange Emergency Operating Center staff during periods of a declared emergency, and under the supervision of the mayor and council.
(Code 1972, § 8-2)
Cross reference— Administration, Ch. 5-1 et seq.
State Law reference— State of emergency defined, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5); local organizations for emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27; emergency powers of governor, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-51.
Sec. 10-15-5. - Emergency management organization.
The LaGrange emergency management organization shall be established around existing city departments and agencies and the emergency functions listed in section 10-15-1 are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department Emergency Functions
(1) Executive (city manager) Direction and control, public information, supply, finances
(2) Police (city police department) Security, movement, search, communications, warning
(3) Fire control (city fire department) Fire control, rescue, damage assessment
(4) Public works and engineering Utilities and public services, restoration, hazards analysis
(5) Human resources, including: Human needs, including welfare
a. Division of family and children services
b. Division of physical health
c. Hospital services Medical and mortuary service
d. Ambulance services Casualty transport
(6) Civil defense Shelter, radiological defense (radet), rescue, assistance in industrial and institutional emergency, planning
  Heads of departments listed above are responsible for developing the plan for their assigned emergency function. Such plans will be submitted through the local director to the mayor and council for approval.
(Code 1972, § 8-3)
State Law reference— Local organizations for emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.
Sec. 10-15-6. - Emergency powers.
In the event of man-made or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of LaGrange, the mayor and council may declare that a state of emergency exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such state of emergency exists or continues, the following emergency powers:
(1)
To enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to civil defense and to assume direct operational control over all civil defense resources;
(2)
To seize, take for temporary use or condemn any property or supplies for the protection of the public;
(3)
To sell, lend, give or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the city; to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies; and
(4)
To perform and exercise such other functions and duties and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well being of the inhabitants of the city.
(Code 1972, § 8-4)
State Law reference— Orders, rules and regulations of governor, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-22; control of traffic, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-24; lease or loan of state property, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-25; power of city to acquire sites for temporary housing, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27(b)(6); local orders, rules and regulations, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-28.
Sec. 10-15-7. - Volunteers.
While engaged in emergency functions under this chapter, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as city officers and employees.
(Code 1972, § 8-5)
State Law reference— Aid to other political subdivisions, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-30; permitting use of premises, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-32; providing equipment, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-33; qualifications and oath of personnel, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-34; immunity of workers, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-35.
Secs. 10-15-8—10-15-20. - Reserved.
Article II - CONTINUITY OF GOVERNMENT[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Cross reference— Administration, Title 5.
State Law reference— Emergency interim successors to officials, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-50.

Sec. 10-15-21. - Definitions.
As used in this article, unless the context otherwise clearly indicates, the following terms shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them:
Disaster: Any happening that causes great harm or damage.
Duly authorized deputy: A person who is authorized to perform all of the functions, exercise all of the powers and discharge all of the duties of an office in the event the office is vacant or at such times as it lacks administration due to the death, absence or disability of the incumbent officer.
Emergency: A sudden generally unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding immediate action.
Emergency interim successor: A person designated pursuant to this article for possible temporary succession to the powers and duties, but not the office, of a city officer in the event that such officer or any duly authorized deputy is unavailable to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the office.
Unavailable: Either that a vacancy in an office exists and there is no deputy or other successor authorized to exercise all of the powers and discharge all of the duties of the office, or that the lawful incumbent of the office (including any deputy exercising the powers and discharging the duties of an office because of a vacancy) and his duly authorized deputy are absent or unable to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the office.
(Code 1972, § 8-21)
State Law reference— Definitions, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-50.
Sec. 10-15-22. - Designation, status, qualifications, terms of emergency interim successors.
(a)
Elective officers. Within thirty (30) days after first entering upon the duties of their office, the mayor and each member of the council shall, in addition to any duly authorized deputy, designate such number of emergency interim successors to their office and specify their rank in order of succession after any duly authorized deputy so that there will be not less than three (3) duly authorized deputies or emergency interim successors or combination thereof for the office.
(b)
Appointive officers. The mayor and council shall within the time specified in subsection (a) of this section, in addition to any duly authorized deputy, designate for appointive officers including the city manager, chief of police, chief of the fire department and recorder, such number of emergency interim successors to these officers and specify their rank in order of succession after any duly authorized deputy so that there will be not less than three (3) duly authorized deputies or emergency interim successors or combination thereof for each officer.
(c)
Review of designations. The incumbent in the case of those elective officers specified in subsection (a) of this section, and the mayor and council in the case of those appointive officers specified in subsection (b) of this section, shall review and, as necessary, promptly revise the designations of emergency interim successors or duly authorized deputies or any combination thereof for each officer specified.
(d)
Qualifications. No person shall be designated or serve as an emergency interim successor unless he may under the constitution and statutes of this state and the charter or ordinances of this city hold the office of the person to whose powers and duties he is designated to succeed, but no provision of any ordinance prohibiting an officer or employee of this city from holding another office shall be applicable to an emergency interim successor.
(e)
Status of emergency interim successor. A person designated as an emergency interim successor holds that designation at the pleasure of the designator; provided he must be replaced if removed. He retains this designation as emergency interim successor until replaced by another person appointed by the authorized designator.
(Code 1972, § 8-22)
Sec. 10-15-23. - Assumption of powers and duties of officer.
If, in the event of a disaster or emergency, any officer named in subsections (a) and (b) of section 10-15-22 and any duly authorized deputy is unavailable, his emergency interim successor highest in rank in order of succession who is not unavailable shall, except for the power and duty to appoint emergency interim successors, exercise the powers and discharge the duties of such officer. An emergency interim successor shall exercise these powers and discharge these duties only until such time as the lawful incumbent officer or any duly authorized deputy or an emergency interim successor higher in rank in order of succession exercises, or resumes the exercise of, the powers and discharge of the duties of the office, or until, where an actual vacancy exists, a successor is appointed to fill such vacancy or is elected and qualified as provided by law.
(Code 1972, § 8-23)
Sec. 10-15-24. - Recording; publication.
The name, address and rank in order of succession of each duly authorized deputy shall be filed with the assistant city manager, and each designation, replacement or change in order of succession of an emergency interim successor shall become effective when the designator files with the assistant city manager the successor's name, address and rank in order of succession. The assistant city manager shall keep on file all such data regarding duly authorized deputies and emergency interim successors and it shall be open to the public inspection.
(Code 1972, § 8-24; Ord. No. 07-12, § 3, 4-24-07; Ord. No. 16-12, § 4, 12-13-16)
Sec. 10-15-25. - Formalities of taking office.
At the time of their designation, emergency interim successors shall take such oath and do such other things, if any, as may be required to qualify them to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the office to which they may succeed.
(Code 1972, § 8-25)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-50(g).
Sec. 10-15-26. - Quorum; vote by mayor and council.
In the event of a disaster or emergency, quorum requirements for the mayor and council shall be suspended, and where the affirmative vote of a specified proportion of members for approval of an ordinance, resolution or other action would otherwise be required, the same proportion of those voting thereon shall be sufficient.
(Code 1972, § 8-26)
