Chapter 10-5 - POLICE DEPARTMENT

Sec. 10-5-1. - Department created; chief of police; appointment.
There is hereby created the police department of the city, the head of which shall be the chief. The chief shall be appointed by the city manager.
(Ord. No. 18-13, ยง 2, 11-27-18)
Sec. 10-5-2. - Powers and duties of chief generally.
The chief shall be responsible for the administration, coordination and control of all police activities for the city, and to that end shall:
(1)
Plan, organize and command all police activities involved in protecting lives and property; preserve the public peace, prevent the commission of acts of crime and investigate and detect acts of crime;
(2)
Establish procedures, rules and regulations for the conduct of the department within the framework of the general policies approved by the mayor and council;
(3)
Develop, approve and conduct training programs for police department employees and attend conferences, schools and conventions to keep abreast of the latest police methods and administration;
(4)
Supervise all departmental personnel and the operation and maintenance of all equipment and property; maintain any city jail; be responsible for the custody and care of prisoners and cooperate with all county, state and federal law enforcing officers in the prevention and detection of acts of crime;
(5)
Enforce all laws, ordinances and the judgments of courts; execute warrants; serve summons, subpoenas and citations issued by the courts or by the mayor and council in accordance with the law;
(6)
Collect and remit to the city clerk all fines, forfeitures and costs imposed by the court under the jurisdiction of the mayor and council;
(7)
Maintain a system of complaint, arrest, identification and accident records; prepare monthly and annual reports of activities and assist in the preparation of the annual budget; and
(8)
Perform related duties as may be directed by the city manager or prescribed by ordinance or resolution of the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 18-13, ยง 2, 11-27-18)
