Chapter 20-7 - COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES

Sec. 20-7-1. - 800 MHz radio system services.
(a)
Availability: Available to governmental and public safety related organizations in the vicinity of LaGrange and Troup County. Service will be provided via an 800 MHz trunked, public safety radio system with priority usage for public safety subscribers. Non-priority radio and telephone service may be limited during periods of heavy traffic and during emergency situations, all within discretion of the City of LaGrange.
(b)
Special provisions:
(1)
Basic access includes unlimited radio access and the setup of one (1) independent talkgroup per forty (40) subscribers. The city may limit the number and availability of talkgroups on the system to maintain system integrity.
(2)
Equipment purchased for use on the radio system described herein must be approved in advance by the city. Specifications related to the type and functionality of radio equipment will be strictly enforced by the city, at the city's discretion.
(3)
The availability of equipment under a lease-purchase option herein offered shall be at the sole discretion of the city. The customer shall be responsible for the repair and maintenance of any equipment purchased by customer through a lease-purchase agreement with the city.
(4)
Telephone access may be limited in duration and type in order to preserve the dispatch functions of the radio system. It is the intent of the city that this section be construed in order that the primary service offered herein is radio dispatch and not telephone service.
(5)
Any customer who shall make advance payment of one (1) year's monthly charges shall receive a five percent (5%) discount.
(6)
The terms and conditions of payment for services and/or equipment provided herein shall be those set forth in chapter 20-1 for city utilities.
(c)
Monthly charges:
(1)
Customer owned equipment:
Basic access fee, per subscriber .....$12.00
Local telephone access, per subscriber add .....7.50
Long distance access, per subscriber add .....2.50
Long distance fees .....cost to city
(2)
Lease-purchased equipment: .....
Monthly access charges .....same as above
Amortization factor for 12-month lease .....0.09504
Amortization factor for 24-month lease .....0.05337
Amortization factor for 36-month lease .....0.03976
(d)
Other Charges: .....
Subscriber programming, per occurrence .....25.00
(Ord. No. 96-65, ยง 1, 12-19-96)
