Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Supplemental powers of municipalities and counties enumerated, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III; municipal corporations generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-3-1 et seq.; powers of municipal corporations generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-1 et seq.; powers relating to administration of municipal government generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2; provisions applicable to counties and municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-1 et seq.; provisions applicable to counties and municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Code of ethics.
(a)
Prohibited conduct. Public officials and employees of the city shall treat all citizens with courtesy, impartiality, fairness, and equality under the law, and shall avoid both actual potential conflicts between their private self-interest and the public interest. Prohibited conduct of each such official and employee shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1)
Granting or making available to any person any special consideration, treatment, advantage, or favor beyond that which it is the general practice to grant or make available to the public large;
(2)
Requesting, using, or permitting the use of any publicly-owned or publicly-supported property, vehicle, equipment, labor, or service for the personal convenience or the private advantage of himself or any other person, except as otherwise allowed by law;
(3)
Participating in the deliberation of or voting on any matter involving his financial or personal interest;
(4)
Engaging in private employment with, or rendering services for, any private person who has business transactions with the city, unless he has made full public disclosure of the nature and extent of such employment or services;
(5)
Appearing on behalf of any private persons, other than himself, before any public body in the city;
(6)
Accepting any gift, whether in the form of money, thing, favor, loan, or promise, that would not be offered or given to him if he were not an official or employee;
(7)
Disclosing any confidential information concerning any official or employee, or any other person, or any property or governmental affairs of the city, without prior formal authorization of the governing body;
(8)
Using or permitting the use of confidential information to advance the financial or personal interest of himself or any other person; or
(9)
Appointing or voting for the appointment of any person related to him by blood or marriage to fill an office, position, employment, or duty, when the salary, wages, pay, or compensation is to be paid out of public funds.
(b)
Hearings and determinations. Upon the sworn complaint of any person alleging facts which if true would constitute a violation of this section, the city council shall conduct a public hearing at which the accused shall be given an opportunity to be heard, either personally or through city council. At the conclusion of said hearing, the city council shall, in written findings of fact and conclusions based thereon, make a determination concerning the propriety of the conduct of the official or employee in question.
(Code 1998, § 3-102)
State Law reference— Code of ethics for public officials and employees, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-1 et seq.
Secs. 2-2—2-23. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL GENERALLY

Secs. 2-24—2-49. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - THE MAYOR

Sec. 2-50. - Compensation.
The monthly compensation of the mayor shall be $750.00, plus $50.00 per called meeting attended.
(Code 1998, § 3-308; Ord. of 5-7-2009(02), § 2(3-308))
Secs. 2-51—2-73. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - THE CITY CLERK/TREASURER

Secs. 2-74—2-104. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-105—2-121. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL POLICY

Sec. 2-122. - Adoption of policy.
The Substance Abuse Policy of the city is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as fully as if set out. A copy of said substance abuse policy is will be maintained on file for public examination in the office of the city clerk. The city shall have the power to enact and amend an employee personnel policy, from time to time, and when enacted or amended will abide by its regulations and procedures.
Secs. 2-123—2-146. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS

Sec. 2-147. - City housing authority board.
The mayor and council shall appoint five persons to the board. Terms of office shall be for four years and terms shall be staggered.
(Code 1998, § 3-701)
Sec. 2-148. - City zoning and planning commission.
The mayor and city council shall appoint five members to the planning and zoning commission. There is no limit to each person's term.
(Code 1998, § 3-702)
Sec. 2-149. - County water authority.
The mayor and city council shall appoint two persons to the county water authority.
(Code 1998, § 3-703)
ARTICLE VII. - RETENTION OF PUBLIC RECORDS

Sec. 2-150. - Records retention schedule adopted.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 50-18-90 et seq., the City of Franklin has adopted the Records Retention Schedule for Local Government Records as published by the Georgia Secretary of State's Department of Archives and History, and any such amendments or updates as may be made to such Retention Schedule for Local Government Records.
(Ord. of 4-6-2017(1), § 1)
Sec. 2-151. - Maintenance of records.
All City of Franklin records shall be maintained in accordance with approved retention schedules, in the most updated version of the Retention Schedule for Local Government Records.
(Ord. of 4-6-2017(1), § 1)
Sec. 2-152. - Coordination of records management plan.
The City Clerk shall serve as the coordinator of the records management plan and is authorized to act for and on behalf of the city in directing and coordinating all records management matters under the Georgia Records Retention Act. In discharging the records management records destruction duties, the City Clerk shall, whether personally or by delegation, maintain all records in accordance with the Georgia Secretary of State Retention Schedules for Local Government Records adopted by the mayor and council, and shall not destroy, allow, or direct any employee to destroy, any record except as provided on the aforesaid retention schedule.
(Ord. of 4-6-2017(1), § 1)
