ARTICLE VIII. - LANDFILLS AND WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS[8]

Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
Cross reference— Solid waste, ch. 58; utilities, ch. 74.

Sec. 38-616. - Landfills and waste disposal systems and systems affected.
This article shall apply to all landfills and waste disposal systems and related activities, except that land owned in fee simple by the county wherein landfills and waste disposal systems are owned exclusively by the county and operated solely for the benefit of taxpayers, residents, and businesses operated in the county are exempted from the requirements of this article.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. XI, art. II)
Sec. 38-617. - Application procedure for new landfills and waste disposal systems.
(a)
No new landfill or waste disposal system shall be commenced within the county until a landfill or waste disposal permit has been issued by the county commissioner.
(b)
All permits shall be renewed every year.
(c)
Renewal does not require rehearing except as to expansions or alterations not included in or contemplated by the original landfill or waste disposal system permit.
(d)
The cost of a permit shall cover costs of administration and inspection and shall be set by the county commissioner.
(e)
Putrescible and nonputrescible landfills and waste disposal systems are not permitted in areas in which within 2,000 feet radius of the outer perimeter of the proposed location such surrounding area is predominantly residential in character. Putrescible and nonputrescible landfills and waste disposal systems are permitted only in areas in which within 2000 feet radius of the outer perimeter of the proposed location such surrounding area is predominantly industrial, manufacturing, or agricultural in character. For purposes of this article the determination of whether an area is "predominantly" of a certain character shall be evidenced by a showing that the entire area in question is at least 60 percent utilized or occupied as residential or industrial, manufacturing, and agricultural. Such determination shall be made by the county commissioner on the basis of total acreage utilized or occupied for such use at the time the permit is requested.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. XI, art. III; Res. of 11-14-2003, § 1)
Sec. 38-618. - Application procedure for landfill or waste disposal permit.
All applicants for a landfill or waste disposal system permit shall submit the following information:
(1)
A site plan, conforming with the requirements of this landfill and waste disposal article;
(2)
An operational plan, conforming to the requirements of this landfill and waste disposal article;
(3)
One copy of all documents submitted or prepared for submission to the Georgia Department of Natural Resources (DNR), the Environmental Protection Division and any successor program for the purpose of obtaining a state permitting and continuation process;
(4)
A statement from the department of transportation identifying any state maintained road within or adjacent to the subject property, and setting out what repaving, repairs, alteration, turning lanes or other additions it finds necessary and will require of the applicant to accommodate the potential increase of traffic volume or weight occasioned by the proposed operation;
(5)
A statement from the county public works director which shall identify any county maintained road within or adjacent to the property and setting out any repaving, repairs, alterations, turning lanes or other additions necessary and which should be required of the applicant to accommodate the potential increase of traffic volume or weight occasioned by the proposed operation, and setting out any road weight limitations or restrictions which should be posted on nearby roads in order to prevent the use of roads which should not be used by persons hauling materials to or from the landfill or waste disposal system;
(6)
In addition to state requirements, a plan as to how the landfill or waste disposal system shall be closed, including a statement of what rehabilitation of the landfilled land is planned; detailed projections as to what future uses can be made of the land; what ground cover will be; what landscaping will be used; and a time estimate showing the progression of the rehabilitation and estimated time for completion;
(7)
A statement from the suppliers of all public utilities and providers of fire protection, assessing the effects upon the provision of such services by the establishment of the proposed project.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. XI, art. IV)
Sec. 38-619. - Requirements for a site plan.
Each applicant for a landfill or waste disposal system permit shall submit a site plan which shall include:
(1)
The location of all equipment, roads, buildings, proposed or existing, and all points of ingress and egress. All existing county and state maintained roads within or adjacent to the property shall be clearly identified;
(2)
The location and identification of all existing or proposed buffers or boundaries, natural or manmade;
(3)
The location and identification of all existing lakes, ponds, streams, rivers or other waterways and formations with an impact study as to the effect of the landfill and waste disposal article on each;
(4)
The location of all proposed employee and visitor parking areas and routes and all truck or commercial parking areas or routes;
(5)
Proposed handling and temporary storage areas for equipment and for waste types which are not permitted but which may incidentally be separated from proper waste and which must be removed daily.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. XI, art. V)
Sec. 38-620. - Requirements for operations and an operational plan.
Each new applicant for a landfill or other waste disposal permit shall submit an operational plan which shall include:
(1)
The date proposed for the commencement of the operation and its expected duration;
(2)
The proposed hours and days of operation. No operation shall be permitted on Sundays, New Year's Day, Independence Day (July 4), Thanksgiving Day, or Christmas Day, nor shall such operation be allowed between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., although routine maintenance is not prohibited;
(3)
Any phasing of the landfill or waste disposal system and the relationship between the phases and the estimated timing of such;
(4)
A detailed description of the method of operation, including what equipment will be used;
(5)
A statement of operational standards, which shall include and indicate compliance with the following:
a.
Illumination. All work areas shall be sufficiently illuminated, naturally or artificially, in accordance with the form of the operation and the stated hours of operation. No direct artificial illumination utilized shall fall upon any land not covered by the application. This provision does not apply to street lights.
b.
Noise. There shall be no blasting for construction or other purposes.
c.
Erosion. Erosion caused by, or increased through, the operation shall be controlled on site by the construction of retarding basins, settling ponds, other waste treatment facilities, ditches, diking and revegetation of slopes. No runoff or pattern of erosion shall pose a danger to adjacent properties.
d.
Enclosure. The landfill of waste disposal system site shall be totally enclosed by fencing. By "fencing" is meant a minimum of six-foot chain link fence with a security gate. Fencing shall completely surround the landfill or waste disposal system site prior to commencing landfilling. The landfill or waste disposal system shall be fenced in such a manner to prevent the spread of papers and other materials and shall be screened and planted so that it is not visible from any residential, commercial or industrial structure or from any street. Gates shall be provided at all points of vehicular or pedestrian ingress and egress and shall be locked when not in regular use.
e.
Notices. Notices shall be posted at regular intervals along the outer limits of the subject property which shall warn against trespassing.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. XI, art. VI)
Sec. 38-621. - Other limitations and prohibitions on operations.
(a)
The location, the boundaries, and the proposed method of operation are required to be approved by the county development office.
(b)
Truck traffic routes and entrances to the facility be approved by the county development office. Acceleration and deceleration lanes and widening of roads for sight distance shall be required based on the county engineer's report as to what is required for safety. The landfill or waste disposal system shall be accessible without excessive travel over residential streets.
(c)
No sanitary waste shall be disposed of within 2,000 yards of the public highway, a residence, or gathering place.
(d)
A minimum of a 100-foot buffer area must be provided between the property line and the waste disposal boundary line. No clearing and grubbing are to take place in these areas except as required for the construction of drainage devices, groundwater monitoring wells and access roads.
(e)
As a condition of the permit issuance and continuation, and in keeping with government intention that waste be recycled, at any time the following items are separated from waste which is permitted, these items shall not be placed in any landfill or waste disposal system in the county, and certified statements and proof of recycling carried out may be required monthly or less by the public works director: paper products, yard waste and yard trash, aluminum, glass, plastic, vehicle tires, ferrous and nonferrous metal and batteries.
(f)
Waste of a type which is not permitted at a particular landfill or waste disposal system and which comes onto the site incidentally discovered in waste which is permitted must be removed from the landfill or waste disposal system site daily.
(g)
No landfill or waste disposal system shall be located within 10,000 feet of any airport runway used by turbo jet aircraft or within 5,000 feet of any airport runway used by only pistoned-type aircraft.
(h)
No landfill or waste disposal system shall be located in any wetland, or area being designated as 100-year floodplain.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. XI, art. VII; Res. of 2-26-2009, § 1(Exh. A))
Secs. 38-622—38-650. - Reserved.
