ARTICLE II. - WATER AND SEWER AUTHORITY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1969 Ga. Laws, page 2764 which created and established the Pickens County Water and Sewer Authority. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Section 1. - Short title.
This shall be known and may be cited as the "Pickens County Water and Sewer Act."
Section 2. - Pickens County Water and Sewer Authority.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic, to be known as the county water and sewer authority, which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the state and a public corporation; and by that name, style, and title, said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, complain, and defend in all courts of law and equity. The authority shall consist of five members, all of whom shall be residents of the county, all of whom shall reside outside the corporate limits of any municipality. The original members of the authority shall be appointed by the governing authority of the county, one member for a one year term, two members for a two year term and two members for a three year term, said terms to be designated at the time of appointment. Thereafter the authority shall furnish to the governing authority of the county a list of three names for each member whose term expires and the governing authority of the county shall appoint from said list of names the person or persons to serve, each for a three year term, as a member or members of the authority. If for any reason the authority fails to furnish said list prior to 30 days before the expiration of any term, the governing authority of the county shall appoint the member or members to fill the vacancies created by the expiration of the terms of the members of the authority whose terms expire. A member whose term expires shall be eligible for reappointment by the governing authority of the county to one additional term. Notwithstanding any other provision herein, all members of the authority shall serve until their successors are appointed and qualified. To be eligible for appointment, no member shall have been found guilty of a felony. A member must be at least 21 years of age and a resident of the county for at least two years prior to his appointment.
The original members of the Authority shall immediately enter upon their duties. They shall elect one of their number as chairman, another as vice-chairman, and may also elect a secretary and/or treasurer, who need not necessarily be a member of the Authority. The chairman and vice-chairman, secretary, and treasurer shall serve for a period of one year and until their successors are elected and qualified. Three members of the Authority shall constitute a quorum.
In the event of a vacancy by reason of death, disqualification, resignation, or other reason, the governing authority of Pickens County shall appoint a person meeting the qualifications above set out for membership, to serve for the unexpired term.
Members of the Authority shall lose their positions as such upon being found guilty of a felony or moving from Pickens County.
No vacancy on the Authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all of the rights and perform all of the duties of the Authority.
The chairman of the Authority shall be entitled to vote upon any issue, motion, or resolution the same as other members.
The members of the Authority shall serve without compensation, provided that all members shall be reimbursed for their actual expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties. The Authority shall make rules and regulations for its own government. It shall have perpetual existence.
The Authority shall have a complete audit of its financial record made at least once in each calendar year by a certified public accountant, and such audit shall be published in the official newspaper of Pickens County at least once each calendar year and within one month of the submission thereof.
(Act. No. 530, § 1, 4-11-2012)
Section 3. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings:
(a)
The word "Authority" shall mean the Pickens County Water and Sewer Authority created by section 2 of this Act.
(b)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition and construction of all necessary and usual water facilities useful and necessary for the obtaining of one or more sources of water supply within or without the territorial boundaries of Pickens County, the treatment of water and the distribution and sale of water to users and consumers, including counties and municipalities, for the purpose of resale, within and without the territorial boundaries of Pickens County, and the operation, maintenance, additions, improvements, and extensions of such facilities so as to assure an adequate water utility system deemed by the Authority necessary or convenient for the efficient operation of such type of undertaking; the acquisition and construction of all necessary and usual facilities useful and necessary for the gathering of waste matter, individual and industrial, the treatment of such waste, including the acquisition and construction of treatment plants, lagoons, without and within the territorial boundaries of Pickens County, and the operation, maintenance, additions, improvements, and extensions of such facilities deemed necessary by the Authority to be necessary or convenient for the efficient operation of the sanitary and storm sewer system.
(c)
The term "cost of the project" shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements, and franchises acquired, the cost of all machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during the construction, and for one year after completion of construction, cost of engineering, architectural, and legal expenses, and of plans and specifications, and other expenses necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, the construction of any project, the placing of the same in operation, and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act for such project.
(d)
The terms "revenue bonds" and "bonds" as used in this Act, shall mean revenue certificates as defined and provided for in the Revenue Bond Law (O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60), as amended, and such type of obligations may be issued by the Authority as authorized under said Revenue Bond Law, and, in addition, shall also mean obligations of the Authority, the issuance of which are hereinafter specifically provided for in this Act.
(e)
Any project shall be deemed "self-liquidating" if, in the judgment of the Authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the Authority therefrom will be sufficient to pay the cost of operating, maintaining and repairing, improving, and extending the project, and to pay the principal and interest of the revenue bonds which may be issued for the cost of such project or projects.
Section 4. - Powers.
The Authority shall have powers:
(a)
To have a seal and alter the same at its pleasure;
(b)
To acquire by purchase, lease, or otherwise, and to hold, lease, and dispose of, real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(c)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, grant, or gift, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real property, or rights of easements therein, or franchises or personal property necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue, and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the Authority; and in any proceedings to condemn, such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the suit, action, or proceedings as may be just to the Authority and to the owners of the property to be condemned, and no property shall be acquired under the provisions of this Act upon which any lien or encumbrance exists, unless at the time such property is so acquired a sufficient sum of money be deposited in trust to pay and redeem the fair value of such lien or encumbrance; and if the Authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project on any other lands the title to which shall then be in the State of Georgia, the Governor is hereby authorized to convey, for and in behalf of the State, title to such lands to the Authority upon payment to the State Treasurer, for the credit of the general fund of the State, of the reasonable value of such lands, such value to be determined by three appraisers to be agreed upon by the Governor and the Chairman of the Authority;
(d)
To appoint, select, and employ officers, agents, and employees, including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents, and attorneys, and fix their respective compensations;
(e)
To make contracts, leases, and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases or projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired, and any and all persons, firms, and corporations and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions, or agencies of the State are hereby authorized to enter into contracts, leases, or agreements with the Authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable; and, without limiting the generality of the above, authority is specifically granted to municipal corporations and counties and to the authority to enter into contracts, lease agreements, or other undertakings relative to the furnishing of water, sewerage, and related services and facilities by the Authority to such municipal corporations and counties or for the purchase of water by the Authority therefrom for a term not exceeding fifty (50) years. As to any political subdivision, department, institution, or agency of this State which shall enter into an agreement under the authority granted herein or in subsection (e) above, the obligation to perform and fulfill such agreement shall constitute a general obligation of such entity for which its full faith and credit shall be and hereby is pledged to the extent as may be now or hereafter permitted under the Constitution and laws of Georgia;
(f)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate and manage projects as hereinabove defined, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the Authority or from such proceeds and any grant from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(g)
To accept loans with, and accept grants of money, materials, or property of any kind from, the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may require;
(h)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(i)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, provided the same is not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of this State; and
(j)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this Act.
Section 5. - Revenue bonds.
The Authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties, and liabilities vested in the Authority so created hereby, shall have power and is hereby authorized at one time, or from time to time, to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds of the Authority for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as herein defined or any one or more projects. The principal and interest of such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund hereby provided for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates not exceeding the maximum limit then provided for bonds permitted by the Revenue Bond Law at the time of issuance, shall be payable at such time or times, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 30 years from their date or dates, or at such times exceeding 30 years as may be hereafter authorized by the laws of the State of Georgia, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the Authority, and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the Authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the Authority in the resolution for the issuance of bonds.
Section 6. - Same; form; denominations; registration; place of payment.
The Authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the State. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the Authority may determine. Provisions may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both the principal and interest.
Section 7. - Same; signatures; seal.
All such bonds shall bear the manual or facsimile signature of the chairman of the Authority, the attesting manual or facsimile signature of the secretary of the Authority and the official seal of the Authority shall be affixed thereto. The signature of one of such officers shall be placed manually on each bond. Any coupons attached thereto shall bear the manual or facsimile signature of the chairman or the secretary of the Authority. Any coupon may bear the facsimile signature of such person, and any bond may bear the facsimile signature of and may be manually signed, sealed, and attested on behalf of the Authority by such persons as at the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of such bonds such persons may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office. In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery.
Section 8. - Same; negotiability; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall have and are hereby declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the laws of the State of Georgia pertaining to negotiable instruments. Such bonds are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose, and the said bonds, their transfers, and the income therefrom shall be exempt from all taxation within the State.
Section 9. - Same; sale; price.
The Authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interests of the Authority.
Section 10. - Same; proceeds of bonds.
The proceeds of such bonds shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of the project or projects; and unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds, or in the trust indenture, additional bonds may in like manner be issued to provide the amount of any deficit, which, unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, shall be deemed to be of the same, and shall be entitled to payment from the same fund, without preference or priority of the bonds first issued for the same purpose. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which such bonds are issued, the surplus shall be paid into the fund, hereinafter provided, for the payment of principal and interest of such bonds.
Section 11. - Same; interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the Authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim certificates, or temporary bonds, with or without coupons, exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
Section 12. - Same; replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The Authority may also provide for the replacement of any bonds which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
Section 13. - Same; conditions precedent to issuance; object of issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things than those proceedings, conditions, and things which are specified or required by this Act. In the discretion of the Authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this Act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular, special, or adjourned meeting of the Authority by a majority of the quorum as in this Act provided.
Section 14. - Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of Pickens County or a pledge of the faith and credit of said county, but such bonds shall be payable solely from the funds hereinafter provided for; and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently obligate the said county to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor, or to make an appropriation for the payment, and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section.
Section 15. - Same; trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the Authority, any issuance of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the Authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or outside of the State. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues, and earnings to be received by the Authority. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the Authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair, and insurance of the project, and the custody, safeguarding and application of all moneys, and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the Authority, and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefor, and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depositary of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other moneys be satisfactory to such purchasers, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be unlawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this State to act as such depositary and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the Authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders, as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the Authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation, and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
Section 16. - Same; to whom proceeds of bonds shall be paid.
The Authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who, or any agency, bank, or trust company which, shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes hereof, subject to such regulations as this Act and such resolution or trust indenture may provide.
Section 17. - Same; sinking funds.
The revenues, fees, tolls, and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such have been issued, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the Authority to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the Authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument may provide; and such funds not pledged, from whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture into a sinking fund, which said sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payments of (1) the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due, (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due, (3) the necessary charges of paying agents for paying principal and interest, and (4) any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as hereinabove provided. The use and disposition of such sinking funds shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture; but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be a fund for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, surplus moneys in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds, and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be cancelled and shall not again be issued.
Section 18. - Same; remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia, or granted hereunder, or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this Act, or by such resolution or trust indenture, to be performed by the Authority or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
Section 19. - Same; refunding bonds.
The Authority is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issue of revenue refunding bonds of the Authority for the purpose of refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon. The issuance of such revenue refunding bonds, the maturities, and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the Authority in respect to the same, shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this Act insofar as the same may be applicable.
Section 20. - Same; venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act or any suit or action against such Authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Pickens County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall likewise be brought in said court, which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
Section 21. - Same; validation.
Bonds of the Authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of the Revenue Bond Law, as now or hereafter amended. The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action any municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality of the State of Georgia which has contracted with the Authority for services and facilities of the water system for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated; and such municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the Court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts adjudicated as security for the payment of any such bonds of the Authority. The bonds, when validated, and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds against the Authority issuing the same and any municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality contracting with the said Pickens County Water and Sewer Authority.
Section 22. - Same; interest of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the Authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence of said Authority or of its officers, employees, or agents, shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds; and no other entity, department, agency, or authority will be created which will compete with the Authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the rights and interests of the holders of such bonds, nor will the State itself so compete with the Authority. The provisions of this Act shall be for the benefit of the Authority and the holders of any such bonds and, upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions hereof, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
Section 23. - Moneys received considered trust funds.
All moneys received pursuant to the authority of this Act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds as grants or other contributions, or as revenues, fees, and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this Act.
Section 24. - Purpose of the Authority.
Without limiting the generality of any provision of this Act, the general purpose of the Authority is declared to be that of acquiring an adequate source or sources of water supply, treatment of such water, and thereafter the distribution of same to various citizens in said county and environs, including adjoining counties and municipalities located therein, and further for the general purpose of gathering and treatment of waste, both individual and industrial; but such general purpose shall not restrict the Authority from selling and delivering water direct to consumers in those areas where there does not now exist water distribution systems, or furnishing sewer facilities to such consumers, and areas where neither any county nor municipality deems it desirable or feasible to furnish water in such locality.
The Authority shall not have the authority to construct water lines for the distribution of water directly to consumers within any water district or municipality or within three hundred (300) yards of any water lines existing at the time of the passage of this Act and owned by any water district or municipality or within three hundred (300) yards of any water lines hereafter constructed by any Water Authority heretofore or hereafter created, without first obtaining the express written consent of the appropriate governing bodies of the above-referred-to water districts, municipalities, or other Authority.
Section 25. - Rates, charges, and revenues; use.
The Authority is hereby authorized to prescribe and fix and collect rates, fees, tolls, or charges, and to revise from time to time and collect such rates, fees, tolls, or charges, for the services, facilities, or commodities furnished and, in anticipation of the collection of the revenues of such undertaking or project, to issue revenue bonds as herein provided to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, betterment, or extension of the water and sewer utility system, and to pledge to the punctual payment of said bonds and interest thereon all or any part of the revenues of such undertaking or project, including the revenues of improvements, betterments, or extensions thereto thereafter made.
Section 26. - Tax exempt status of Authority.
The properties of the Authority, both real and personal, are declared to be public properties used for the benefit and welfare of the people of the State of Georgia, and not for purposes of private or corporate benefit and income; and such properties and the Authority shall be exempt from all taxes and special assessments of any city, county, or the State or any political subdivision thereof. The tax exemption herein provided shall not include any exemption from sales and use tax on property purchased by the Authority or for use by the Authority.
Section 27. - Rules and regulations for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the Authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed under the provisions of this Act, including the basis on which water and sewer service and facilities shall be furnished.
Section 28. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The foregoing sections of this Act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized thereby and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing.
Section 29. - Liberal construction of Act.
This Act, being for the welfare of various political subdivisions of the State and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes thereof.
Section 30. - Effect of partial invalidity of Act.
The provisions of this Act are severable; and, if any of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions.
Section 31. - Preservation of powers.
This Act does not in any way take from Pickens County or any municipality located or any adjoining county the authority to own, operate, and maintain water or sewer systems or issue revenue certificates, as is provided by the Revenue Bond Law of Georgia (O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60).
Section 32. - Repeal.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
