ARTICLE II. - GAME MACHINES, VENDING MACHINES AND OTHER RECREATIONAL MACHINES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 18-21. - Item of machinery or equipment defined.
As used herein, an item of machinery or equipment hereunder regulated shall mean an electronic, mechanical, electrical or other type of machinery or equipment, the primary purpose of which is the entertainment, amusement or pleasure of the operator, user or spectator. Such items shall include, but not be limited to, machines sometimes known as pinball machines, electronic game machines, pool tables and all other such items where a fee is paid in connection with the use, operation or observation of same. Not included in the definition of items of machinery or equipment regulated hereunder are vending machines for the sale of goods or services such as soft drinks, snack foods, cigarettes, shoe polishing machines, gum and other such machines where there is received an item of goods or services other than a service which is the entertainment, amusement or pleasure of the operator, user or spectator, which is proportionate in value to the fee paid for same.
(Code 1988, § 18-51)
Sec. 18-22. - Penalty for violation of article.
No person may use or operate within the city any item of machinery or equipment as described in this article without having first obtained a valid license and for each additional separate location within the city wherein three or more of such items of machinery or equipment are to be used or operated, an additional separate license, and unless all such licenses remain valid and in effect at all times during which such persons shall be conducting such business. Any person who shall violate this or any other provision of this article shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by fine not to exceed $1,000.00 and costs, or by imprisonment not to exceed six months, or both, any and all of such penalties to be imposed in the discretion of the judge of the municipal court of the city or such other judicial officer as shall have jurisdiction to try such case.
(Code 1988, § 18-60)
Secs. 18-23—18-45. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 18-46. - Required; fees; additional fees for pool tables.
Each owner, user or operator of items of machinery or equipment as described herein located within the city shall be required to obtain a license from the city clerk as set forth above, and shall pay a minimum annual license fee of $100.00 for this privilege. Payment of such license fee shall entitle the licensee to use, own or operate within the city at least one item of such machinery or equipment. For each additional item of machinery or equipment the license fee shall be increased by $25.00. After issuance of a license, if the licensee seeks to operate additional items of machinery or equipment within the city which were not included in the original or renewal application for license, applicant shall pay to the city clerk a fee of $25.00 for each additional item of machinery or equipment. If the licensee is exchanging an existing item of machinery or equipment for a new or different item of machinery or equipment so as not to increase the total number of such items to be operated by the licensee, there shall be no fee charged for such exchange. Should the licensee, in addition to the operating of herein described game machines and equipment, elect to operate or offer for operation to the general public, pool tables, the fee, in addition to the business license, shall be $50.00 for each such pool table.
(Code 1988, § 18-52)
Sec. 18-47. - Filing of application.
Every person required to procure a license under the provisions of this article shall submit an application for such license to the city clerk, which application shall conform to the requirements of article II of chapter 70 and shall contain the name and home address of each shareholder owning a beneficial interest of more than 40 percent of the issued and outstanding shares, if the applicant is a corporation, together with the address of the principal officer and registered agent of the corporation within the state.
(Code 1988, § 18-53)
Sec. 18-48. - Listing of items of machinery or equipment on application; notification of acquisition of new machinery.
(a)
At the time of filing the application for the license or licenses under this article, the licensee shall include on the application the number, type and description of each separate item of machinery or equipment to be owned, used or operated by the licensee, and the location within the city at which such items of equipment or machinery are to be operated.
(b)
If at any time during a calendar year when a license is in effect, the licensee acquires a new or different item of machinery or equipment, the licensee, prior to placing any such machinery or equipment into use or operation, shall notify the city clerk of each such additional item of machinery or equipment, upon advising the city clerk of the information relating to the description and location of the item or items as is appropriate and paying the appropriate fee for same.
(Code 1988, § 18-54)
Sec. 18-49. - Procedure for issuance.
(a)
City manager's recommendation. The city clerk shall forward a copy of any application for a license received under this article to the city manager within 48 hours of the time of receipt of the application. The city manager shall make a recommendation to the city clerk within 14 days after receiving a copy of the application, and thereafter the application shall be processed as provided in this article.
(b)
City council action. Upon receipt of the recommendation of the city manager, the city clerk shall forward such recommendation and the application to the city council for consideration and action at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
(Code 1988, § 18-55)
Sec. 18-50. - Factors for council consideration.
The council, in passing upon an initial application for a license hereunder, shall be guided by the following factors as to whether to grant or deny such application:
(1)
Proximity of similar establishments. The proximity of other establishments wherein items of the machinery or equipment covered hereunder are located in relation to the proposed location;
(2)
Character of adjacent neighborhoods. The character of the neighborhood immediately adjacent to the proposed location;
(3)
Proximity of churches, etc. The proximity of churches, schools and playgrounds to the proposed location;
(4)
Parking. Whether the proposed location has adequate off-street parking facilities or other parking available for its patrons;
(5)
Affect on traffic. Whether the location would tend to increase and promote traffic congestion and resulting hazards therefrom;
(6)
Citizen reactions. The feelings and attitudes of the citizens residing in the area adjacent to the proposed location;
(7)
Information on application. The information set forth in the application;
(8)
Revocation of previous applications. Whether any application under this article previously issued for such location was ever revoked for cause by the council; and
(9)
Illegal use of machinery or equipment in the past. Whether the applicant has ever used or operated any items of machinery or equipment described herein illegally in the city.
(Code 1988, § 18-56)
Sec. 18-51. - Restrictions on issuance.
No license shall be issued in accordance with this article unless the following conditions are met:
(1)
Premises from which an item of machinery or equipment hereunder is to be owned, operated or used shall be kept in full compliance, at all times, in a safe and sanitary condition, and in accordance with all laws and ordinances regulating the type of premises wherein same is located.
(2)
The premises for which a license is initially issued hereunder must be no closer than 500 feet from any then-existing established church, school, hospital or an existing business wherein there is being used or operated an item of machinery or equipment described herein, such measure being taken from front door to front door of each such establishment.
(3)
No more than two such items of machinery or equipment may be owned, used or operated from premises where the use, operation or ownership of such items is done only as an incidental part of another existing ongoing business.
(4)
If three or more of such items of machinery or equipment are to be operated from the same premises, the premises, or portion thereof in which such operation is located, must be separately enclosed, that is, not operated as a part of any other business; the location must be separately licensed hereunder; there must be in attendance at all times when such place of business is open for the use or operation of such items of machinery or equipment a responsible adult, 18 years of age or older, who shall have no duties or responsibilities other than to manage, supervise or direct the use and operation of such items of machinery or equipment located within such premises; such premises may not open for business between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m., Monday through Saturday and may not operate during the hours of 11:00 p.m. Saturday to 8:00 a.m. Monday; the licensee shall not permit nor shall the licensee allow others to permit any person under the age of 16 years to use or operate any item of equipment or machinery during the normally accepted school operating hours which are from 8:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m., Monday through Friday; the licensee shall not permit nor shall the licensee allow others to permit any person under the age of 14 years to use or operate any item of machinery or equipment unless accompanied by such child's parent or legal guardian; no licensee shall allow or permit others to allow any alcoholic or malt beverages to be consumed or brought upon or about the premises; and a licensee shall otherwise fully comply with this Code, all ordinances of the city, laws and regulations of the state and the United States Government as they affect the premises and activities therein.
(Code 1988, § 18-57)
Sec. 18-52. - Termination, renewal, revocation, etc.
(a)
Termination. All licenses issued in accordance with this article shall terminate as subject to and governed by article II of chapter 70, except as expressly changed in this article.
(b)
Change of location. In the absence of any provision to the contrary, the location of any business licensed hereunder may not be changed without the prior approval of the city council, and any such change shall not, under any circumstances, be made if to do so would place the licensee in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any other ordinance or law then in effect in the city; provided, however, that this provision shall not prohibit a licensee who has obtained licenses for more than one operation in the city, from moving individual items of equipment or machinery in the city, from moving individual items of equipment or machinery covered by this article from one licensed location to another licensed location, without the prior approval of the council, provided that by doing so the licensee is not placed in violation of the provisions of this article or of any other ordinance of law then in effect in the city.
(c)
Limits on number of machines. For the purpose of this article, each branch establishment or location wherein there are located three or more items of equipment or machinery of the licensee shall be deemed a separate place of business for which a separate license shall be required hereunder. A licensee may own, use or operate no more than two items of machinery or equipment at locations within the city other than at the principal location under and pursuant to the license issued hereunder for the principal place of business of the licensee. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the number of items of such machinery or equipment which the licensee may own, use or operate at the principal place of business of such licensee.
(Code 1988, § 18-58)
Secs. 18-53—18-75. - Reserved.
