Chapter 30 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Constitutional grant of home rule powers, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II; statutory grant of home rule powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; authority to provide for police and fire protection, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(1).

Sec. 30-1. - Open burning.
(a)
Prohibited; exceptions. No person shall cause, suffer, allow, or permit open burning in any area located within the corporate boundaries of the city at any time except as follows:
(1)
The burning is for the purpose of carrying out recognized agricultural procedures necessary for production or harvesting of crops;
(2)
The burning is for recreational purposes or the cooking of food for the immediate human consumption;
(3)
The fire is set for the purpose of training fire fighting personnel and has been authorized by the appropriate government entity and the guidelines set by the state department of natural resources and other appropriate government agencies are strictly observed;
(4)
The fire is in connection with the operation of devices using open flames such as tar kettles, blow torches, welding torches, portable heaters and other flame making equipment;
(5)
The fire is a small fire established and maintained by a contractor or tradesman which is necessary for activities such as street paving work or installation or repair of utilities. All such fires shall be kept small in size, shall produce no smoke emissions exceeding 40 percent opacity and shall comply with all other regulations which may prohibit or regulate all such activities;
(6)
The fire is for the disposal of packaging materials previously containing explosives and is used in accordance with U.S. Department of Labor Safety Regulations.
(7)
Burning of leaves, limbs and other natural vegetation that may fall on one's own property, provided that said burning is conducted in accordance with the following requirements and restrictions:
(i)
Between October 1 and April 30 of each year;
(ii)
During daylight hours and all remnants of fire have been extinguished prior to dusk;
(iii)
When prevailing winds are not in excess of 15 mph;
(iv)
When the fire is located at least 30 feet from the property lines of all adjoining property owners;
(v)
Only on parcels of property that are in excess of one-half acre in total land area;
(vi)
All fires shall be constantly attended by a competent person until extinguished;
(vii)
There shall be a garden hose connected to a water supply or other fire extinguishing equipment readily available for use; and
(viii)
After obtaining a burn permit from the city. The city manager shall create an application permit process for burn permits. In considering burn permits, the city manager shall consider the location of the property and shall not issue burn permits to numerous properties in close proximity for the same time period. A burn permit shall be valid only for the day stated on said permit. There shall be no charge to obtain a burn permit.
(b)
Enforcement. This section may be enforced by the city manager and the city manager's designees including, but not limited to, the staff of the planning and development department. In addition, the fire marshal's office and personnel of the county department of fire and emergency services will have the authority to summarily abate any conditions which are in violation of any other provisions of this section and which may constitute an immediate threat to life or property.
(Ord. of 12-8-1997; Ord. of 11-14-2011(1))
State Law reference— Air quality control programs authorized, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(13).
