ARTICLE II. - RETAIL SALE OF MALT BEVERAGES[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 6-21. - On-premises consumption; consumption in public places.
No person may sell malt beverages, at retail or otherwise, for consumption on the premises, including the building lot on which such premises are located, and no person may consume malt beverages in any public place within the city, except as provided in this chapter.
(Code 1988, § 3-21; Ord. of 7-11-1994)
Secs. 6-22—6-40. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Local licensing of sales of alcohol, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2.

Sec. 6-41. - Required; fee; excise tax.
Each retail dealer of malt beverages, as same is defined in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2 who does business within this city shall be required to obtain a license from the city clerk, and shall pay an annual license fee of $500.00 for this privilege. In addition, there is hereby set and levied on the sale of malt beverages within this city an excise tax in the amount on the basis of the sums and determinations set forth in O.C.G.A. § 3-5-80 which excise tax is levied against and shall be paid by the wholesale dealer as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 3-5-881.
(Code 1988, § 3-22)
Sec. 6-42. - Application.
(a)
Contents. Every person required to procure a license under the provisions of this article shall submit an application for such license to the city clerk, which application shall conform to the requirements of chapter 18, article I of this Code and shall contain the name and home address of each shareholder owning a beneficial interest of more than 40 percent of the issued and outstanding shares, if a corporation, together with the address of the principal office and registered agent of the corporation.
(b)
Recommendation of city manager. The city clerk shall forward a copy of any application for a license received under this article to the city manager within 48 hours of the time of receipt of the application. The city manager shall make a recommendation thereon, favorable or otherwise, and shall return such recommendation to the city clerk within 14 days after receiving a copy of the application.
(c)
Referral to city council. If the applicant is denied the issuance of a license under the provisions of this chapter by the council, the applicant shall not be given consideration for a license at the same location for 180 days from the date of denial by the council.
(d)
Publication of notice. No application for license for the sale of malt beverages within this city shall be acted upon by the council until after notice shall have been run in a meeting at which such application is to be presented and considered. Such notice shall contain the name of the applicant and the location of the proposed business, and shall be run at the applicant's expense.
(e)
Factors for council consideration. The council, in passing upon an initial application for a license for the retail sale of malt beverages, at the final meeting thereon, shall be guided by the following factors as to whether to grant or deny such application:
(1)
The proximity of other establishments selling malt beverages to the proposed location.
(2)
The character of the neighborhood immediately adjacent to the proposed location.
(3)
The proximity of churches, schools and playgrounds to the proposed location.
(4)
Whether the proposed location has adequate off-street parking facilities or other parking available for its patrons.
(5)
Whether the location would tend to increase and promote traffic congestion and resulting hazards therefrom.
(6)
The feelings and attitudes of the citizens residing in the area adjacent to the proposed location.
(7)
The information set forth in the application.
(8)
Whether any malt beverage license previously issued for such location was ever revoked for cause by the council.
(9)
Whether the applicant has ever sold malt beverages illegally in the city.
(Code 1988, § 3-23; Amd. of 7-2002)
Sec. 6-43. - Restrictions on issuance.
(a)
No license shall be issued for the retail sale of malt beverages in accordance with this article unless the following conditions are met:
(1)
The sale of malt beverages may not be done as a primary business, but can be done only as an incidental part of another existing ongoing business, so that the sale of malt beverages, at retail, shall consist of not more than 20 percent of the gross revenue realized from the overall operation of the business conducted from such location.
(2)
Premises from which the business of retail sale of malt beverages is conducted shall contain at least 2,000 square feet of floor space including the operation of the malt beverage business and the other business to which it is incidental, and such premises shall be kept in full compliance, at all times, in a safe and sanitary condition, and in accordance with all laws and ordinances regulating the condition of premises used for the storage or sale of food for human consumption.
(3)
Any premises for which a license is initially issued for retail sales of malt beverages shall be no closer than a distance of 75 feet from the property line of any then-existing church, school, licensed day care facility or college. The distances in the subsection shall be measured in accordance with the definition and method set forth in section 6-178 of this chapter. The distance requirements in this subsection shall not be interpreted to be in conflict with the minimum distances set forth in Georgia Statutes. The distances in this subsection shall never be less than those distances required by Georgia Statutes and in all cases in which the distances in this subsection are greater than those provided by Georgia Statutes then the distances set forth in this subsection shall control.
(b)
No license shall be issued to any applicant whose place of business is not in full compliance with all minimum building codes adopted by the city.
(c)
It shall be unlawful to sell or dispense any alcoholic beverages, including but not limited to the retail sale of malt beverages, from or at a drive-in, drive-thru, drive-up, or service bay, window or other facility. Further, curb service is expressly prohibited.
(Code 1988, § 3-24; Ord. of 7-9-1990; Amd. of 5-2002; Ord. of 10-9-2006(1); Ord. of 3-14-2011(1))
State Law reference— Location restrictions, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-21.
Sec. 6-44. - Issuance.
(a)
Upon the express approval of the council, the city clerk shall issue a business license to the applicant for the retail sale of malt beverages, which license shall reflect thereon the nature of the business so authorized, and shall bear the date of issuance and the signature of the mayor and the city clerk.
(b)
The granting of a license for the retail sale of malt beverages under the provisions of this article shall be deemed a privilege only, and nothing herein contained shall be construed as granting any person whose business is subject to municipal regulation any legal right to engage in such business.
(c)
If the applicant is denied the issuance of a license under the provisions of this article by the council, the applicant may not apply for a license at the same location for a period of 90 days from the date of denial by the council. If an applicant is denied the issuance of a license under the provisions of this article for a second time, then the applicant may not apply for a license at the same location for a period of 180 days from the date of denial by the council.
(Code 1988, § 3-25)
Sec. 6-45. - Display.
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a business licensed under this article to keep such license posted in a conspicuous place on the premises used for such business at all times.
(Code 1988, § 3-26)
Sec. 6-46. - Termination and renewal.
(a)
Termination date. All licenses for the retail sale of malt beverages shall terminate on December 31 of each year.
(b)
Renewal date. Each licensee authorized to make retail sales of malt beverages shall make a typewritten application for renewal on or before November 15 of each calendar year, which application shall contain substantially the same information as the initial application and be accompanied by all required fees.
(c)
Refunds. An applicant for renewal of a license hereunder shall be entitled to a refund of fees tendered if he withdraws his application for renewal prior to final action on the same by the council.
(Code 1988, § 3-27)
Sec. 6-47. - Revocation, suspension, etc.
The council, after affording the licensee notice of the charges and opportunity to be heard with respect to any revocation proceedings, may, if it finds this article to have been violated by the licensee, his agent or employee, revoke such license in its entirety, suspend the same for a specified period of time, place the licensee on probation, or place other conditions thereon as the council may deem necessary.
(Code 1988, § 3-28)
Secs. 6-48—6-70. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS

Sec. 6-71. - Change of location.
In the absence of any provision to the contrary, the location of any business licensed for the retail sale of malt beverages may not be changed without the prior approval of the council, and any such change shall not, under any circumstances, be made if to do so would place the licensee in violation of any of the provisions of this article or any other ordinance or law then in effect in this city.
(Code 1988, § 3-29(a))
Sec. 6-72. - Licenses nontransferable.
All licenses issued hereunder shall be personal to the licensee to whom issued, and may not be transferred.
(Code 1988, § 3-29(b))
Sec. 6-73. - Duplicate licenses.
A duplicate license shall be issued by the city clerk to replace a previously issued license which has been lost, stolen, defaced or destroyed without any willful conduct on the part of the licensee, upon the filing of a sworn affidavit attesting to such fact and the payment of a fee of $25.00 to the city clerk.
(Code 1988, § 3-29(c))
Sec. 6-74. - License required for each location.
For the purposes of this article, each branch establishment or location wherein a representative of the owner is employed and is authorized to transact business for such owner shall be deemed a separate place of business for which a separate license shall be required, and the issuance of a license to a licensee for a conduct of the business of the retail sale of malt beverages shall be restricted to the one location shown on the application, regardless of the number of locations or branches which might otherwise be operated by the licensee.
(Code 1988, § 3-29(d))
Sec. 6-75. - Separate license required for each business on premises.
A person engaged in two or more businesses at the same location shall be required to obtain a separate business license for the conduct of each such business for which a license is required, and the issuance of the license for the retail sale of malt beverages shall not authorize the licensee to operate any business from the same location without an appropriate business license for each such separate business.
(Code 1988, § 3-29(e))
Sec. 6-76. - Penalties.
No person may sell malt beverages, at retail or otherwise, without having first obtained a valid license under the provisions of this article and unless such license remains valid and in effect at all times during which such person shall be conducting such business. Any person who shall violate this or any other provision of this article shall, upon conviction therefor, be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 and costs, or by imprisonment not to exceed six months, or both, any and all of such penalties to be imposed in the discretion of the judge of the municipal court or such other judicial office as shall have jurisdiction to try such case.
(Code 1988, § 3-30)
Sec. 6-77. - Compliance with state law.
All licensees for the sale of malt beverages under the provisions of this article shall, at all times, comply with the provisions of O.C.G.A. tit. 3 and any violation of any provision therein shall constitute a violation of this article.
(Code 1988, § 3-31)
Sec. 6-78. - Hours and days of sale.
(a)
Retail licensees shall not engage in the sale of beer or malt beverages except between the hours of 7:00 a.m. until 12:00 midnight Monday through Saturday.
(b)
No retail sales of beer or malt beverages shall occur on Sunday.
(Ord. of 11-8-2010(1))
Sec. 6-79. - Growlers.
(a)
The sale of growlers in compliance with this article is authorized for establishments authorized to sell alcoholic beverages, excluding distilled spirits, by the package. The term "growler" means a bottle made of glass or other material customary to the industry provided that the bottle is capable of being sealed with a cap and then sealed with a plastic collar for the purpose of complying with open container laws, and further provided that the bottle does not exceed 68 ounces and is filled by a licensee or employee of the licensed establishment from a keg.
(b)
The filling of growlers by means of a tapped keg shall not constitute the breaking of a package as contemplated by O.C.G.A. § 3-3-26 or other provisions of this chapter.
(c)
Growlers may only be filled from kegs procured by the licensee from a duly licensed wholesaler.
(d)
Only professionally sanitized and sealed growlers may be filled and made available for retail sale. Each growler must be securely sealed and removed from the premises in its original sealed condition.
(e)
Consumption on the premises is strictly prohibited. However, samples may be made available, but shall not exceed three ounces in volume nor shall any one individual be offered more than four samples within a 24-hour period.
(f)
Growlers may not be sold at any establishment engaged in the sale of distilled spirits.
(g)
The sale of growlers shall require the payment of the annual license fee of $500.00 from the local license holder and the payment of excise taxes as required and set forth in section 6-41
(h)
The sale of growlers shall be exempt from the requirement found in section 6-43(a)(1). Unless otherwise exempted by this section, the requirements of this article shall apply to the sale of growlers.
(Ord. of 8-11-2014(1))
Sec. 6-80. - Brewer/brewery.
(a)
Brewer or brewery means a manufacturer of beer or malt beverages.
(b)
A brewer shall be permitted to manufacture beer with the right to sell the product of the brewer for resale within and outside of the limits of the State of Georgia.
(c)
The right to sell the manufactured product of the brewer for resale within the city and the State of Georgia may be revoked separately from the right to manufacture and sell the product for resale outside of this state.
(d)
A brewer may sell up to 3,000 barrels of beer per year produced at the brewer's licensed premises to individuals who are present on such premises for:
(1)
Consumption on the premises; and
(2)
Consumption off the premises, provided that such sales for consumption off the premises shall not exceed a maximum of 288 ounces of beer per consumer per day.
(e)
A brewer shall be subject to the provisions related to hours and days of sale as set forth in sections 6-78 and 6-303 of this chapter as applicable.
(f)
A licensed brewer shall submit excise taxes to the city on a monthly basis in accordance with O.C.G.A. §§ 3-5-24.1 and 3-5-81.
(g)
A licensed brewer shall abide by all federal, state and local laws, regulations or rules. The failure to comport with such laws, regulations or rules may serve as a basis for revocation of the license issued by the city.
(h)
The annual license fee for a brewer shall be $2,500.00.
(Ord. of 12-10-2018(1), § 1)
Secs. 6-81—6-100. - Reserved.
