Chapter 22 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND EMERGENCY SERVICES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Constitutional grant of home rule powers, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II; statutory grant of home rule powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; authority to provide for police and fire protection, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(1).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 22-1—22-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; local organizations for emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.

Sec. 22-21. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases when used in this article shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
Emergency management means the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency and disaster functions other than those functions for which military forces or state and federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies or disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, protection against the effects of radiological, chemical and other special weapons, emergency transportation, plant protection, shelter, temporary restoration of public utility services, and other functions related to civilian population, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to total emergency and disaster preparedness for carrying out the foregoing functions.
(Code 1988, § 12-176; Ord. of 8-8-1994, § 1)
Sec. 22-22. - Office of the county emergency management director.
(a)
Appointment. It is the desire and intent of the governing officials of the city that the city be a part of the county emergency management agency. The present emergency management director will serve as director for the entire county. Should that office become vacant the chairman, and county commissioners of the county, with concurrence of the mayors of cities within the county, shall nominate for appointment, by the governor, a director of emergency management for the county.
(b)
Duties. When appointed, the emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
To represent the governing officials of the city on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
To assist city officials in organizing city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
To develop, in conjunction with city and county department, the county plan for emergency functions set forth in section 22-21. Such plan will be in consonance with the state emergency operations plan and shall be submitted to the governing officials of the county and the cities therein for approval.
(4)
To maintain the emergency management agency and to oversee the carrying out of the day to day administration of the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports, to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
To submit reports as required by governing officials in keeping with good management practices, e.g., financial, daily activity, etc.
(6)
To obtain, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the county emergency operations center.
(7)
To coordinate the activities of the county emergency operating center staff during periods of an emergency, and under the supervision of county governing officials.
(Code 1988, § 12-177; Ord. of 8-8-1994, § 2)
Sec. 22-23. - County emergency management agency.
(a)
Departments and functions. The county emergency management agency shall be established around existing city and county departments and the emergency functions described in section 22-21 above are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department/Agency Functions
(1) Chairman, County Commissioners, Mayors of Cities ..... Direction and Control
(2) County Police Department, Sheriff's Office, City Police ..... Communications and Warning
(3) County Administrator's Office ..... Emergency Public Information
(4) County Police Department, City Police Department, Sheriff's Department ..... Search, Rescue and Recovery
(5) County Police Department, City Police Department, Sheriff's Department ..... Law Enforcement Services
(6) County Police Department, City Police Department, Fire Department ..... Evacuation Services
(7) Fire Department ..... Fire Services
(8) Administrative Services, Board of Education ..... Transportation Services
(9) County Public Utilities, City Public Utilities ..... Public Works Services
(10) Fire, County Police Department, City Police ..... Medical and Deceased, Identification Services
(11) American Red Cross, Emergency Management ..... Emergency Shelter Services
(12) American Red Cross, Board of Education ..... Food Services
(13) DFACS ..... Human Services
(14) Fire ..... Radiological Protection
(15) Fire ..... Damage Assessment Services
(16) Fire and Emergency Services ..... Resources Management
(17) Fire ..... Hazardous Materials
(18) Emergency Management ..... Attack Preparedness, Dam Failure Preparedness
  (Note: As appropriate to the local organization, these functions can be assigned to existing departments or may be separate. Functions should be assigned consistent with the local emergency operations plan.)
(b)
Annexes to local EOP. Heads of city departments listed above are responsible for assisting county department heads in developing appropriate annexes to the local emergency operations plan (EOP) for their assigned emergency functions. Such annexes will be submitted to the emergency management director for inclusion in the local EOP for submission to appropriate local officials for approval.
(Code 1988, § 12-178; Ord. of 8-8-1994, § 3)
Sec. 22-24. - Powers of mayor and/or county during an emergency or disaster.
In the event of a manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States, or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the city, the mayor of the city, separately, or jointly with the chairman, county commissioners, or in their absences their legally appointed successors may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise, for such period as such emergency or disaster exists or continues, the following powers:
(1)
To enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management, and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources;
(2)
To seize or take for temporary use, any private property for the protection of the public;
(3)
To sell, lend, give or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county and to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies;
(4)
And, to perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
(Code 1988, § 12-179; Ord. of 8-8-1994, § 4)
Sec. 22-25. - Volunteers.
(a)
Compensation. All persons, other than officers and employees of the city, performing emergency functions pursuant to this article, shall serve without compensation.
(b)
Immunities. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as city officers and employees.
(Code 1988, § 12-180; Ord. of 8-8-1994, § 5)
Sec. 22-26. - Penalties for violation of article.
Any person violating any provision of this article, or any rule, order, or regulation made pursuant to this article, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable for committing a misdemeanor.
(Code 1988, § 12-181; Ord. of 8-8-1994, § 6)
