Chapter 26 - ENVIRONMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Constitutional grant of home rule powers, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II; statutory grant of home rule powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 26-1—26-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WETLANDS[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Wetland protection ordinances required, O.C.G.A. § 12-2-8(b).

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 26-21. - Findings of fact.
(a)
The wetlands in the City of Sugar Hill are indispensable and fragile natural resources with significant development constraints due to flooding, erosion, and soils limitations. In their natural state, wetlands serve man and nature. They provide habitat areas for fish, wildlife and vegetation; water quality maintenance and pollution control; flood control; erosion control; natural resource education; scientific study; and open space and recreational opportunities. In addition, the wise management of forested wetlands is essential to the economic well being of many communities within the State of Georgia.
(b)
Nationally, a considerable number of these important natural resources have been lost or impaired by draining, dredging, filling, excavating, building, pollution and other acts. Piecemeal or cumulative losses will, over time, destroy additional wetlands. Damaging or destroying wetlands threatens public safety and the general welfare.
(c)
The Georgia Department of Natural Resources and the Georgia Department of Community Affairs have determined that each local government with classified wetlands located in its jurisdiction must adopt a Wetlands Protection Ordinance, O.C.G.A. § 12-2-8(b) and the rules promulgated thereunder.
(d)
It is therefore necessary for the city to ensure maximum protection for wetlands by discouraging development activities in wetlands that may adversely affect wetlands.
(Res. of 12-11-2000, § 1)
Secs. 26-22—26-40. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - WETLANDS PROTECTION DISTRICT
Subdivision I. - In General

Sec. 26-41. - Title and purpose.
This article shall be known as the Wetlands Protection Ordinance of the city. The purposes of this article are to promote wise use of wetlands and protect wetlands, while taking into account varying ecological, economic development, recreational and aesthetic values. Activities which may damage wetlands should be located on upland sites to the greatest degree practicable as determined by a permitting process. The objective of this article is to protect wetlands from alterations which will significantly affect or reduce their primary functions for water quality, floodplain and erosion control, ground water recharge, aesthetic nature, and wildlife areas and to comply with the requirements of state law related to wetland protection.
(Res. of 12-11-2000, §1.2 )
Sec. 26-42. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases when used in this article shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
Functions means the beneficial roles that wetlands serve, including; storage, conveyance, and attenuation of floodwater and storm water; protection of water quality and reduction of erosion; habitat for wildlife, including rare, threatened and endangered species; food chain support for a wide variety of wildlife and fisheries; educational, historical, and archeological value protection; and scenic, aesthetic, and recreational amenities.
Generalized wetlands map means the current U.S. fish and Wildlife Service National Wetlands Inventory maps for the City of Sugar Hill, Georgia.
Hydric soils means soils that form as a result of saturated soils conditions. A list of these soils is maintained by the state soil and water conservation service.
Hydrophytic vegetation means macrophytic plants tolerant of or dependent on saturated soil conditions.
Jurisdictional wetland means an area that meets the definitional requirements for wetlands as determined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
Jurisdictional wetland determination means a delineation of jurisdictional wetland boundaries by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as required by section 404 of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §1344, as amended.
Regulated activity means any activity which will, or which may reasonably be expected to, result in the discharge of dredged or fill material into waters of the U.S. except those activities exempted in section 404 of the Federal Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §1344, as amended.
Silviculture means the art of producing, reproducing and growing a forest of distinctive stands of trees.
Temporary emergency permit means a temporary permit that may be issued in certain circumstances specified herein.
Wetland delineation means the establishment of wetland boundaries by a representative of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers or an authority designated by the corps.
Wetland protection district means all wetlands within the jurisdiction of the city which are indicated on the generalized wetland map as wetlands providing significant wildlife habitat and/or which may be subject to extensive mitigation.
Wetlands means those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas. The ecological parameters for designating wetlands include hydric soils, hydrophytic vegetation, and hydrological conditions that involve a temporary or permanent source of water to cause soil saturation.
(Res. of 12-11-2000, § 2)
Sec. 26-43. - Application of article.
This article shall apply to all wetlands within the wetland protection district as defined herein and located within the jurisdiction of the city. The generalized wetland map, adopted as part of this article shows the general location of wetlands and of the wetland protection district and should be consulted by persons contemplating activities in or near wetlands before engaging in a regulated activity. The generalized wetland map, together with all explanatory matter thereon and attached thereto, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this article. The generalized wetland map shall be on file in the office of the city planning and development department.
(Res. of 12-11-2000, § 3.1)
Sec. 26-44. - District boundaries.
The generalized wetland map is a general reference document and wetland boundaries indicated on the map are approximations. The purpose of the generalized wetland map is to alert developers/landowners if they are within proximity to a wetland, which means that there is a high likelihood of the presence of a jurisdictional wetland and a need for the developer/landowner to seek U.S. Army Corps of Engineers guidance as to whether a section 404 Permit will be required prior to any activity. The generalized wetland map does not necessarily represent the exact boundaries of jurisdictional wetlands within the jurisdiction of the city and cannot serve as a substitute for a delineation of wetland boundaries by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as required by section 404 of the Clean Water Act, as amended. Any local government action under this article does not relieve the landowner from federal or state permitting requirements.
(Res. of 12-11-2000, § 3.2)
Sec. 26-45. - Permitted uses.
The following uses shall be allowed as of right within the wetlands protection district to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance or law, including laws of trespass, and provided they do not require structures, grading, fill, draining, or dredging except as provided herein. The activities listed in this section are exempted from section 404 regulations provided they do not have impacts on a navigable waterway that would necessitate acquisition of an individual 404 permit. However, under section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act, a permit may be required in some circumstances.
(1)
Conservation or preservation of soil, water, vegetation, fish or other wildlife, provided it does not affect waters of the state or of the United States in such a way that would require an individual 404 Permit.
(2)
Outdoor passive recreational activities, including fishing, bird watching, hiking, boating, horseback riding, and canoeing.
(3)
Forestry practices applied in accordance with best management practices approved by the state forestry commission and as specified in section 404 of the Clean Water Act.
(4)
The cultivation of agricultural crops. Agricultural activities shall be subject to best management practices approved by the state department of agriculture.
(5)
The pasturing of livestock, provided that riparian wetlands are protected, that soil profiles are not disturbed and that approved agricultural best management practices are followed.
(6)
Education, scientific research, and nature trails.
(Res. of 12-11-2000, § 4)
Sec. 26-46. - Prohibited uses.
The following uses are not permitted within the wetlands protection district.
(1)
Receiving areas for toxic or hazardous waste or other contaminants;
(2)
Hazardous or sanitary waste landfills.
(Res. of 12-11-2000, § 5)
Sec. 26-47. - Monitoring and enforcement.
The city or other designees, their agent, officers, and employees shall have authority to enter upon privately owned land for the purpose of performing their duties under this article and may take or cause to be made such examinations, surveys, or sampling as the city or their designee deems necessary.
(1)
The city manager or its designee shall have authority to enforce this article; issue permits there under; and address violations or threatened violations thereof by issuance of violation notices, administrative orders, and civil and criminal actions. All costs, fees, and expenses in connection with such actions may be recovered as damages against the violator.
(2)
Law enforcement officials or other officials having police powers shall have authority to assist the city manager or its designee in enforcement.
(3)
The city manager or its designee shall have authority to issue cease and desist orders in the event of any violation of this article. Cease and desist orders may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction, as identified herein.
(4)
The city or its designee may require a bond as set forth in section 26-79 and with surety and conditions sufficient to secure compliance with the conditions set forth in the permit. The particular amount and the conditions of the bond shall be consistent with the purposes of this article.
(Res. of 12-11-2000, § 7)
Sec. 26-48. - Penalties for violation of article.
(a)
Any person, who commits, takes part in, or assists in any violation of any provision of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided by law. Each violation of this act shall be a separate offense, and, in the case of a continuing violation, each day's continuance shall be deemed to be a separate and distinct offense.
(b)
When a building or other structure has been constructed in violation of this article, the violator may be required to remove the structure, at the discretion of the city or its designee.
(c)
When removal of a vegetative cover, excavation or fill has taken place in violation of this article, the violator may be required to restore the affected land to its original contours and to restore vegetation, as far as practicable, at the discretion of the city or its designee.
(d)
If the city or its designee discovers a violation of this article that also constitutes a violation of provisions of the Clean Water Act as amended, the city or its designee may issue written notification of the violation to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the landowner.
(e)
The city or its designee may suspend or revoke a permit if it finds that the applicant has not complied with the conditions or limitation set forth in the permit or has exceeded the scope of the work set forth in the permit. The city or its designee may cause notice of its denial, issuance, conditional issuance, revocation, or suspension of a permit to be published in a daily newspaper having a broad circulation in the area where the wetland is located.
(Res. of 12-11-2000, § 8)
Sec. 26-49. - Judicial review.
(a)
Jurisdiction. All final decisions of the city concerning denial, approval, or conditional approval of a special permit shall be reviewable in court of competent jurisdiction.
(b)
Alternative actions. Based on these proceedings and the decision of the court, the city may, within the time specified by the court, elect to:
(1)
Institute negotiated purchase or condemnation proceedings to acquire an easement or fee interest in the applicant's land;
(2)
Approve the permit application with lesser restrictions or conditions (i.e., grant a variance); or
(3)
Institute other appropriate actions ordered by the court that fail within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Res. of 12-11-2000, § 9)
Sec. 26-50. - Amendments.
These regulations and the generalized wetland map may from time to time be amended in accordance with procedures and requirements in the general statutes and as new information concerning wetland locations, soils, hydrology, flooding, or botanical species peculiar to wetlands become available.
(Res. of 12-11-2000, § 10)
Sec. 26-51. - Assessment relief.
Assessors and boards of assessors shall consider wetland regulations in determining the fair market value of land. Any owner of an undeveloped wetland who has dedicated an easement or entered into a conservation restriction with the government or a nonprofit organization to permanently control some or all regulated activities in the wetland shall have that portion of land assessed consistent with those restrictions. Such landowner shall also be exempted from special assessment on the controlled wetland to defray the cost of municipal improvements such as sanitary sewers, storm sewers, and water mains.
(Res. of 12-11-2000, § 11)
Secs. 26-52—26-75. - Reserved.
Subdivision 2. - Local Development Permits

Sec. 26-76. - Requirements.
No regulated activity will be allowed within the wetland protection district without written permission from the city or its designee in the form of a local development permit. Issuance of a local development permit is contingent on full compliance with the terms of this article and other applicable regulations. All activities that are not exempted in section 26-45 shall be prohibited without prior issuance of a local development permit. The city planning director will consult the generalized wetland map to determine if proposed for development is located within 50 feet of the wetland protection district boundary. If it is determined by the planning director that the proposed development is within 50 feet of a wetland protection district, the development proposal shall require a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers determination. If the Corps determines that wetlands are present and that a section 404 Permit or Letter of Permission is required, a local development permit will be issued only following issuance of the section 404 permit or letter of permission. If the planning director determines that the proposed development is not near a wetland protection boundary; or it is not the type of activity that would cause the alteration of wetlands, the city may proceed with normal procedures in issuing a local development permit.
(Res. of 12-11-2000, § 6.1)
Sec. 26-77. - Temporary emergency permit.
A temporary emergency permit can be issued by the city or its designee for the following reasons:
(1)
Maintenance or repair of lawfully located roads or structures and of facilities used in the service of the public to provide transportation, electric, gas, water, telephone, telegraph, telecommunication or other services, provided that such roads, structures or facilities are not materially changed or enlarged and that, prior to the commencement of work, written notice has been given to the city or its designee and provided that the work is conducted using best management practices to ensure that flow and circulation patterns, and chemical and biological characteristics of the wetland, are not impaired and that any adverse effect of the aquatic environment will be minimized.
(2)
Temporary water level stabilization measures associated with silvicultural operations, provide that they are necessary to alleviate abnormal wet or dry conditions that would have an adverse impact on the conduct of silvicultural activities if not corrected.
(3)
Limited ditching, tilling, dredging, excavating, or filling done solely for the purpose of maintaining or repairing existing drainage systems necessary for the cultivation of agricultural crops, provided that the maintenance or repair activity does not result in the impairment, alteration, or loss of wetlands not previously subject to agricultural and silvicultural use under the terms and provisions of section 26-45.
(4)
Limited excavating and filling necessary for the repair and maintenance of piers, walkways, nature trails, observation decks, wildlife management shelters, boathouses, or other similar water-related structures, provided that they are built on pilings to allow unobstructed flow of water and preserve the natural contour of the wetland.
(Res. of 12-11-2000, § 6.2)
Sec. 26-78. - Development plans.
Applications for a development permit within the generalized wetland protection district shall include a development plan, drawn at a scale of one inch represents 50 feet (the city may approve a different scale where necessary to clearly provide the required information) with the following information:
(1)
A map of all planned excavation and fill, including calculations of the volume of cut and fill involved, cross-sectional drawings showing existing and proposed grades. Elevations, horizontal scale, vertical scale must be shown on the cross-sectional drawings.
(2)
Location, dimensions and area of all impervious surfaces, both existing and proposed, on the site and adjacent to the site for a distance of +/- 200 feet.
(3)
The orientation and distance from the boundaries of the proposed site to the nearest bank of an affected perennial stream or water body.
(4)
Elevations of the site and adjacent lands within 200 feet of the site at contour intervals of no greater than two feet.
(5)
Location and detailed design of any spill and leak collection systems designed for the purpose of containing accidentally released hazardous or toxic materials.
(6)
All proposed temporary disruptions or diversions of local hydrology.
(Res. of 12-11-2000, § 6.3)
Sec. 26-79. - Activities to comply with development plans.
All development activities or site work conducted after approval of the development plan shall conform with the specifications of said development plan. The development plan may be amended only with the approval of the city or its designee. The city may require a bond up to the larger of $5,000.00 or $1,000.00 per acre of project area and with surety and conditions sufficient to secure compliance with the conditions and limitations set forth in the permit. The particular amount and conditions of the bond shall be consistent with the purposes of this article. In the event of a breach of condition of any such bond, the city or its designee may collect such bond or institute an action in a court of competent jurisdiction upon such bond and prosecute the same to judgment and execution.
(Res. of 12-11-2000, § 6.4)
Sec. 26-80. - Filing review fee.
At the time of the application, the applicant shall pay a filing fee specified by the city or its designee. Filing fees up to the larger of $500.00 or $100.00 per acre may be required to evaluate the application. This fee may be used to retain expert consultants who will provide services pertaining to functional assessment and mitigation measures as deemed necessary by the city or its designee. In any case, the filing fees shall not be less than the amount necessary for evaluation of the application in a manner consistent with the intent of this article.
(Res. of 12-11-2000, § 6.5)
Sec. 26-81. - Enforcement authority.
The city manager is hereby established as the administrator of this article.
(Res. of 12-11-2000, § 6.6)
Sec. 26-82. - Review procedures.
The application shall be made to the city and will be reviewed within 60 days or in accordance with established review procedures for the type of development being considered, whichever is greater. The review period shall include the preparation of findings (approval or disapproval) by the city. The applicant will receive written notification of the findings thereof.
(Res. of 12-11-2000, § 6.7)
Sec. 26-83. - Appeals.
Appeals from any decision of the city shall be directed to the zoning board of appeals within 15 days after any decision by the city manager and thus specifying the grounds thereof for appeal. A public hearing shall be held for appeals. Public announcement of the hearing may be printed in local newspapers at least 15 but not more than 45 days prior to the hearing. Any person may offer testimony at the hearing. The decision of the zoning board of appeals may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Res. of 12-11-2000, § 6.8)
Sec. 26-84. - Duration and permit validity.
(a)
If construction described in the development permit has not commenced within 12 months from the date of issuance, the permit shall expire.
(b)
If construction described in the development permit is suspended or abandoned after work has commenced, the permit shall expire 12 months after the date work ceased.
(c)
Written notice of the pending expiration of the development permit may be issued by the city.
(Res. of 12-11-2000, § 6.9)
Secs. 26-85—26-100. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - WATER RESOURCES

Sec. 26-101. - Outdoor irrigation.
(1)
Persons may irrigate outdoors daily for purposes of planting, growing, managing, or maintaining ground cover, trees, shrubs, or other plants only between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m.
(2)
Paragraph (1) of this section shall not create any limitation upon the following outdoor water uses:
(a)
Commercial agricultural operations as defined in O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3;
(b)
Capture and reuse of cooling system condensate or stormwater in compliance with applicable local ordinances and state guidelines;
(c)
Reuse of gray water in compliance with O.C.G.A. § 31-3-5.2 and applicable local board of health regulations adopted pursuant thereto;
(d)
Use of reclaimed waste water by a designated user from a system permitted by the environmental protection division of the department of natural resources to provide reclaimed waste water;
(e)
Irrigation of personal food gardens;
(f)
Irrigation of new and replanted plant, seed, or turf in landscapes, golf courses, or sports turf fields during installation and for a period of 30 days immediately following the date of installation;
(g)
Drip irrigation or irrigation using soaker hoses;
(h)
Handwatering with a hose with automatic cutoff or handheld container;
(i)
Use of water withdrawn from private water wells or surface water by an owner or operator of property if such well or surface water is on said property;
(j)
Irrigation of horticultural crops held for sale, resale, or installation;
(k)
Irrigation of athletic fields, golf courses, or public turf grass recreational areas;
(l)
Installation, maintenance, or calibration of irrigation systems; or
(m)
Hydroseeding.
(Ord. of 12-13-2010(1))
Secs. 26-102—26-120. - Reserved.
