ARTICLE VII. - UNSAFE BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES VIOLATIONS

Sec. 10-501. - Notices.
(a)
Whenever the building official is satisfied that a building or structure, or any work in connection therewith, the erection, construction, alteration, or repair, execution of which is regulated, permitted or forbidden by this code, is being erected, constructed, or altered in violation of the provisions or requirements of this Code, is being erected, constructed, or altered in violation of the provisions or requirements of this code, or in violation of a detailed statement or plan submitted and approved thereunder, or of a permit or certificate issued thereunder, he shall serve a written notice or order upon the person responsible thereof directing discontinuance of such illegal action and the remedying of the condition that is in violation of the provisions or requirements of the Code.
(b)
In case such notice or order is not promptly complied with, the building official shall request the county attorney or other property prosecuting authority to institute an appropriate action or proceeding at law or in equity, to restrain, correct or remove such violation, or the execution of work thereon, or to restrain or correct the erection or alteration of, or to require the removal of, or to prevent the occupation or use of, the building or structure erected, constructed or altered, in violation of, or not in compliance with, the provisions of this Code or with respect to which the requirements thereof, or of any order or direction made pursuant to provisions contained therein, shall not have been complied with.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. VII, ยง 6.7-1)
Sec. 10-502. - Stopping work.
Whenever, in the opinion of the building official, by reason of defective or illegal work in violation of a provision or requirement of the Code, the continuance of building operation is contrary to public welfare, he shall order, in writing, all further work to be stopped and may require suspension of all work until the condition in violation has been corrected.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. VII, ยง 6.7-2)
Sec. 10-503. - Penalties.
[0]Any person violating any provision of this article, or any rule, order or regulation made pursuant to this article, shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-14.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. VII, ยง 6.7-3)
Sec. 10-504. - Abatement.
The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude the county attorney from instituting an appropriate action or proceeding to prevent an unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use, or to restrain, correct or abate a violation, or to prevent an illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about any premises.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. VII, ยง 6.7-4)
