ARTICLE V. - PROBATE COURT JUDGE[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1983 Ga. Laws, page 3927, relating to the county probate court judge. Amendments to the Act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Probate court, O.C.G.A. § 15-9-1 et seq.

Section 1. - Abolishment of fee system compensation.
The present mode of compensating the judge of the Probate Court of Early County, known as the fee system, is abolished, and in lieu thereof, an annual salary for such officer is prescribed as provided in this Act.
Section 2. - Salary.
The annual salary of the judge of the Probate Court of Early County shall be fixed and determined by the governing authority of Early County. The annual salary of the judge of the probate court shall not be less than the minimum salary prescribed by general law and shall not be reduced during his term of office. The annual salary of the judge of the probate court shall be payable in equal monthly installments from county funds. The annual salary shall be the sole compensation for services of the judge of the probate court in any capacity except those services for copies or searches by local custodians of vital records as provided in O.C.G.A. § 31-10-27.
Editor's note— Minimum annual salaries for judges of county probate courts are determined by O.C.G.A. § 15-9-63.
Section 3. - Collection of fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, penalties and all other funds; furnishing of statement.
After the effective date of this Act, said officer shall diligently and faithfully undertake to collect all fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, allowances, penalties, funds, moneys and all other emoluments and perquisites formerly allowed him as compensation for services in any capacity except as provided in Section 2 of this Act, and shall receive and hold the same in trust for said county as public moneys and shall pay the same into the county treasury on or before the fifteenth day of each month next following the month in which they were collected or received. At the time of each such monthly payment into the county treasury, the judge of the probate court shall furnish the governing authority of the county a detailed, itemized statement, under oath, of all such funds received during the preceding month by such officer and paid into the county treasury. The statement shall show the respective amounts of moneys collected and the sources thereof.
Section 4. - Personnel; employment; number; compensation; duties and assignments; removal and replacement.
The judge of the probate court shall have the authority to employ deputies, clerks, assistants and other personnel deemed necessary to discharge efficiently and effectively the official duties of the office. The judge of the probate court shall, from time to time, recommend to the governing authority of said county the number of such personnel needed by the office, together with the suggested compensation to be paid each employee. However, it shall be within the sole discretion of the governing authority of said county to fix the number of such other employees and their compensation. It shall be within the sole power and authority of the judge of the probate court, during the term of office to which [he is] elected, to designate and name the person or persons who shall be employed as such deputies, clerks, assistants or other employees; to prescribe their duties and assignments; and to remove or replace any of such employees at will and within his sole discretion.
Section 5. - Operating expenses; payment out of county funds.
The necessary operating expenses of the office of the judge of the probate court, expressly including the compensation of the personnel in the office of the judge of the probate court, shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. All supplies, materials, furnishings, furniture and utilities as may be reasonably required in discharging the official duties of said office shall be furnished by the county and shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. The determination of such requirements shall be at the sole discretion of the governing authority of Early County.
Section 6. - Supplemental salary repealed.
An Act approved March 17, 1960 (1960 Ga. Laws, page 3083), providing that the judge of the Probate Court of Early County shall receive, in addition to the fees received by law, a supplemental salary, is repealed in its entirety.
(1960 Ga. Laws, page 3083)
Section 7. - Election of probate judge.
All elections for the office of probate judge of Early County conducted after the effective date of this Act shall be nonpartisan elections as provided for in O.C.G.A. § 21-2-139. Such nonpartisan elections shall be held in conjunction with the November general election immediately preceding expiration of the term of office and conducted as provided in Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the Georgia Election Code.
(2003 Ga. Laws, page 3912, § 1)
State Law reference— Election of probate judge, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-139.
