Chapter 8 - AVIATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Aviation, O.C.G.A. § 6-1-1 et seq.; authority to acquire, construct and maintain airports, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-20 et seq.; general powers of counties and municipalities as to airports, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-25; authority to enforce police regulations in airports, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-27.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 8-1—8-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - AIRPORT ZONING
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 8-19. - Purpose and intent of article.
This article is enacted for the following purposes:
(1)
Reduce hazards to residents and property located near the county airport.
(2)
Prevent hazards to aircraft utilizing the county airport.
(3)
Protect the public investment in the airport and its environs.
(4)
Protect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
(5)
Ensure that land surrounding the airport will be developed to the best interests of public and private landowners, and for other purposes.
(Code 1996, § 10-26; Ord. of 6-4-1991, § 3)
Sec. 8-20. - Jurisdiction of article.
The jurisdiction of this article shall be all of that area within the unincorporated limits of the county.
(Code 1996, § 10-27; Ord. of 6-4-1991, § 5)
Sec. 8-21. - Conflicting regulations.
Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations prescribed in this article and any other regulations applicable to the same area, whether the conflict be with the respect to the height of structures or trees, the use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitations or requirement shall govern and prevail.
(Code 1996, § 10-28; Ord. of 6-4-1991, § 4A)
Sec. 8-22. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Airport means the county airport.
Airport hazard means any structure or tree or use of land which obstructs the airspace required for the flight of aircraft in landing or taking off at the airport or which is otherwise hazardous to such landing or taking off of aircraft.
Airport reference point means the point established as the approximate geographic center of the airport landing area and which is so designated on the county airport airspace zoning map.
Landing area means the area of the airport used for landing, taking off or taxiing of aircraft.
Nonconforming obstructions means any structure, tree or use of land which does not conform to a regulation prescribed in this article, or an amendment thereto, as of the effective date of such regulation.
Structure means any manmade object including, but not limited to, buildings, towers, smokestacks and overhead transmission lines.
(Code 1996, § 10-29; Ord. of 6-4-1991, § 6)
Sec. 8-23. - Enforcement of article.
In order to enforce this article or to correct or abate any violation of this article, the board of commissioners, in addition to other remedies, may institute injunction, mandamus or other appropriate action.
(Code 1996, § 10-30; Ord. of 6-4-1991, § 16)
Sec. 8-24. - Penalty for violation of article.
A person who shall do anything prohibited by this article or who shall fail to do anything required by this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, amenable to the process of the county magistrate court and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in section 1-14.
(Code 1996, § 10-31; Ord. of 6-4-1991, § 15)
Secs. 8-25—8-51. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ZONES, HEIGHT LIMITS AND OTHER REGULATIONS

Sec. 8-52. - Airspace zones established.
There are hereby created and established certain zones which include all of the land lying within the instrument approach zones, non-instrument approach zones, transition zones, horizontal zone and conical zone. Such areas and zones are shown on the county airport airspace zoning map dated February 26, 1991. Such map is made a part of this article to the same extent as if the information set forth on such map was fully designed and incorporated in this section, and may be amended subsequent to the adoption of the map. The map shall be kept on file in the office of the county commissioners. The various zones established are shown in Illustration Number 1, which is attached to the ordinance from which this article derived and is on file in the county clerk's office, and are defined as follows:
(1)
Instrument approach zone. An instrument approach zone is established at each end of instrument runways. Instrument approach zones shall:
a.
Have a width of 1,000 feet at a distance of 200 feet beyond each end of the runway;
b.
Be measured as centered on the extended centerline of the runway; and
c.
Widen uniformly to a width of 16,000 feet at a distance of 50,200 feet beyond each end of the runway.
(2)
Non-instrument approach zone. A non-instrument approach zone is established at each end of all non-instrument runways. The non-instrument approach zone shall:
a.
Have a width of 500 feet at a distance of 200 feet beyond each end of the runway;
b.
Be measured as centered on the extended centerline of the runway; and
c.
Widen uniformly to a width of 3,500 feet at a distance of 10,200 feet beyond each end of the runway.
(3)
Transition zones. Transition zones are established adjacent to each instrument and non-instrument runway and approach zone, for the entire length of such zones. Transition zones located on either side of the runways may have variable widths. Transition zones shall:
a.
Extend outward from a line 250 feet on either side of the centerline of non-instrument runways for the length of such runway plus 200 feet on each end;
b.
Extend outward from a line 500 feet on either side of the centerline of instrument runways, for the length of such runway plus 200 feet on each end;
c.
Run parallel and level with such runway centerlines; and
d.
Slope upward and outward from the ground to the surface of the horizontal and conical zones.
Transition zones are further established adjacent to the instrument approach zone where it projects through and beyond the limits of the conical zone, extending a distance of 5,000 feet measured horizontally outward from the edge of the instrument approach zones perpendicular to the extended centerline of the runway.
(4)
Horizontal zone. A horizontal zone is established as the area within a circle with a radius of 10,000 feet measured from the airport reference point. The horizontal zone does not include the instrument and non-instrument approach zones, and the transition zones.
(5)
Conical zone. A conical zone is established as the area that begins at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet. The conical zone does not include the instrument approach zones and transition zones.
(Code 1996, § 10-41; Ord. of 6-4-1991, § 7)
Editor's note— An official copy of Illustration Number 1 is on file in the office of the county clerk.
Sec. 8-53. - Height limits established.
Except as otherwise provided in this article, no structure or tree shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow or maintained in any zone to a height in excess of the height limit established in this section for such zone.
(1)
Instrument approach zone. One foot in height for each 50 feet in horizontal distance, beginning at a point 200 feet from and at the centerline elevation of the end of the instrument runway and extending to a distance of 10,200 feet from the end of the runway; thence one foot in height for each 40 feet in horizontal distance to a point 50,200 feet from the end of the runway.
(2)
Non-instrument approach zone. One foot in height for each 34 feet in horizontal distance, beginning at a point 200 feet from and at the centerline elevation of the end of the non-instrument runway and extending to a point 10,200 feet from the end of the runway.
(3)
Transition zone. One foot in height for each seven feet in horizontal distance, beginning at any point 250 feet on either side of and parallel to and at the elevation of the centerline of non-instrument runways, extending 200 feet beyond each end thereof, and 500 feet on either side of, parallel to and at the elevation of the centerline of the instrument runway, extending 200 feet beyond each end thereof, extending to a height of 150 feet above the airport elevation. Further, there are established height limits of one foot vertical height for each seven feet horizontal distance, measured from the edges of all approach zones for the entire length of the approach zones and extending upward and outward to the points where they intersect the horizontal or conical surface. Further, where the instrument approach zone projects through and beyond the conical zone, a height limit of one foot for each seven feet of horizontal distance shall be maintained beginning at the edge of the instrument approach zone and extending a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet from the edge of the instrument approach zone measured perpendicular to the centerline of the runway extended.
(4)
Horizontal zone. 150 feet above the airport elevation.
(5)
Conical zone. One foot in height for each 20 feet of horizontal distance beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone, extending to a height of 500 feet above the airport elevation.
(6)
Multiple limitations. Where an area is covered by more than one height limitation, the more restrictive limitation shall prevail.
(Code 1996, § 10-42; Ord. of 6-4-1991, § 8)
Sec. 8-54. - Nonconforming obstructions.
This article shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering or other change or alteration of any obstruction not conforming to the regulations as of the effective date of the ordinance from which this section derives or to otherwise interfere with its continuance. Nothing contained in this section shall require any change in the construction or alteration of any structure, the construction or alteration of which was begun prior to June 15, 1991, and was diligently prosecuted and completed within six months of such effective date.
(Code 1996, § 10-43; Ord. of 6-4-1991, § 9)
Sec. 8-55. - Permits.
(a)
No new structure shall be erected and no existing structure shall be added to or enlarged, or otherwise established in any zone created in this article, unless a permit therefor shall have been applied for and granted, except as follows: No permit shall be required for any structure less than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when because of terrain, land contour or topographic features, such structure would extend above the height limits prescribed for the following areas:
(1)
Within the entire limits of the horizontal or conical zones;
(2)
Within the limits of the instrument and non-instrument approach zones but at a horizontal distance of not less than 4,200 feet from each end of the runways; and
(3)
Within the limits of the transition zones beyond the perimeter of the horizontal zone.
(b)
Each application shall indicate the purpose for which it is desired with sufficient particularity to determine whether the resulting use or structure would conform to the regulations prescribed in this article. If such determination is the affirmative, the permit applied for shall be granted.
(c)
No permit shall be granted that would allow the establishment or creation of an airport hazard or permit a nonconforming use, structure or tree to be made or become higher, or become a greater hazard to air navigation, than it was on the effective date of the ordinance from which this section derives, or than it is when the application for a permit is made.
(d)
Whenever a nonconforming structure has been abandoned or has physically deteriorated or decayed more than 70 percent of its total value, no permit shall be granted that would allow such structure to exceed applicable height limits or otherwise deviate from this article.
(Code 1996, § 10-44; Ord. of 6-4-1991, § 10)
Sec. 8-56. - Hazard marking and lighting required.
Any permit granted under section 8-55 may, if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purposes of this article and reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the owner of the structure or tree in question to permit the board of commissioners, at its own expense, to install, operate and maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be necessary to indicate to flyers the presence of an airport hazard.
(Code 1996, § 10-45; Ord. of 6-4-1991, § 11)
Sec. 8-57. - Removal of nonconforming structures.
The board of commissioners may negotiate with owners of nonconforming structures for removal, lighting, or making of existing nonconforming structures, to be installed, operated and maintained at the commission's expense.
(Code 1996, § 10-46; Ord. of 6-4-1991, § 12)
Sec. 8-58. - Variances.
No variances, special exceptions, or any other appeal within any zone created by this article shall be considered or granted which would violate any restrictions imposed by this article.
(Code 1996, § 10-47; Ord. of 6-4-1991, § 13)
Sec. 8-59. - Administrative agency.
The county administrator is hereby designated the administrative agency charged with the duty of administering and enforcing the regulations prescribed by this article. The duties of the administrator shall include that of hearing and deciding all applications for permits.
(Code 1996, § 10-48; Ord. of 6-4-1991, § 14)
Secs. 8-60—8-76. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - VEHICULAR AND PEDESTRIAN TRAFFIC REGULATIONS

Sec. 8-77. - Definition of words and phrases.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency equipment means crash, fire and rescue, or police motor vehicles and such other equipment as the airport manager may designate as necessary to safeguard airport runways, taxiways, ramps, buildings and other property.
Pedestrian means any person afoot.
Service, maintenance and construction equipment means approved equipment normally operated by the airport owner, its agents or under contract, fixed base operator, or other governmental agencies performing official duties on landing areas, runways, taxiways and peripheral roads for the servicing, maintenance and construction of airport facilities and services or for the servicing of aircraft. The term "service, maintenance and construction equipment" includes equipment owned and operated by a contractor performing work on the airport under a contractual agreement with the county board of commissioners.
Vehicle means every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be transported or drawn excepting aircraft.
(Res. of 8-7-2017)
Sec. 8-78. - Operation of vehicles on runways, taxiways and ramps.
(a)
No vehicle shall enter, be driven upon or operated upon any airport runway, taxiway, ramp, tie-down area or any area posted by signs prohibiting the entrance thereon.
(b)
The provisions of this section shall not apply to emergency equipment or service, maintenance, and construction equipment when engaged in performing normal duties.
(c)
Aircraft owners may be granted authorization by the airport manager or his designated representative to operate a vehicle to reach their own aircraft in a tie-down area. Aircraft owners desiring to operate a vehicle for this purpose shall request such authorization in advance. Any authorization granted shall apply only to a specific need request. Blanket-type authorizations shall not be granted. Unless specifically authorized, aircraft owners shall not pass over any runway, taxiway, or ramp and shall proceed through the tie-down area at a speed not to exceed ten miles per hour. They shall not at any time park a vehicle on any area used for the movement of aircraft. Such authorization shall not be granted contrary to the provisions of Part 139 or Part 107, Federal Aviation Regulations (applicable only to airline airports).
(Res. of 8-7-2017)
Sec. 8-79. - Speed of vehicles.
No vehicle shall be driven upon any road within the perimeter of the airport or upon other airport areas, in excess of the speed limit posted, nor shall the driver of any vehicle fail to adhere to any sign posted to regulate vehicle traffic on or about the airport.
(Res. of 8-7-2017)
Sec. 8-80. - Pedestrian traffic on airport.
No pedestrian shall be allowed beyond the administration area or upon the apron or aircraft tie-down area unless for the purpose of embarking in or disembarking from an aircraft, or unless authorized by the airport manager. Pedestrian traffic is prohibited on taxiway, runways and outlying areas of the airport except for those employees of the city, county, state or federal government, or contractors engaged in airport construction or maintenance work.
(Res. of 8-7-2017)
Sec. 8-81. - Vehicle parking.
All vehicles parked on the airport shall be parked in designated areas and in accordance with posted signs or other markings. The airport manager may move, or order the removal of any vehicle improperly parking, at the owner's expense. Fines or forfeitures may be levied in accordance with section 8-83.
(Res. of 8-7-2017)
Sec. 8-82. - Enforcement.
Violations of the ordinance shall be the enforced by the county sheriff's office or the county code enforcement officer.
(Res. of 8-7-2017)
Sec. 8-83. - Violation.
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this article shall, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section 1-14, together with the costs of prosecution, and in default of payment of the forfeiture and costs of prosecution, shall be imprisoned in the county jail until said forfeiture and costs are paid, but not exceeding 90 days.
(Res. of 8-7-2017)
