ARTICLE VI. - TAX COMMISSIONER[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1927 Ga. Laws, page 566, which created the office of county tax commissioner. Amendments to the Act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets. The phrase "Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by authority of the same, that …" preceding each section has been omitted.

Section 1. - Office created by combining offices of tax receiver and tax collector.
The offices of tax receiver and tax collector of Early County, Georgia, are hereby abolished and the duties of the two offices aforesaid are hereby consolidated into one office.
Section 2. - Rights, duties and liabilities.
The office of county tax commissioner of Early County, Georgia, is hereby created in lieu of said abolished offices, and the rights, duties and liabilities of the said office of county tax commissioner of Early County shall be the same as the rights, duties and liabilities of the tax receiver and tax collector of said county, so far as the same are applicable. It shall also be the duty of said tax commissioner to collect all road taxes which may be assessed or levied by the county taxing authorities for the purpose of maintaining the public roads of said county.
(1929 Ga. Laws, page 599)
Section 3. - Fi. fa. [fieri facias].
All taxes that are due and payable at the time the provisions of this Act become effective, and all tax fi. fa. [fieri facias], theretofore issued by the tax collector of Early County, Georgia, shall have full force and effect, and be collectible as issued.
Section 4. - Fees, commissions and all other compensation.
All fees, commissions, and all other compensation allowed to the tax receiver and tax collector of Early County, Georgia, at the time this Act becomes effective, or that might legally be allowed to such officers there afterward were it not for the provisions of this Act, shall be collected by said County Tax Commissioner and paid into the treasury of Early County, Georgia.
Section 5. - Salary—Generally.
The tax commissioner shall receive an annual salary in an amount to be fixed and determined by the governing authority of Early County. Such salary shall not be less than the minimum salary prescribed by the general laws of this State for said officer.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3021)
Editor's note— Minimum annual salaries for county tax commissioners in this state are determined by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-183.
Section 5A. - Salary—In lieu of all fees, commissions, costs, fines, emoluments and perquisites.
It is specifically provided that the salary provided herein for the Tax Commissioner shall be in lieu of all fees, commissions, costs, fines, emoluments and perquisites of whatever kind, including those commissions allowed by an Act approved March 9, 1955 (1955 Ga. Laws, page 659), as amended, relating to the sale of motor vehicle license plates by local tax officials, and an Act relating to the commission on taxes collected in excess of a certain percentage of the taxes due according to the Tax Net Digest, approved January 17, 1938 (1937-38 Ga. Laws, page 297), as amended.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2532)
Section 6. - Salary—Levy and collection of tax for.
The Board of Commissioners of Early County, Georgia, is hereby authorized to levy and collect a tax sufficient to pay the salary of said Tax Commissioner, same to be levied and collected as other taxes are levied and collected.
Section 7. - Oath and bond.
Before entering upon his duties of office the said county tax commissioner shall take the oath now prescribed by law for county tax collectors, and shall give bond with some surety company authorized by law to conduct business in this State as surety thereon, in the same manner and subject to the same conditions as is or may be required by law of this State of county tax collectors, for the collection of taxes due the State, and for the collection of taxes due the county.
(1929 Ga. Laws, page 599)
Section 8. - First election; term; vacancy.
The first election of County Tax Commissioner of Early County shall be held at the same time and under the same laws as other county officers are now elected at the general election for county officers in the year 1928, and quadrennially thereafter, and the person so elected shall enter upon the duties of the office hereby created on January 1st, 1928, and shall serve for a term of four years. If a vacancy should occur, then the office shall be filled in the same manner as vacancies are filled in other county offices.
