ARTICLE V. - SOLAR FARM STANDARDS

Sec. 10-358. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to provide standards for the installation, operation and maintenance of solar farms to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
(Res. of 4-4-2017, § 1(29.1))
Sec. 10-359. - Application to solar farms.
This article shall apply to all solar farms or photovoltaic solar energy production facilities located in the unincorporated areas of the county, which shall hereafter collectively be referred to as "solar farms."
(Res. of 4-4-2017, § 1(29.2))
Sec. 10-360. - Standards for solar farms.
All solar farms in the unincorporated areas of the county shall comply with the following standards:
(1)
Solar farms shall not exceed 2,000 acres in the aggregate, including adjacent or abutting properties or tracts.
(2)
Solar farms shall be fenced in using a chainlink fence with a height of at least six feet, with anti-climb devices with three barbed wire line arms or otherwise acceptable to the county code enforcement department. Brightly colored signs no smaller than one foot by two feet shall be posted on the fence every 100 feet warning of danger and high voltage.
(3)
Abutting residential properties shall be visually screened year round from any solar farms to the reasonable satisfaction of the county code enforcement department through any one or a combination of planting or existing vegetation or fencing, all of which shall be at least six feet in height.
(4)
Clearing of natural vegetation shall be limited to that which is necessary for the construction, operation, and maintenance of the ground mounted solar photovoltaic installation and consistent with best practices for the preservation of natural areas or good husbandry of the land or forest.
(5)
There shall be a minimum distance of four feet between solar panels and the top of any vegetation beneath them.
(6)
The names of the manufacturers, installers, facility owners, and facility operators, and their addresses and telephone numbers shall be posted on the required fencing at each entrance of a solar farm.
(7)
All electrical interconnection and distribution lines within a solar farm's boundaries, except for power lines that leave the project or are within the substation, shall be underground, unless the county code enforcement department grants a written exception due to severe environmental constraints.
(8)
Lighting of a solar farm and its accessory structures shall be limited to the minimum reasonably necessary for its safe operation and shall be reasonably shielded from abutting properties. Where feasible, lighting of a solar farm shall be directed downward and shall incorporate full cutoff fixtures to reduce light pollution.
(9)
All solar farms shall comply with any other applicable requirements of the county code of ordinances.
(10)
All solar farms shall have a lock box entry system at the primary entrance. The lock box entry system shall comply with the specifications of the International Fire Code.
(11)
All solar farms shall have a written emergency response plan that shall be acceptable to the county's code enforcement department, sheriff's office, fire department, and emergency management agency. Each solar farm shall update its emergency response plan no later than January 1 of each year with a copy provided to all departments and agencies named in this subsection. The emergency response plan shall include the following:
a.
The telephone number, e-mail address, and street address for all manufacturers, installers, owners, and operators;
b.
The telephone number, e-mail address, and mailing address for a representative of the solar farm responsible for responding to public inquiries;
c.
The material safety data sheets that apply to any materials on the solar farm; and
d.
The clearly marked means and instructions for shutting down the solar photovoltaic installation.
(12)
Any solar farm that has not been in use for a period of 180 consecutive days for its original purpose as approved by the county code enforcement department shall be deemed abandoned and shall not be authorized to recommence operations until a new application and inspection have been completed.
(13)
No later than 90 days after abandonment or closure, the owners and operators of a solar farm shall remove the solar energy system, its equipment and panels, and any appurtenant structures. No later than 120 days after abandonment or closure, the owners or operators of any such solar farm shall provide written documentation acceptable to the county code enforcement department demonstrating that the solar panels and related equipment were properly disposed of in accordance with federal; state, and local laws and regulations.
(14)
The county code enforcement department may, in its reasonable discretion, waive any of the above-listed conditions which are not reasonable in light of the nature of the project and may add additional conditions or safeguards as needed for public health, safety, and welfare or to mitigate the impact of the solar farm on surrounding properties and uses. Violations of any such additional conditions or safeguards shall be a violation of this article.
(15)
All of the conditions and requirements in this section shall be of a continuing nature.
(Res. of 4-4-2017, § 1(29.3))
Sec. 10-361. - Application for permit, fee, and revocation of permit.
(a)
Before commencing operations, all solar farms shall submit an application for a solar farm permit on the form prescribed by the county code enforcement department and provide proof of compliance with all standards for solar farms outlined in this article. No solar farm shall commence operations until it has been inspected by the county code enforcement department and obtained the permit required by this section.
(b)
An application for a solar farm permit shall be accompanied by a comprehensive site plan for the solar farm, which shall include, but not be limited to:
(1)
Drawings prepared by a professional engineer licensed to practice in the state that clearly illustrate the design of the solar farm;
(2)
A project summary;
(3)
General procedures for operation and maintenance of the installation;
(4)
Measures for maintaining safe access to the installation;
(5)
Electrical schematics;
(6)
Soil erosion and sediment control;
(7)
Landscape plans;
(8)
Temporary or permanent roads or driveways;
(9)
Grading;
(10)
Vegetation clearing and planting and mitigation or screening with vegetation, structures or fences;
(11)
Exterior lighting and any screening.
The applicant shall provide additional copies of the comprehensive site plan to the county sheriff's office, fire department, and emergency management agency. The comprehensive site plan must be approved in writing by the county code enforcement department before a solar farm may receive a permit or commence operations.
(c)
At the time of application, each applicant shall pay a non-refundable permit fee in the amount established by the board of commissioners.
(d)
A permit may be revoked by the county code enforcement department for any solar farm which is not in full compliance with this article. Prior to revoking the permit, the county code enforcement department shall provide three calendar days' written notice of any deficiencies to the solar farm owner or operator via U.S. mail, overnight delivery, or hand delivery. If the deficiencies are not corrected within those three days, the county code enforcement department may revoke the solar farm's permit and require the solar farm to submit a new application before recommencing operations. During the time that a solar farm permit is revoked, the solar farm shall post a sign at each entrance to the solar farm no smaller than one foot by two feet stating: "This solar farm's operations have ceased due to noncompliance with the Early County Code of Ordinances. For more information, contact the Early County code enforcement department."
(Ord. of 4-3-2017; Res. of 4-4-2017, § 1(29.4))
Sec. 10-362. - Inspection.
The county code enforcement department shall have the right to inspect any solar farm in the unincorporated areas of the county without notice if there is a risk of immediate harm or injury to person or property. If there is no risk of immediate harm or injury to person or property, the county code enforcement department shall have the right to inspect any solar farm upon making reasonable efforts to notify the owners or operators 24 hours in advance of the inspection.
(Res. of 4-4-2017, § 1(29.5))
Sec. 10-363. - Penalties.
(a)
Each violation of this article may be punished as provided by the county code enforcement.
(b)
Any owner or operator of a solar farm shall be responsible for ensuring compliance with this article and shall be punishable for noncompliance as provided in section 1-14.
(Res. of 4-4-2017, § 1(29.6))
Secs. 10-364—10-384. - Reserved.
