ARTICLE 1. - BASIC ORDINANCE PROVISIONS

Sec. 101. - Short Title.
This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the "Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance of Flowery Branch, Georgia."
Sec. 102. - Purpose and Intent.
This Ordinance and its rules and regulations are intended to serve the following purposes, among others:
(a)
To protect and promote the health, safety and general welfare of the residents of the City;
(b)
To encourage economically sound and stable land development;
(c)
To assure the provision of required roads, utilities, and other facilities and services to new land developments in conformance with public improvement standards of the City;
(d)
To assure adequate provision of safe and convenient traffic access and circulation, both vehicular and pedestrian, in new land developments, especially for the purposes of assuring that all building lots will be accessible to fire fighting equipment and other emergency and service vehicles;
(e)
To assure the provision of needed open spaces and building sites in new land developments through the dedication or reservation of land for recreational, educational, and other public purposes;
(f)
To assure the adequate provision of water supply, storm water drainage, sanitation, lighting, and other necessary improvements;
(g)
To assure equitable handling of all subdivision plans by providing uniform procedures and standards for the subdivider, land developer, and staff to follow;
(h)
To assure, in general, the wise development of new land areas, in harmony with the comprehensive plan of the community;
(i)
To assure the accurate description of property and adequate and proper identification of property in public records;
(j)
To help conserve and protect the natural, economic and scenic resources of the City;
(k)
To help eliminate the costly maintenance problems which develop when roads and lots are laid out without proper consideration given to various public purposes;
(l)
To protect lot purchasers who generally lack the specialized knowledge to evaluate subdivision improvements and design.
Sec. 103. - Authority.
This Ordinance is adopted pursuant to powers vested in counties by Georgia law, including the State of Georgia Constitution, home rule powers, and state administrative rules for the adoption and implementation of Comprehensive Plans and the protection of vital areas of the State.
