ARTICLE 5. - PRELIMINARY PLAT

Sec. 501. - Purpose and Intent.
The purpose of this Article is to ensure compliance with the basic design concepts and improvement requirements of subdivisions through the submittal of a preliminary plat.
Sec. 502. - Preliminary Plat Approval Required.
Any subdivision involving the dedication of a public street or public land, and any subdivision involving a new private street, shall require the submission of a preliminary plat.
The Governing Body of the City of Flowery Branch must first approve a preliminary plat for a subdivision prior to the issuance of a development permit or initiation of any land disturbing or construction activities within the proposed subdivision.
Sec. 503. - Pre-Application Conference.
Whenever a person proposes the subdivision of a tract of land, he is encouraged (but not required) to consult early and informally with the Zoning Administrator. The prospective subdivider may submit sketch plans and data showing existing conditions within the site and its vicinity, and the proposed layout of the subdivision. This pre-application conference is intended to permit an early evaluation of the subdivider's intentions, to ensure coordination with the Comprehensive Plan of the City, and to provide the subdivider with the necessary laws, rules, and regulations in order to properly accomplish the proposed subdivision. No fee shall be charged for the pre-application review, and no formal application shall be required.
Sec. 504. - Relationship of Preliminary Plat to Development Permit.
An application for preliminary plat approval may be processed independently or in conjunction with an application for issuance of a development permit. Applicants are cautioned, however, that the preliminary plat approval is discretionary with regard to consistency with the comprehensive plan and design requirements of this Ordinance and the Flowery Branch Zoning Ordinance, and therefore, proceeding simultaneously with preliminary plat and development permit applications may result in the revision of civil engineering drawings and construction plans if the layout of the preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision must be significantly modified.
Sec. 505. - Preliminary Plat Application Requirements.
Applications for preliminary plat approval shall include the following:
(a)
Application form. A properly completed application form, as furnished by the Zoning Administrator, requesting review for project approval.
(b)
Copies of plats. A set number, as fixed from time to time by the Zoning Administrator, of copies of the preliminary subdivision plat meeting preliminary plat specifications of this Article and showing the entire ownership.
(c)
Fees. Payment of all applicable application and review fees, as established by the Governing Body from time to time.
Sec. 506. - Preliminary Plat Specifications.
A preliminary plat shall be prepared by a professional engineer, a registered land surveyor, a landscape architect, a land planner, or any other person professionally familiar with land subdivision and land development activities. The preliminary plat shall meet the following specifications:
(a)
Proposed name of subdivision. The proposed name of the subdivision shall not duplicate or too closely approximate, phonetically, the name of any other subdivision in the city or county. If shown to the contrary, the Zoning Administrator may refuse to accept such subdivision name.
(b)
Plat scale and sheet size. The preliminary subdivision plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of 100 feet or less to one (1) inch. The recommended maximum dimensions of the sheet size is 30 inches by 42 inches and the minimum dimensions of 17 inches by 22 inches; however, the Zoning Administrator may approve other sheet sizes and scales as appropriate. For property of over 100 acres, a smaller scale may be used where, in the judgment of the Zoning Administrator, presentation of detailed data is not necessary to evaluate the entire project. It is the intent of this provision that in all cases sufficient information shall be provided for an adequate evaluation of the public and private improvements.
(c)
Owner contact information. Name, address and telephone number of the property owner.
(d)
Applicant contact information. Name, mailing address, telephone and fax numbers and E-mail address of the applicant.
(e)
Miscellaneous. Tax parcel number(s), date of survey, north point and graphic scale, source of datum, date of plan drawing, and revision dates, as appropriate.
(f)
Use. Proposed use of the property.
(g)
Location and tract boundaries. Location (Land District and Land Lot) and size of the property in acres (or in square feet if less than an acre), and the approximate boundaries of the tract to be subdivided or developed by bearings and distances, The preliminary plat must reference and be based on a boundary survey of the exterior boundaries of the proposed subdivision, prepared by a Registered Land Surveyor.
(h)
Location or vicinity map. A location or vicinity map of the property in relation to the surrounding area with regard to well-known landmarks such as arterial streets or railroads. Location maps must be drawn at a scale sufficient to show clearly the information required, but not less than one inch equal to 2,000 feet. U.S. Geological Survey maps may be used as a reference guide or as the required location map.
(i)
Prior subdivision. Name of former approved subdivision, if any, for all of the land in the preliminary subdivision plat that has been previously subdivided, showing boundaries of same.
(j)
Zoning. Zoning district designation of the subject property and all adjacent properties, and zoning district boundaries as appropriate.
(k)
Conditions of approval. A copy of zoning, special use and variance conditions, if applicable.
(l)
Natural features and flood plains. Natural features within the property, including drainage channels, bodies of water, wooded areas and other significant natural features such as rock outcroppings. On all water courses entering or leaving the property, the direction of flow shall be indicated. The 100-year flood plain, if any, shall be outlined.
(m)
Streets, easements, political boundaries and built features. Man-made features within and adjacent to the property, including street right-of-way and pavement widths, names of existing streets, all easements, city and county political boundary lines, and other significant information such as location and dimensions of bridges, utility lines, existing buildings to remain, and other features.
(n)
Subdivision layout. The proposed subdivision layout including lot lines and street right-of-way lines, with proposed street names or letter designations and right-of-way widths, along with the front building setback line and the approximate dimensions of the length and width of each lot.
(o)
Phasing. The proposed phasing of the development, if it is proposed to be platted in phases.
(p)
Water and sewage disposal. A statement as to the source of the domestic water supply and provisions for sanitary sewage disposal. For those properties that will not be served by a public sanitary sewerage system, location and results of soil and/or percolation tests as required and approved by the Hall County Environmental Health Department.
(q)
Stormwater management. The approximate location of proposed stormwater detention facilities. Compliance with the stormwater management requirements of this Ordinance shall not be required at the time of preliminary plat approval but will be required for the issuance of a development permit.
(r)
Additional information. Additional information as may be required to ensure compliance with this Ordinance.
(s)
Certificate of preliminary plat approval. Certificate of preliminary plat approval, as follows or as may be modified from time to time, shall be shown on the preliminary plat:
CERTIFICATE OF PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL
The following preliminary plat was approved by the Flowery Branch Mayor and City Council:
Name___________
Date___________
Tax Parcel___________
Zoning___________
Address___________
Sec. 507. - Review and Approval Process.
The Zoning Administrator is responsible for administering the review and approval process for preliminary subdivision plats, which shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Section. The procedures of this Section may be supplemented by the Zoning Administrator where additional specification is required.
(a)
Review for completeness and application acceptance. The Zoning Administrator shall review the application for completeness at the time of submission. Incomplete applications will not be processed and will be returned to the applicant.
(b)
Distribution and agency review of preliminary plat. The Zoning Administrator shall forward a copy of the preliminary plat application to other city departments as may be appropriate, the Georgia Department of Transportation if the proposed subdivision has frontage on or proposes access to a state or federal road, or others as appropriate, for their review and comment. Agency review shall specifically include the approval from the Hall County Environmental Health Department if septic tanks are proposed and the Flowery Branch Utilities Department in cases where connection to City water and/or sewer is proposed or required.
(c)
Time period for completion of review. Within two (2) to three (3) weeks following receipt of the application, during which agency review shall be completed, the Zoning Administrator shall review the preliminary plat application for completion and compliance with this Ordinance and the Flowery Branch Zoning Ordinance. The Zoning Administrator shall provide all comments to the applicant for resolution, who shall work with each Department as necessary to resolve all issues.
(d)
Action by Governing Body. When the Zoning Administrator has determined that the preliminary subdivision plat is in compliance with the requirements, purpose and intent of this Article and the Flowery Branch Zoning Ordinance, it shall be scheduled for consideration by the Governing Body. The owner shall be responsible for compliance with all codes, regulations, and zoning requirements and for the satisfaction of all the noted and written comments. The Governing Body may approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the application for preliminary plat.
Sec. 508. - Duration of Preliminary Plat Approval.
Approval of a preliminary plat shall be valid for a period of two (2) years, during which time a complete application for development permit and plan approval must be submitted. If a completed application for development permit and plan approval is not submitted within two (2) years after preliminary plat approval, said approval shall expire and be null and void.
Sec. 509. - Amendments to Preliminary Plat Approval.
The Zoning Administrator, in consultation with the City Engineer when engineering or utility considerations are involved, is authorized to approve minor amendments to preliminary plats (i.e., those that do not affect the public or private street configuration or that reconfigure lots and which do not increase the number of lots), without the need to reapply for preliminary plat approval. The application requirements and procedures for amending preliminary plats, unless minor in nature, shall be the same as for preliminary plat applications.
