ARTICLE I. - GENERALLY

Sec. 8-1. - Sale of alcoholic beverages.
(a)
Alcoholic beverages may be manufactured or sold within the incorporated areas of the City of Flowery Branch under a license granted by the city council as governed by the terms and conditions hereafter provided.
(b)
All licenses issued hereunder shall be a mere grant or privilege to carry on the business during the term of the license subject to all terms and conditions imposed by the City of Flowery Branch and State of Georgia law.
(c)
All licenses hereunder shall have printed on the front these words: "THIS LICENSE IS A MERE PRIVILEGE SUBJECT TO BEING REVOKED AND ANNULLED AND IS SUBJECT TO ANY FUTURE ORDINANCES WHICH MAY BE ENACTED."
(d)
Any holder of a license issued hereunder shall apply for and obtain any necessary alcoholic beverage license from the State of Georgia before any manufacture or sales commence.
(e)
In addition to the rules and regulations set out in this chapter, each licensee under this chapter shall comply with all statutory laws of the State of Georgia, all federal statutory laws, and all rules and regulations of the state revenue commissioner relating to the manufacture and sale of malt beverages, distilled spirits and/or wine in Georgia; and any violation of same shall subject said licensee to suspension or revocation of his license and also may subject said licensee to criminal prosecution by the proper authority as provided by law and the ordinances of the City of Flowery Branch, Georgia.
( Ord. No. 504A, Exh. A, 5-18-2017 )
Sec. 8-2. - Definitions.
The definitions set forth in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2 ("Alcoholic Beverages—General Provisions—Definitions"), shall be effective as definitions of the words, terms and phrases used in this chapter. All words, terms and phrases used herein, other than those specifically defined elsewhere in this chapter, shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2, and shall have the same scope and effect that the same words, terms and phrases have where used in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2.
Agent means the person designated by the licensee in his application for permit to sell alcoholic beverages by the drink.
Alcohol means ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
Alcoholic beverage means and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverage, wine or fortified wine.
Amenity permit means an authorization granted by the city for a non-eating establishment to offer alcoholic beverages as an act of hospitality, where it is clearly a secondary function of the business.
Authorized catered function means an event at a location not otherwise licensed for consumption of alcoholic beverages by the drink at which alcoholic beverages are furnished, for consideration, and sold, dispensed or provided free of charge to persons present at the event, by the drink, pursuant to a permit obtained under this section.
Beer or malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than 14 percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer and strong beer. The term does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Brew pub means an eating establishment in which beer or malt beverages are manufactured or brewed for retail consumption on the premises and solely in draft form.
Building code means and includes all building, plumbing and electrical codes and any other similar technical code of the city.
City clerk means the clerk of the City of Flowery Branch, Georgia or his designee.
Church means any permanent, primary building set apart for the regular assembly of religious worship.
College means only such state, county, city, church or other colleges that teach the subjects commonly taught in the common colleges of this state and shall not include private colleges where only specialized subjects such as law, stenography, business, music, art, medicine, dentistry, vocational occupations and other special subjects are taught.
Distance means the measurement in linear feet from the front entrance of the proposed structure to the nearest structural wall of the private residence, church, school college classroom or alcohol treatment center along the nearest practical street route.
Distilled spirits or spirituous liquor means any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume including, but not limited to, all fortified wine and including all porter, brown, stout, lager beer, shall beer and strong beer.
Eating establishment means any public place, including a place available for rental by the public selling prepared food for consumption by the public on the premises with a full-service kitchen, prepared to serve food every hour they are open and deriving at least as much gross receipts annually from the sale of prepared meals or food as it derives from the sale of distilled spirits.
Election day means that period of time beginning with the opening of polls and ending with the closing of polls.
Fortified wine means any alcoholic beverage containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries or grapes, either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added.
Gender, for convenience in construction, the masculine pronouns "he" or "his" may be sometimes used; however, such usage shall, where appropriate, imply the feminine gender and may be construed as "she," "hers" or any other feminine usage as may be necessary.
Governing authority means the city council of the City of Flowery Branch.
Growler means a bottle made of glass or other material customary to the industry provided that the bottle is capable of being sealed with a screw cap and then sealed with a plastic collar over the screw for the purpose of complying with open container laws.
Hotel or motel means a building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public to be a place where sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers and guest whether transient permanent or residential. Hotels and motels shall have the privilege of granting franchises for the operation of a lounge or restaurant in their premises and the holder of such franchise shall be included in the definition of hotel thereunder.
Indoor commercial recreational establishment is limited to an establishment regularly serving prepared food, with a full-service kitchen, prepared to serve food every hour they are open and deriving at least 70 percent of its total annual gross sales from the sale of prepared meals or food and recreation activities; and wherein the sale of food and alcoholic beverages is incidental to its primary enterprise and activity on the premises. The primary activity on the premises of the indoor commercial recreational establishment shall be family-oriented in nature, generally meaning a use that attracts a range of individuals from all age groups. Uses may specifically include, but are not limited to, dinner theaters, bowling centers, and other similar uses. Outdoor commercial recreation is not included, nor shall concession sales of alcoholic beverages be permitted in an outdoor commercial recreational establishment. Bingo parlors, dance halls, nightclubs, taverns, billiard parlors, video arcades, adult entertainment and/or sexually related entertainment activities, and similar uses are specifically excluded from this definition of indoor commercial recreational establishments.
License means the authorization by the city to engage in the service or sale of alcoholic beverages as described in this chapter.
Licensee means the individual to whom a license is issued or in the case of a partnership, corporation or limited liability company, all partners, officers, directors and members of said partnership, corporation or company.
Liter means a metric measurement currently used by the United States.
Lounge means a separate room connected with a part of and adjacent to a restaurant as defined herein with all booths, stools and tables being unobstructed and open to view. All lounges shall be air conditioned and have a seating capacity of at least 20.
Manufacturer means any maker, producer, or bottler of an alcoholic beverage. Manufacturer also means:
(1)
In the case of distilled spirits, any person engaged in distilling, rectifying or blending any distilled spirits; and
(2)
In the case of malt beverages, any brewer.
Minor means any person below the age at which alcoholic beverages may be legally purchased in Georgia.
Package means any bottle, can, keg, barrel or other original consumer container. Retail package alcoholic beverages shall include all alcoholic beverages in their original container, sold at retail to the final consumer, and not for resale.
Person means any individual, firm, partnership, cooperative, nonprofit membership corporation, joint venture, association, company, corporation, agency, syndicate, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, fiduciary or other group or combination acting as a unit, body politic, or political subdivision, whether public, private or quasi-public.
Pouring permit means an authorization granted by the city to dispense, sell, serve, take orders, or mix alcoholic beverages in establishments licensed as a retail consumption dealer.
Premises means the space or area owned, leased and/or controlled by the licensee and used by him for the purposes of operating under the license; except that in the case of hotels and motels, "premises" shall include only the portion of the property where alcoholic beverages are sold; except further, that in the case of private clubs, "premises" shall include any swimming pool which is in the immediate vicinity of the main building of the private club and which is open to members only and their guests and not the general public. Said swimming pool must have a minimum of 2,500 square feet of water surface and with required lifeguards. Premises is further defined as one physically identifiable place of business consisting of one room, or two or more contiguous rooms operating under the same trade name, ownership, or management; provided nothing herein shall require additional licenses for service bars, or portable bars used exclusively for the purpose of mixing or preparing drinks when such bars are accessible only to employees of the licensed establishment and from which drinks are prepared to be served in the licensed premises.
Private club means any non-profit association organized under the laws of the State of Georgia complying with Internal Revenue Code section 501; and
(1)
Has been in existence at least one year prior to its filing of an application for a license to be issued according to this article;
(2)
Has a least 75 regular dues paying members;
(3)
Owns, hires or leases a building or space within a building for the reasonable use of its members, which building is equipped with suitable kitchen and dining room space and equipment and is staffed with a sufficient number of employees for cooking, preparing and serving meals for its members and guest; and
(4)
Has no member, officer, agent or employee directly or indirectly receiving, in the form of salary or other compensation any profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages beyond a fixed salary.
Private residence means a house or dwelling wherein not less than one nor more than three families customarily reside and shall not include a mobile home, a boarding house where there are five or more boarders or roomers, or any residence which has been unoccupied for a period of six consecutive months immediately prior to the filing of an application.
Registered agent means a natural person residing in the City of Flowery Branch or Hall County who is empowered to act for and represent the licensee in all matters with the City of Flowery Branch relating to an establishment licensed or making application for a license to sell alcohol upon whom any process, notice or demand required or permitted by law or under this article may be served. The registered agent may be the licensee if the qualifications set forth in this chapter are met.
Residence means the act or fact of living or regularly staying at or in some place for the discharge of a duty or the enjoyment of a benefit or the place where one actually lives as distinguished from his domicile or place of temporary sojourn.
Resident means a person whose primary residence is within the territorial limits of Hall County, Georgia.
Restaurant shall mean any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place where meals are served and where meals are actually and regularly served, such place being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment, air conditioned, with employees there in a sufficient number and kind to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests. At least one meal per day shall be served at least six days per week, with the exception of holidays, vacations and periods of remodeling and the serving of meals shall be the principal business conducted (deriving at least 40 percent of its annual gross food and beverage sales from the sale of prepared meals or food), with the serving of alcoholic beverages to be consumed on the premises as only incidental thereto. A restaurant shall provide at least 55 seats for customers.
Retail means retail sales packaged to go and not for consumption on the premises.
School means only such state, county, city, church or other schools that teach the subjects commonly taught in the common schools of this state and shall not include private schools providing primarily daycare or where only specialized subjects such as law, stenography, business, music, art, medicine, dentistry, vocational occupations and other special subjects are taught.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 21 percent alcohol made from fruits, berries or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term "wine" includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverage, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines and like products. The term "wine" does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at that point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to the definition of wine contained in this section.
( Ord. No. 504A, Exh. A, 5-18-2017 )
Sec. 8-3. - Penalties.
Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter, may upon conviction, be punished as set forth in section 1-12, unless a different penalty is set forth in this chapter. No such penalty shall prevent the city from suspending or revoking any license issued under this chapter, and any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter may, in addition to the other penalties and liabilities provided for herein, have his license or permit revoked as provided for herein.
( Ord. No. 504A, Exh. A, 5-18-2017 )
Secs. 8-4—8-20. - Reserved.
