PART I - CHARTER[1]
AN ACT
To create a new charter for the City of Flowery Branch; to repeal the existing charter of said city and all amendments thereto; to provide for corporate boundaries; to provide for officials, officers and employees of the city and their powers, duties and authority; to provide for elections; to provide for ordinances and codes; to provide for the administrative affairs of the city; to create a mayor's court and provide for the jurisdiction, practice, procedure and personnel thereof; to provide for bonds; to provide for the sale of city property; to provide for eminent domain; to provide for the continuation of the present mayor and councilmen; to provide for other matters relative to the foregoing; to provide for severability; to repeal a specific Act; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Georgia:
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the Charter of the city, as adopted by 1979 Ga. Laws (Act No. 132), page 3404. Amendments to the Charter are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Any provisions regarding the title, publication date, approval date, notice to introduce legislation, and jurat have been omitted. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

ARTICLE I. - CREATION, INCORPORATION, POWERS

Sec. 1.1. - Name.
This Act shall constitute the charter of the City of Flowery Branch. The city and the inhabitants thereof, are hereby constituted and declared a body politic and corporate under the name and style of City of Flowery Branch, Georgia, and by that name shall have perpetual succession.
Sec. 1.2. - Corporate boundaries.
(a)
The corporate limits of the City of Flowery Branch shall be those existing on February 15, 2006, as further described by the following Hall County, Georgia Geographic Information System (GIS) parcel numbers:
[List of Hall County, Georgia Geographic Information System (GIS) parcel numbers]
(b)
The city council may provide for changes by ordinance to reflect lawful changes in the corporate boundaries.
(2006 Ga. Laws (Act No. 486), § 1, p. 3669)
Editor's note— The Hall County, Georgia Geographic Information System (GIS) parcel numbers referred to by this Act were omitted from this printing at the discretion of the editor, and may be found at 2006 Ga. Laws (Act No. 486), pp. 3669—3679 and the city clerk's office.
Sec. 1.3. - Powers and construction.
(a)
The city shall have all powers possible for a city to have under the present or future Constitution and laws of this State as fully and completely as though they were specifically enumerated in this charter.
(b)
The powers of this city shall be construed liberally in favor of the city. The specific enumeration or failure to enumerate particular powers shall not be construed as limiting or restricting the powers of the city.
Sec. 1.4. - Exercise of powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the city, its officers, agencies, or employees shall be executed in accordance with the provisions of this charter, ordinances of the city, and pertinent laws of the State of Georgia.
ARTICLE II. - GOVERNMENT STRUCTURE

Sec. 2.1. - City council creation; composition; number; election.
The legislative authority of the government of this city, except as otherwise specifically provided in this charter, shall be vested in a city council to be composed of a mayor and five council members. The mayor and council members shall be elected in the manner provided by Article V of this charter.
Sec. 2.2. - City council terms and qualification for office.
No person shall be eligible to serve as mayor or council member unless he shall have been a resident of the city for at least one year prior to the date of the election of mayor or members of the city council; each shall continue to reside therein during his period of service; and shall be registered and qualified to vote in municipal elections of the city.
Sec. 2.3. - General power and authority of the city council.
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the city council shall be vested with all the powers of government of this city as provided by Article I.
Sec. 2.4. - The mayor; powers and duties.
The mayor shall be the chief elected officer of the city and as such shall have the following powers and duties:
(a)
To preside at all meetings of the city council and be recognized as the official head and spokesperson of the city for service of process and ceremonial purposes;
(b)
To vote on matters before the city council only in case of a tie, or if his or her vote is necessary to constitute a sufficient number to transact business;
(c)
To sign, for and on behalf of the city, all contracts, ordinances, instruments, and other documents authorized by the city council and which are required to be in writing, unless otherwise directed or authorized by the city council; and
(d)
To fulfill such other duties as authorized by the city council.
(2005 Ga. Laws, p. 4274; 2006 Ga. Laws (Act No. 489), § 1, p. 3684; Ord. No. 317, 1-27-2005)
Sec. 2.5. - Mayor pro tem.
At the organization meeting the city council shall elect by majority vote from among its members a mayor pro tem who shall assume the duties and powers of the mayor upon declaration by the city council of the mayor's disability or absence.
Sec. 2.6. - Acting mayor.
In the event of the absence, disability or disqualification of both the mayor and mayor pro tem, the remaining members of the city council shall elect an acting mayor from their number, to preside and who shall have all the powers of the mayor during the absence, disability or disqualification of the mayor and mayor pro tem.
Sec. 2.7. - Salary, compensation and expenses.
(a)
Compensation.
(1)
The salary for Mayor of the City of Flowery Branch, Georgia shall be set at $500.00 per month for each month of the calendar year that the Mayor serves. The salary for each Councilmember of the City of Flowery Branch, Georgia shall be set at $400.00 per month for each month that the Councilmember serves.
(2)
For attending each scheduled, special, called or a meeting officially representing the Flowery Branch City Council (except for meetings of the Flowery Branch City Council), the Mayor and each Councilmember shall receive as additional compensation $50.00 per diem, payable monthly, not to exceed five (5) meetings per month.
(b)
The mayor and each member of the council shall be entitled to receive their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of the duties of their office.
(c)
The mayor and council is hereby authorized to fix the salary, compensation and expenses of the mayor and each member of the council in accordance with the provisions of an Act known as "The Municipal Home Rule Act of 1965," approved March 26, 1965 (Ga. Laws 1965, p. 298), as now or hereafter amended.
(1995 Ga. Laws (Ex. Sess.), p. 372; Ord. No. 110, § 1, 4-3-1995; Ord. No. 477, § 1, 5-18-2013 )
Sec. 2.8. - Organization meeting.
The city council shall meet for organization at the first regular meeting following each municipal general election. The meeting shall be called to order by the city clerk and the oath of office shall be administered to the newly elected members as follows:
"I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully perform the duties of (mayor or council member as the case may be) of this city and that I will support and defend the charter thereof as well as the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and of the United States of America."
Sec. 2.9. - Regular and special meetings.
(a)
The city council shall hold regular meetings at such times and places as prescribed by ordinance.
(b)
Special meetings of the city council may be held on call of the mayor or two members of the city council. Notice of such special meetings shall be served on all other members personally, or by telephone personally, at least forty-eight hours in advance of the meeting. Such notice to council members shall not be required if the mayor and all council members are present when the special meeting is called. Such notice of any special meeting may be waived by a council member in writing before or after such a meeting, and attendance at the meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice on any business transacted in such council member's presence. Only the business stated in the call may be transacted at the special meeting.
(c)
To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property or public peace, the city council may convene on call of the mayor or two council members and promptly adopt an emergency ordinance, but such ordinance may not levy taxes, grant, renew or extend a franchise, regulate the rate charged by any public utility for its services, or authorize the borrowing of money except for loans to be repaid within thirty days. An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form prescribed for ordinances generally except that it shall be plainly designated as an emergency ordinance and shall contain, after the enacting clause, a declaration stating that an emergency exists and describing it in clear and specific terms. An emergency ordinance may be adopted with or without amendment or rejected at the meeting at which it is introduced, but the affirmative vote of at least two council members shall be required for adoption. It shall become effective upon adoption or at such later time as it may specify. Every emergency ordinance shall automatically stand repealed thirty days following the date upon which it was adopted, but this shall not prevent reenactment of the ordinance in the manner specified in this Section if the emergency still exists. An emergency ordinance may also be repealed by adoption of a repealing ordinance in the same manner specified in this Section for adoption of emergency ordinances.
Sec. 2.10. - Rules of procedure.
The city council shall adopt rules of procedure and order of business consistent with the provisions of this charter and shall provide for keeping a journal of its proceedings, which shall be a public record.
Sec. 2.11. - Quorum; voting.
The mayor, or the mayor pro tem, or the acting mayor, and three council members shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact business of the city council. Voting on the adoption of ordinances shall be taken by voice vote and the ayes and nays shall be recorded in the journal, but any member of the city council shall have the right to request a roll-call vote. The affirmative vote of three council members shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion except as otherwise provided in this charter.
Sec. 2.12. - Ordinance form; procedure.
(a)
Every proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing and in the form required for final adoption. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not expressed in its title. The enacting clause shall be "The Council of the City of Flowery Branch hereby ordains . . ." and every ordinance shall so begin.
(b)
An ordinance may be introduced by any council member and read at a regular or special meeting of the city council. Ordinances shall be considered and adopted or rejected by the city council in accordance with the rules which it shall establish; provided, however, an ordinance shall not be adopted the same day it is introduced, except for emergency ordinances provided in Section 2.9(c). Upon introduction of any ordinance, the clerk shall distribute a copy to the mayor and to each council member before the same is adopted and at the same time shall file a reasonable number of copies in the office of the clerk and at such other public places as the city council may designate.
Sec. 2.13. - Action requiring an ordinance.
In addition to other acts required by general State law or by specific provisions of this charter to be done by ordinance, acts of the city council which have the force and effect of law shall be done by ordinance.
Sec. 2.14. - Codes of technical regulations.
The city council may adopt any standard code of technical regulations by reference thereto in an adopting ordinance. The procedure and requirements governing such adopting ordinance shall be as prescribed for ordinances generally except that (1) the requirements of Section 2.12(b) for distribution and filing of copies of the ordinance shall be construed to include copies of any code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance; and (2) a copy of each adopted code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance, shall be authenticated and recorded by the clerk pursuant to Section 2.15.
Sec. 2.15. - Signing; authenticating; recording; codification; printing.
(a)
The clerk shall authenticate by his signature and record in full in a properly indexed book kept for the purpose all ordinances adopted by the city council.
(b)
The city council shall provide for the preparation of a general codification of all of the ordinances of the city having the force and effect of law. The general codification shall be adopted by the city council by ordinance and shall be published promptly, together with all amendments thereto and such codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations as the city council may specify. This compilation shall be known and cited officially as the "Code of the City of Flowery Branch, Georgia." Copies of the code shall be furnished to all officers, departments and agencies of the city and made available for purchase by the public at a reasonable price as fixed by the city council.
(c)
The city council shall cause each ordinance and each amendment to this charter to be printed promptly following its adoption, and the printed ordinances and charter amendments shall be made available for purchase by the public at reasonable prices to be fixed by the city council. Following publication of the first code under this charter and at all times thereafter, the ordinances and charter amendments shall be printed in substantially the same style as the code currently in effect and shall be suitable in form for incorporation therein. The city council shall make such further arrangements as deemed desirable with respect to reproduction and distribution of any current changes in or additions to codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations included in the code.
Sec. 2.16. - Inquiries and investigations.
The city council may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the city and the conduct of any department, office, or agency thereof and, for this purpose, may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony, and require the production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of these powers by the city council shall be punished as provided by ordinance.
ARTICLE III. - ADMINISTRATIVE AFFAIRS

Sec. 3.1. - Administrative and service departments.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this charter, the city council, by ordinance, shall prescribe the functions or duties and establish, abolish, or alter all nonelective offices, positions of employment, departments and agencies of the city, as necessary for the proper administration of the affairs and government of the city.
(b)
In addition to their elective duties, individual council members may be charged with such administrative duties as the city council may prescribe by ordinance or resolution, provided such duties do not conflict with general State law.
(c)
The mayor and council shall fix the compensation of all appointed officers and directors of departments of the city.
Sec. 3.2. - Boards, commissions, authorities.
Except as otherwise provided by this charter or general State law, the city council shall create by ordinance such boards, commissions, authorities, and other bodies to fulfill any investigative, quasi-judicial, or quasi-legislative function the council shall prescribe. The council shall prescribe the composition, period of existence, duties, powers, compensation, structure, and all other matters in connection with the operations of such boards, commissions and authorities.
ARTICLE IV. - JUDICIAL BRANCH

Sec. 4.1. - Creation of mayor's court; name.
There shall be a court to be known as the "Mayor's Court of the City of Flowery Branch" [Municipal Court].
Sec. 4.2. - Mayor or mayor pro tem; court personnel.
(a)
The mayor or mayor pro tem shall be authorized to hold mayor's court in said city for the trial and punishment of violators of the ordinances of said city. The mayor pro tem shall be authorized to act in the absence or in the event of the disqualification of the mayor.
(b)
The city clerk shall perform the duties of clerk of the mayor's court, and, when required, the city attorney shall serve as prosecutor in said court. The city council shall provide by ordinance for such other personnel as may be required to efficiently administer the business of the court.
Sec. 4.3. - Terms; jurisdictions; powers.
(a)
The mayor's court shall convene at regular intervals as provided by ordinance.
(b)
The mayor's court shall try and punish for violations of all city ordinances.
(c)
The mayor's court shall have authority to punish those in its presence for contempt, provided that such punishment shall not exceed $25.00 or ten days in jail, or both, in the discretion of the court.
(d)
The municipal court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction not exceeding a fine of $1,000 or imprisonment for 6 months or both such fine and imprisonment or may fix punishment by fine, imprisonment or alternative sentencing as now, or hereafter provided by law.
(e)
The mayor's court shall have authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the cost of meals, transportation and caretaking of prisoners bound over to superior courts for violations of State law.
(f)
The mayor's court shall have authority to establish bail and recognizances to insure the presence of those charged with violations before said court, and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash or personal or real property as surety for the appearance of persons charged with violations. Whenever any person shall give bail for his appearance and shall fail to appear at the time fixed for trial, his bond shall be forfeited by the mayor presiding at such time, and an execution issued thereon by serving the defendant and his sureties with a rule nisi, at least two days before a hearing on the rule nisi. In the event that cash or property is accepted in lieu of bond for security for the appearance of a defendant at trial and if such defendant fails to appear at the time and place fixed for trial the cash so deposited shall be on order of the mayor declared forfeited to the city, or the property so deposited shall have a lien against it for the value forfeited, which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as a lien for city property taxes.
(g)
The mayor's court shall have the authority to bind prisoners over to the appropriate court when it appears by probable cause that a State law has been violated.
(h)
The mayor's court shall have the same authority as superior courts to compel the production of evidence in the possession of any party; to enforce obedience to its orders, judgments and sentences; and to administer such oaths as are necessary.
(i)
The mayor's court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summons, subpoena and warrants which may be served as executed by any officer as authorized by this charter or by general State law.
(j)
The mayor's court is specifically vested with all of the jurisdiction and powers throughout the entire area of the city granted by general State laws to mayor's, recorder's and police courts, and particularly by such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances and prosecution of traffic violations.
(1983 Ga. Laws (Act No. 48), § 1, p. 3693; Ord. No. 380, § 1, 9-3-2008)
Sec. 4.4. - Appeal; certiorari.
Any person convicted in recorder's court shall have the right to apply for a writ of certiorari to the Superior Court of Hall County in accordance with the provisions of Code Title 19, relating to certiorari, as now or hereafter amended.
Sec. 4.5. - Rules for court.
With the approval of the city council, the mayor shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the mayor's court; provided, however, the city council may adopt in part or in to the rules and regulations for procedure in the superior court under the general laws of the State of Georgia. The rules and regulations made or adopted shall be filed with the city clerk, shall be available for public inspection, and, upon request, a copy shall be furnished to all defendants in mayor's court proceedings at least forty-eight hours prior to said proceedings.
Sec. 4.6. - Appointment of counsel for indigent.
The city council shall provide by ordinance for appointment of counsel for indigents, or others, as now or hereafter required by law, and shall by such ordinance provide for compensation to be paid to counsel so appointed. The mayor shall appoint counsel in such cases from among the attorneys at law residing in the county and those counties adjoining the county, or from among those attorneys at law who have previously consented to serve as appointed counsel in such court.
Sec. 4.7. - Appointment of judge of the mayor's court by mayor and council.
The mayor and council may appoint an individual to serve as judge of the mayor's court and delegate to him all duties and authority of that office as provided in this Article. In the event of the appointment of a judge of the mayor's court, as provided herein, the compensation of such judge shall be as determined by the mayor and council.
ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS AND REMOVAL

Sec. 5.1. - Applicability of general law.
[Section 5.1 has been superseded and made obsolete by the provisions of Ga. Const. art. II, §§ I—III and the "Georgia Election Code" O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.]
Sec. 5.2. - Regular elections; time for holding.
[Section 5.2 has been superseded and made obsolete by the provisions of Ga. Const. art. II, §§ I—III and the "Georgia Election Code" O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.]
(1980 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1032), § 1, p. 3646)
Sec. 5.3. - Vacancies.
In the event the office of mayor or of any one or more council members becomes vacant for any reason for cause, the council or those remaining shall call a special election, and the person so elected shall serve for the unexpired term and until his successor is elected and qualified.
Sec. 5.4. - Removal of officers.
The mayor, council members, or others provided for in this charter shall be removed from office for any one or more of the following causes:
(a)
incompetence, misfeasance or malfeasance in office;
(b)
conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude;
(c)
failure at any time to possess any of the qualifications of office as provided by this charter or by law;
(d)
knowingly violate any express prohibition of this charter;
(e)
abandonment of office or neglect to perform the duties thereof which shall include repeated failure to regularly attend council meetings without cause; or
(f)
failure for any other cause to perform the duties of office as required by this charter or by State law.
Sec. 5.5. - Procedure for removal.
Removal of an above described officer may be accomplished by one of the following methods:
(a)
By the vote of two-thirds of the remaining council members after an investigative hearing. In the event an elected officer is sought to be removed by the action of the city council, such officer shall be entitled to a written notice specifying the ground for removal and to a public hearing which shall be held not less than ten days after the service of such written notice. Any elected officer sought to be removed from office as herein provided shall have the right of appeal from the decision of the city council to the superior court of the county. Such appeal shall be governed by the same rules as govern appeals to the superior court from the probate court.
(b)
By information filed in the superior court of the county as provided by State law.
Sec. 5.6. - Other provisions.
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the city council shall prescribe, by ordinance, such rules and regulations it deems appropriate to fulfill any options and duties under the Georgia Municipal Election Code, Title 34A of the Code of Georgia of 1933 (Ga. Laws 1968, p. 885) [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.], as now or hereafter amended.
ARTICLE VI. - REVENUE AND FINANCE

Sec. 6.1. - Property tax.
The city council may assess, levy, and collect an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city that is subject to such taxation by the State and county. This tax is for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government; providing governmental services; for the repayment of principal and interest on general obligations; and for any other public purpose as determined by the city council in its discretion.
Sec. 6.2. - Millage rate, due dates, payment methods.
The city council, by ordinance, shall establish a millage rate for the city property tax; a due date; and in what length of time these taxes must be paid. The city council, by ordinance, may provide for the payment of these taxes by installments or in one lump sum, as well as to authorize the voluntary payment of taxes prior to the time when due.
Sec. 6.3. - Occupation and business taxes.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to levy such occupation or business taxes as are not denied by general State law. Such taxes may be levied on both individuals and corporations who transact business in the city or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein to the extent such persons become lawfully taxable by the city. The city council may classify businesses, occupations, professions or callings for the purpose of such taxation in any way which may be lawful and compel the payment of such taxes as provided in Section 6.9.
Sec. 6.4. - Franchises.
The city council shall have the power to grant franchises for the use of the city's streets and alleys, for the purposes of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, electric companies, cable television, gas companies, transportation companies and other similar organizations. The city council shall determine the duration, provisions, terms, whether the same shall be exclusive or nonexclusive, and the consideration for such franchises; provided, however, no franchise shall be granted unless the city receives just and adequate compensation therefor. The city council shall provide for the registration of all franchises with the city clerk in a registration book to be kept by him. The city council may provide by ordinance for the registration within a reasonable time of all franchises previously granted.
Sec. 6.5. - License; permits; fees.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to require any individuals or corporations who transact business in the city or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein to obtain a license or permit for such activity from the city and pay a reasonable fee for such license or permit where such activities are not now regulated by general State law in such a way as to preclude city regulation. Such fees may reflect the total cost to the city of regulating the activity and if unpaid shall be collected as provided in Section 6.9. The city council by ordinance may establish reasonable requirements for obtaining or keeping such licenses as the public health, safety, and welfare necessitates.
Sec. 6.6. - Service charges.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to assess and collect fees, charges, and tolls for sewer, sanitary, health services, or any other services rendered within and without the corporate limits of the city for the total cost to the city of providing such services. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in Section 6.9.
Sec. 6.7. - Special assessments.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to assess and collect the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, sewers, or other utility mains and appurtenances from the abutting property owners under such terms and conditions as are reasonable. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in Section 6.9.
Sec. 6.8. - Construction; other taxes.
The city shall be empowered to levy any other tax allowed now or hereafter by State law and the specific mention of any right, power or authority in this Article shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general powers of the city to govern its local affairs.
Sec. 6.9. - Collection of delinquent taxes and fees.
The city council by ordinance may provide generally for the collection of delinquent taxes, fees, or other revenue due the city under Sections 6.1 through 6.8 by whatever reasonable means as are not precluded by general State law. This shall include providing for the dates when the taxes or fees are due; late penalties or interest; issuance and execution of fi fas; creation and priority of liens; making delinquent taxes and fees personal debts of the persons required to pay the taxes or fees imposed; revoking city licenses for failure to pay any city taxes or fees; allowing exceptions for hardship; and providing for the assignment or transfer of tax executions.
Sec. 6.10. - General obligation bonds.
The city council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized under this charter or the general laws of the State. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuances by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
Sec. 6.11. - Revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the city council as State law now or hereafter provides. Such bonds are to be paid out of any revenue produced by the project, program or venture for which they were issued.
Sec. 6.12. - Short-term notes.
The city must obtain and repay any short-term loans between January 1 and December 31 of each year or as is otherwise provided by present or future State law.
Sec. 6.13. - Sale of city property.
(a)
The city council may sell and convey any real or personal property owned by the city for governmental or other purposes in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 69-318, relating to the sale of municipal property, as now or hereafter amended.
(b)
The city council may quitclaim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon adoption of a resolution, finding that the property is not needed for public or other purposes and that the interest of the city has no readily ascertainable monetary value.
ARTICLE VII. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 7.1. - Eminent domain.
The city council is hereby empowered to acquire, construct, operate and maintain public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets, market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewage treatment, waterworks, electrical systems, gas systems, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities, and any other public improvements inside or outside the city, and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be taken under Code Title 36 [O.C.G.A. § 36-1-1 et seq.], relating to eminent domain, as now or hereafter amended, or any other applicable laws presently in effect or enacted in the future.
Sec. 7.2. - Official bonds.
The officers and employees of the city, both elective and appointive, shall execute such official bonds in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the city council shall from time to time require or as may be required by State law.
Sec. 7.3. - Prior ordinances.
All ordinances, bylaws, rules and regulations now in force in the city not inconsistent with this charter, are hereby declared valid and of full effect and force until amended or repealed by the city council.
Sec. 7.4. - Present mayor and council.
The mayor and councilmen in office on the effective date of this Act shall continue in office as mayor and council members under this Act until the expiration of their terms of office and the election and qualification of their successors as provided for in this Act.
Sec. 7.5. - Severability.
If any article, Section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof of this charter shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect or impair other parts of this charter, unless it clearly appears that such other parts are wholly and necessarily dependent upon the part held to be invalid or unconstitutional, it being the legislative intent in enacting this charter that each article, Section, subsection, paragraph, sentence or part thereof be enacted separately and independent of each other.
Sec. 7.6. - Specific repealer.
An Act incorporating the Town of Flowery Branch (now City of Flowery Branch) in Hall County, Georgia, approved March 30, 1937 (Ga. Laws 1937, p. 1877), as amended by an Act approved March 3, 1962 (Ga. Laws 1962, p. 2960), an Act approved April 9, 1963 (Ga. Laws 1963, p. 3118) and an Act approved March 23, 1977 (Ga. Laws 1977, p. 3247), is hereby repealed in its entirety.
Sec. 7.7. - General repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
ARTICLE VIII. - APPOINTED OFFICERS

Sec. 8.1. - City manager.
The city manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the city and is responsible for the implementation of all policies, programs, contracts, ordinances, and resolutions as approved and directed by the city council.
(a)
The city manager shall be appointed by majority vote of the city council.
(b)
The city manager shall satisfy all qualifications prescribed by the city council.
(c)
No person holding an elective office in the City of Flowery Branch shall be eligible for appointment during the term of office for which he or she was elected or within three years after the expiration of his or her term of office.
(d)
Whenever the office of city manager is vacant, an acting city manager may be appointed by majority vote of the city council.
(e)
The city manager or acting city manager shall be an employee at will and may be removed by a majority vote of the city council.
(f)
The city council shall fix the city manager's compensation.
(g)
The city manager shall be responsible for:
(1)
The management and coordination of the operations and activities of the various departments of the city;
(2)
The appointment, discipline, and removal of department heads;
(3)
The preparation of the proposed annual budget with the assistance of all department heads for the adoption by the city council;
(4)
Keeping the city council fully advised at all times as to the financial condition and needs of the city;
(5)
Conducting studies and investigations and making reports thereon to the city council concerning the operations of the departments, offices, and agencies of the city;
(6)
Requiring any department, board, commission, or agency under the city manager's supervision to submit written reports and to provide other information deemed necessary;
(7)
Prescribing, requiring, publishing, and implementing standards of administrative management, and operating practices and procedures to be followed and adhered to by all offices, departments, boards, commissions, authorities, and other agencies of the city which are subject to the city manager's supervision;
(8)
Acting as the purchasing agent of the city; and
(9)
Such responsibilities as may be from time to time required by the city council which are not inconsistent with state laws, city ordinances, or this charter.
(h)
Except for the purpose of inquiry and investigation, the mayor and council members shall deal with city employees who are subject to the supervision of the city manager solely through the city manager and shall not give orders or directions to any such employee, either publicly or privately, directly or indirectly.
(2006 Ga. Laws (Act No. 489), § 2, p. 3684)
Sec. 8.2. - City clerk.
(a)
The city clerk shall be appointed by majority vote of the city council.
(b)
The city clerk shall be responsible for:
(1)
Keeping and preserving the city seal and all records of the operations and activities of the city;
(2)
Attending meetings of the city council and preparing minutes of its proceedings at such meetings;
(3)
Attesting the mayor's signature on deeds, contracts, agreements, ordinances, and resolutions;
(4)
Preparing and certifying copies of official records in his or her office, for which fees may be prescribed by state law or city ordinance;
(5)
Providing administrative support to the mayor, council members, and city manager; and
(6)
Performing such other duties as may be directed by the city council.
(2006 Ga. Laws (Act No. 489), § 2, p. 3684)
Sec. 8.3. - City attorney.
(a)
The city attorney shall be appointed by majority vote of the city council.
(b)
The city attorney shall be an active member of the State Bar of Georgia in good standing and shall satisfy any other qualifications prescribed by the city council.
(c)
The city attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a party; shall attend the meetings of the city council as directed; shall advise the mayor, council members, other officers, and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs; and shall perform such other duties as may be required by virtue of his or her position as city attorney or as may be prescribed by the city council.
(2006 Ga. Laws (Act No. 489), § 2, p. 3684)
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE GEORGIA LAWS
This table shows the location of the sections of the basic Charter and any amendments thereto.
EXPAND
Ga. Laws
Year Act No. Page Section  Section
this Charter
1979 132 3404 Arts. I—VIII
1980 1032 3646 1 5.2
1983 48 3693 1 4.3
1995 372 2.7
2005 4274 2.4
2006 486 3669 1 1.2
489 3684 1 2.4
2 8.1—8.3
  CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE ORDINANCES
This table shows the location of the sections of the basic Charter and any amendments thereto.
EXPAND
Ordinance
Number Date Section  Section
this Charter
110  4- 3-1995 1 2.7
317  1-27-2005 2.4
380  9- 3-2008 1 4.3
477  5-18-2013 1       Rpld 2.7(a)
      Added 2.7(a)
