Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority of municipality to adopt ordinances, resolutions or regulations, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3.

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The provisions in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as "The Code of the City of Flowery Branch, Georgia," and may be so cited. Such Code may also be cited as the "Flowery Branch City Code."
State Law reference— Codification requirements, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council or the context clearly requires otherwise.
Bond. When a bond is required, an undertaking in writing shall be sufficient.
City. The term "the city" means the City of Flowery Branch in the County of Hall and the State of Georgia, except as otherwise provided.
City council. The term "city council" or "the council" means the mayor and city council members of Flowery Branch.
Code. The term "Code" means The Code of the City of Flowery Branch, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted, and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
County. The term "county" or "the county" means the County of Hall, State of Georgia.
Day. The term "day" means a calendar day of 24 hours.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department of the city to do some act or make certain inspections, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Gender. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter.
Joint authority. All words giving joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers, except when such words are used to grant authority to the city council.
Keeper and proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, receivers, trustees, personal representatives, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Names of officers and departments. The name or title of any officer or department shall be read as though the words "of the City of Flowery Branch" were added thereto.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. Terms used in the singular include the plural and the plural includes the singular number.
Oath. The term "oath" includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Or, and. The term "or" may be read "and," and the term "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Overlapping provisions. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provisions imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
Owner. The term "owner," applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety of the whole or a part of such building or land.
Penal ordinances. The rules of construction and definitions of words as contained in the penal code of the state, insofar as they can be made applicable, are hereby adopted as governing the penal ordinances of the city.
Person. The term "person" includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Premises. Whenever the term "premises" is used, it means place or places.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" means any park, cemetery, schoolyard, or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available and/or accessible to the public, regardless of whether privately or publicly owned.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The term "residence" means the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Seal. The term "seal" means the city seal.
Shall, may. The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is permissive.
Sheriff. The term "sheriff" means the sheriff of Hall County, Georgia.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians, but shall not include any unimproved areas between the curbline and improved walkways.
Signature or subscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" includes a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The term "state" or "the state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" means and includes any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto within the city.
Tenant or occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, includes any person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
Tense. Terms used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Titles of officers and departments. The name or title of any officer or department shall be read as though the words "of the City of Flowery Branch" were added thereto.
Week. The term "week" means a calendar week of seven days.
Written or in writing. The term "written" or "in writing" includes printing and any other mode of representing words and letters.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
State Law reference— Computation of time, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1; construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes and references.
The catchlines of sections in this Code, printed in boldface type, italics or otherwise, are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section, and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the city council without the incorporation in the Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
State Law reference— Severability, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-5. - Effect of repeal or expiration of ordinance.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued or any offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred or any proceeding commenced before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
(b)
When an ordinance which repealed another shall itself be repealed, the previous ordinance shall not be revived without express words to that effect.
Sec. 1-6. - Ordinances and resolutions not affected by Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city, or any evidence of the city's indebtedness;
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(4)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing or fixing the salaries, benefits, or policies and procedures for municipal officers or employees not otherwise enumerated in this Code;
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the city;
(6)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the city;
(7)
Any appropriation or budget ordinance;
(8)
Any ordinance or resolution which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term;
(9)
Any ordinance or resolution providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
(10)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing zoning districts and/or zoning regulations;
(11)
Any ordinance or resolution rezoning specific property or amending the zoning map;
(12)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing or designating historic districts and properties;
(13)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
(14)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing or amending a comprehensive plan;
(15)
Any ordinance or resolution describing or altering the boundaries of the city;
(16)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code;
(17)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code;
(18)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing or prescribing street grades in the city;
(19)
Any ordinance or regulation prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations concerning through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic, limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones not in conflict or inconsistent with this Code;
(20)
Any ordinance or resolution of agreement with another political subdivision;
(21)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing or imposing any municipal rates, charges or fees for the city that are not otherwise enumerated in this Code; or
(22)
Any other ordinance or resolution, or part thereof, which is not of a general and permanent nature or which is referred to elsewhere in this Code as continuing in effect:
a.
That is temporary, although general in effect;
b.
That is special, although permanent in effect; or
c.
The purpose of which has been accomplished.
(b)
No such ordinance or resolution shall be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this chapter. All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
Sec. 1-7. - Provisions considered continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances adopted prior to this Code and included in such Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-8. - Amendments to Code.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in this Code. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code by the city council.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code.
(c)
If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That The Code of the City of Flowery Branch, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _______, which section reads as follows:…." The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
Sec. 1-9. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared at least on an annual basis. A supplement to this Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the city council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in this Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into this Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, this Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of this Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in this Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _______ to _______" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of this Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code);
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into this Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-10. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby, unless so authorized by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the city council. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-12.
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-11. - Rates, charges, and fees established.
(a)
Unless otherwise provided for, all rates, charges, or fees necessary for the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this Code shall be as currently established or as hereafter adopted by resolution or ordinance of the city council, from time to time. Any rates, charges, or fees established by the city pursuant to the regulations or requirements established herein may be changed from time to time by the city council, and such changes shall both be considered an amendment to this Code.
(b)
Whenever any provision of this Code provides that a rate, charge, or fee shall be established by the city council from time to time and the amount of such rate, charge, deposit, or fee is not expressed in this Code in any dollar amount, then the amount of such rate, charge, or fee shall be the most recent and latest amount established, set or fixed by the city council by ordinance, resolution or motion.
Sec. 1-12. - General penalty; continuing violations.
Unless a higher penalty is otherwise specified, whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in this Code or any ordinance the doing of any act is required and the failure to do such act is declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided therefor, and unless otherwise provided by state law, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any such ordinance shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or imprisonment for six months, or both such fine and imprisonment, or may fix punishment by fine, imprisonment or alternative sentencing as now or hereafter provided by law; and all sentences may be in the alternative and fines may be imposed with the alternative of sentence to imprisonment and labor if the fines are not paid. Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
State Law reference— Maximum sentences and fines which may be imposed for violation of municipal ordinance, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2).
