ARTICLE IV. - RETAIL PACKAGE SALES OF DISTILLED SPIRITS

Sec. 4-91. - Limitation on number of licenses.
(a)
It is the policy of the Commission of Macon-Bibb County that licenses establishments for the retail package sale of distilled spirits be regulated in such a way as to avoid their over-accumulation within any one commission district and within Macon-Bibb County as a whole.
(b)
The Macon-Bibb County Government will not permit the licensing of any establishment for retail package sales of distilled spirits except as provided for in this Section.
(c)
As provided herein, no license shall be issued for retail package sales of distilled spirits unless the number of active retail distilled spirit licenses issued in Macon-Bibb County is less than one (1) license for every five thousand six hundred people (5,600), or major fraction thereof, in Macon-Bibb County according to the latest United States Decennial Census. As an additional requirement, no license shall be issued for the retail package sales of distilled spirits unless the number of active retail distilled spirit licenses issued within the same County Commission District is less than one (1) license for every five thousand six hundred people (5,600), or major fraction thereof, in such District, according to the latest United States Decennial Census.
(d)
Notwithstanding any other provision of this ordinance, valid licenses for retail package sales of distilled spirits active immediately preceding the effective date of this ordinance may be renewed in accordance with this Chapter and subsequently thereafter.
(e)
(1)
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section, the limitation upon the number of licenses for the retail package sales of distilled spirits to be issued, as herein provided, shall not preclude an owner of an establishment which currently possesses a legal license for the retail package sales of distilled spirits from selling or otherwise transferring ownership of said business; and
(2)
Further, notwithstanding any other provision of this Section, the limitation upon the number of licenses for the retail package sales of distilled spirits to be issued, as herein provided, shall not preclude an individual acquiring ownership in an establishment which currently possesses a legal license for the retail package sales of distilled spirits from applying for and obtaining a license for the retail package sale of distilled spirits in accordance with the licensing procedures set forth within this Chapter; and
(3)
Further, notwithstanding any other provision in this Section, an applicant for a license for the retail package sale of distilled spirits at a location that was so licensed in the immediately prior calendar year shall not be disqualified for licensure under this Section if they can demonstrate the reasonable reliance of the licensee at that location on an act or assurance of the Georgia Department of Revenue, including the renewal of all applicable state alcohol licenses; and if they can demonstrate that, despite their failure to timely apply for renewal of such license, a renewal application was actually submitted no later than March 1 st of the current calendar year; and
(4)
Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (e), upon revocation, expiration, or surrender of any existing license, no renewal thereof or new licenses therefore shall be issued contrary to the limitation herein described.
(f)
When additional licenses for the retail package sale of distilled spirits become available, new complete applications for licenses for retail package sales of distilled spirits shall be given priority in the order in which there are received. No applications shall be accepted or held at any time while the number of active licenses for retail package sales of distilled spirits exceeds the number of active licenses allowed for Macon-Bibb County or for the Commission District where the applicant's business would be located. Any such license application inadvertently accepted shall be returned as incomplete in accordance with this Chapter.
(g)
In the event that there are multiple new simultaneously submitted valid applications for retail package sales of distilled spirits within a particular commission district such that if all were granted the total number of licensed establishments would exceed the limits imposed by subsection (c), priority shall be granted based on descending order beginning with the application whose proposed premises is the greater distance from the nearest other existing establishment within the same commission district. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to allow new applications to be granted in such a way as to exceed the limits of subsection (c).
(h)
The limitations imposed by this Section shall be in addition to all other requirements specified in this Chapter, including, without limitation, the distance requirements imposed by Section 4-36.
(i)
Nothing in this Section shall be construed so as to provide additional regulation or limitation on cocktail rooms licensed under Section 4-302 of this Chapter.
(Ord. No. O-18-0109 , § 1, 12-4-2018; Ord. No. O-21-0004 , § 1, 1-19-2021; Ord. No. O-22-0037 , § 1, 7-19-2022)
Sec. 4-92. - Reserved.
Sec. 4-93. - Mobile home, tourist court or establishment operating self-service motor fuel dispensing pumps.
(a)
No license shall be issued for the operation of any distilled spirits business on the premises of a mobile home court or tourist court.
(b)
No license shall be issued for the operation of any distilled spirits business on the premises of any establishment licensed and operating self-service motor fuel dispensing pumps.
(Ord. No. O-18-0109 , § 1, 12-4-2018)
Sec. 4-94. - When sales permitted.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any licensee or person employed by a licensee for retail package sales of distilled spirits, to sell, offer for sale, transfer, or offer to transfer to others, any distilled spirits at any time on Sunday before the hour of 11:00 a.m. or after 12:00 midnight or at any time before the hour of 8:00 a.m. or after 12:00 midnight on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday or Saturday of each week; and it shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, or offer to receive from such a licensee, or a person employed by such a licensee, any distilled spirits at any time on Sunday before the hour of 11:00 a.m. or after the hour of 12:00 midnight or before the hour of 8:00 a.m. or after the hour of 12:00 midnight on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, or Saturday of each week.
(b)
Pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20, and subject to the provisions of subsection (a), the sale of alcoholic beverages shall be permitted on elections days as the same are defined in the Official Code of Georgia Annotated; provided, however, that it shall nonetheless be unlawful for any person to sell alcoholic beverages within 250 feet of any polling place or of the outer edge of any building within which such polling place is established on primary or election days.
(Ord. No. O-18-0109 , § 1, 12-4-2018; Ord. No. O-20-0063 , § 1, 9-1-2020)
Sec. 4-95. - Price tags and labels.
Licensees shall plainly indicate the price of all distilled spirits exposed for sale by tags or labels on the bottles or containers or on the shelf immediately below as such containers are placed. It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his possession, custody or control any distilled spirits for retail sale unless the container shall have firmly affixed thereto a label on which there is stated in plain words or figures, the true alcoholic content by volume of the alcoholic beverage.
(Ord. No. O-18-0109 , § 1, 12-4-2018)
Sec. 4-96. - Interest in other business prohibited.
No person holding a license for retail package sales of distilled spirits hereunder shall have or own any interest, direct or indirect, in any other such place of business, nor shall any person become a stockholder in any other such place of business location licensed hereunder, each connection as stockholder, officer, owner, partner, director or otherwise being deemed an interest for the purposes of this Section; provided, however, that an interest which an executor, administrator or trustee of the estate of a deceased person holds in his or her representative capacity shall not be deemed such an interest as is prohibited by this Section. No person shall be issued a license hereunder where the applicant, or the spouse of the applicant (in the case of an individual), or where a partner, or the spouse of a partner (in the case of a partnership), or where any officer, director or stockholder, or the spouse of any officer, director or stockholder (in the case of a corporate applicant) holds a license for the sale of distilled spirits issued by any governing authority whatsoever. No person shall control or assume to control more than one business of the type licensed hereunder (whether the license is issued by Macon-Bibb County or any other authority); nor shall any licensee permit any such control or assumption of control.
(Ord. No. O-18-0109 , § 1, 12-4-2018)
Sec. 4-97. - Package sales of distilled spirits - distances from certain uses.
Subject to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 3-3-21, as amended:
(a)
No license for the sale of distilled spirits by the package to go shall be issued under this Article where the location of a business is within 100 yards of any of the following: a church, church property, a Macon-Bibb County recreation center property, an alcoholic treatment center, or a public library, or a Macon-Bibb County Housing Authority property. No license shall be issued under this Article where the location of a business is within 200 yards of any of the following: a school ground, school building, educational building, or college campus. The distance prescribed in this Section shall be measured by the shortest straight line possible between the nearest point on the building housing the place of business to the nearest point on the building housing such church, alcoholic treatment center, library or branch, school building, or educational building, or to the nearest point on the school ground, college campus, church property, Macon-Bibb County recreation center property, or Macon-Bibb County Housing Authority Property.
(b)
To the extent authorized by state law, when a license is issued for a location which conforms to the provisions of subsection (a) of this Section at the time of issuance, then licenses may be continued to be issued or renewed for the same location thereafter, so long as the sale of distilled spirits by the package to go was lawful at such location at any time in the previous twelve months, notwithstanding the fact that an adjacent or nearby property is subsequently devoted to a use which would have precluded issuance of a license in the first instance.
(Ord. No. O-18-0109 , § 1, 12-4-2018; Ord. No. O-21-0024 , § 2, 3-16-2021)
Sec. 4-98. - Posting of license number.
Every licensee shall have printed on the front of the licensed premises the name of the licensee, together with the inscription:
"Macon-Bibb County Retail Package Sales of Distilled Spirits License No. _______"
in letters not less than four (4) inches in height.
(Ord. No. O-18-0109 , § 1, 12-4-2018)
Sec. 4-99. - Posting of signs prohibiting sales to minors.
The holder of a retail distilled spirits license shall post in a conspicuous place in the licensed premises a sign printed in letters at least four (4) inches high reading:
Sale of Alcoholic Beverages to Minors Prohibited.
(Ord. No. O-18-0109 , § 1, 12-4-2018)
Sec. 4-100. - Limitation on the sale or transfer of business and license.
It shall be unlawful and shall call for immediate revocation of all licenses involved, both of seller and purchaser, for any retail distilled spirits licensee to purchase the business or license of any other such licensee and attempt to operate the purchased business in addition to the business operated by the purchaser. If a bona fide sale of any license or business under this Article to persons other than other such licensed dealers, full disclosure of the persons involved, the purchase price, and any other information as is required by this Code for a new license shall be filed with the commission or its designee as a condition to any sale. In addition to the revocation of the license of any person violating the provisions of this Section, that person shall be subject to punishment in the municipal court as for other violations of this Code.
(Ord. No. O-18-0109 , § 1, 12-4-2018)
Secs. 4-101—4-120. - Reserved.
