Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "Code of Ordinances, Macon-Bibb County, Georgia," and may be so cited.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances of Macon-Bibb County, the following definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless it shall be otherwise expressly provided in any section or ordinance, or unless inconsistent with the manifest intent of the commission, or unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
Charter. The word "charter" means the Charter of Macon-Bibb County, Georgia as adopted and set forth in 2012 Ga. Laws, page 5595 and 2013 Ga. Laws pages 3501, 3942, and as amended.
City limits. The term "city limits" means the legal boundary of the City of Macon, Georgia as they existed immediately prior to the commencement of the government of Macon-Bibb County; provided however that such term shall not be construed to include any portion of Jones County.
Code. The word "code" means the Code of Ordinances, Macon-Bibb County, Georgia as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
Commission. Whenever the words "the commission" or "Macon-Bibb County commission" are used, they shall mean the commission of Macon-Bibb County, Georgia unless the context clearly indicates reference to another commission.
County clerk or clerk of commission. Whenever the term "county clerk" or "clerk of commission" are used it shall mean the clerk of commission as provided in the Charter.
Days. The word "days" means calendar days unless otherwise provided, and "days" shall mean from 12:00 midnight until the following 12:00 midnight.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department of Macon-Bibb County to do some act or make certain inspections, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males or any other legal entity when applicable under federal or state law.
Governing body or governing authority. The term "governing body" or "governing authority" means the mayor and commission of Macon-Bibb County, Georgia.
Governor. The word "governor" means the Governor of Georgia.
Keeper, proprietor. The word "keeper" or "proprietor" means and includes persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and copartnerships, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.
Land, real estate. The words "land" or "real estate" includes rights and easements of incorporeal nature.
Mayor. The word "mayor" means the mayor of Macon-Bibb County.
Month. The word "month" means a calendar month.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. Words used in the singular include the plural and the plural includes the singular number.
Oath. The word "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed".
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Or, and. "Or" may be read "and", and "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
Other officials or officers. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., by title only, i.e., "county clerk," etc., they shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., of Macon-Bibb County, Georgia.
Owner. The word "owner" applied to buildings or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or part of such building or land.
Person. The word "person" includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization and any other entity acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property as defined in this section.
Plural, singular. Words importing the singular shall include the plural, and words importing the plural shall include the singular.
Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after respectively.
Property. The word "property" includes real and personal property.
Public place. The words "public place" includes any place where the public is invited to go or congregate.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The word "residence" means the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Right-of-way. The term "right-of-way" means land that is dedicated or otherwise legally established for public use.
Roadway. The word "roadway" means that portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular traffic.
Schedule of fees and charges. The term "schedule of fees and charges" means the official lists maintained in the office of the county clerk which contain rates for utility or other public enterprises, fees, deposit amounts and various charges as determined from time to time by the commission.
Shall; may. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory; "may" is permissive.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature or subscription. The term "signature or subscription" includes a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The word "state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" means and shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public streets and ways in Macon-Bibb County and shall embrace all parts of thereof constituting the designated rights-of-way.
Tenant. The word "tenant" applied to a building or land, shall include any person who lawfully occupies the whole or part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and the present.
Title of office. The title of any office shall be construed to include the words, "of Macon-Bibb County, Georgia".
Writing, written. The words "writing" and "written" include printing and any other mode of representing words and letters.
Year. The word "year" means calendar year.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of sections in this Code printed in boldface type, italics or otherwise, are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section, and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. Any history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
Sec. 1-4. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code, may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion therein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, the repealed portions may be excluded from said Code by omission from reprinted pages.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code should be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section of this Code in substantially the following language: "That section _______ of the Code of Ordinances of Macon-Bibb County, Georgia is hereby amended to read as follows: (Set out new provisions in full)."
(c)
When the governing body desires to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the Code, which the governing body desires to incorporate into the Code, a section in substantially the following language shall be made a part of the ordinance: "Section _______. It is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part of the Code of Ordinances of Macon-Bibb County, Georgia, and the sections of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish such intention."
(d)
When necessary, sections and subsections to the Code may be renumbered by the official codifier for Macon-Bibb County to fulfill the intent of the governing body but all such changes shall be immediately brought to the governing body's attention and approved in advance by the county attorney.
(e)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this Code desired to be repealed may be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the case may be.
Sec. 1-5. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with the Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of Macon-Bibb County to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-6.
Sec. 1-6. - General penalty.
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of Macon-Bibb County any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in the Code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any ordinance shall be punished by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), by sentence to work on the streets or public works for a period not exceeding sixty (60) days or imprisonment for a term not exceeding one hundred eighty (180) days, any or all of these penalties in the discretion of the judge.
Sec. 1-7. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
Sec. 1-8. - Severability of parts of Code.
(a)
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the governing body that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
(b)
Where there is apparent conflict in this Code between specific and general provisions, it is the intention hereof that the specific shall control.
Sec. 1-9. - Macon-Bibb County property.
All ordinances which are in force within Macon-Bibb County shall be in force and of full effect on any property of Macon-Bibb County located outside of Macon-Bibb County wherever the ordinance is applicable.
Sec. 1-10. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by Macon-Bibb County personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the commission. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the commission or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code, and shall also include all amendments to the Charter during the period. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in the catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _______ to _______" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code).
Sec. 1-11. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the City of Macon or Bibb County or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the City of Macon or Bibb County or any evidence of indebtedness of the City of Macon or Bibb County;
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the City of Macon or Bibb County;
(4)
Any right or franchise granted by the City of Macon or Bibb County;
(5)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the City of Macon or Bibb County;
(6)
Any appropriation ordinance;
(7)
Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term;
(8)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
(9)
Any zoning ordinance;
(10)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
(11)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
(12)
Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades;
nor shall such ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this chapter; and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Sec. 1-12. - Liability for violations by corporations and other associations.
(a)
Any violation of this Code by any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization, while acting within the scope of his office or employment, shall in every case also be deemed to be a violation by such corporation, association or organization.
(b)
Any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and liable to punishment as well as such corporation or unincorporated association or organization for the violation by it of any provisions of this Code, where such violation was the act or omission, or the result of the act, omission or order, of any such person.
Sec. 1-13. - County seal and tagline.
(a)
The Macon-Bibb County Commission finds that the seal and tagline of the County adopted in this Section are a symbol of authority of the County and a valuable asset of its population. The Macon-Bibb Commission desires to ensure that only appropriate uses are made of the County seal and tagline.
(b)
The Macon-Bibb County Commission adopts the symbol depicted below as its official County seal:
The County seal depicts a circular image with an illustration of the Fort Hawkins structure in the center of the design. In addition, the seal contains the name of the consolidated government across the top of the design in a circular motion, the year "1823" in the bottom left hand corner in honor of the year Bibb County was founded, and the year "1822" in the bottom right hand corner in honor of the year the City of Macon was founded. Furthermore, the words "Forward Together" are imbedded in a banner across the bottom portion of the seal.
(c)
The Macon-Bibb County Commission adopts the tagline "Forward Together" as the official County tagline.
(d)
Except as otherwise expressly provided by State or Federal law, or when done in the course of official County business, it shall be unlawful for any person or entity to use the County seal, tagline, or any emblem or logo approved for County use by the Macon-Bibb County Commission, or which is otherwise created by or for the County in connection with or to identify any official County program or activity, by affixing or otherwise depicting the County seal, tagline, or any such official emblem, or logo, or replica thereof, on any document, thing, item, or material, or in or upon any Internet website, without first having obtained written permission from the Mayor or the Mayor's designee. Any use approved by the Mayor or the Mayor's designee may be subject to any reasonable conditions imposed by the Mayor or the Mayor's designee to carry out the purposes of the authorized use.
(e)
Any person who violates this Section and uses the County seal, tagline, or other official emblem or logo without prior approval shall be served by certified mail a written notice to cease and desist such behavior within ten (10) days from the date of receipt. Should such violation continues, a hearing shall be set before the municipal court or state court judge to hear the violations and issue penalties. Each day of any unauthorized use of the County seal, tagline, or official emblem or logo, shall constitute a separate offense. Any such violations shall be punishable as follows:
(1)
A fine not to exceed five hundred dollars per offense ($500.00)
(2)
Any other punishment the court shall impose.
(f)
The County shall retain the right at all times to inspect any document, item, material, or website upon which the County seal, tagline, or other official emblem or logo is used in order to verify that the County seal, tagline, or other official emblem or logo is being used truly and correctly as represented by the authorized party and in an unaltered form. Permission to use the County seal, tagline, or other official emblem or logo shall not be assignable.
(g)
Should any part of this ordinance or its application to any person or circumstance be declared unconstitutional or invalid for any reason, or should any portion of this ordinance be pre-empted by state or federal law or regulation, such decision or preemption shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance or its application to other persons or circumstances.
( Ord. No. O-15-0025, ยง 1, 6-16-2015 )
