ARTICLE XIII. - SECURITY PERSONNEL

Sec. 4-550. - Licensing requirements.
(a)
Any bar or nightclub operating pursuant to any license issued under Chapter 4 of this Code which employs any armed security personnel shall, in addition to all other requirements in this Chapter for obtaining or maintaining a license to sell alcoholic beverages, obtain a license from the Georgia Board of Private Detectives and Security Agencies as a "private security business," and shall be subject to all requirements associated therewith.
(b)
Any person working as an armed security personnel at a bar or nightclub, as either an employee or an independent contractor shall first be licensed and in good standing as a security officer by the Georgia Board of Private Detectives and Security Agencies.
(c)
Upon applying for or renewing any license to sell alcoholic beverages for consumption on premises, including for special event permits, the applicant shall be required to certify whether it will employ any armed security personnel.
(d)
If any applicant certifies that it will employ any armed security personnel, then the applicant shall provide the following within its application:
(1)
a copy of its valid private security business license, as issued by the Georgia Board of Private Detective and Security Agencies;
(2)
a list containing the names and dates of birth of all persons who will be working as armed security personnel at the applicant's place of business or special event location;
(3)
a copy of a valid private security license for each person named who will be working as armed security personnel at the applicant's place of business or special event location.
(e)
If a bar or nightclub has certified on its most recent alcohol license application or renewal that it will not employ any armed security personnel then it shall be a violation of this Section to subsequently employ any armed security personnel without first reporting such change in accordance with Sec. 4-37 of this Code and providing all information required under subsection (d) of this Section.
(f)
It shall be a violation of this Section for any bar or nightclub to employ any person not listed on its most recent alcohol license application or renewal as an armed security personnel at that licensee's place of business or special event location without first reporting the addition of that person in accordance with Sec. 4-37 of this Code and providing all information required under subsections (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this Section.
(g)
In the event that a person is working as an armed security personnel at any bar or nightclub, and is not certified or licensed in accordance with this Section, such person shall be in violation of this Section, and the licensee employing such person shall be in violation of this Section.
(h)
Nothing in this Section shall be construed to prohibit or impose conditions on the hiring or employment of non-armed security personnel by any licensee. Nothing in this Section shall be construed as preventing any employer from hiring an employee to work as a non-armed security personnel while or before such employee or licensee completes the requirements to employ such person as an armed security personnel.
(Ord. No. O-21-0019 , § 5, 3-2-2021)
Sec. 4-551. - Consumption of alcohol or illegal drugs by armed security personnel.
(a)
No person working as an armed security personnel under this Article shall be suffered, permitted, or required to consume alcohol or any illegal drug by his or her employer while on the job, nor shall be suffered, permitted, or required to work as an armed security personnel while under the influence of alcohol or any illegal drug. For purposes of this Section, a person shall be deemed to have consumed alcoholic beverages if his or her blood alcohol level exceeds 0.02 percent.
(b)
In the event that a person is working as an armed security personnel at any bar or nightclub, and found to have consumed or be under the influence of alcohol or any illegal drug while working as an armed security personnel, such person shall be in violation of this Section, and the licensee employing such person shall be in violation of this Section.
(Ord. No. O-21-0019 , § 5, 3-2-2021)
Sec. 4-552. - Special Events.
The provisions of this Article shall apply in full to all special events, notwithstanding the transient or temporary nature of a special event.
(Ord. No. O-21-0019 , § 5, 3-2-2021)
Sec. 4-553. - Violations.
(a)
The violation of any provision of this Article shall be a strict liability offense, and shall be subject to the general penalty specified in Section 1-6 of this Code. A lack of intent to violate any provision in this Article shall not be a defense to any citation or administrative adverse action taken against any licensee, applicant, location, or security personnel hereunder.
(b)
In addition to the general penalties provided for in this Section, any licensee found to be in violation of this Section may be subject to adverse action taken against his or her license in accordance with this Chapter, up to and including the revocation or non-renewal of any or all licenses held by such licensee.
(c)
In addition to the general penalties provided for in this Section, if any business is operating pursuant to a special event license at the time and location where a violation of this Section is found to occur, then the Commission shall be authorized to take adverse action under this Code against the location or venue on an in rem basis in addition to any action taken against the licensee. Such adverse action may include a prohibition on issuing any special event permits for the location in question for a time certain not to exceed two years, without regard for the identity of the operator of the business or the licensee applying for the special event permit.
(d)
If a licensee catering a special event is operating under an annual license for the sale of alcoholic beverages at retail issued by a local jurisdiction in Georgia other than Macon-Bibb County, and is found to be in violation of this Article, then the maximum penalty that can be taken against such licensee shall be a prohibition on obtaining special event permits in Macon-Bibb County and a report of such violation to the licensing local jurisdiction and the Georgia Department of Revenue.
(Ord. No. O-21-0019 , § 5, 3-2-2021)
Secs. 4-554—4-599. - Reserved.
