Chapter 3 - AIRPORT

Sec. 3-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Airport means any and all airports owned by Macon-Bibb County.
Department means the Macon-Bibb County department of aviation.
Director means the Macon-Bibb County director of aviation.
FAA means the Federal Aviation Administration.
Sec. 3-2. - Application of county ordinances; collection of expenses.
(a)
All ordinances of Macon-Bibb County shall apply to all airports owned by Macon-Bibb County as authorized by the Charter.
(b)
All expenses charged under this chapter to any person may be collected as all revenues of Macon-Bibb County may be collected.
Sec. 3-3. - Running engine.
While running an aircraft engine, pilots shall not negligently allow the propeller or jet stream to come in contact with buildings, airplanes, parking areas or areas reserved for spectators.
Sec. 3-4. - Taxiing.
No person shall taxi an aircraft to or from the hangar line or to or from an approved parking space until he has ascertained that there will be no danger of collision with other aircraft, persons, or objects in the immediate area.
Sec. 3-5. - Obstruction of facilities.
No aircraft shall be parked or be permitted to remain at any place on the airport so as to interfere with the unobstructed use thereof by any person lawfully using the airport, and any such aircraft may be removed by order of the director at the expense of the aircraft operator without liability on the part of Macon-Bibb County or the director for any damage that might result to the aircraft by removal thereof.
Sec. 3-6. - Interfering; tampering.
No person shall interfere or tamper with any aircraft or start the engine of any aircraft without the aircraft owner's consent, or unless on orders of the director.
Sec. 3-7. - Maintenance of area; fueling.
(a)
Cleaning of, or otherwise maintaining aircraft shall be accomplished only in areas designated for that purpose.
(b)
Spillage or dripping of aircraft fuel, gasoline, oil, grease, or any other material which may be unsightly or detrimental to the pavement, shall be removed immediately. The responsibility of the immediate removal of such material shall be assumed by the operator of the equipment causing the spillage or by the tenant or concessionaire responsible for the deposit thereof.
(c)
Fueling of aircraft shall be done only with personnel and equipment furnished by the airport fixed base operators. Such equipment shall be grounded to prevent the possibility of static ignition during fuel handling operations in connection with aircraft. At least one dry chemical fire extinguisher, twenty (20) pounds or larger, shall be immediately available.
Sec. 3-8. - Disposal of wrecked or disabled aircraft.
The pilot or operator of any aircraft involved in any accident shall be responsible for the prompt disposal of aircraft wrecked or disabled at the airport and parts of such aircraft as ordered by the director. In the event of failure to comply with the orders, the wrecked or disabled aircraft and parts may be removed by the director at the operator's expense and without liability for damage which may result in the course of such removal.
Sec. 3-9. - Landing fees.
The fees to be paid for the landing of large (FAA definition) aircraft at the airport, by persons who do not operate at the airport under written contract with the owner, shall be at the rate prescribed by the department regulations. Such fees shall include touch and go's as well as full stops. Payment shall be made to the director's office at the airport.
Sec. 3-10. - Unlawful acts.
(a)
Acrobatics. No person shall acrobatically fly an aircraft carrying passengers for hire or reward, except for necessary student instruction. Acrobatic flying means intentional maneuvers not necessary to ordinary air navigation.
(b)
Stunt flying, parachute jumping, helicopter landings. No stunt flying, parachute jumps, helicopter landings or other hazardous exhibitions will be allowed over Macon-Bibb County or over any flying field within Macon-Bibb County or under its control without first obtaining the written consent of the director, except for emergencies.
(c)
Advertising and exhibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to fly over Macon-Bibb County in an airplane for purposes of advertising or exhibition without having first obtained the written permission of the director.
(d)
Dropping pamphlets. It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to drop from any aircraft, pamphlets, papers, noise-producing devices or other things.
(e)
Advertising. It shall be unlawful for any person to post or tack any advertising signs or distribute advertising literature on or about any municipal flying field without the consent of the director.
Sec. 3-11. - Regulations of certain activities.
No person, unless authorized in writing by the director, shall in the airport:
(1)
Sell or offer for sale any article of merchandise;
(2)
Solicit any business or trade including carrying of baggage for hire, shining of shoes, and the like;
(3)
Entertain any person by singing, dancing or playing any musical instrument; or
(4)
Solicit alms or other funds, except from a booth which meets specifications provided for in the department rules and regulations.
Sec. 3-12. - Lighted cigarettes, other items prohibited in certain areas.
No person shall smoke, carry or possess a lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe, match, or other lighted item or equipment capable of causing a naked flame, in or about any loading area, building or fueling area where appropriate signs to that effect have been posted.
Sec. 3-13. - Entering restricted areas.
No person shall enter any restricted area of the airport posted as being closed to the public without permission of the director, except persons assigned to duty therein or authorized representatives of the airport.
Sec. 3-14. - Entering landing area, ramps, apron area.
No person shall enter upon the public landing areas or ramp and apron area without permission of the director, except persons assigned to duty therein, authorized representatives of the airport, air crews or passengers entering upon the public ramp and apron areas for the purpose of immediate embarkation or debarkation.
Sec. 3-15. - Dogs or other animals.
No person shall enter the terminal building of the airport with a dog or other animal, except that service animals may be permitted in for appropriate purposes, and where dogs or other animals are to be transported by air and are restrained by leash or properly confined.
Sec. 3-16. - Open fires.
No person shall start any open fires of any type, including flare pots, torches or fires in containers formerly used for oil, paint, and similar materials on any part of the airport without permission of the airport director.
Sec. 3-17. - Lost articles.
Any persons finding lost articles at the airport shall turn them over to the office of the director.
Sec. 3-18. - Digging holes, trenches, excavations.
No person shall dig holes, trenches, or do other excavation work on the airport or airport property, unless prior written approval is granted by the director.
Sec. 3-19. - Compliance with signs.
All persons on the airport shall comply with all signs or mechanical lights and signals, unless directed otherwise by an airport police officer.
Sec. 3-20. - Right to regulate commercial enterprises.
Macon-Bibb County has the right to regulate, in accordance with lease contracts, all commercial enterprises using the airport as a base of operation, whether such operation is aeronautical or nonaeronautical in nature. No commercial operation of an kind or type shall be conducted on the airport unless specifically authorized by Macon-Bibb County.
Sec. 3-21. - Standards for doing business at airports.
(a)
No person shall engage in any business at the airport without first having entered into a written contract with Macon-Bibb County.
(b)
All fixed base operations at the airport shall be full time, progressive business operations, with a manned office facility at the airport during all business hours. No fixed base operation shall begin until a written lease agreement is completed with Macon-Bibb County.
(c)
All persons doing business at the airport shall demonstrate, at all times, financial solvency and satisfactory business ability.
(d)
All persons doing business at the airport shall have continuously in force public liability insurance in amounts provided by the written contract with Macon-Bibb County.
(e)
Only fixed base operators, or others with the written permission of the director, shall carry on sightseeing flights for hire or any flying schools at the airport, except that the airport may be used for practice landings by anyone otherwise authorized by law.
(f)
All airport businesses shall keep their premises clean and uncluttered with junk and if after a written warning by the director, an area is not cleaned, then the director may have it cleaned and charge the expense to the business involved.
(g)
All construction at the airport shall be in accordance with design and construction standards established by the director.
Sec. 3-22. - Carrying weapons in airport terminals.
(a)
Definitions.
1.
"Handgun" means a firearm of any description, loaded or unloaded, from which any shot, bullet, or other missile can be discharged by an action of an explosive where the length of the barrel, not including any revolving, detachable, or magazine breech, does not exceed 12 inches; provided, however, that the term "handgun" shall not include a gun which discharges a single shot of .46 centimeters or less in diameter.
2.
"Knife" means a cutting instrument designed for the purpose of offense and defense consisting of a blade that is greater than five inches in length which is fastened to a handle.
3.
"License holder" means a person who holds a valid weapons carry license.
4.
"Long gun" means a firearm with a barrel length of at least 18 inches and overall length of at least 26 inches designed or made and intended to be fired from the shoulder and designed or made to use the energy of the explosive in a fixed:
a.
Shotgun shell to fire through a smooth bore either a number of ball shot or a single projectile for each single pull of the trigger or from which any shot, bullet, or other missile can be discharged; or
b.
Metallic cartridge to fire only a single projectile through a rifle bore for each single pull of the trigger; provided, however, that the term "long gun" shall not include a gun which discharges a single shot of .46 centimeters or less in diameter.
5.
"Weapon" means a knife or handgun.
6.
"Weapons carry license" or "license" means a license issued pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 16-11-129.
(b)
No person shall enter the restricted access areas of a commercial service airport, in or beyond the airport security screening checkpoint, knowingly possessing or knowingly having under his or her control a weapon or long gun. Such area shall not include an airport drive, general parking area, walkway, or shops and areas of the terminal that are outside the screening checkpoint and that are normally open to unscreened passengers or visitors to the airport. Any restricted access area shall be clearly indicated by prominent signs indicating that weapons are prohibited in such area.
(c)
A person who is not a license holder and who violates this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. A license holder who violates this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; provided, however, that a license holder who is notified at the screening checkpoint for the restricted access area that he or she is in possession of a weapon or long gun and who immediately leaves the restricted access area following such notification and completion of federally required transportation security screening procedures shall not be guilty of violating this Code section.
(d)
Any person who violates this Code section with the intent to commit a separate felony offense shall be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction of thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $1,000.00 nor more than $15,000.00, imprisonment for not less than one nor more than ten years, or both.
( Ord. No. O-16-0039, § 1, 4-5-2016 )
Editor's note— Ord. No. O-16-0039, § 1, adopted April 5, 2016 , amended § 3-22 to read as set out herein. Previously § 3-22 was titled "Carrying dangerous weapons in airport terminals."
