SECTION 16.
(a)
(1)
The mayor shall, subject to the approval of a majority of the commission, appoint an officer whose title shall be county manager who shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor. The county manager officer shall be appointed solely on the basis of executive and administrative qualifications. The county manager officer shall hold a master's degree in public or business administration or a related field and shall have at least four years' experience in public administration or in business management in the private sector or shall hold a bachelor's degree in public or business administration or a related field and shall have at least eight years' experience in public administration or in business management in the private sector. Such person need not be a resident of Macon-Bibb County or the State of Georgia at the time of appointment.
(2)
The mayor shall, subject to a majority vote of all commissioners then serving, appoint a clerk of commission who shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor. The clerk of commission may also serve as clerk of the restructured government or on any other positions he or she may be appointed to in the restructured government.
(3)
The clerk of the commission shall attend all meetings of the commission; keep the minutes, rules, and records of the commission; provide notice of meetings; and perform other duties required by the commission or by ordinance. The compensation of the clerk shall be as fixed by the commission.
(4)
The chief of the Macon-Bibb County Fire Department shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of a majority of the commission, shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor, and shall perform his or her official duties as the chief firefighter throughout the entire limits of Macon-Bibb County.
(b)
The county manager officer shall have the following powers, duties, and responsibilities:
(1)
To serve as director of the department of administration;
(2)
To advise and assist the mayor in the performance of designated duties;
(3)
To coordinate the activities of the departments of the restructured government;
(4)
To serve as a liaison between the mayor and the departments of the restructured government;
(5)
To carry out the written directives of the mayor; provided, however, that the mayor shall not be authorized to delegate to the chief administrative officer any of the powers or duties conferred upon the mayor by charter or by ordinance;
(6)
To make periodic reports with any recommendations to the mayor as required by the mayor or as he or she deems appropriate concerning the affairs of the restructured government; and
(7)
To perform any other duties as shall be required by the mayor.
(c)
Except for the purpose of inquiry and investigation, the commission shall deal with employees of the unified government other than those who are subject to appointment and removal by the mayor solely through the county manager and shall not give orders or directions to any such employee, either publicly or privately, directly or indirectly.
(d)
There shall be an attorney for the restructured government who shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of a majority of the commission and shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor. Such person shall be an active member of the State Bar of Georgia in good standing and shall have been engaged in the active practice of law for at least five years prior to the date of appointment. The attorney shall be legal counsel to the restructured government and perform any other duties as may be provided by ordinance. Such person shall be responsible to the mayor and to the commission. The compensation of the attorney shall be as prescribed by a duly adopted ordinance. The attorney shall recommend legal counsel to all authorities of the restructured government when needed except as otherwise instructed by the mayor.
(e)
(1)
There shall be a finance officer who shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of a majority of the commission and shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor.
(2)
The finance officer shall perform financial duties for the restructured government and any other duties as may be provided by ordinance. Such person shall be responsible to the mayor and to the commission.
