SECTION 31.
(a)
The commission shall establish by ordinance a system of civil service for employees of the fire department which shall provide for the establishment of a civil service board to orally interview and pass judgment upon the qualifications of applicants and candidates for promotion; provided, however, that eligible personnel of the city police department shall be covered by the Bibb County Police Civil Service System established by an Act approved March 5, 1955 (Ga. L. 1955, p. 682), as now or hereafter amended. The sheriff may elect to include eligible employees of the sheriff's office in such civil service system. To provide for requirements for selections, training, promotion, physical condition, and appeal procedures and other related matters, the commission shall adopt civil service rules and regulations to govern and control the fire department.
(b)
The commission shall establish by ordinance a personnel management system based on merit principles that meets the social, economic, and program needs of the people of Macon-Bibb County. This system shall provide means to recruit, select, train, develop, and maintain an effective and responsive work force and shall include policies and guidelines for employing, hiring and advancement, training and career development, job classification, discharge, code of conduct, fringe benefits, and other related activities. All appointments and promotions in Macon-Bibb County shall be made without regard to sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, race, religion, national origin, age, or political affiliation.
(c)
It is the intent of the General Assembly that as many employees of Bibb County and the City of Macon as feasible shall continue in the same or a substantially equal position with at least the same salary and benefit level, where possible within budget constraints, after the consolidation is complete. It is further the intent of the General Assembly that the integration of the sheriff's office and the city police department shall be seamless and cooperative and that where possible the rights and positions of all employees shall be respected.
(Ord. No. O-17-0024 , ยง 1, 5-4-2017)
