SECTION 9.
(a)
The territory of the restructured government shall consist of nine election districts to be designated as Commission Districts 1 through 9 and the boundaries of the initial districts shall be as described in the districting plan attached to and made a part of this charter and further identified as 'Plan: bibbcon12-hd139p2r-rev2 Plan Type: Local Administrator: Bibb Co. User: Gina'; provided, however, that such described districts shall not include the city limits of the City of Payne City.
(b)
(1)
When used in such attachment, the term 'VTD' (voting tabulation district) shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(2)
The separate numeric designations in a district description which are underneath a VTD heading shall mean and describe individual Blocks within a VTD as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Macon-Bibb County which is not included in any such district described in that attachment shall be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(3)
Any part of Macon-Bibb County which is described in that attachment as being in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(4)
Except as otherwise provided in the description of any election district, whenever the description of such district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census map for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(c)
The commission shall consist of nine members. The initial commissioners shall be elected at a nonpartisan election held on the third Tuesday in July, 2013, for terms of three years and until their successors are duly elected and qualified. Their successors shall be elected in nonpartisan elections for terms of four years and shall take office on the first day of January immediately following the date of the election. The members shall be elected from the nine districts specified in subsection (a) of this section by a majority of electors voting in such election from such district. All members of the commission shall be full voting members of the commission. The mayor shall be the presiding officer of the commission but shall not be a voting member of the commission; provided, however, that the mayor may cast a vote on any matter before the commission to break a tie. The mayor may propose ordinances in the same manner as a commissioner.
(d)
No person shall be eligible to serve as a commissioner unless he or she:
(1)
Has been a resident of Macon-Bibb County for a period of one year immediately prior to the date of the election;
(2)
Continues to reside within the commission district from which elected during his or her term of office;
(3)
Is a registered and qualified elector of Macon-Bibb County; and
(4)
At the time of their election, be citizens of the United States, shall be at least 21 years of age, have been a citizen of this state for at least two years, and have been a legal resident of the territory embraced within the commissioner district from which elected for at least one year; provided, however, that for purposes of qualifying for the initial elections under this charter, and for any subsequent newly described districts resulting from redistricting, a candidate must only be a resident of the commissioner district on the day of qualifying.
(e)
(1)
Each commissioner shall be paid an annual salary of $15,000.00. Future changes in the salary and expenses of the commissioners shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 36-35-4 of the O.C.G.A. and in accordance with the procedures of Code Section 36-5-24 of the O.C.G.A.; provided, however, that any increase in the salary or compensation of commissioners shall equal no more than one-half of the average percentage salary increase granted by such governing authority to the restructured government employees over the preceding three years.
(2)
Any action to increase the salary of commissioners shall not become effective until the date of commencement of the terms of those commissioners elected at the next regular election following such action.
(3)
In addition to salary and subject to appropriations, commissioners shall be reimbursed for all actual expenses reasonably and necessarily incurred in carrying out the duties and responsibilities of the restructured government as provided by rule or regulation.
(f)
The commission shall elect from among its members in January of each year a member to serve as mayor pro tempore, who shall preside over meetings of the commission in the mayor's absence.
(g)
For purposes of eligibility for employee benefits, the commissioners shall be deemed to be part-time employees.
