CHAPTER 3. - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS

Sec. 3-1. - Local constitutional amendment authorizing building regulations.
The County Board of Commissioners for the County of Bibb are authorized, without further approval or authority other than the action of said board, to prescribe, administer and enforce rules, regulations and standards for building, construction or installation of any kind or character, and for electrical and plumbing fixtures and appliances and the installation thereof, and for safe and sanitary maintenance of such building, construction, installation, electrical and plumbing fixtures and appliances, and the installation thereof, in and for that area of Bibb County lying outside the corporate limits of any incorporated municipality in said county.
The County Board of Commissioners for the County of Bibb are authorized to vary the application, rigidity and uniformity of such rules, regulations, and standards in different and various areas and locations, in accordance with the needs and hazards of each such area or locality and the welfare of its inhabitants.
In administering and enforcing such rules, regulations and standards, the County Board of Commissioners for the County of Bibb are hereby authorized, in their discretion, to utilize employees, officials and facilities of Bibb County, or those of the City of Macon, and/or the Macon-Bibb County Board of Health and/or of the Macon-Bibb County Planning and Zoning Commission or employees, officials or facilities in common with any or all of them.
The County Board of Commissioners for the County of Bibb are authorized to levy an ad valorem tax upon the taxable properties within Bibb County and/or to fix and collect permit and inspection fees to pay the expense of administering and enforcing such rules, regulations or standards. Such permit and inspection fees may be collected in the same manner as provided by law for the collection of ad valorem taxes.
Violators of such rules, regulations or standards shall be tried in the State Court of Bibb County, and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided by the laws of Georgia pertaining to that court; except that penalties and punishment shall not exceed 60 days in the Bibb County jail and a fine of $300.00, either or both, each day's violation constituting a separate offense.
(1953 (Nov.-Dec. Sess.) Ga. Laws (Act No. 196), page 491, § 1)
Editor's note— The above amendment to Ga. Const. (1945) art. VI, § XVII, ¶ I, was continued in force and effect by Ord. No. AA-86-116, adopted August 5, 1986. See Ga. Const. (1983) art. XI, § I, ¶ IV. Such ordinance can be found in 1988 Ga. Laws, page 5112.
Sec. 3-2. - Regulation of structures outside of cities.
Said board [of commissioners] is further authorized and empowered to pass necessary rules and ordinances regulating buildings, fences, and similar structures within the limits of said county and other than within the incorporated limits of an incorporated town or city, and to require a permit from said county board of commissioners for the erection of any building, fence, or similar structure where in the opinion of said county board of commissioners the erection of any such building, fence, or structure is so located with reference to other buildings, fences, or structures, or with reference to properties belonging to other parties as to make it to the public interest to have such building, fence, or structure conform to regulations and standards adopted by said board of county commissioners, and said board is further empowered to require the payment of such reasonable fees as may be fixed by the board for the issuance of such permit and the expense of necessary inspection for the purpose of seeing that such rules and regulations are complied with.
(1)
Anyone erecting any building, fence, or other similar structure within the area aforesaid without first obtaining a permit therefor, where such permit is required, or failing or refusing to comply with any of the rules, regulations, and standards adopted by said board of county commissioners, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and on conviction therefor shall be subject to a fine not exceeding $50.00 or imprisonment, not exceeding 30 days, either one or both, in the discretion of the presiding judge.
(1945 Ga. Laws (Act No. 194), page 863, § 1(2))
