Chapter 54 - PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 18.
State Law reference— Peddlers and itinerant traders, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 54-1. - Solicitation of funds or valuables.
(a)
No person, firm, or corporation utilizing more than three persons shall solicit citizens of Fulton County or any substantial number or segment thereof for funds or valuables of any kind, without first applying for and obtaining from the business license division a permit to do so.
(b)
The application for such permit shall state the name and address of the person or organization conducting the solicitation, and shall be signed by the officer in charge of the solicitation or a duly appointed agent thereof. The application shall also state the nature and purpose of the solicitation, the time or period within which the solicitation is to be conducted, and the area within which it shall be conducted. The applicant shall state whether or not the persons actively engaged in solicitation are to be paid and, if paid, whether by salary or by commission.
(c)
The application shall be filed in duplicate upon forms provided by the division, and one copy thereof shall be furnished to the police department having jurisdiction of the area involved.
(d)
Whenever an application for a permit to solicit has been filed on behalf of any organization not otherwise licensed to do business in Fulton County, a permit and fee shall be required. Any fee charged shall be according to a fee schedule approved by the board of county commissioners from time to time.
(e)
All persons engaged in solicitation shall have upon their person a letter or card identifying the person, which document shall be signed by an authorized agent of the person, firm, or corporation conducting the solicitation.
(f)
Any person conducting a solicitation without the necessary permit or identification, as the case may be, who continues the solicitation after notice by a law enforcement officer to cease and desist, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, as such, punished as provided by the statutes and laws of Georgia for commission of misdemeanors.
(Code 1983, § 33-7-1; Res. No. 11-0075, 1-19-11)
Secs. 54-2—54-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PEDDLERS, DOOR TO DOOR SALESMEN, ETC.
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 54-36. - Exemptions.
(a)
Persons, businesses, and organizations exempted from local regulation by operation at state or federal law, or by the Constitution of the United States, or of the State of Georgia, are exempt from the requirements of this article.
(b)
Representatives or agents of charitable or nonprofit organizations which have been recognized as such by the Internal Revenue Service of the United States Treasury Department shall be treated as exempt from the provisions of sections of this article, provided that said organization first supplies proof of said recognized status to the chief of police, or his designee, and has received from said chief, or designee, written confirmation of its exempt status. The organization shall then furnish each of its agents or representatives with a copy of the confirmation letter. The organization shall then furnish the Fulton County Police Department with a list of such agents or representatives, and shall promptly notify said department of changes in the list.
(c)
The exemption shall remain in effect until December 31 following the date of the confirmation letter. Only one such letter shall be issued to each organization during any calendar year.
(Code 1983, § 33-7-12)
Sec. 54-37. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any person charged with a violation of this article shall be apprehended by the police department or summoned to appear in the State Court of Fulton County and, if found guilty, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor.
(Code 1983, § 33-7-22)
State Law reference— Punishment for misdemeanors generally, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; maximum punishments which may be imposed for violations of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(b).
Sec. 54-38. - Prohibited acts.
It shall be a violation of this article:
(1)
For any person, business, partnership, corporation, association, organization, or a group of persons to engage in any of the activities described in this article without first obtaining a permit, unless exempted pursuant to section 54-36 of this article;
(2)
For any person to violate any of the provisions of this article, or to violate any other county article while engaging in any of the activities described in section 54-76 of this article;
(3)
For any person to violate any criminal laws of this state, or to violate any state or federal consumer protection law while engaging in any of the conduct described in section 54-76 of this article; for the purpose of this section, "Consumer Protection Law" includes, but is not limited to the Georgia Fair Business Practices Act (O.C.G.A. § 10-1-390 et seq.), the Georgia Home Solicitation Act (O.C.G.A. § 10-1-410 et seq., O.C.G.A. § 43-17-1 et seq.), dealing with professional fund raising, and the Federal Consumer Credit Protection Act (Truth-in-Lending and Truth-in-Leasing);
(4)
For any person to lend, rent, or sell, his permit card to another;
(5)
For any person to engage in any of the conduct described in section 54-76 of this article between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m., according to the standard time in effect at the time the violation is alleged to have occurred;
(6)
For any person to engage in any of the conduct described in section 54-76 of this article during a period in which his permit is in suspension, or after his permit has been revoked;
(7)
For more than two individuals to engage in solicitation upon any premises at the same time for the same goods or services, or religious or charitable purposes. Each individual member of a group engaged in solicitation in violation of this section shall be deemed to have violated such section;
(8)
For any person to make more than one solicitation call at the same premises for identical goods or services or for the same religious or charitable purpose within any consecutive two-week period, without receiving a prior invitation therefor from the occupant of any such premises. This section shall be construed to include solicitation upon the same premises by employees, agents, or representatives of any person more than once during the aforesaid period without a prior invitation as herein provided.
(Code 1983, § 33-7-21)
Sec. 54-39. - Announced purpose of call.
At each dwelling, whether it be an apartment unit or private residence, the solicitor shall inform the occupant in unambiguous terms of the purpose of the call and shall not represent that the solicitor is participating in any contest, game, or other competitive endeavor, or that he is offering the occupant an opportunity to participate in any such contest, game, or endeavor.
(Code 1983, § 33-7-18)
Sec. 54-40. - Posted property.
No solicitor shall enter a dwelling except at the express invitation of the occupant. No solicitation shall be made at any dwelling or any group of apartments where a conspicuous "no soliciting," "no solicitation," "no peddlers," or other similar signs at or near the main entrance or driveway to the premises.
(Code 1983, § 33-7-19)
Sec. 54-41. - Decorum required.
No solicitor shall use vulgar, insulting, or threatening language in the course of any solicitation, nor shall he remain upon the premises after the occupant of the premises has verbally indicated that he or she does not wish to make a purchase or donation. For the purpose of this article, a solicitation shall be deemed to continue until the solicitor has left the premises.
(Code 1983, § 33-7-20)
Secs. 54-42—54-75. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 54-76. - Required.
(a)
Any person engaged in or desiring to engage in any type of selling, soliciting, canvassing, survey making or any other business, occupation, or vocation which by its nature requires going from door to door or house to house in the residential areas of the unincorporated areas of Fulton County, whether on a temporary or a permanent basis, shall first register with the Fulton County Police Department by completing a personal information questionnaire and then obtain a personal identification card from the Fulton County Police Department, which shall be his permit to engage in the activities set out above.
(b)
Any person who shall solicit orders on behalf of a business, occupation, vocation, or individual, door to door, or house to house, shall be deemed a solicitor.
(Code 1983, § 33-7-11)
Sec. 54-77. - Contents of application.
(a)
The police department shall prepare a questionnaire requiring pertinent information regarding the physical description, identity, and background of each applicant for a permit including, but not limited to the following:
(1)
Name and social security number of individual;
(2)
Date of birth;
(3)
Driver's license number;
(4)
Race;
(5)
Sex;
(6)
Residential address and telephone number;
(7)
Business address and telephone number;
(8)
Height and weight;
(9)
Hair and eye color;
(10)
Name and address of the organization represented;
(11)
Name, address, and telephone number of his immediate supervisor in the organization; and
(12)
A list of any pleas of guilty, convictions, or sentences of probation entered against the applicant in regard to any offenses other than minor traffic violations.
(b)
The questionnaire form shall also bear the following statement: "O.C.G.A. § 16-10-20 provides it is a felony to knowingly and willfully make a false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation in any matter within the jurisdiction of any department or agency of the government of any county of this state."
(Code 1983, § 33-7-13)
Sec. 54-78. - Investigation fee and verification of business license.
The permit application shall be filed with the business license division of the finance department which shall collect a nonrefundable investigation fee according to a fee schedule adopted by the board of commissioners, and shall verify that the organization represented by the applicant has a current Fulton County business license. Such verification shall be endorsed on the application and the applicant shall then file the same with the Fulton County Police Department.
(Code 1983, § 33-7-14; Res. No. 11-0075, 1-19-11)
Sec. 54-79. - Investigation and issuance.
The Fulton County Police Department shall then review the application for the purpose of ascertaining whether the applicant has pled to, or has been convicted of, a felony, or a misdemeanor involving violence or moral turpitude. After ascertaining that the questionnaire has been properly completed, and that the applicant has not been disqualified by virtue of prior pleas or conviction, the police department shall approve the application and shall photograph the applicant and provide the applicant with a permit bearing the applicant's photograph, name, and organization represented, and identifying the applicant as a solicitor.
(Code 1983, § 33-7-15)
Sec. 54-80. - Validity and renewal.
Each permit shall be valid only for solicitation for the organization indicated thereon, and until the expiration of the current business license of such organization. Such permit may be renewed upon payment of a fee according to a fee schedule adopted by the board of commissioners and verification by the finance department that the organization represented has renewed its Fulton County business license for the current year.
(Code 1983, § 33-7-16; Res. No. 11-0075, 1-19-11)
Sec. 54-81. - Display.
The police department shall furnish to each permit holder a device suitable for attaching the permit card to the outer clothing of the permit holder. No solicitor shall engage in any of the conduct described in section 54-76 of this article without wearing and displaying his permit in a conspicuous manner.
(Code 1983, § 33-7-17)
Sec. 54-82. - Surrender.
Any permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this article for the use of any person is, and shall remain, the property of the county. Each permit holder shall surrender his permit card to the Fulton County Police Department no later than three of the department's business days following the expiration, suspension, or revocation of the permit, or upon the demand of any officer of said department or upon the demand of the chief of police, or his designee, whichever shall first occur.
(Code 1983, § 33-7-24)
Sec. 54-83. - Suspension and revocation.
(a)
No solicitor's permit shall be issued to any person who has been found guilty of a misdemeanor involving violence or moral turpitude any time within five years prior to the date of application, nor shall a permit be issued to any person convicted of a felony, except that a permit may be issued to a convicted felon if it appears that he either has been pardoned, or that he has been free from any legal restrictions for a period of five or more years prior to the date of his application. For the purpose of this article, the terms "conviction" and "found guilty" shall be deemed to include verdicts or pleas of guilty, or pleas of nolo contendere, entered by a court of this state, a court of a sister state, or any federal district court; any permit issued as the result of willful false statements or omissions in the solicitor's application for the permit shall be deemed null and void from the time of its issue.
(b)
The permit of any solicitor charged with a felony, or a misdemeanor involving violence or moral turpitude, shall be deemed suspended from the time of lawful arrest, formal accusation, or indictment, whichever shall first occur; said suspension shall remain in effect until the solicitor is convicted or acquitted, or until the charge is dismissed, "dead-docketed," "nolle prosed," or "no-billed."
(c)
The permit of any solicitor arrested or served with summons in regard to a violation of any provision of this article, which is alleged to have occurred after the date permit was issued shall be deemed suspended from the time he was arrested or served with summons; said suspension shall remain in effect until the solicitor is acquitted, or the case is dismissed.
(d)
The permit of any solicitor who is convicted of a felony, or of a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude or violence, shall be deemed revoked from the time of said conviction. The permit of any solicitor convicted of having violated any provision of this article after issuance of the permit shall be deemed revoked from the time of said conviction.
(e)
Any suspension or revocation occurring pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be effective by operation of law, whether or not any formal notification to the solicitor is given or received.
(Code 1983, § 33-7-23)
