Chapter 19 - PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Boards, commissions, and authorities, § 3.11.
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 6; numbering of structures, § 6-1; manufactured homes and manufactured home parks, ch. 11; soil erosion and sedimentation control, ch. 21; subdivisions, app. B; zoning, app. C.
State Law reference— Authority to adopt plans and exercise the power of zoning, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ IV.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 19-1. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 47-96, § 1, adopted June 17, 1996, repealed § 19-1, which pertained to indemnity agreement; prerequisite to issuance of subdivision permit. See the Code Comparative Table.
Secs. 19-2—19-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Boards, commissions and authorities generally, § 2-176 et seq.

Sec. 19-26. - Created; purpose.
In order to guide and accomplish a coordinated and harmonious development of the city which will, in accordance with existing and future needs, best promote the public health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity, aesthetic appeal, and the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development, the Warner Robins Planning and Zoning Commission, hereinafter referred to as the commission, is hereby created and established.
(Code 1977, § 2-8051)
Sec. 19-27. - Members; appointment; compensation.
The planning and zoning commission shall consist of five (5) members who shall be residents of the city throughout their tenure on the commission. Each member shall be appointed for a term of five (5) years staggered in such a manner that on January 1 of each year, the term of office of one member shall end and a new appointment by the mayor and council shall be made. All members shall receive one hundred seventy-five dollars ($175.00) per month and may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their official duties.
(Code 1977, § 2-8052; Ord. No. 65-99, § 1, 7-19-99; Ord. No. 46-07, 8-20-07)
Sec. 19-28. - Powers and duties.
(a)
The powers of the planning and zoning commission shall be to make careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of existing conditions and probable future developments and to prepare such plans for physical, social and economic growth as well as will best promote the public health, safety, morals, convenience, prosperity, aesthetics of the general welfare as well as efficiency and economy in the development of the city. In particular, the commission shall have the power and duty, upon approval of mayor and council, to:
(1)
Approve or have prepared a master plan or parts thereof for the development of the city;
(2)
Have prepared and make recommendations for the adoption to the mayor and council of a zoning ordinance and map for the city;
(3)
Prepare and recommend for adoption to the mayor and council regulations for the subdivision of land within the city, and to administer the regulations that are adopted; and
(4)
Prepare and recommend for adoption to the mayor and council a plat or plats of an official map showing the exact location of the boundary lines of existing, proposed, extended, widened or narrowed streets, public open spaces or public building sites, together with regulations to control the erection of buildings or other structures within such lines within the city or a specified portion thereof.
(b)
In addition, the unincorporated areas adjacent to the city may be added to and included in the area under the jurisdiction of the commission for general planning and for master plan preparation and for the preparation and administration of zoning ordinances or resolutions, land subdivision regulations, and official maps; provided, that the governing bodies of the city and county shall agree to the boundaries of such additional areas, procedures for joint action, procedures for the adoption and administration of ordinances and resolutions, and regulations applying to the area, and the manner of obtaining equitable representation on the planning and zoning commission and board of zoning appeals. Such agreement shall be formally established by an official action of the mayor and council of the city and the appropriate authorities of the county.
(c)
In addition to the powers and duties outlined above, the commission may make, publish and distribute maps, plans and reports and recommendations relating to the planning and development of the city to public officials and agencies, public utility companies, civic, educational, professional and other organizations and citizens. The commission may recommend to the mayor and council programs for public improvements and the financing thereof. The mayor and council shall, upon request, furnish to the commission, within a reasonable time, such available information as it may require for its duties. The commission, its members and employees, in performance of their official functions, may enter upon any land, make examinations and surveys, and place and maintain necessary monuments and marks thereon; provided, however, that the commission shall be liable for any injury or damage to property resulting therefrom.
(d)
The commission shall have such other duties and powers as set forth in the zoning regulations of the city.
(Code 1977, § 2-8053)
Secs. 19-29—19-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Charter reference— Boards, commissions, and authorities, § 3.11.
Cross reference— Boards, commissions and authorities generally, § 2-176 et seq.
State Law reference— Downtown development authorities, O.C.G.A. § 36-42-1 et seq.

Sec. 19-51. - Need established.
There is a need for a downtown development authority to function within the city.
State Law reference— Downtown development authority created, O.C.G.A. § 36-42-4; authority authorized to transact business upon adoption of resolution of need, O.C.G.A. § 36-42-5.
Sec. 19-52. - Downtown development area.
In accordance with law, the geographical area with the city to be designated as the "downtown development area" shall be all that property described on Exhibit A which is made a part of this article by reference thereto, and such area shall remain the downtown development area until further modified by subsequent resolution of the government body of the city.
(Code 1977, § 2-8084)
State Law reference— Designation of downtown development area required, O.C.G.A. § 36-42-5; alteration of downtown development area, O.C.G.A. § 36-42-6.
Sec. 19-53. - Approval restricted to certain bonds, notes, etc.
It will be the policy of the city to approve only those proposed issues of revenue bonds, notes or other obligations of the authority for existing locally owned and operated businesses or businesses having been engaged in business in the city for at least five (5) years for the purpose of modifying existing facilities or providing new facilities for the purpose of relocation of the existing business, the expansion of the existing business, or any improvement found to be used for the existing business to be consistent with this article.
(Code 1977, § 2-8083)
State Law reference— Authority to disapprove revenue bonds, etc., O.C.G.A. § 36-42-6.
Secs. 19-54—19-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Charter reference— Boards, commissions, and authorities, § 3.11.
Cross reference— Boards, commissions and authorities generally, § 2-191 et seq.
State Law reference— Urban Redevelopment Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-61-1 et seq.

Sec. 19-71. - Findings.
The city, recognizing the need for redevelopment and revitalization of economically blighted areas within the municipal boundaries, and that one or more slum areas exist within the city and that rehabilitation, conservation, or redevelopment, or a combination thereof, of such area or areas is necessary in the interest of the public health, safety, morals, or welfare of the residents of the municipality, desires to establish and create a redevelopment agency for the purposes of implementing tax increment financing, cooperation with the private sector, and for other related purposes as allowed by law.
(Code 1977, § 2-8100)
State Law reference— Required resolution, O.C.G.A. § 36-61-5.
Sec. 19-72. - Establishment and authorization.
The city determines that it is in the public interest and does elect to have its urban redevelopment powers, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 31-61-17(b), exercised by the urban redevelopment agency created by O.C.G.A. § 36-61-18. The agency shall be known as the "City of Warner Robins Redevelopment Agency."
(Code 1977, § 2-8101)
Sec. 19-73. - Composition.
This redevelopment agency shall consist of the six (6) elected members of the city council, who shall be voting members, and the mayor, who shall vote in the event of a tie. The redevelopment agency shall also be comprised of two (2) nonvoting members, the director of city development and the city attorney.
(Code 1977, § 2-8102)
State Law reference— Governing authority of urban redevelopment agency, O.C.G.A. § 36-61-18(b).
Sec. 19-74. - Powers.
The redevelopment agency shall exercise any powers expressly delegated or necessarily implied to carry out the purposes herein. Those powers expressly delegated to the redevelopment agency are particularly described in the O.C.G.A. § 36-61-17. The powers granted herein may be revoked, modified, or altered by subsequent resolution of the legislative body of the city, its successors or assigns.
(Code 1977, § 2-8103)
