ARTICLE XIX. - WRECKER SERVICE

Sec. 10-491. - Wrecker service article adopted.
The provisions of this article shall apply to the use of wrecker service vehicles within the city and shall be coordinated and enforced by the city police department.
(Ord. No. 49-17, § 1, 9-5-17; Ord. No. 34-18, § 1, 11-19-18)
Sec. 10-492. - Definitions.
Basic towing job shall include furnishing a wrecker and all work necessary to properly hook-up undamaged/damaged vehicles and clean vehicle debris from roadway immediately and tow to a designated storage area.
City shall mean the City of Warner Robins.
Heavy duty towing shall mean the towing of any single vehicle with more than six (6) wheels by a tow vehicle with a gross weight of at least thirty-two thousand (32,000) pounds.
Medium duty towing is towing by a vehicle with a gross weight of ten thousand (10,000)—thirty-one thousand nine hundred ninety-nine (31,999) pounds.
Light duty towing shall mean the towing of a vehicle with six (6) or fewer wheels by a vehicle with a gross weight of less than ten thousand (10,000) pounds.
Police department shall mean the Warner Robins Police Department.
Tractor trailer shall mean any tractor/trailer combo with ten (10) or more wheels.
(Ord. No. 49-17, § 1, 9-5-17; Ord. No. 34-18, § 2, 11-19-18)
Sec. 10-493. - Wrecker and towing equipment required.
(a)
Each wrecker company shall have in operating condition at all times a minimum of two (2) rollbacks, one (1) light-duty wrecker, and immediate access to a heavy wrecker.
(b)
Each wrecker will be required to carry a full complement of service items such as fire extinguishers, chains, blocks, skid chains, dollies, stop lights, flares, flashers, flood lights, hand tools, lock-out tools, shovels, wrecking bars, brooms, and any other tools needed for lighting, extricating, sighting of wrecked vehicle equipment, and removal from thoroughfares by towing or carting.
(c)
Each wrecker company must have two (2) rollbacks properly equipped to tow or transport any passenger type vehicle, one (1) light duty wrecker properly equipped to tow vehicles, lifting straps minimum one hundred (100) foot winch cable, no less than eight thousand (8,000) pound winch. One (1) medium duty wrecker properly equipped to tow medium duty trucks, properly equipped for towing and recovery operations.
(d)
All towing equipment used by the wrecker company must have stored on truck oil dry to be used to absorb oil or fluids spilled at accident sites.
(e)
The name of the wrecker company, address, phone number and GDOT registration numbers shall be permanently affixed to every wrecker vehicle. Use of magnetic or removable-type signs is prohibited.
(Ord. No. 49-17, § 1, 9-5-17; Ord. No. 34-18, § 3, 11-19-18)
Sec. 10-494. - Criminal background of drivers prohibited.
To be placed on the 'on-call' list, all wrecker company employees who drive wrecker vehicles must meet the following criteria:
• No felony convictions within the past ten (10) years;
• No pre-trial diversions or expungements or conviction in any court for a felony drug-related offense within the past ten (10) years;
• No pending criminal action in any court;
• No sufficient misdemeanor convictions to establish a pattern of disregard for the law;
• No family violence crime convictions or history of reported family violence incidents;
• No convictions of D.U.I. within the past five (5) years;
• No more than one (1) conviction of D.U.I. in lifetime;
• No more than two (2) moving violation convictions or at-fault motor vehicle accidents during the past twelve (12) months;
• No sufficient moving violations convictions to establish a pattern of disregard for the law;
• No serious traffic offenses including, but not limited to, fleeing or attempting to elude a police officer; vehicular homicide; failure to stop, render aid, or leave information; and racing.
It shall be the obligation of the wrecker company to secure permission from employees for the necessary background investigation to confirm compliance with this section.
(Ord. No. 49-17, § 1, 9-5-17)
Sec. 10-495. - Suspension.
Violation of any of the following may subject a participating company to removal from the on-call list:
• Failure to comply with any requirements of this article;
• Failure to provide roadway cleaning as required by O.C.G.A. § 40-6-276;
• Removal from the on-call list with Houston County;
• Failure to submit a tow sheet to the WRPD;
• Attempting to "jump calls" by responding when another company has been dispatched;
• Moving vehicles involved in an accident prior to the arrival of law enforcement;
• If operating as "backup" for another company, failure to take the vehicle to the on-call company's storage lot;
• Failure to hold a current occupation tax permit;
• Failure to provide a driver's history and criminal history for any person who will drive a wrecker to the police department by December 1 of each year to determine company eligibility for the following calendar year;
• Any other provision contained in this article.
The designee of the police department shall initially notify a company of a suspension. Such party may appeal the suspension to a five (5) member committee, the members of which shall be appointed by the mayor and council. The committee shall make a recommendation on the appeal to mayor and council, which shall have final authority.
(Ord. No. 49-17, § 1, 9-5-17; Ord. No. 34-18, § 4, 11-19-18)
Sec. 10-496. - Multiple ownership prohibited.
Each company must operate independently of any other, having its own office and storage lot. If multiple companies have identical ownership, only one (1) company can participate in the wrecker service program. For purposes of compliance with this section, the city may require disclosure of ownership, including ownership or participation in any corporate entity or partnership claiming ownership of a company.
(Ord. No. 49-17, § 1, 9-5-17; Ord. No. 34-18, § 5, 11-19-18)
Sec. 10-497. - Waiting list.
A waiting list will be maintained by the police department designee administering the wrecker service program. All wreckers owned, leased, and/or franchised by the same individual or business entity will be entitled to fill only one (1) position on the on call list. In the event a wrecker company sells, leases, or rents its name, franchise or equipment, the purchaser or lesser must meet all the requirements of this agreement and be approved by the police department in writing prior to being place on the on-call list.
(Ord. No. 49-17, § 1, 9-5-17; Ord. No. 34-18, § 6, 11-19-18)
Sec. 10-498. - Response to calls.
The wrecker company on call for the month will be called by the appropriate county 911 dispatch center. If called and the wrecker service is unable to respond within thirty (30) minutes, the company should notify the 911 dispatch center immediately. The wrecker service is prohibited from calling its own back-up wrecker if the wrecker service is unable to respond to the initial call. The 911 dispatch will contact the back-up wrecker listed for the on-call wrecker. Failure to respond to three (3) calls in one (1) calendar month will be considered as failure to respond appropriately and may result in suspension from the rotation list.
(Ord. No. 49-17, § 1, 9-5-17; Ord. No. 34-18, § 7, 11-19-18)
Sec. 10-499. - Solicitation of business prohibited.
Wreckers shall not respond to an accident scene unless so directed by the vehicle owner or an authorized agent of the police department. No wrecker service shall solicit business on the scene of an accident.
(Ord. No. 49-17, § 1, 9-5-17; Ord. No. 34-18, § 8, 11-19-18)
Sec. 10-500. - Compliance with all laws.
Wrecker companies will comply with all federal, state, and local laws and ordinances. It shall be the duty of the company to ascertain all applicable laws and changes.
(Ord. No. 49-17, § 1, 9-5-17; Ord. No. 34-18, § 9, 11-19-18)
Sec. 10-501. - Towing assignments.
The police department shall add wrecker companies to the on-call list. Wrecker companies will be assigned one (1) month and will be responsible for covering all tows during that month for the city.
In the event a wrecker company is removed or withdraws, the remaining companies will move up on the list. A new licensed wrecker company being added to the list will be assigned to the end of the rotation list.
(Ord. No. 49-17, § 1, 9-5-17; Ord. No. 34-18, § 10, 11-19-18)
Sec. 10-502. - Types of services required.
Services included under this agreement include furnishing appropriate labor force; owning and maintaining required equipment for extracting and removal of wrecked, disabled vehicles or equipment from the highway, roads, streets or other public thoroughfares or proximity thereof; and to tow or otherwise transport such vehicle or equipment to such locations as may be designated or to the wrecker company's impoundment lot.
(Ord. No. 49-17, § 1, 9-5-17; Ord. No. 34-18, § 11, 11-19-18)
Sec. 10-503. - Rates.
(a)
Charges for services. On-call wrecker companies may only charge rates set forth in item (h) below. Charges to the city for services requested on behalf of city departments will be billed at the basic rate. The city shall have no responsibility to collect any monies due wrecker companies from third parties.
(b)
Release of vehicle. Vehicle/equipment removed, towed and/or stored as a result of police-directed action will not be released to the owner except upon notification and approval of the police department or by court order.
(c)
Inventory at scene and company's responsibility for personal property. The wrecker company shall be responsible and liable for all vehicles and property hauled, towed, or stored under this agreement, including all equipment and contents thereof; and shall indemnify and hold harmless the city, its officers, agents, and employees, against all claims for damage to any vehicle and/or property hauled, towed or stored. The police department shall prepare an itemized inventory of property or clothing left in any vehicle placed in the on-call wrecker services care anytime a vehicle is impounded due to an arrest or is towed at the request of an officer due to being abandoned and/or a traffic hazard and the person or persons in charge of such vehicle are unable to provide for its custody or removal. Anytime persons responsible for a vehicle are involved in an accident and are unable to care for the vehicle and/or property (i.e., too impaired or due to an injury and are unable to make decisions as to who will be responsible for vehicle), the investigating officer shall complete an inventory form. There will be a case number attached to each inventory form. A copy of the inventory form will be given to the wrecker company at the time the vehicle is turned over to the wrecker company. The wrecker company will check the inventory form against the vehicle and its property at the scene and approve it by signature. The investigating officer shall retain the original copy of the inventory form and turn it in for entry into the records management system.
(d)
Hours of service. The wrecker company will maintain a twenty-four (24) hour/seven (7) day facility with equipment and sufficient labor force adequate to supply the demand of twenty-four-hour service each day of the on-call month they are assigned.
Wrecker companies are obligated to release impound vehicles between the hours of 8:00 am and 6:00 pm, on all days. The wrecker company will be required to release a vehicle to the vehicle owner or their authorized agent within one (1) hour after all requirements have been met for release (release form from police department and payment of all charges).
(e)
Storage of facilities. Each wrecker company will have a storage area with office on site for storage of towed vehicles or equipment for the convenience of the police department and citizens. Such storage area must be secured against free entry and in such a way as to give security of the vehicles entrusted in their care.
(1)
Each wrecker company will maintain operating office hours of 8:00 am—6:00 pm.
(2)
Each wrecker company must have a publicly-listed, twenty-four-hour phone number.
(f)
Removal of debris. Each wrecker will carry a broom and the wrecker driver or his assistant will be required to sweep up and remove broken glass or other debris when a vehicle is removed from the street. Removing of all debris from the street is part of the company's obligation. When directed by police to remove material from a street, which is part of a load being trucked over the thoroughfare, the wrecker company may remove or sub-contract out the removal of the material as directed at a fair rate.
(g)
Records. The wrecker company will keep complete records of vehicles/equipment removed, towed and/or stored. These records will be available for inspection by the police department. When billing the police department, a copy of the vehicle inventory sheet along with a tow sheet by the wrecker company must be submitted.
(h)
Rates. Subject to all the requirements, specifications, etc. of this invitation and resulting agreement of the following rates will apply:
(1)
Services of light duty wrecker for undamaged vehicles (to include motorcycles and motor scooters):
a.
Basic tow (one-half (½) hour of service or less) .....$85.00
b.
Unhooking drive shaft (if needed) .....$35.00
(2)
Services of light duty wrecker for damaged vehicles (to include motorcycles and motor scooters): .....
a.
Basic tow (one-half (½) hour of service or less) .....$150.00
b.
Unhooking drive shaft (if needed) .....$35.00
(3)
Service by heavy duty wrecker: .....
a.
First one-half (½) hour charge .....$250.00
b.
Tractor trailer .....$350.00
(4)
Each additional hour (prorated) .....$250.00
After-hours releasing .....$50.00
(5)
Administrative fees (maximum) .....$40.00
(i)
Storage of vehicle. .....
a.
Storage of passenger cars and pickup trucks per day .....$30.00
b.
Storage of tractor and trailer per day .....$35.00
c.
Inside storage per day .....$40.00
(j)
Impounded vehicles towed to police designated locations. All vehicles impounded by the police department and towed to police designated location for processing and afterwards towed to the wrecker company's storage area, shall be charged only one (1) basic towing fee. This fee will be paid by the police department at the basic tow charge.
(k)
Stolen vehicles. Recovered stolen vehicles will be released to the owner at the scene whenever possible. If processing is requested, the processing will be completed at the scene whenever possible prior to releasing the vehicle. If the owner cannot respond to the scene or cannot be contacted, the vehicle will be taken to the on-call wrecker storage yard. The vehicle owner will be responsible for the tow charges, storage and any mileage associated with the recovery of the vehicle.
Tow charges for a stolen vehicle will be paid for by the police department at the basic rate of eighty-five dollars ($85.00) if the on-duty supervisor determines the vehicle should be towed to the police department for further investigative purposes.
(l)
Vehicle involved in criminal activity. Tow charges for vehicles towed at the request of the police department, which are evidence in criminal acts or contain evidence of a crime, will be the responsibility of the police department. Charges may be billed at the basic rate.
(m)
Vehicles towed for condemnation. Tow charges for vehicles which have been seized for condemnation will be the responsibility of the police department. Tow charges will be paid when the condemnation process is completed and the vehicle becomes property of the police department. Charges may be billed at the basic rate.
(n)
Police department vehicles. All police department vehicles shall be towed at no cost to the city.
(o)
Code enforcement towing. Costs for the towing of vehicle by the city's code enforcement office shall be at the expense of the owner and the city shall not be responsible for collection of these charges or fees.
(p)
(1) Liability insurance. Wrecker companies must maintain liability insurance coverage issued by a company of sound and adequate financial responsibility in the following minimum amounts:
a.
Bodily injury (per person, per occurrence) .....$100,000.00
b.
Property damage (per accident) .....$300,000.00
(2)
Garage keeper's liability insurance. .....
a.
Bodily injury (per person, per occurrence) .....$100,000.00
b.
Property damage .....$300,000.00
Evidence of insurance coverage required under this article shall be filed with the city marshal or designee before a company is permitted to be added to the on-call list. Evidence of insurance shall be submitted to the city marshal or designee on or before December 1 of each year together with evidence of the state-required decal. Failure to maintain required insurance may result in suspension from the on-call list.
(q)
Response time. The on-call wrecker service must arrive at the requested location within thirty (30) minutes of notification by the police department or 911 dispatcher.
(Ord. No. 49-17, § 1, 9-5-17; Ord. No. 34-18, § 12, 11-19-18)
Secs. 10-504—10-520. - Reserved.
