ARTICLE II. - NATURAL GAS
DIVISION 1. - GAS DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM

Sec. 24-31. - Emergency powers.
The mayor, after consultation with appropriate department directors, shall be the authority to invoke provisions of this section when there is an imminent threat to the public well-being and immediate action is deemed necessary in the sole discretion of the mayor to protect the property, health or safety of the citizens of the city. In such event, the mayor shall be authorized to take such action as deemed necessary by him, including, but not limited to, use of water, or termination of natural gas flow, together with authority to order the city police department to enforce any such emergency provisions.
(Code 1977, § 5-1009)
Sec. 24-32. - Participation in emergency procedure plan of gas section of Georgia Municipal Association.
(a)
In the event that the city is called upon to furnish supplies, equipment, machinery and personnel to a neighboring city in distress, the mayor or his designee shall be authorized to furnish the requested equipment, machinery, supplies and personnel in his discretion without further approval of the city.
(b)
The city agrees to participate in the emergency procedures plan as sponsored by the gas section of the Georgia Municipal Association, and does hereby authorize the mayor or his designee to participate in the plan in behalf of the city.
(c)
The mayor or his designee is hereby requested to contact the liability insurance carrier of the city and to work out the necessary details to be sure that the liability insurance coverage will be in force on any equipment and machinery which may be furnished under this plan by the city, and he is further requested to take such other action as is necessary to protect any key personnel who may be furnished to a requesting city under the emergency plan.
(Code 1977, § 5-3005; Res. of 4-6-92)
Sec. 24-33. - Natural gas system emergency plan adopted.
The natural gas system emergency plan required by the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, a copy of which plan is on file with the city clerk, is hereby adopted as if set out at length herein.
(Code 1977, § 5-3006)
Sec. 24-34. - Maintenance and operation standards adopted.
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the city clerk, entitled Approved Standard Maintenance and Operating Procedures for the Natural Gas System in Accordance with Public Law 90-481, is hereby adopted and all the provisions of same are incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Code as though fully set out at length herein.
(Code 1977, § 9-1134)
Sec. 24-35. - Deposit required; tap-on fee; pilot lights.
(a)
Reserved.
(b)
Pilot lights.
(1)
Except as provided below, a six-dollar fee shall be charged for the initial lighting of a pilot light by city employees. Any lighting of additional pilot lights on the same service call shall require the payment of a two-dollar service fee per lighting.
(2)
The fees for lighting a pilot light shall not be required when gas service has been interrupted by the city due to emergency or normal gas line maintenance.
(3)
The fees for lighting pilot(s) shall not be required for new gas account customers.
(Code 1977, § 5-3001; Ord. No. 55-90, §§ 1, 2, 10-1-90; Ord. No. 55-91, § 8, 12-16-91; Ord. No. 37-10, § 2, 8-16-10)
Sec. 24-36. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 37-10, § 2, adopted Aug. 16, 2010, deleted § 24-36, which pertained to service charge and derived from Code 1977, § 5-3004.
Sec. 24-37. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ordinance No. 55-91, § 8, adopted 12-16-91 repealed in its entirety § 24-37, derived from Code 1977, § 5-3007, regarding piping of subdivisions and manufactured home parks for gas service. Said section has been reserved at the discretion of the editor.
Sec. 24-38. - Rates, fees and charges generally; meters.
(a)
Gas rates, fees and charges shall be classified in a reasonable manner to cover users of the services and facilities furnished by the gas system so that these rates, fees and charges shall be as nearly uniform in application to all users falling within any reasonable class as is practicable and no free services shall be furnished at any time from the gas system. All services shall be furnished in accordance with the rates now or hereafter established, including services furnished to any county, municipal corporation or other public body.
(b)
No gas service shall be furnished except through a meter or other appropriate measuring device.
(c)
For temporary natural gas service for a period not to exceed a period of three (3) days, a fee of forty-five dollars ($45.00) shall be charged.
(Code 1977, § 5-3002; Ord. No. 37-10, § 2, 8-16-10)
Sec. 24-39. - Gas rate schedule.
(a)
The gas rates shall be as fixed from time to time by the mayor and council and on file in the office of the city clerk.
(b)
The city's retail natural gas rates as adopted by reference in this section shall be increased or decreased one hundred (100) percent of the incremental increase or decrease in the wholesale rates for natural gas charged by the city's supplier, Southern Natural Gas Company.
(c)
Inasmuch as the city purchases natural gas on a two-part rate schedule, the incremental increase or decrease shall be the sum of the difference of the old and new demand charges divided by nine and fifteen-hundredths (9.15) plus the difference of the old and new commodity charges.
(d)
The application of this purchased gas adjustment shall be to the nearest whole cent per MCF (thousand cubic feet).
(e)
The monthly charge for each gas light shall be the amount fixed from time to time by the mayor and council and on file in the office of the city clerk and shall be increased or decreased as provided in this section.
(f)
The rate for large industrial customers shall not be subject to the other provisions of this Code section but shall be governed by this subsection:
(1)
Definitions. The following specific definitions shall apply:
a.
Large industrial consumer of natural gas means any customer of natural gas to be sold by the city with a consumption in excess of one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00) worth of natural gas per year.
b.
Decatherm means one million British thermal units.
c.
Load factor means the ratio, expressed as a decimal, of the annual peak day's use of natural gas to the annual average day's use of gas.
d.
Demand charge means the specific rate charged the city as defined in the tariff of the Southern Natural Gas Company.
e.
Commodity charge means the specific rate charged the city as defined in the tariff of the Southern Natural Gas Company.
(2)
Rates. The following rates shall be charged in the various classes of industrial service:
a.
Interruptible (subject to interruption or curtailment in whole or in part for any reason by the city): Currently effective commodity charge of the Southern Natural Gas Company expressed in decatherms multiplied by one hundred ten (110) percent, provided the interruptible consumer shall pay his ratable share (i.e., total charge apportioned between such large industrial consumers according to total use) of the authorized overrun gas (AO gas) as charged to the city by its supplier, Southern Natural Gas Company, in the month of billing.
b.
Firm rate (not subject to interruption by the city other than for force majeure or curtailment by the pipeline or for other reasons beyond the control of the city): Two dollars and twenty-six cents ($2.26) per decatherm delivered.
(3)
Changes in rates. At such time as the wholesale rate charged the city by the Southern Natural Gas Company is increased or decreased, the aforestated rates shall be increased or decreased in accordance with the following:
a.
The interruptible rate shall be as stated above by revised calculation of the newly effective commodity rate of the Southern Natural Gas Company.
b.
The firm rate shall be calculated at such time as the wholesale rate to the city changes by determining the average cost to the city of the new rate schedule of the Southern Natural Gas Company, utilizing a thirty (30) percent load factor, added to the sum of eighteen cents ($0.18) per decatherm, all converted to cost per decatherm.
c.
Payment of bills shall be as required by section 24-7 and nonpayment shall subject the user to the interest, penalties and termination of service set out therein.
(g)
Absent a contractual agreement between the city and an end user, the city's charge for transportation of natural gas will be two dollars ($2.00) per MMBTU. In addition to the transportation fee, the city shall have the right to charge any penalties or fees or additional costs imposed upon the city arising from such transportation of gas.
(Code 1977, § 5-3003; Ord. No. 53-05, § 2, 11-7-05)
Sec. 24-40. - Minimum usage for purchase of interruptible gas.
Only city customers who use an annual minimum of twelve thousand (12,000) MCF per meter will be eligible to purchase natural gas at the interruptible rate.
(Code 1977, § 5-3008)
Sec. 24-41. - Financial responsibility of interruptible customers.
As part of any contractual agreement between the city and a non-governmental industrial end user, the city shall demand adequate assurance of performance. "Adequate assurance of performance" shall mean sufficient security in the form, amount and for the term of any contractual agreements, including, but not limited to, a standby irrevocable letter of credit, a prepayment, a security interest in an asset or a payment bond or guaranty. Said "adequate assurance of performance" shall equal the cost of performing the maximum service requested by the end user for a minimum period of two (2) months at the then-current price of natural gas. Agreements of standby irrevocable letters of credit shall be made with an institution acceptable to the city and shall be renewable on an annual basis.
(Ord. No. 53-05, § 1, 11-7-05)
Secs. 24-42, 24-43. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MID-STATE ENERGY COMMISSION ACT

Sec. 24-44. - Title.
This may be cited as the "Mid-State Energy Commission Act."
(Ord. No. 36-20, § 1, 12-7-20)
Sec. 24-45. - Definitions.
Cities means, collectively, the City of Byron, Georgia, the City of Cochran, Georgia, the City of Hawkinsville, Georgia, the City of Perry, Georgia, and the City of Warner Robins, Georgia.
Commission means the mid-state energy commission created by section 24-47 of this Act.
JONG means Jointly Owned Natural Gas, a partnership created by written agreement between the City of Cochran, Georgia, the City of Hawkinsville, Georgia, the City of Perry, Georgia, and the City of Warner Robins, Georgia on or about January 15, 1953, as amended from time to time.
Project means all "undertakings" under the Revenue Bond Law, including without limitation, the acquisition and construction of all necessary and usual facilities for the obtaining of one (1) or more sources of natural gas supply and the distribution and sale of natural gas to users and consumers, including counties and municipalities for the purpose of resale, inside and outside the territorial boundaries of the cities and the operation, maintenance, additions, improvements, and extensions of such facilities so as to assure an adequate natural gas utility system deemed by the commission necessary or convenient for the efficient operation of such type of undertaking.
Revenue bonds and bonds, as used in this act, means revenue bonds as defined and provided for in O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 82, art. 3, known as the "Revenue Bond Law," as amended, and such type of obligations may be issued by the commission as authorized under the "Revenue Bond Law" and, in addition, shall also mean obligations of the commission, the issuance of which are hereinafter specifically provided for in this act.
Service area means any area within or without the cities, includes without limitation, the area served jointly by the cities or by JONG, and all other areas to the extent such areas are not currently served by another gas utility.
(Ord. No. 36-20, § 2, 12-7-20)
Sec. 24-46. - Purpose of commission.
Without limiting the generality of any provisions of this act, the general purpose of the commission is declared to be that of effecting efficient intergovernmental projects among the cities, including, without limitation, acquiring an adequate source or sources of natural gas and thereafter the distribution of same to the natural gas systems of current and future customers; but such general purpose shall not restrict the commission from selling and delivering natural gas directly to consumers in those areas where neither any county nor any municipality deems it desirable or feasible to furnish natural gas; nor shall it restrict the commission from selling and delivering natural gas to counties which do not adjoin the cities or to municipalities located therein. The commission is intended to replace JONG as its successor-in-interest.
(Ord. No. 36-20, § 3, 12-7-20)
Sec. 24-47. - Commission created; members; terms; eligibility; officers; quorum; compensation.
(a)
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the mid-state energy commission which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the state and a public corporation and by that name, style, and title, said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The commission shall be deemed a subordinate entity of each and all of the cities.
(b)
The commission shall consist of five (5) members who shall be determined and selected as follows:
(1)
One (1) member shall be the mayor or a person appointed by the mayor of the City of Byron, Georgia;
(2)
One (1) member shall be the mayor or a person appointed by the mayor of the City of Cochran, Georgia;
(3)
One (1) member shall be a person appointed by the city commission of the City of Hawkinsville, Georgia;
(4)
One (1) member shall be the mayor or a person appointed by the mayor of the City of Perry, Georgia;
(5)
One (1) member shall be the mayor or a person appointed by the mayor of the City of Warner Robins, Georgia.
(c)
The members shall serve at the pleasure of the respective appointing mayor or city commission and each mayor or city commission shall have the right and authority to remove any member from the commission and to appoint replacements as may be required to fill vacancies.
(d)
No person shall hold the office of commission member if that person is ineligible for such office pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 45-2-1 or any other general law.
(e)
The commission shall elect one (1) of its members as chairman and another as vice chairman. The commission may also select a secretary and treasurer, who need not necessarily be members of the commission. Three (3) members of the commission shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the commission shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the commission.
(f)
The members of the commission shall each be entitled to compensation for their services at a rate periodically reviewed and set by the commission, payable monthly. All such compensation payable by the commission shall be in addition to any compensation otherwise payable to any member of the commission by any municipality or county by virtue of any municipal or county elective office held by such member. All members shall be reimbursed for their actual expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties. No reimbursement or payment shall be made by the commission for travel, meal, or entertainment expenses for members of the commission unless on each occasion the incurring of such expenses for the same are approved in advance by the commission at one (1) of its public meetings. The commission shall have perpetual existence.
(Ord. No. 36-20, § 4, 12-7-20)
Sec. 24-48. - General powers.
(a)
The commission shall have all powers necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions of this article including, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure;
(2)
To acquire by purchase, lease or otherwise, and to hold, lease and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(3)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real property or rights of easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the commission, the commission being under no obligation to accept and pay for any property condemned under this act except from the funds provided under the commission of this act, and in any proceedings to condemn, such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the suit, action or proceedings as may be just to the commission and to the owners of the property to be condemned, and no property shall be acquired under the provisions of this act on which any lien or other incumbrance exists, unless at the time such property is so acquired a sufficient sum of money be deposited in trust to pay and redeem the fair value of such lien or incumbrance; and if the commission shall deem it expedient to construct any project on any other lands the title to which shall then be in the state, the governor is hereby authorized to convey, for and in behalf of the state title to such lands to the commission upon payment to the state treasurer for the credit of the general fund of the state of the reasonable value of such lands, such value to be determined by three (3) appraisers to be agreed upon by the governor and the chairman of the commission;
(4)
To appoint, select and employ, officers, agents and employees, including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and fix their respective compensations;
(5)
To make contracts, leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired, and any and all persons, firms and corporations and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions or agencies of the state are hereby authorized to enter into contracts, leases or agreements with the commission upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable; and without limiting the generality of the above, authority is specifically granted to municipal corporations and counties and to the commission to enter into contracts, lease agreements, or other undertakings relative to the furnishing of natural gas and related services and facilities by the commission to such municipal corporations and counties for a term not exceeding fifty (50) years, including, but not limited to, the operation and maintenance of natural gas systems owned by the cities;
(6)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate and manage projects, as hereinabove defined; the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the commission or from such proceeds and any grant from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(7)
To accept loans and/or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may impose;
(8)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(9)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the constitution and laws of this state; and
(10)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this act.
(Ord. No. 36-20, § 5, 12-7-20)
Sec. 24-49. - Conversion from JONG.
(a)
Without limiting the foregoing in any way, the commission shall have all the powers formerly delegated to JONG by the cities.
(b)
The cities hereby delegate to the commission all power to construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate and manage any real or personal property owned by JONG.
(c)
The cities shall prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the commission by intergovernmental agreement.
(Ord. No. 36-20, § 6, 12-7-20)
Sec. 24-50. - Rates, charges and revenues; use.
The commission is hereby authorized to prescribe and fix and collect rates, fees, tolls or charges, and to revise from time to time and collect such rates, fees, tolls or charges for the services, facilities or commodities furnished, and in anticipation of the collection of the revenues of such undertaking or project, to issue revenue bonds as herein provided to finance in whole or in part the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, betterment or extension of the natural gas utility system, and to pledge to the punctual payment of said bonds and interest thereon, all or any part of the revenues of such undertaking or project, including the revenues of improvements, betterments or extensions thereto thereafter made.
(Ord. No. 36-20, § 7, 12-7-20)
Sec. 24-51. - Tax exempt status.
The properties of the commission, both real and personal, are declared to be public properties used for the benefit and welfare of the people of the state, and not for purposes of private or corporate benefit and income, and such properties and the commission shall be exempt from all taxes and special assessments of any city, county, or the state or any political subdivision thereof.
(Ord. No. 36-20, § 8, 12-7-20)
Sec. 24-52. - Liberal construction of Act.
This Act, being for the welfare of various political subdivisions of the state and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to affect the purposes hereof.
(Ord. No. 36-20, § 9, 12-7-20)
Sec. 24-53. - Effect of partial invalidity of Act.
The provisions of this Act are severable, and if any of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions.
(Ord. No. 36-20, § 10, 12-7-20)
Sec. 24-54. - Authority of the commission; bond issuance.
The commission, or any commission or body which had or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties and liabilities vested in the commission created hereby, shall have power and is hereby authorized at one (1) time, or from time to time, to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds in a sum determined by the commission for each issuance and a total sum for cumulative issuances outstanding at any one (1) time of the commission for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as herein defined of any one (1) or more projects. The principal and interest of such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund herein provided for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates not exceeding the interest allowed by the Revenue Bond Law as now provided or may hereinafter be provided by amendment thereto, payable semi-annually, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding forty (40) years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the commission, and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the commission, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the commission in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds.
(Ord. No. 36-20, § 11, 12-7-20)
Sec. 24-55. - Reserved.
