Chapter 6 - COURTS
ARTICLE I. - SUPERIOR COURT

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 4031), page 322, regarding the superior court term for Turner County. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes have been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Sec. 1. - Terms of court in Tift, Irwin, Turner counties.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same, that from and after the passage of this Act the regular terms of the Superior Court, in Irwin County shall be two and shall be held on fourth Monday in March and September each year and continue for two weeks at each term if necessary to finish the business of said Court: That the June and September terms as now provided for on the third and fourth Mondays in June and third Monday in September of Tift Superior Court be changed to the first Monday and second Monday in June and first Monday in September, providing that the Courts of Tift County be held on first Monday in March, first and second Mondays in June; first Monday in September and first and second Monday in December, unless, in the discretion of the court it appears necessary to continue said court for a longer period for the purpose of finishing the business before the court; That the terms of court now provided for on the third Monday in April and October of Turner Superior Court be changed to the second Monday in April and the second Monday in October, which will fix the terms of Turner Superior Court to be held in the County of Turner on second Monday and third Mondays in January, second Monday in April and second and third Mondays in July, and the second Monday in October each year, unless in the discretion of the court it is necessary to continue longer to finish the business of said court. That the terms of Worth Superior Court remain as now provided, to wit: Fourth Monday in January, April, July and October, in each year.
Sec. 2. - Pending proceedings, jurors, witnesses, as affected by change of terms.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that all writs, bills, processes, orders, summons, subpoenas, bonds, and proceedings of every kind and character now pending in or returnable to said courts shall hold good and relate to terms of court as herein changed and fixed by this Act and all jurors and witnesses drawn or summoned to attend the terms of court heretofore provided, after the passage of this Act shall be held and considered as drawn and summoned to attend the court convening next after the passage of this Act, as herein fixed and prescribed.
Sec. 3. - Repeal.
Be it further enacted that all laws or parts of laws in conflict with this Act be and the same are hereby repealed.
ARTICLE II. - STATE COURT

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 485), page 4074, concerning the creation of a state court of Turner County. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes have been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Sec. 1. - Creation.
Effective July 1, 2002, there is created the State Court of Turner County which shall have the power, jurisdiction, and such rules of practice, pleading, procedure, evidence, execution and enforcement of judgments, appellate practice and procedure, and any other matters as provided by O.C.G.A. title 15 (O.C.G.A. § 15-7-1 et seq.).
Sec. 2. - Location; jurisdiction.
The State Court of Turner County shall be located in the county site of Turner County in facilities provided by the governing authority of Turner County and shall have territorial jurisdiction coextensive with the limits of said county.
Sec. 3. - Terms of court.
The State Court of Turner County shall have terms of court per year, which shall be held at the same exact times as for Turner County within the Tifton Judicial Circuit, in the county site of Turner County and such terms shall remain open for the transaction of business until the next succeeding term. If the date fixed for the convening of any term is a legal holiday, then that term shall begin on the next business day thereafter which is not a legal holiday. Said court shall at all times be open for the purpose of receiving pleas of guilty in criminal cases and passing sentence thereon and for the transaction of civil business before the court. The State Court of Turner County shall be entitled to use the Courtroom of the Turner County Courthouse and the court offices therein at all times not in conflict with the use of said facilities by the Superior Court of Turner County, Georgia.
Sec. 4. - Civil and criminal cases; traffic.
(a)
Any cases of a civil nature pending in the superior courts of the Tifton Judicial Circuit on July, 2002, or thereafter, of which the State Court of Turner County has jurisdiction may be transferred by the judge of the superior court to the State Court of Turner County by consent of counsel of all parties and consent of the judge of the State Court of Turner County and, having received all required consent, all parties shall thereafter stand for trial in said state court as though originally filed therein.
(b)
Any cases of a criminal nature pending in the superior courts of the Tifton Judicial Circuit on July 1, 2002, or thereafter, of which the State Court of Turner County has jurisdiction may be transferred by the judge of the superior court to the State Court of Turner County by consent of the district attorney of said circuit and by consent of the judge of the State Court of Turner County and, having received all required consent, all parties shall thereafter stand for trial in said state court as though originally filed therein.
(c)
The Probate Court of Turner County as of July 1, 2002 is divested of any jurisdiction over traffic cases in Turner County, Georgia. Any cases pending in the Probate Court of Turner County on July 1, 2002, or thereafter, of which the State Court of Turner County has jurisdiction and of which the probate court is divested of jurisdiction pursuant to this Act shall be immediately transferred by the judge of the probate court to the State Court of Turner County and all parties shall thereafter stand for trial in said state court as though originally filed therein.
Sec. 5. - Criminal prosecution; form.
All prosecutions in criminal cases instituted in the State Court of Turner County shall be by written accusation, uniform traffic citation, or summons as provided for by O.C.G.A. § 17-7-71.
Sec. 6. - Judge; election; terms.
There shall be a judge of the State Court of Turner County who shall be elected by the qualified voters of Turner County, Georgia, in a nonpartisan election to be held and conducted jointly with the general primary in 2004 and quadrennially thereafter in the manner provided by law for the election of judges of the state courts of this state, whereupon this state court judge thus elected shall serve a four-year term commencing January 1 of the next year after the election, and until such judge's successor is elected and qualified; provided, however, that the first judge of the State Court of Turner County shall be appointed by the Governor for a term of office beginning July 1, 2002, and ending December 31, 2004.
Sec. 7. - Qualifications and powers of judge.
The judge of the State Court of Turner County shall have such qualifications, shall be vested with all of the power and authority, and shall be subject to such restrictions and discipline as provided in O.C.G.A. title 15, ch. 7 (O.C.G.A. § 15-7-1 et seq.). The judge shall be authorized to adopt local rules not inconsistent with general laws on rules applicable to the superior courts.
Sec. 8. - Compensation of judge.
The judge shall be a part-time judge within the meaning of O.C.G.A. title 15, ch. 7 (O.C.G.A. § 15-7-1 et seq.) and shall be paid an annual salary equal to 40 percent of the salary now or hereafter paid to superior court judges. Said salary, which may also be supplemented by the governing authority of Turner County, shall be payable out of the funds of Turner County at the same intervals as installments are paid to other county employees. This amount of compensation shall be increased by multiplying said amounts by the percentage which equals 5 percent times the number of completed four-year terms of office served by any judge following December 31, 2004, effective the first day of January following the completion of each such period of service.
Sec. 9. - Facilities provided by county to judge.
The governing authority of Turner County shall furnish the judge of the State Court of Turner County suitable courtroom space and facilities, a copy of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated and annual supplements to the Code to keep it current, office space, office equipment, computer equipment and programs, supplies, educational expenses and travel expenses, secretarial expenses, and such personnel as may be considered necessary by the judge to the proper functioning of the court. All of the expenditures authorized herein are declared to be an expense of said court and payable out of the county treasury as such. Such expenses may be paid directly or reimbursed to the judge. In addition to such expenses, the judge shall be entitled to an annual expense allowance, payable in monthly installments, in an amount equal to the expense allowance provided for members of the General Assembly pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 45-7-4(a)(22)(C) and as may hereafter be provided.
Sec. 10. - Absence of judge.
In the event that the judge of the State Court of Turner County is unable to preside in court for any reason, is disqualified for any reason, or needs assistance for any reason then said judge may avail himself or herself of support as provided by O.C.G.A. title 15, chs. 1 and 7 (O.C.G.A. § 15-1-1 et seq. and § 15-7-1 et seq.) or may appoint a judge pro hac vice, who shall meet the same qualifications as said state court judge, to serve in his or her absence.
Sec. 11. - Solicitor-general; election; term.
There shall be a solicitor-general of the State Court of Turner County who shall be elected by the qualified voters of Turner County, Georgia, in a nonpartisan election to be held and conducted jointly with the general primary in 2004 and quadrennially thereafter in the manner provided by law for the election of solicitor-generals of the state courts of this state, whereupon this state court solicitor general thus elected shall serve a four-year term commencing January 1 of the next year after the election, and until such officer's successor is elected and qualified; provided, however, that the first solicitor-general shall be appointed by the Governor of the State of Georgia for a term of office beginning July 1, 2002, and ending December 31, 2004. The solicitor shall be subject to the same residency provisions as the judge of the State Court of Turner County.
Sec. 12. - Qualifications of solicitor-general.
The solicitor-general of said court shall have such qualifications, shall be vested with all of the power and authority and shall be subject to such restrictions and discipline as provided in O.C.G.A. tit. 15, ch. 18, art. 3 (O.C.G.A. § 15-18-60 et seq.).
Sec. 13. - Compensation of solicitor-general.
The solicitor-general shall be a part-time solicitor-general within the meaning of O.C.G.A. tit. 15, ch. 18 (O.C.G.A. § 15-18-1 et seq.), and he or she shall be paid an annual salary equal to 40 percent of the salary now or hereafter paid to district attorneys. Said salary, which may also be supplemented by the governing authority of Turner County, shall be payable out of the funds of Turner County at the same intervals as installments are paid to other county employees. The salary of said solicitor-general shall be an expense of said court and payable out of the county treasury as such. This amount of compensation shall be increased by multiplying said amounts by the percentage which equals 5 percent times the number of completed four-year terms of office served by any solicitor-general following December 31, 2004, effective the first day of January following the completion of each such period of service.
Sec. 14. - Facility provisions to solicitor-general.
The governing authority of Turner County shall furnish the solicitor-general of the State Court of Turner County suitable courtroom space and facilities, a copy of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated and annual supplements to the Code to keep it current, office space, office equipment, computer equipment and programs, materials, supplies, educational expenses and travel expenses, secretarial expenses, and such personnel as may be considered necessary by the judge to the proper functioning of the court. All of the expenditures authorized herein are declared to be an expense of said court and payable out of the county treasury as such. Such expenses may be paid directly or reimbursed to the solicitor. In addition to such expenses, the solicitor shall be entitled to an annual expense allowance, payable in monthly installments, in an amount equal to the expense allowance provided for members of the General Assembly pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 45-7-4(a)(22)(C) and as may hereafter be provided.
Sec. 15. - Clerk; compensation; authority.
The clerk of the Superior Court of Turner County shall be, by virtue of his or her office and authority bestowed by O.C.G.A. tit. 15, chs. 6 and 7 (O.C.G.A. §§ 15-6-1 et seq., 15-7-1 et seq.) the clerk of the State Court of Turner County and the sheriff of Turner County shall be, by virtue of his or her office and authority bestowed by O.C.G.A. tit. 15, ch. 16 (O.C.G.A. § 15-16-1 et seq.), the sheriff of said state court; and each shall, on behalf of the county and as an expense of court, receive compensation for services in said court as entitled to by O.C.G.A. tit. 15, chs. 6, 7 and 16 (O.C.G.A. §§ 15-6-1 et seq., 15-7-1 et seq., and 15-16-1 et seq.); provided, however, that the minimum such compensation for the clerk and the sheriff shall be $300.00 per month, which shall be in addition to any other supplement. The clerk of said state court shall have all authority bestowed upon him or her by O.C.G.A. tit. 15, chs. 6 and 7 (O.C.G.A. §§ 15-6-1 et seq.. and 15-7-1 et seq.). The clerk shall also supply all of the necessary personnel, equipment, supplies, and materials for the proper functioning of said state court, and the sheriff shall, likewise, do the same. All of the expenditures authorized herein are declared to be an expense of said court and payable out of the county treasury as such; provided, however, that the judge of the State Court of Turner County may appoint a person other than the clerk of superior court in lieu of the clerk of superior court by order of the court who shall have all the powers, duties, and compensation as if the clerk of superior court acted in said capacity.
Sec. 16. - Juries.
Juror matters will be dealt with as provided in O.C.G.A. tit. 15, ch. 7 (O.C.G.A. § 15-7-1 et seq.). In any case in which a jury trial is desired, a demand for a jury trial shall be filed. In addition, for the trial of any case in the Superior Court of Turner County or the State Court of Turner County requiring the use of jurors, a jury pool is created. Jurors may be selected as prescribed by law by either the judges of the Superior Court of Turner County or of the State Court of Turner County to appear to be sworn and serve as jurors before their respective courts only, unless the jurors arc drawn pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 15-12-130(b). When there are not sufficient contested jury cases, or there are no demands for a jury trial for cases pending in any term, the judge of the State Court of Turner County, in his or her own discretion, may omit the drawing of a jury for any term of said court; however, this will not prohibit said judge from having a nonjury calendar during any term of court at which said judge omits having jury cases.
Sec. 17. - Contracting municipal court services.
(a)
The governing authority of Turner County is authorized to contract with the governing authority of any municipality within Turner County for the county to furnish municipal court services to the municipality as authorized by O.C.G.A. tit. 15, ch. 7, art. 5 (O.C.G.A. § 15-7-80 et seq.); and the governing authorities of such municipalities are likewise authorized to enter into such contracts with the governing authority of Turner County.
(b)
Any contract entered into pursuant to this section shall provide that the county shall furnish municipal court services to the municipality through the officers, employees, and facilities of the state court of the county. Any contract may provide for an additional supplement to the salaries of the judge and the solicitor and reimbursement of costs to the county. Any contract so entered into shall not become effective unless it is approved by the state court judge then in office; and no such contract shall extend beyond the term of the judge then in office.
(c)
When acting as officers of the municipal court all judge and other officers of the state court shall be styled as judge and officers of the municipal court; and all pleadings, process, and papers of the municipal court shall be styled as such and not as pleadings, process, and papers of the state court. The dockets and other records of the municipal court shall be kept separately from those of the state court.
(d)
Any limitations upon the punishment which may be imposed for violations of municipal ordinances which are contained in the charter of the municipality shall continue to control in municipal courts operated under this article, and if no such limitation exists the maximum punishment imposed shall not exceed a fine of $1,000.00 or six months' imprisonment or both, unless some other general law authorizes greater punishment. Other charter provisions not in conflict with this section shall continue to apply in municipal courts operated under this Act.
Sec. 18. - Employment benefit package participation.
The judge of the State Court of Turner County, the solicitor general of the State Court of Turner County, and their office personnel shall be authorized to participate in any employment benefit package available to any other employees of Turner County, Georgia, upon such terms and conditions as applicable to other employees of Turner County, Georgia.
ARTICLE III. - SMALL CLAIMS COURT

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1981 Ga. Laws (Act No. 686), page 4393, creating and establishing a small claims court of Turner County. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes have been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Sec. 1. - Creation; jurisdiction; powers.
There is hereby created and established a Small Claims Court of Turner County. Such court shall have civil jurisdiction in cases at law in which the demand or damages claimed or value of the property involved does not exceed $1,000, said jurisdiction to be county-wide and to be concurrent with the jurisdiction of any other court or courts now or hereafter established in Turner County. Said jurisdiction shall include the power to issue writs of garnishment and attachment and, in addition to the powers herein specifically granted, also all the powers granted to justices of the peace by the laws of the State of Georgia, except the power to issue criminal warrants.
Sec. 2. - Appointment of judge; term; vacancy.
(a)
The judge of the small claims court in Turner County who is serving on the effective date of this Act shall serve until the expiration of his current term of office and until his successor is appointed and qualified under subsection (b).
(b)
Thereafter the Grand Jury in Turner County shall appoint a citizen of Turner County to be judge of the small claims court for a term of one year and until his successor is appointed and qualified. All vacancies in the office of judge shall be filled by appointment of a successor by the Grand Jury, and such successor shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
Sec. 3. - Absence of judge; substitution.
Whenever the Judge of the Small Claims Court shall be unable, from absence, sickness, or other cause, to discharge any duty whatever appertaining to his office, the judge of the superior court of Turner County or any judge of a State Court located in Turner County, on application of any party or the said judge of the Small Claims Court who is unable to act, shall perform such duties and hear and determine all such matters as may be submitted to him, and shall be substituted in all respects in the place and stead, and in the matter aforesaid, of the judge unable to act.
Sec. 4. - Clerk's duties may be performed by judge.
Any duties herein prescribed to be performed by the clerk may be performed by the judge, although the judge may appoint a person to act as clerk, said clerk to be compensated, if at all, from the fees herein authorized.
Sec. 5. - Fees as judge's remuneration.
All fees collected by the judge as herein authorized shall be retained by him as his sole remuneration.
Sec. 6. - Actions; procedures.
(a)
Actions shall be commenced by the filing of a statement of claim, including the last known address of the defendant, in concise form and free from technicalities. The plaintiff or his agent shall verify the statement of claim by oath, or affirmation in the form herein provided, or its equivalent, and shall affix his signature thereto. The judge or clerk may, at the request of any individual, prepare the statement of claim and other papers required to be filed in an action.
(b)
A copy of the verified statement of claim, together with a notice of hearing in the form hereinafter prescribed, shall be served on the defendant, and such service shall be sufficient to give the court jurisdiction in the premises. Service of said notice shall be made only in Turner County by any official or person authorized by law to serve process in circuit courts; or by registered mail or certified mail with return receipt; or by any person not a party to or otherwise interested in the suit, especially appointed by the judge for that purpose.
(c)
When notice is to be served by registered or certified mail, the clerk or the judge shall enclose a copy of the statement of claim, verification and notice in an envelope addressed to the defendant at his last known address, prepay the postage from monies collected for that purpose; and mail the same forthwith, noting on the record the date and hour of mailing. When a receipt therefor is returned, or if the sealed envelope in which said notice was mailed to the defendant by registered or certified mail is returned to sender by United States postal authorities marked "refused", giving the date of refusal, and such notation of refusal is signed or initialed by a United States Postal Service employee or United States mail carrier to whom refusal was made, then the clerk or judge shall attach the same to the original statement and notice of claim, or otherwise file it, as a part of the record in the case, and it shall be prima facie evidence of service upon the defendant.
(d)
When served by a private individual, as above provided, he shall make proof of service by affidavit showing the time and place of such service on the defendant.
(e)
When served as provided, the actual cost of service shall be taxable as costs. The cost of service shall be advanced by the party demanding same in addition to the filing fee hereinafter provided, and shall be taxed as other costs.
(f)
The plaintiff shall be entitled to judgment by default, without further proof, upon failure of the defendant to appear, when the claim of the plaintiff is for a liquidated amount; when the amount is unliquidated, plaintiff shall be required to present proof of this claim.
(g)
Said notice shall provide the day and hour of the hearing, which shall not be less than five nor more than fifteen days from the date of the service of said notice; provided, however, that where service is made by registered mail or certified mail the date of mailing shall be the date of service.
Sec. 7. - Docket.
A docket shall be maintained in which shall be indicated every proceeding and ruling had in each case.
Sec. 8. - Costs of proceedings.
The plaintiff when he files his claim, shall deposit with the court the sum of $20.00 which shall cover all costs of the proceeding up to and including the rendering of a judgment. In claim cases and illegalities, instituted by a third party after levy, the costs shall be $7.50, to be taxed at the discretion of the judge. Except as otherwise provided for herein, the costs and fees for said court be the same as provided for justices of the peace. If a party shall fail to pay accrued costs, the judge shall have power to deny said party the right to file any new case while such costs remain unpaid, and likewise to deny a litigant the right to proceed further in any case pending. The award of court costs, as between the parties, shall be according to the discretion of the judge and shall be taxed in the case at his discretion.
Sec. 9. - Claim affidavit and bond.
Whenever a claim affidavit and bond is filed by a third party claiming personal property that has been attached or levied upon under an attachment or execution issued from the Small Claims Court, the levying officer shall forthwith return the same to said court and, unless the claimant (at the time he files his claim affidavit) makes written demand for a jury trial, the issues raised by such claim affidavit shall be heard and determined by the judge of said Small Claims Court, and the judge shall be entitled to ten dollars ($10.00) for every such claim case. The same practice and procedure shall apply in cases of affidavits of illegality. The plaintiff in attachment or plaintiff in execution may make written demand for a trial by jury within five days after a claim affidavit and bond is filed with the levying officer. The party demanding such trial shall deposit with the court a sum sufficient to defray the expenses of such trial, including the summoning of prospective jurors and jury fees, the amount to be determined by the judge. The costs in such cases, including the costs of a jury trial, shall be finally taxed against the party cast in said proceeding.
Sec. 10. - Trials.
(a)
On that day set for the hearing, or such latter time as the judge may set, the trial shall be had. Immediately prior to the trial of any case, the judge shall make an earnest effort to settle the controversy by conciliation. If the judge fails to induce the parties to settle their differences without a trial, he shall proceed with the hearing on the merits.
(b)
The judge shall conduct the trial in such manner as to do substantial justice between the parties according to the rules of substantive law, and all rules and regulations relating to pleading, practice and procedure shall be liberally construed so as to administer justice.
(c)
If the plaintiff fails to appear, the suit may be dismissed for want of prosecution, or defendant may proceed to a trial on the merits, or the case may be continued as the judge may direct. If both parties fail to appear, the judge may continue the case, or order the same dismissed for want of prosecution, or make any other just and proper disposition thereof, as justice may require.
Sec. 11. - Claims against plaintiff.
If any defendant has any claim against the plaintiff, the judge may require a statement of setoff to be filed or same may be waived. If the plaintiff requires time to prepare his defense against such claim, the judge may continue the case for such purpose. If any defendant has any claim against the plaintiff which exceeds the jurisdiction of the court, he may use a part hereof to offset the claim of the plaintiff.
Sec. 12. - Inquiry into earnings and financial status.
When the judgment is to be rendered and the party against whom it is to be entered requests it, the judge shall inquire fully into the earnings and financial status of such party and shall have full discretionary power to stay the entry of judgment, and to stay executions, and to order partial payments in such amounts, over such periods, and upon such terms, as shall seem just under the circumstances as will ensure a definite and steady reduction of the judgment until it is finally and completely satisfied.
Sec. 13. - Rules for speedy procedure.
The Judge of the Superior Court presiding in Turner County may from time to time make rules for a simple, inexpensive, and speedy procedure to effectuate the purposes of this Act and shall have power to prescribe, modify and improve the forms to be used therein, from time to time, to ensure the proper administration of justice and to accomplish the purposes hereof.
Sec. 14. - Bailiffs.
The judge of such court shall have the power to appoint one or more bailiffs of and for said Small Claims Court, to act within and throughout the limits of Turner County, such bailiffs to serve at the pleasure of the judge and under his discretion, and a person so appointed shall be known and designated as "Small Claims Court Bailiff" and have the powers and authority, and be subject to the penalties, of all lawful constables of the State of Georgia, including the power to serve any and all processes and writs issued from or by said Small Claims Court, with power, also to make levies and conduct judicial sales, and account therefor, in the manner of lawful constables. All such bailiffs shall, within five days from their appointment as such, take and subscribe the oath of office as prescribed in section 24-804 [former O.C.G.A. § 15-17-8] and give the bond prescribed in section 24-811 [former O.C.G.A. § 15-17-9] and such bailiffs shall be subject to be ruled for failure of duty or malfeasance in office as are other lawful constables of this State.
Sec. 15. - Jury trials.
Jury trials may be had upon demand of the plaintiff at the time of the commencement of his suit or by the defendant within five days after service of notice of suit by depositing with the judge or his clerk such sum as the judge may fix as reasonable to secure payment of cost incurred by reason of a jury trial. Unless otherwise demanded such juries shall consist of six persons chosen from twelve veniremen, the plaintiff and defendant having three strikes each. The judge or clerk shall have the power to subpoena jurymen and witnesses.
Sec. 16. - Liens.
Judgments of Small Claims Court shall become a lien on the real estate and personal property of a defendant, situated in any county, from the time of the filing in the office of the Clerk of the Superior Court for said county, of an execution based upon such judgment and the entry thereof by the clerk in the general execution docket for said county.
Sec. 17. - Appeals.
Appeals may be had from judgments returned in a Small Claims Court, to the superior court, and the same provisions now provided for by law for appeals from probate courts to the superior court, shall be applicable to appeals from the Small Claims Court to the superior court.
Sec. 18. - Statement of claims, verification and notice; form.
Until otherwise provided by rules of court, the statement of claims, verification, and notice shall be in the following equivalent form, and shall be in lieu of any forms now employed andof any form of summons now provided by law:
Small Claims Court
EXPAND
_____
Address County, Georgia
____________
Plaintiff
_____
Address
vs.
____________
Defendant
  Statement of Claim
(Here the plaintiff, or at his request the court, will insert a statement of the plaintiff's claim, and the original to be filed with the court, may if action is on a contract, express or implied be verified by the plaintiff or his agent, as follows:)
EXPAND
State of Georgia
County of____________
____________ being first duly sworn on oath, says the foregoing is a just and true statement of the amount owing by defendant to plaintiff, exclusive of all setoffs and just grounds of defense.
_____
Plaintiff (or agent)
  Sworn and Subscribed before me this ____________day of____________/____________/____________, 20____________.
____________
Notary Public
Notice.
EXPAND
To  _____
Defendant
_____
Home Address
_____
Business Address
  You are hereby notified that ____________ has made a claim and is requesting judgment against you in the sum of____________ dollars (____________), as shown by the foregoing statement. The court will hold a hearing upon this claim on ____________/____________/____________ at ____________ M. at (address of Court).
You are required to be present at the hearing in order to avoid a judgment by default against you.
If you have witnesses, books, receipts, or other writings bearing on this claim, you should bring them with you at the time of hearing. If you wish to have witnesses summoned, see the court at once for assistance.
If you admit the claim, but desire additional time to pay, you must come to the hearing in person and state the circumstances to the court.
You may come with or without an attorney.
EXPAND
_____
Judge-Clerk of the Small Claims Court
  Sec. 19. - Validation of acts by judge or clerk.
All acts performed by the judge or clerk and all proceedings before the Small Claims Court of Turner County are hereby validated.
Sec. 20. - Judge's exemption from jury duty.
Each judge appointed under the provisions of this Act shall be exempt from jury duty of the superior court and the State court of Turner County.
Sec. 21. - Recordkeeping facilities furnished by board of commissioners.
All forms, docket books, file jackets, filing cabinets and the like, required by this Act shall be furnished by the county commissioners.
Sec. 22. - Dates to be set for hearings and trials.
Such Small Claims Court having no designated terms at stated periods, the judge thereof shall in each instance, set dates for all hearings and trials in every kind of case, and, also designate the times when attachments and executions are returnable and, also designate the time when each answer to a summons or garnishment shall be filed, but no garnishee may be required to file his answer sooner than ten days after he is served with summons. Whenever a garnishee shall fail to answer at the time so stated in the summons served upon him, unless the court in its discretion extends the time for filing, the judge may forthwith render judgment immediately and issue an execution against the garnishee in favor of the plaintiff for the amount previously adjudged to be due the plaintiff by the original defendant, and also for costs in the garnishment proceeding, but no judgment shall be rendered against a garnishee before a final judgment shall have first been rendered against the defendant.
Sec. 23. - Garnishments.
A summons of garnishment may be served by the sheriff or his deputies, or by a lawful constable, or by a Small Claims Court bailiff, or by the judge of the Small Claims Court; or it may be served by registered or certified mail, provided such service by mail is evidenced by a properly signed return receipt, which receipt shall be attached to the original garnishment affidavit, or to the writ of attachment; provided further, it shall be prima facie evidence of service on the garnishee if the sealed envelope in which said summons was mailed to the garnishee by registered or certified mail is returned to sender by United States postal authorities marked "refused", giving the date of refusal and be signed or initialed by the United States Postal Service employee or United States mail carrier to whom refusal was made. Whenever served in person by a court officer as aforesaid, such officer shall enter his return of service either on the back of the original garnishment affidavit or the attachment writ or on the back of a conformed copy of the original summons of garnishment which was given to garnishee, or such entry of service may be made on a separate paper and attached to the said garnishment affidavit or the writ of attachment, as the case may be.
Sec. 24. - Contempt of court.
The judge of a Small Claims Court shall have the power to impose fines of not more than ten dollars [$10.00] or imprison for not longer than twenty-four [24] hours any person guilty of contempt of court, such fines to be paid into the Turner County treasury or Turner County depository for county purposes.
Sec. 25. - Fees.
The fee of bailiff for the execution of a fi. fa. shall be $7.50 plus a reasonable amount for drayage to be determined by the Small Claims Court judge. The rate of commission on all judicial sales shall be ten percent (10%) on the first $250.00 and five percent (5%) on all sums over that amount, with a minimum of three dollars ($3.00).
Sec. 26. - Mesne and final processes; pending cases continued.
All mesne and final processes and all actions, suits, or cases which are pending in the small claims court in Turner County as it exists on the effective date of this Act shall be continued and shall be the same in the Small Claims Court of Turner County which is created by this Act.
Sec. 27. - Continuation of prior court.
It is the intent of the General Assembly of Georgia to create a Small Claims Court of Turner County. It is the further intent of the General Assembly that the court created by this Act shall be a continuation of the heretofore existing small claims court in Turner County as created by an Act approved April 12, 1971 (1971 Ga. Laws, page 4067), which court shall stand abolished by action of the General Assembly effective July 1, 1981.
Sec. 28. - Severability.
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Act shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases of this Act, which shall remain of full force and effect as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional were not originally a part hereof. The General Assembly hereby declares that it would have passed the remaining parts of this Act if it had known that such part or parts hereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
