Chapter 14 - ANIMALS
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 30; health and sanitation, ch. 38.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 14-1—14-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ANIMAL CONTROL

Sec. 14-31. - Purpose of article.
In order to protect the health and safety of persons and animals in the county, to improve and make for safe motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic, to control the incidence and spread of rabies, to prohibit abandonment and other forms of cruelty to animals, to promote the general welfare of the citizens of this county by providing specific regulations concerning the care and treatment of animals and providing for violations of those regulations, and to invest the authority to enforce those regulations, the board of commissioners hereby adopts this article, to be known and cited as the "Animal Control Ordinance."
(Ord. No. 2002-7-03, § 1, 7-16-2002)
Sec. 14-32. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Abandoned animal means any animal which shall have been placed upon public property or within a public building unattended and uncared for, or upon or within the private property of another without the express permission of the owner, custodian or tenant of the private property and is unattended or without care. An animal shall also be considered as abandoned, for the purposes of this article, which has been upon or within the property of the owner or custodian of this animal for a period of time in excess of 36 hours unattended and without proper food, water and shelter. Abandonment shall also include failure to provide reasonable remedy or relief for any injured or diseased animal.
Animal means as follows:
Domestic animals means animals that are accustomed to live in or about the habitation of humans, that are not found naturally in the wild state including, but not limited to, cats, cattle, dogs, fowl, goats, horses, swine, and various genetically established strains of laboratory/pet animals such as mice, rats, hamsters, gerbils, guinea pigs and rabbits.
Domestic/wild animals means an established strain of wild animal which is generally used in the fur or pet industry including, but not limited to, ranch mink, ferrets and brown and white skunks.
Feral animals means domestic animals which have reverted back to a wild state and do not exhibit traits consistent with their intended use.
Native wildlife animals means a nondomesticated animal which is normally found in the natural state within the confines of the state.
Nonnative or exotic wildlife animals means a nondomesticated animal which is not normally found in the natural state within the confines of the state.
Animal control officer means any person designated by the board of commissioners, by and through the county sheriff's department, to aid in the enforcement of the provisions of this article.
Animal shelter or pound means the facilities designated by the board of commissioners, by and through the county sheriff's department, for confining animals impounded or surrendered under the provisions of this article.
Animal under restraint means:
(1)
Any animal secured by a leash or lead with a collar, or enclosed by way of a fence or other enclosure, or under supervision of a responsible and competent person at least 16 years of age, and obedient to the person's commands;
(2)
A dog being trained or hunted in conformance with the game laws of the state or those dogs considered to be work animals.
Certificate means a certificate or document issued at the time of vaccination for rabies of a dog or cat and bearing thereon the signature of the vaccinator, the vaccination tag number, the name, color, breed and sex of the dog or cat, the name and address of the owner, and the date of the vaccination.
Current vaccination tag means a metal tag issued by the state department of human resources, or other state agency, which bears a number showing that it is current for a one-year up to three-year period for immunization of rabies.
Dangerous animal means an animal whose owner knows or reasonably should know presents a danger to humans or other animals because:
(1)
It has, without provocation, bitten or attacked a person or another animal in the past;
(2)
It has exhibited threatening or vicious conduct or propensities toward humans or other animals; or
(3)
Qualifies as a "dangerous dog" as that term is defined at O.C.G.A. § 4-8-21(a)(1).
Fence means a structure of wire, wood, stone, or other materials which is of sufficient height and strength to act as a barrier against passage of the animal it is intended to enclose. The term "fence" also includes so-called "invisible fence" systems which provide an electric shock which prevents an animal from leaving the property of its owner, provided that the animal is a dog which is neither dangerous or in estrus. Dogs which are dangerous or potentially dangerous shall be restrained in an enclosure which not only restrains the animal from leaving the owner's property, but also protects persons who may come onto the property from harm. Female dogs in estrus (in heat, in season) shall be confined in a conventional enclosure or otherwise restrained in a way which prevents breeding not intended by the owner.
Guard dog means any dog which has been trained to attack persons or other animals independently or upon oral command and any dog which while not so trained, is reasonably expected to perform as a guardian of the property upon and/or within which it is located.
Humane manner means to provide care for an animal to include, but not necessarily limited to, adequate heat, ventilation and sanitary shelter or manner of restraint, wholesome food and water consistent with the normal requirements and feeding habits of the animal's size, species and breed; also providing of necessary veterinary medical care to insure reasonable thriftiness and relief from undue pain or suffering.
Inhumane manner means the failure to provide humane care and shall also mean restraining an animal by affixing to its collar or otherwise attaching to its body a chain, rope, cord, or other lead which is attached to the ground or a fixed object and which is not of sufficient length to allow the animal access to food and water or to move about freely in an area of reasonable size considering the size and nature of the animal.
Nuisance animal means any animal which:
(1)
Is dangerous;
(2)
Causes unsanitary conditions;
(3)
Attacks passersby or passing vehicles;
(4)
Is found repeatedly at large and not under restraint;
(5)
Damages property of others;
(6)
Excessively produces disturbing noises;
(7)
Female dog while in estrus (in heat, in season) not restrained in a manner which can reasonably be expected to keep away or not attract male dogs; or
(8)
Is inimical to the public health, welfare or safety according to the rules and regulations promulgated by the county board of health which rules and regulations are incorporated in this section and made a part of this article as if fully set out in this article.
Owner means any person owning, keeping, harboring or acting as custodian of an animal for a period of 72 hours or more.
Potentially dangerous dog means any dog that, without provocation, bites a human being on public or private property at any time after March 31, 1989.
Vaccinate means the proper administration, by a licensed veterinarian, of a specified dose of anti-rabidic vaccine into a dog or cat, such vaccine having the U.S. government license number approval stamped on the label of the vaccine container and having been approved by the state department of human resources, or other state agency.
Veterinarian means any person who holds a license to practice the profession of veterinary medicine in the state.
(Ord. No. 2002-7-03, § 3, 7-16-2002)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 14-33. - Under sheriff's department.
The animal control department shall be under the direction of the board of commissioners, by and through the county sheriff's department. The sheriff and deputy sheriffs of the county shall be charged with the responsibility of enforcing this article.
(Ord. No. 2002-7-03, § 2, 7-16-2002)
Sec. 14-34. - Authority of county to contract for services.
(a)
The county board of commissioners may enter into a contractual agreement with any municipality within the county to provide animal control services to the county including, but not limited to, utilization of any such municipality's animal control officer and such municipality's animal shelter in regard to the taking possession and impounding of any dog or animal under this article.
(b)
Further, the board of commissioners may enter into a contractual agreement with any municipality within the county to provide animal control services to such municipality, and any such contractual agreement shall require the municipality to adopt and have in full force and effect an animal control ordinance which shall be substantially identical to this article.
(Ord. No. 2002-7-03, § 4, 7-16-2002)
Sec. 14-35. - Running at large of animals.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to allow it to run at large unattended on or about the streets and highways of the unincorporated areas of the county or on the property of another without the property owner's consent.
(Ord. No. 2002-7-03, § 5, 7-16-2002)
Sec. 14-36. - Owner's duty to restrain animals.
(a)
It shall be the duty of any animal owner to restrain his animal in such a way as to prevent the animal from having access to the property of another person without the permission of that person. An animal may leave the property of the animal owner when accompanied by the animal owner, but the animal owner must have control over the animal and must prevent the animal from having access to the property of another person without the permission of that person, or from attacking, threatening or harassing other persons.
(b)
It shall be the further duty of any animal owner to restrain his animal in such a manner as to prevent the animal from attacking, threatening, or harassing any person on the public right-of-way of the roads, streets, highways and sidewalks in the unincorporated areas of the county.
(c)
Hunting dogs: Hunting dogs in the custody of persons hunting in accordance with state game and fish department laws, rules and regulations, are exempt from the mandates of this section and section 14-35
(Ord. No. 2002-7-03, § 6, 7-16-2002)
Sec. 14-37. - Nuisances.
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit an animal under his ownership, possession, control or care to be a nuisance animal at any time within the unincorporated areas of the county as defined in section 14-32.
(Ord. No. 2002-7-03, § 7, 7-16-2002)
Sec. 14-38. - Abandonment of animals.
It shall be unlawful for anyone to knowingly abandon any domesticated animal within the unincorporated areas of the county. Each person who does abandon knowingly, or willingly permits such abandonment, or aids in the abandonment of any domesticated animal shall be in violation of this article.
(Ord. No. 2002-7-03, § 8, 7-16-2002)
State law reference— Abandonment of animals, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-15.1.
Sec. 14-39. - Collar and tag required; dogs or cats.
It shall be the duty of each dog or cat owner, possessor, or custodian thereof, to provide a collar for their dog or cat to which a current rabies vaccination tag shall be attached along with a tag indicating the name and current address and telephone number of such owner, possessor or custodian. The collar, together with both tags, shall be worn by the dog or cat at all times, except as provided in this article. Failure to comply with this section shall be unlawful and shall be punished as provided in this article.
(Ord. No. 2002-7-03, § 9, 7-16-2002)
State law reference— Inoculation of canines and felines against rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-5.
Sec. 14-40. - Enforcement of article provisions.
Enforcement of this article shall be carried out substantially as follows:
(1)
The primary responsibility for the enforcement of this chapter shall be vested in the board of commissioners, by and through the county sheriff's department.
(2)
Upon information made known to, or complaint lodged with, the sheriff or a deputy sheriff, that any owner, possessor or custodian of any dog or animal is in violation of this article, the sheriff or a deputy sheriff shall investigate such information or complaint and issue citations if warranted. The sheriff or deputy sheriff shall not be required to respond to anonymous complaints.
(3)
If an owner, possessor or custodian of any dog or animal is not known and a dog or animal is upon the public streets, alleys, sidewalks, school grounds or other public places or premises, or upon the property of another without that property owner's permission, upon complaint made to or information made known to the sheriff's department, it shall be the duty of the sheriff or his deputies to immediately make provisions so that possession of this dog or animal is taken, and it is impounded as provided in section 14-41
(Ord. No. 2002-7-03, § 10, 7-16-2002)
Sec. 14-41. - Impoundment.
The county sheriff's department is hereby authorized to provide for the impounding of any dangerous dog or guard dog not confined, chained or muzzled, as provided in this article; any female dog while in estrus (in heat, in season) not restrained within an enclosure, which can reasonably be expected to keep away or not attract male dogs; any animal not wearing the rabies inoculation tag required by the state statutes; and any animal deemed to be a nuisance in the county. The animal shall be confined in the animal shelter or handled as otherwise provided in this article.
(Ord. No. 2002-7-03, § 11, 7-16-2002)
Sec. 14-42. - Notice to owners of impounded animals.
(a)
Upon providing for the impounding of any dog or other animal, the board of commissioners, by and through the county sheriff's department or its authorized representative shall cause to be made a prompt and reasonable effort to locate the animal's owner, possessor or custodian. Upon location thereof, notification of impounding shall be sent to this owner, possessor or custodian. For the purpose of this section, it shall be deemed sufficient notice if a notification of impounding is sent by certified mail to the owner named on the most recent rabies certificate on file at the address indicated thereon within three business days.
(b)
If the dog or animal is not claimed by the owner, possessor or custodian thereof within the time specified, or if the impounded dog or animal is not wearing a rabies tag or a tag identifying the name, address and telephone number of the owner, possessor or custodian, then the sheriff or his authorized representative may request the magistrate court judge to order disposal of the dog or animal. Animals deemed in pain and suffering or to be diseased with contagious pathogens may be sacrificed expeditiously.
(Ord. No. 2002-7-03, § 12, 7-16-2002)
Sec. 14-43. - Fees.
(a)
Fees for reclaiming impounded animals shall be as follows:
(1)
Vaccinated dogs or cats:
EXPAND
a. First offense $25.00
b. Second offense  50.00
c. Third offense (To be determined by court)
d. Subsequent offense (To be determined by court)
  (2)
Unvaccinated dogs or cats:
EXPAND
a. First offense $ 50.00
b. Second offense 200.00
c. Third offense (To be determined by court)
d. Subsequent offense (To be determined by court)
  (3)
Rabbits, poultry and birds:
Each offense .....$25.00
(4)
Other animals, each offense .....50.00
(5)
Animals impounded for rabies quarantine or for use as evidence in a criminal prosecution, per day .....15.00
(6)
In addition to the foregoing fees the per day board for each day the animal is impounded in the animal shelter .....10.00
(b)
Payment of an adoption fee and any vaccination, licensing or veterinary costs shall be as follows:
EXPAND
(1) Adoption fee $25.00 less than six months old
$75.00 sexually mature
(2) Rabies vaccination fee $10.00
  (Ord. No. 2002-7-03, § 13(h), (i), 7-16-2002)
Sec. 14-44. - Vaccination and licensing of dogs and cats.
The owner or possessor of each dog or cat over four months of age kept, maintained or harbored within the county shall apply for and obtain a rabies tag for such dog or cat which shall be affixed to a collar worn by such dog or cat at all times.
(Ord. No. 2002-7-03, § 15, 7-16-2002)
State law reference— Inoculation of animals, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-6.
Sec. 14-45. - Rabies cases to be reported.
It shall be the duty of any person knowing of a rabid animal or of an animal showing rabid symptoms, to immediately report such animal to either the sheriff's department or to the county health department and give as much pertinent information as possible.
(Ord. No. 2002-7-03, § 16, 7-16-2002)
State law reference— Authority to control rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1 et seq.
Sec. 14-46. - Injunctions and claims for damage.
No injunction or claim for damage may be filed against the county, its officers and employees, or the sheriff's department and its employees for alleged wrongdoing arising from the enforcement of this article except upon court order after due notice and proper hearing.
(Ord. No. 2002-7-03, § 17, 7-16-2002)
Sec. 14-47. - Unlawful acts.
It shall be unlawful for any person to do any of the following acts:
(1)
Abandon any animal;
(2)
Fail to keep an animal which has been deemed to be a nuisance animal under restraint;
(3)
Fail to provide a collar and display on the collar of any dog or cat a current vaccination tag and a tag indicating the name and current address and telephone number of the owner, possessor or custodian of such animal;
(4)
Fail to provide care for an animal in a humane manner;
(5)
Allow any animal to become a public nuisance;
(6)
Fail to have any dog or cat vaccinated against rabies;
(7)
Treat any animal in an inhumane manner; or
(8)
Maintain, keep or harbor any dangerous animal except in compliance with O.C.G.A. § 4-8-25.
(Ord. No. 2002-7-03, § 18, 7-16-2002)
Sec. 14-48. - Prosecution and penalties.
(a)
Any violation of this article may be prosecuted upon citation without a prosecuting attorney.
(b)
The county sheriff and his deputies are authorized to issue citations for violations of this article. The original of the citation shall be filed with the court, and a copy shall be personally served upon the accused.
(c)
Each citation shall state the time and place at which the accused is to appear for trial, shall identify the offense with which the accused is charged, shall have an identifying number by which it may be filed with the court, shall indicate the identity of the accused and the date of service, and shall be signed by the officer who completes and serves it.
(d)
No person shall be arrested prior to the time of trial.
(e)
Any person failing to appear at trial as ordered shall be arrested upon a warrant of the county magistrate court and shall be required to post a cash bond as ordered by such court to ensure their future appearance in the court.
(f)
Any person convicted of a violation of this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-7
(g)
Any animal impounded in the animal shelter shall not be released until the owner of such animal has paid all fees and charges assessed, and until the owner has prepaid for a rabies tag as required by state law and by county health department rules.
(Ord. No. 2002-7-03, § 13, 7-16-2002)
