Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE I. - COUNTY CREATED; BOUNDARIES

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1905 Ga. Laws (Act No. 75), page 63, which provided for the creation of Turner County, Georgia. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes have been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Sec. 1. - New county from Irwin, Wilcox, Dooly and Worth.
The General Assembly of the State of Georgia do hereby enact, That from and after the first day of January, 1906, a new county shall be, and the same is, hereby laid off and organized from the counties of Irwin, Wilcox, Dooly and Worth.
Sec. 2. - Named Turner and attached to Second Congressional District and Albany Circuit.
Be it further enacted, That said new county shall be named and called "Turner," and it shall be attached to the second congressional district, and to the Albany judicial circuit.
Sec. 3. - Territory.
Be it further enacted, That the said county of Turner shall be included within the following boundaries: Beginning at a point where the lot line between lots of land Nos. 24 and 69 in the 6th land district of Worth county intersects with the present line between Worth and Irwin counties in Little river; thence west along the south line of said lot No. 24 to the southwest corner thereof, this corner being on the original district line between the 6th and 7th land districts of Worth county; thence south along the said original district line to the center of Daniel's Creek, cornering at the junction of the said district line and the said creek; thence up the said creek to the original district line between the second and seventh land districts of Worth county (the main run of the said creek forming the line for this distance); thence west along the said original district line between the second and seventh land districts and between the sixteenth and seventh land districts of Worth county to the southwest corner of lot of land No. 209, in the 16th land district of Worth county; thence north along the original land line through the 16th and 14th land district of Worth county to where the same intersects with the present line between Worth and Dooly counties in Swift creek on the line between lots of land Nos. 205 and 206 in the 14th land district of Worth county; thence in a northwesterly direction down Swift creek to the south line of lot of land No. 180, the greater part of which lot is in the 14th land district of Dooly county; thence due east along the original land line through the 14th and 13th land districts of Dooly county to a point where lots of land Nos. 192 and 193 in the 13th land district of Dooly county corner on the present boundary line between the county of Dooly and the county of Wilcox; thence along the county line between Dooly and Wilcox due north to the northwest corner of lot of land No. 307 in the 12th land district of Wilcox county; thence due east along the original land line in the 12th land district of Wilcox county to the northeast corner of lot of land No. 301 in the said district, and then beginning at the northwest corner of lot of land No. 254 in the second land district of Wilcox county and running due east along the original land line, which is also the district line, to a point in the Allapaha river where it crosses the land line dividing land lot No. 5 in the first land district from land lot No. 258 in the 2nd land district of Wilcox county; thence in a southeasterly direction along the Allapaha river to the original land line between lots of land Nos. 105 and 76 in the 3rd land district of Irwin county; and thence due west along the said original land line in the said third land district of Irwin county to the southwest corner of lot of land No. 121 in the second land district of Irwin county; thence due south along the land line to the southeast corner of lot of land No. 33 in the 6th land district of Irwin county; thence west along the original land line to the starting point.
Sec. 4. - Ashburn county site.
Be it further enacted, That the county site of said county of Turner shall be the city of Ashburn, which is located near the center of said county.
Sec. 5. - Election of officers for.
Be it further enacted, That those voters within said new county who are qualified to vote for members of the General Assembly under the registration and election laws now of force in this State shall on the first Wednesday in December, 1905, proceed in accordance with the election laws of force to elect for said county all the county officers authorized by the Constitution of this State. Said election shall be held at Ashburn, the county site.
Sec. 6. - Holding of superior court.
Be it further enacted, That the superior court of said new county of "Turner" shall be held on the second Monday in March and September of each year.
Sec. 7. - Repealing clause.
Be it further enacted, That all laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act be, and the same are, hereby repealed.
Approved August 18, 1905.
