Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance authorizing or approving any contract, deed, or agreement saved from repeal, § 1-11(2); administration of house and building numbering, § 18-36; courts, ch. 22; administration of flood damage prevention, § 34-61 et seq.; planning, ch. 50; taxation, ch. 62; administration, enforcement, and penalties of zoning, app. A, § 12-1 et seq.
Related law reference—Administration, part I, chapter 2.
State Law reference— County government generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-1 et seq.; home rule for counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Records management.
(a)
Clerk's responsibility. The county clerk is responsible for the administration of the records management program and is designated as the county records management officer. The clerk will act for and in behalf of the county in directing and coordinating all records management matters.
(b)
Records committee; creation; duties. There is hereby created a records committee consisting of four members to include the chairman of county commissioners, the records management officer and two others appointed by the board. It is the duty of the records committee to review and recommend approval of records retention schedules to the state records committee. Records retention schedules will be based on a review of the administrative, legal, fiscal and historical values of the records. The records management officer shall serve as chairman of the records committee. Retention schedules will be implemented following final approval by the county commissioners.
(c)
Archival depository. The state archives will serve as an archival depository for records determined to have permanent value.
(d)
Centralized record center. A centralized records center shall be established, and all records not required for day-to-day office operation shall be transferred to the records center until destroyed in accordance with the approved retention schedule.
(e)
Alteration or destruction of records. No record shall be altered or destroyed except in accordance with the approved retention schedule.
(Res. No. 83-003, 12-6-1983)
State law reference— Records management program for local government, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-99.
Secs. 2-2—2-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

Secs. 2-31—2-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Zoning board of appeals, app. A, § 13-1 et seq.
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-61—2-80. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PLANNING ADVISORY COMMISSION

Sec. 2-81. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Planning advisory commission means the Greater Turner Planning Advisory Commission
(Ord. No. 97-08-01, 8-5-1997)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 2-82. - Created and established.
In order to guide and accomplish a coordinated and harmonious development of the county and the cities of Ashburn, Rebecca and Sycamore which will, in accordance with existing and future needs found in adopted and amended comprehensive plans, best promote public health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity and the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development, that the Greater Turner Planning Advisory Commission, hereafter referred to as the "planning advisory commission," is hereby created and established, and such planning advisory commission shall be organized and empowered as described in this division.
(Ord. No. 97-08-01, 8-5-1997)
Sec. 2-83. - Membership.
(a)
The planning advisory commission shall consist of 12 members. The City of Ashburn and the county commission shall each select five members; and the cities of Rebecca and Sycamore shall each select one member. The members shall serve for four-year staggered terms.
(b)
Any vacancy in membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by the unit of government which shall also have the authority to remove any appointed member for cause, on written charges, after a public hearing. All members shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their official duties.
(Ord. No. 97-08-01, § 1, 8-5-1997)
Sec. 2-84. - Organization, rules, staff, and finances.
The planning advisory commission shall elect its chairman and vice-chairman from among its members. The term of the chairman and vice-chairman shall be one year with eligibility for reelection. The planning advisory commission shall appoint a secretary who may be an officer or employee of the city or the county. The planning advisory commission shall adopt its own rules of procedure and determine its time of meeting. All meetings of the planning advisory commission shall be open to the public and all records of the planning advisory commission shall be a public record. The planning advisory commission may appoint such employees and staff as it may deem necessary for its work and may contract with public or private consultants for such services as it may require. The expenditures of the planning advisory commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for the purposes by the governing authorities of the cities and the county.
(Ord. No. 97-08-01, § 2, 8-5-1997)
State law reference— Open meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-85. - Powers and duties.
From and after the time when the planning advisory commission shall have been organized and selected its officers, and shall have adopted its rules of procedure, then the planning advisory commission shall function only in an advisory capacity to each of the respective governing authorities and perform such additional functions and services for and on behalf of each governmental entity as shall be authorized or directed from time to time by the governing authority thereof. The planning advisory commission duties and responsibilities shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1)
To research, review, conduct hearings and make recommendations to the board of commissioners and the city councils on updates and amendments to the 2025 Greater Turner Comprehensive Plan.
(2)
To work with various public and private organizations and agencies engaged in or interested in planning and development activities so as to provide leadership in identifying and implementing city/county goals and policies for planning and development.
(3)
To advise member units of government on environmental, public health, safety and general welfare matters which may include the adoption of land development regulations and an enforcement program.
(Ord. No. 97-08-01, § 3, 8-5-1997; Res. No. 2005-03-01, 3-10-2005)
Secs. 2-86—2-110. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - TURNER-COOK-TIFT AND WORTH COUNTIES JOINT DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Development authorities, creation and administration, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-111. - Necessity determined.
The operation of a joint development authority under the Development Authorities Law (O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.) is necessary for the public good and general welfare of Turner, Cook, Tift and Worth Counties, and will promote the general welfare of the state.
(Ord. No. 97-02-01, 2-4-1997)
Sec. 2-112. - Public interest and welfare established.
It has been determined by the county board that it is in the public interest and is vital to the public welfare of the people of Turner County, Cook County, Tift County, Worth County and the state to promote trade, commerce, industry and employment opportunities for the public good and general welfare of Turner County, Cook County, Tift County, and Worth Counties and to promote the general welfare of the state so as to develop and promote for the public good and general welfare, trade, commerce, industry and employment opportunities in Turner County and Cook, Tift, and Worth Counties. ;hn0; (Ord. No. 97-02-01, 2-4-1997)
Sec. 2-113. - Present and future need; determined and declared.
There is determined and declared to be a present and future need of the joint authority (as more fully described and defined in the Development Authorities Law (O.C.G.A. § 36-62-5.1) to function within Turner, Cook, Tift and Worth Counties.
(Ord. No. 97-02-01, 2-4-1997)
Sec. 2-114. - Creation.
The "Tift-Turner-Worth-Cook Joint Development Authority" is hereby created with concurrent adoption of each member's board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 97-02-01, 2-4-1997)
Sec. 2-115. - Membership.
The members of the board of directors of the joint authority shall consist of 12 members, the number of members shall be divided equally between the participating counties, and such members for each county shall be appointed by action of the respective boards of commissioners of such counties. Members shall serve four-year terms in accordance with the bylaws of the joint authority, and shall be residents of the county of which the appointing board of commissioners represents.
(Ord. No. 97-02-01, 2-4-1997)
Sec. 2-116. - Active nature of authority.
The authority shall be an active, bona fide authority, shall meet not less often than quarterly, and shall develop an operational business plan.
(Ord. No. 97-02-01, 2-4-1997)
Sec. 2-117. - Duties and responsibilities.
The board of directors of the joint authority shall organize itself, carry out its duties and responsibilities and exercise its powers and prerogatives in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Development Authorities Law as it now exists and as it might hereafter be amended or modified.
(Ord. No. 97-02-01, 2-4-1997)
Sec. 2-118. - Effect on other organizations.
The action taken by the county board as specified in this division with respect to the joint authority is not intended in any way to affect any other public corporation, development authority or other authority previously created by legislative act or constitutional amendment including, without limitation, its existence, purpose, organization, powers or function.
(Ord. No. 97-02-01, 2-4-1997)
Secs. 2-119—2-150. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance providing for salaries or other employee benefits not codified in this Code saved from repeal, § 1-11(5); zoning administrator, app. A, § 12-1.
State Law reference— Authority to create personnel system, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-21 et seq.
DIVISION 1. - PERSONNEL SYSTEM

Sec. 2-151. - Creation.
There is hereby created a personnel system for the employees of the county, other than elected officials or persons appointed to positions for specified terms.
(Ord. No. 2000-02-02, 2-1-2000)
Sec. 2-152. - Administration.
The personnel system of the county shall be administered in such manner and pursuant to the personnel policies and procedures as may be provided for by resolution or ordinance of the county board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 2000-02-02, 2-1-2000)
Sec. 2-153. - Workers compensation.
Certain elected officials of the county shall be covered under the Association of County Commissioners of Georgia Group Self-Insured Workers' Compensation Fund. While performing their elected duties, the board of commissioners, sheriff, probate judge, clerk of court, magistrate judge, volunteer firefighter and coroner shall be covered under the worker's compensation laws (O.C.G.A. § 34-9-1 et seq.).
(Res. No. 87-005, 12-1-1987)
Secs. 2-154—2-180. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - COUNTY MANAGER

Sec. 2-181. - Office created.
The office of county manager is hereby created by the enactment of this ordinance from which this division is derived.
(Res. No. 2005-05-01, § 100.0, 5-20-2005)
Sec. 2-182. - Appointment; restrictions.
The county manager shall be appointed by a majority vote of the board of commissioners to serve at the pleasure of said board for an indefinite term.
(Res. No. 2005-05-01, § 101.0, 5-20-2005)
Sec. 2-183. - Qualifications; compensation; appointment; vacancy and removal.
(a)
The county manager shall be qualified by administrative and executive experience and ability to serve as the chief administrator of the county and shall meet one or more of the following requirements:
(1)
Graduation from an accredited college or university with a Master of Public Administration (M.P.A.) degree or a Master of Business administration (M.B.A.) or an equivalent degree in a related field and at least two years of appropriate experience; or
(2)
Graduation from an accredited college or university with a Bachelor's Degree in Public Administration or Business administration (B.A. B.S., or B.B.A.) or an equivalent degree and at least five years of appropriate experience since the completion of said bachelor's degree.
(b)
The county manager need not be a resident of the county at the time of his appointment; but during his tenure in office, he shall reside within the county.
(c)
No county commissioner shall be employed as county manager during the term to which he shall have been elected or within two years of expiration of his term as county commissioner.
(d)
The compensation of the county manager shall be fixed by the board of commissioners.
(e)
The county manager shall be appointed by an affirmative vote of not less than three members of the board of county commissioners and the board of commissioners shall set out the conditions of the county manager's employment.
(f)
The office of the county manager shall be deemed vacant if the incumbent moves his residence from the county or is, by death, illness or some other casualty, unable to continue in office. A vacancy in the office shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment. The board of county commissioners may appoint an acting county manager in the case of vacancy, temporary absence or disability until a successor has been appointed and qualified or the county manager returns.
(g)
The county manager may be removed at any time by a majority vote of the board of commissioners. The reason(s) for the removal shall be set forth in writing and provided to the county manager within 48 hours of the vote. The county manager shall be entitled to severance pay as outlined in the employment agreement executed by the county manager and the county. In the event no such agreement exists, the county manager shall receive severance pay equal to 90 days of base salary. No severance pay shall be provided to the county manager if the termination is for the reason of conviction of a felony.
(Res. No. 2005-05-01, § 102.0, 5-20-2005)
Sec. 2-184. - Duties and enumeration of powers.
(a)
The county manager shall be responsible for the administration of all affairs under the jurisdiction of the board of county commissioners. To that end, the county manager shall, by way of enumeration and not by way of limitation, have the following specific powers and duties to:
(1)
Administer and carry out the directives and policies of the board of county commissioners and enforce all orders, resolutions, ordinances and regulations of the board to ensure that they are faithfully executed.
(2)
Attend all meetings of the board of commissioners, with the right to take part in the discussions in accordance with any rules adopted by the board of commissioners, but having no vote. The county manager shall be entitled to notice of all special meetings.
(3)
Report to the board of county commissioners on action taken pursuant to any directive or policy within the time set by the board and provide an annual report to the board on the state of the county, the work of the previous year and any recommendations as to actions or programs he deems necessary for the improvement of the county and the welfare of its residents.
(4)
Provide the board of county commissioners or individual members thereof upon request with data or information concerning the county governing and provide advice and recommendations concerning county government operations to the board.
(5)
Prepare and submit to the board of commissioners for its consideration and adoption an annual operating budget, a capital budget and a capital program and to execute the budget and capital program adopted by the board, approving all disbursements and expenditures as authorized by the board.
(6)
Examine regularly at periods fixed by the board of commissioners the accounts, records and operations of every county board, commission, department, office, and agency which receive appropriations from said board; to make monthly reports to said board on county fiscal policy and other affairs; to keep the board fully advised on the financial conditions and future needs of the county; and to make such recommendations on county affairs as he deems necessary or for the efficient operation of the county.
(7)
Prepare and submit to the board of commissioners after the end of each fiscal year a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the county for the preceding year and submit his recommendations concerning the same.
(8)
Appoint, and when in his discretion the welfare of the county requires it, suspend, discharge, transfer or remove all employees for whom the board of commissioners is responsible, except for the county attorney who shall be appointed directly by the board of commissioners. The county manager may delegate to any department head such powers with respect to subordinates within that department.
(9)
Supervise the care and custody of all property owned by the county.
(10)
Negotiate leases, contracts and other agreements, including consultant services for the county, subject to review by the county attorney and approval by the board of commissioners, and make recommendations concerning the nature and location of county improvements.
(11)
See that all terms and conditions in all leases, contracts and agreements are performed and notify the board of commissioners of any noted violation thereof.
(12)
Organize the work of the county departments subject to an administrative code developed by the county manager and adopted by the board of commissioners, review the departments, administration and operation of the county government and make recommendations pertaining thereto for reorganization by the board of commissioners.
(13)
Order, upon advising the board of county commissioners, any agency under his jurisdiction as specified in the administrative code to undertake any task for any other agency on a temporary basis if he deems it necessary for the proper and efficient administration of the county to do so.
(14)
Perform such other duties as may be required of him by the board of commissioners.
(b)
It is the intent of the board of county commissioners to grant to the county manager only those powers and duties which are administrative or ministerial in nature and not to delegate any governmental power imbued in the board of county commissioners as the governing body of the county. To that end, the specifically enumerated powers listed in subsection (a) of this section are to be construed as administrative in nature; and in any exercise of governmental power, the county manager shall only be performing the duty of advising the board of commissioners in its role as the policy setting governing body of the county.
(Res. No. 2005-05-01, § 200.0, 5-20-2005)
Sec. 2-185. - Performance of duties.
The county manager shall perform his duties under the direction of the board of commissioners and shall be responsible to the board of commissioners as a body. No member of the board shall individually direct the county manager or attempt to interfere in the performance of his duties, and the board of commissioners shall, except for purpose of formal inquires and investigations, deal with county employees subject to the county manager's direction or supervision solely through the county manager.
(Res. No. 2005-05-01, § 201.0, 5-20-2005)
Sec. 2-186. - Community planning and development.
The county manager, subject to supervision by the board of commissioners, shall:
(1)
Develop plans and programs to advance the health, safety, general welfare, and physical and economic development of the county and shall pursue grants in aid that may be available from time to time to help finance implementation of such programs;
(2)
Monitor the county's planning activities including those undertaken in response to the Georgia Planning Act (O.C.G.A. § 12-2-8) and the Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act (O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.); and
(3)
Cooperate with, and coordinate the community improvement activities of independent authorities and agencies, county constitutional offices, the county planning board, and county departments and other organizational components of the county government as necessary.
(Res. No. 2005-05-01, § 500.0, 5-20-2005)
