ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Res. of 5-14-96, §§ 1-01—1-20, adopted May 14, 1997, did not specifically amend the Code and has been included herein as superceding the provisions of former ch. 2, art. II relative to the board of commissioners.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1.
Related laws reference—Board of commissioners, art. I.

Sec. 2-26. - Open meetings.
All meetings of the board of commissioners shall be held in accordance with the provisions of 50-14-1 et seq. of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated. The public shall at all times be afforded access to all meetings other than executive sessions.
(Res. of 5-14-96, § 1-01)
Sec. 2-27. - Regular meetings.
Regular meetings of the board of commissioners shall be held at 6:00 p.m. on the second Tuesday of each month. All regular meetings shall be held in the Commissioner Chambers located at 213 Person Street or in such larger room as the chairman may determine. A notice containing the foregoing information shall be posted and maintained in a conspicuous place available to the general public at the regular meeting place of the board.
(Res. of 5-14-96, § 1-14)
Sec. 2-28. - Called meetings and rescheduled regular meetings.
Called meetings may be scheduled by the chairman or at the request of two commissioners. Whenever a rescheduled regular meeting or any other called meeting is to be held at a time or place other than the regularly scheduled time or place, written notice of the change shall be posted for at least 24 hours at the place of the regular meetings. In addition, written or oral notice shall be given by the clerk at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting to either the legal organ of the county or a newspaper having a general circulation at least equal to that of the legal organ, and to each member of the county governing authority.
(Res. of 5-14-96, § 1-15)
Sec. 2-29. - Emergency meetings.
When emergency circumstances occur, the board may hold a meeting with less than 24-hours' notice to the public. When such meetings are to be held, the clerk shall provide notice to the legal organ of the county or a newspaper with a general circulation at least equal to that of the legal organ and to each member of the county governing authority as soon as possible. The notice shall include the subjects expected to be considered at the meeting. In addition, the minutes shall reflect the reason for the emergency meeting, and the nature of the notice given to the media.
(Res. of 5-14-96, § 1-16)
Sec. 2-30. - Executive sessions.
Executive sessions of the board may be held for the purpose of conducting business excepted from public access requirements as authorized by §§ 50-14-2 and 50-14-3 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated. Where a meeting of the board is devoted in part to matters within the authorized exceptions to public access requirements, any portion of the meeting not subject to any such exceptions shall be open to the public.
No executive session shall be held except pursuant to a majority affirmative vote of the board of commissioners taken in a public meeting. The minutes of the public meeting shall reflect the names of the commissioners present, those voting for the executive session and the specific reasons for the executive session. Minutes of the executive session may be maintained by the clerk of the board of commissioners at the direction of the chairman. Any such minutes shall be maintained in a confidential file and shall not be subject to disclosure, except that disclosures of such portions of minutes identifying real estate to be acquired by the board may be delayed only until such time as the acquisition of the real estate has been completed, terminated, or abandoned, or court proceedings have been initiated.
(Res. of 5-14-96, § 1-17)
Sec. 2-31. - Chairman.
The chairman of the board of commissioners is responsible for the orderly conduct of the meeting. In order to fulfill this duty, the chairman must enforce the rules of procedure that are adopted by the board of commissioners. The chairman shall be impartial and shall conduct the meetings in a fair manner.
(Res. of 5-14-96, § 1-05)
Sec. 2-32. - Vice-chairman.
The board shall select a vice-chairman from the board members at the beginning of each calendar year. The vice-chairman shall fulfill the duties of the chairman if the chairman is not in attendance. If the chairman and vice-chairman are absent and a quorum is present, the remaining commissioners shall select a commissioner to serve as temporary chairman of the meeting until either the chairman or vice-chairman is present at the meeting.
(Res. of 5-14-96, § 1-06)
Sec. 2-33. - Parliamentarian.
The county attorney shall serve as the parliamentarian for board meetings.
(Res. of 5-14-96, § 1-12)
Sec. 2-34. - Quorum.
A quorum must be present for conducting meetings of the board. A quorum is a majority of all of the members of the board then in office. It is the duty of the chairman to enforce this rule. Any commissioner may raise a point of order directed to the chairman if he or she believes that a quorum is not present. If, during the course of a meeting, a commissioner leaves and a quorum no longer exists, the meeting cannot continue. If a quorum is not attained within thirty minutes, the meeting will be rescheduled by the chairman with the approval of the commissioners present.
(Res. of 5-14-96, § 1-02)
Sec. 2-35. - Voting; majority.
Passage of any motion shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of commissioners.
(Res. of 5-14-96, § 1-03)
Sec. 2-36. - Abstentions.
A commissioner may abstain from voting on any motion. The commissioner shall explain for the record his or her decision to abstain on any vote.
(Res. of 5-14-96, § 1-04)
Sec. 2-37. - Decorum.
All commissioners must conduct themselves in a professional and respectful manner. All remarks should be directed to the chairman and not to individual commissioners, staff or citizens in attendance. Personal remarks are inappropriate. A commissioner may not speak at a meeting until he has been recognized by the chairman. All comments made by a commissioner shall address the motion that is being discussed. The chairman shall enforce these rules of decorum. If a commissioner believes that a rule has been broken, he can raise a point of order. A second is not required. The chairman can rule on the question or allow the board to debate the issue and decide the issue by majority vote.
(Res. of 5-14-96, § 1-10)
Sec. 2-38. - Agenda.
The county administrator, with the advice of the chairman and the commissioners, shall prepare an agenda of subjects to be acted on for each meeting. The agenda shall be made available to the commissioners at least one business day before every board meeting. Members of the public may request that a particular subject be placed on the agenda for the following regular monthly meeting scheduled for the second Tuesday of each month. To be considered, this request must be submitted to the county administrator no later than 3:00 p.m. on the Thursday preceding the first Tuesday of each month.
(Res. of 5-14-96, § 1-07; Ord. of 6-9-09)
Sec. 2-39. - Minutes.
The clerk of the board shall promptly record the minutes for each board meeting. The minutes shall serve as the official written record of the board meeting and shall be open for public inspection once approved as official by the board, but in no case later than immediately following the next regular meeting of the board. The minutes shall specify the names of commissioners present at the meeting, a description of each motion or other proposal made at the meeting, the commissioner who proposed each motion, the commissioner who seconded each motion, and a record of all votes. In the case of a roll-call vote, the name of each commissioner voting for or against a proposal shall be recorded. It shall be presumed that a commissioner has voted in the affirmative unless the minutes show otherwise. More detailed formation may be included in the minutes at the request of the board.
The board must approve the minutes before they can be considered as an official record of the board. A copy of the minutes from the previous meeting shall be distributed to the commissioners at least one business day before the following meeting. The minutes of the previous meeting shall be corrected and approved by the board at the beginning of each meeting. A majority vote is required for approval. Conflicts about the content of the minutes shall be decided by majority vote. Upon being approved, the minutes shall be signed by the chairman and attested to by the clerk of the board of commissioners.
(Res. of 5-14-96, § 1-08)
Sec. 2-40. - Order of business.
All regular board meetings should follow an established order of business. The order is as follows:
I.
Call to Order
II.
Consent Agenda
III.
Agenda
IV.
Minutes
V.
Announcements and Updates
VI.
Appearances
VII.
Old Business
VIII.
New Business
IX.
Executive Session (if needed)
X.
Adjournment
(Res. of 5-14-96, § 1-09; Ord. of 6-9-09)
Sec. 2-41. - Amendments to rules.
modified
Any amendments to the rules of order must be submitted by a commissioner in writing to the county administrator at least three business days before a regular meeting of the board. The proposed amendment shall be included in the agenda for that meeting and distributed to all board members. All amendments shall require a ⅔ vote of the board to be adopted.
(Res. of 5-14-96, § 1-13)
Sec. 2-42. - Suspending the rules of order.
modified
Rules of order may be suspended in the case of an emergency. A motion to suspend the rules requires a second, is debatable and requires a ⅔ vote of the board. Rules governing quorum (section 2-34), voting methods and requirements (sections 2-35 and 2-36), the notification to commissioners of meetings (sections 2-29 and 2-30) and rules necessary for compliance with state law cannot be suspended.
(Res. of 5-14-96, § 1-18)
Sec. 2-43. - Public participation.
Public participation in meetings of the board of commissioners shall be permitted in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(1)
Public comments. The sixth agenda item of the regular monthly meeting shall be reserved for comments from the public. All members of the public who wish to address the board must submit their name and the topic of their comments to the county administrator no later than 3:00 p.m. on the Thursday preceding the first Tuesday of each month in order to be considered for placement on the agenda. Individuals who are placed on the agenda will be allotted five minutes each to make comments, and the comments must be limited to the designated topic. These limits may be waived by a majority vote of the board.
(2)
Public participation on agenda items. By a majority vote, the board may allow public comment on an agenda item at the time the item is being considered by the board. These comments must be limited to the subject that is being debated. Members of the public may speak for five minutes and may speak only once. These limits can be waived by a majority vote of the board. Anyone wishing to speak at an any board meeting must be recognized by the chairman before addressing the board.
(3)
Decorum. Members of the public shall not make inappropriate or offensive comments at a board meeting and are expected to comply with the rules of decorum that are established for commissioners. Individuals who violate any rules of the board may be ruled out of order by the chairman or on a point of order made by a commissioner. A majority vote of the board will rule on the point of order. An individual who violates the rules of decorum may be removed from the meeting at the direction of the chairman.
(4)
Public hearings. The Board may schedule public hearings for the purpose of soliciting public comment on any subject of interest to the board. Hearings may be held immediately prior to or following a meeting of the board or at such other places and times as the board may determine. No official action shall be taken at any such public hearing.
(Res. of 5-14-96, § 1-11; Ord. of 6-9-09)
Sec. 2-44. - Committees.
The chairman, with the concurrence of the board, may create committees of members of the board to study any issue before the board. Any such committees may make recommendations to the board, but no committee shall be empowered to make a final decision on any matter before it for consideration. In addition to board members, committees may include other county officials, staff or citizens at large. Whenever a committee is created, its duties, any limitation on the scope of its duties, and the times, places and periods of time for which the committee may operate shall be determined by the chairman with the concurrence of the board. The chairman shall be an ex officio member of all committees.
(Res. of 5-14-96, § 1-19)
Sec. 2-45. - Visual and sound recordings.
Visual, sound, and visual and sound recordings shall be permitted for all public meetings.
(Res. of 5-14-96, § 1-20)
Secs. 2-46—2-50. - Reserved.
