ARTICLE II. - NUISANCES[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Unlawful operation of adult entertainment establishments declared nuisance, § 8-40; animals, ch. 10; solid waste, ch. 38; vegetation, ch. 50.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 26-26—26-35. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - DANGEROUS AND UNFIT BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; manufactured homes and trailers, ch. 30.
State Law reference— Ordinances relating to repair, closing and demolition of dwellings unfit for human habitation, O.C.G.A. § 36-61-11; county or municipal ordinances relating to unfit buildings or structures, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-9; authority to demolish structures where drug crimes are committed, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7; nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1 et seq.

Sec. 26-36. - Findings of fact and applicability.
(a)
It is found and declared that in the county there is the existence or occupancy of dwellings or other buildings or structures which are unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business occupancy or use and are inimical to the welfare and are dangerous and injurious to the health, safety, and welfare of the people of this state. A public necessity exists for the repair, closing, or demolition of such dwellings, buildings, or structures. It is found and declared that where there is in existence a condition or use of real estate which renders adjacent real estate unsafe or inimical to safe human habitation, such use is dangerous and injurious to the health, safety, and welfare of the people of this county and a public necessity exists for the repair of such condition or the cessation of such use which renders the adjacent real estate unsafe or inimical to safe human habitation. Whenever the board of commissioners find that there exist in the unincorporated areas of the county dwellings, buildings, or structures which are unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business uses due to dilapidation and defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents, or other calamities; lack of adequate ventilation, light, or sanitary facilities; or other conditions rendering such dwellings, buildings, or structures unsafe or unsanitary, or dangerous or detrimental to the health, safety, or welfare or otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of the county, the county commission should exercise its police power to repair, close, or demolish the dwellings, buildings, or structures in the manner provided in this division.
(b)
All the provisions of this article including method and procedure may also be applied to private property where an accumulation of weeds, trash, junk, filth, and other unsanitary or unsafe conditions shall create a public health hazard or a general nuisance to those persons residing in the vicinity. A finding by any governmental health department, health officer, or building inspector that such property is a health or safety hazard shall constitute prima facie evidence that the property is in violation of this article.
(c)
The exercise of powers by the county described in this article shall be limited to properties located in the unincorporated areas of the county.
Sec. 26-37. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Closing means securing and causing a dwelling, building, or structure to be vacated.
Dwellings, buildings, or structures means any building or structure or part thereof used and occupied for human habitation, commercial, industrial, or business uses, or intended to be so used, and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith and also includes any buildings or structures of any design.
Governing body means the Board of Commissioners of Peach County, Georgia.
Municipality means any incorporated city in Peach County, Georgia.
Ordinance or division means the provisions of this division and the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 41-2-7—41-2-17.
Owner means the holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record.
Parties in interest means persons in possession of the property and all individuals, associations, and corporations who have an interest of record in the county where the property is located in a dwelling, building, or structure, including executors, administrators, guardians, and trustees.
Public authority means any housing authority or any officer who is in charge of any department or branch of the government of the municipality, county, or state relating to health, fire, or building regulations or to other activities concerning dwellings, buildings, or structures in the county.
Public officer means the building inspector of the county or any other officer who is authorized by this division to exercise the powers prescribed by the division, or any agent of such officer.
Repair means closing a dwelling, building, or structure or the cleaning or removal of debris, trash and other materials present and accumulated which create a health or safety hazard in or about any dwelling, building or structure.
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 26-38. - Complaint; notice; hearing.
Whenever a request is filed with the public officer by a public authority or by at least five residents of the unincorporated area of the county charging that any dwelling, building, or structure is unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use or whenever it appears to the public officer, on his own motion, that any dwelling, building, or structure is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use, the public officer shall, if his preliminary investigation discloses a basis for such charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and any parties in interest in such dwelling, building, or structure a complaint stating the charges in that respect and containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the public officer or his designated agent at a place within the city, fixed not less than ten days nor more than 30 days after the serving of the complaint; that the owner and any parties in interest shall be given the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint; and that the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the public officer.
Sec. 26-39. - Determination; order to abate.
If, after such notice and hearing, the public officer determines that the dwelling, building, or structure under consideration is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use, he shall state in writing his findings of fact in support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an order:
(1)
If the repair, alteration, or improvement of such dwelling, building, or structure can be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner or parties in interest, within the time specified in the order, to repair, alter, or improve such dwelling, building, or structure so as to render it fit for human habitation or for current commercial, industrial, or business use or to vacate and close the dwelling, building, or structure as a human habitation; or
(2)
If the repair, alteration, or improvement of such dwelling, building, or structure cannot be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner or parties in interest, within the time specified in the order, to remove or demolish such dwelling, building, or structure.
In no event shall the board of commissioners require removal or demolition of any dwelling, building, or structure except upon a finding that the cost of repair, alteration, or improvement thereof exceeds one-half the value such dwelling, building, or structure will have when repaired to satisfy the minimum requirements of this article.
Sec. 26-40. - Failure to comply with order; placard.
If the owner or parties in interest fail to comply with an order to vacate and close or demolish the dwelling, building, or structure, the public officer may cause such dwelling, building, or structure to be repaired, altered, or improved or to be vacated and closed or demolished. The public officer may cause to be posted on the main entrance of any building, dwelling, or structure so closed a placard with the following words:
"This building is unfit for human habitation or commercial, industrial, or business use; the use or occupation of this building for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use is prohibited and unlawful."
Sec. 26-41. - Removal or demolition.
If the owner fails to comply with any order to remove or demolish the dwelling, building, or structure, the public officer may cause such dwelling, building, or structure to be removed or demolished; provided, however, that the duties of the public officer, set forth in section 26-40 and in this section, shall not be exercised until the governing body shall have by ordinance ordered the public officer to proceed to effectuate the purpose of this article with respect to the particular property or properties which the public officer shall have found to be unfit for human habitation or unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use, which property or properties shall be described in this ordinance.
Sec. 26-42. - Costs shall be lien.
The amount of the cost of such vacating and closing or removal or demolition by the public officer shall be a lien against the real property upon which the cost was incurred. Such lien shall attach to the real property upon the payment of all costs of demolition by the county and the filing of an itemized statement of the total sum of the costs by the public officer in the office of the clerk of the governing body of the county on a lien docket maintained by the clerk for such purposes. If the dwelling, building, or structure is removed or demolished by the public officer, he shall sell the materials of such dwellings, building, or structure and shall credit the proceeds of such sale against the cost of the removal or demolition and any balance remaining shall be deposited in the county superior court by the public officer, shall be secured in such manner as may be directed by such court, and shall be disbursed by such court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree of such court. Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair or limit in any way the power of the county to define and declare nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise.
Sec. 26-43. - Lien enforcement.
The county may enforce the collection of any amount due on such lien for removal or demolition of dwellings, buildings, or structures only in the following manner:
(1)
The owner or parties at interest shall be allowed to satisfy the amount due on such lien by paying to the county in ten biannual payments, interest free, but with an administrative fee of $125.00 for each installment, for a period not to exceed five years. Payments will be due on March 1 and September 1 of each year. In the event the owner becomes delinquent by two payments, the entire balance shall be due and payable to Peach County immediately. All payments shall be made as scheduled to the Peach County Board of Commissioners.
(2)
Should the property upon which such lien attaches be sold, transferred, pledged as security, or conveyed by the owner or parties ln interest at any time prior to the termination of the five year period, then the entire balance due on such lien shall be due and payable to the county immediately; and
(3)
Should the amount due upon such lien, or any portion thereof, be unpaid after the passage of the five year period, or upon the occurrence of the contingency provided for in subsection (2) of this section, the county may enforce the collection of any amount due on such lien for alteration, repair, removal, or demolition of dwellings, buildings, or structures in the same manner as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-358, and other applicable state statutes. This procedure shall be subject to the right, title, or interest in or lien upon said property, all as provided by O.C.G.A. § 48-4-40 et. seq.
(Ord. of 3-13-2018)
Sec. 26-44. - Conditions for determination of unfitness.
The public officer may determine that a dwelling, building, or structure is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use if he finds that conditions exist in such building, dwelling, or structure which are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety, or morals of the occupants of such dwelling, building, or structure; of the occupants of neighborhood dwellings, buildings, or structures; or of other residents of the county. Such conditions may include the following, without limiting the generality of the provisions of this section:
(1)
Defects therein increasing the hazards of fire, accidents, or other calamities;
(2)
Lack of adequate ventilation, light, or sanitary facilities;
(3)
Dilapidation;
(4)
Disrepair;
(5)
Structural defects; and
(6)
Uncleanliness.
Sec. 26-45. - Powers of public officers.
The public officer shall exercise such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions of this division, including the following powers in addition to others granted in this division:
(1)
To investigate the dwelling conditions in the county in order to determine which dwellings, buildings, or structures therein are unfit for human habitation or are unfit for current commercial, industrial, or business use;
(2)
To administer oaths and affirmations, to examine witnesses, and to receive evidence;
(3)
To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations; provided, however, that such entries shall be made in such manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
(4)
To appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents, and employees as he deems necessary to carry out the purpose of this article; and
(5)
To delegate any of his functions and powers under the article to such officers and agents as he may designate.
Sec. 26-46. - Service of complaints or orders upon parties in interest and owners.
(a)
Complaints or orders issued by a public officer pursuant to this division shall, in all cases, be served upon each person in possession of such property, each owner, and each party in interest. The return of service shall be signed by the public officer or his agent or an affidavit of service executed by any citizens of this state, reciting that a copy of such complaints or orders was served upon each person in possession of such property, each owner, and each party in interest personally or by leaving such copy at the place of his residence, and shall be sufficient evidence as to the service of such person in possession, owner, and party in interest.
(b)
If any of the owners and parties in interest shall reside out of the county, service shall be perfected by causing a copy of such complaints or orders to be served upon such party by the sheriff or any lawful deputy of the county of the residence of such party, or such service may be made by any citizen. The return of such sheriff or lawful deputy or the affidavit of such citizen, that such party was served, either personally or by leaving a copy of the complaints or orders at the residence, shall be conclusive as to such service.
(c)
Nonresidents of this state shall be served by publishing the complaints or orders once each week for two successive weeks in a newspaper printed and published in the county or, in the absence of such newspaper in the county, in one printed and published outside the county and circulated in the county in which the dwellings, buildings, or structures are located. A copy of such complaints or orders shall be posted in a conspicuous place on premises affected by the complaints or orders. Where the address of such nonresidents is known, a copy of such complaints or orders shall be mailed to them by registered or certified mail.
(d)
If either the owner or any party in interest is a minor or an insane person or person laboring under disabilities, the guardian or other personal representative of such person shall be served and if such guardian or personal representative resides outside the county or is a nonresident, he shall be served as provided in this section. If such minor or insane person or person laboring under disabilities has no guardian or personal representative, or if such minor or insane person lives outside of the county or is a nonresident, service shall be perfected by serving such minor or insane person personally or by leaving a copy at the place of his residence which shall be sufficient evidence as to the service of such person. In the case of other persons who live outside of the county or are nonresidents, service shall be perfected by serving the judge of the county probate court, who shall stand in the place of and protect the rights of such minor or insane person or appoint a guardian ad litem for such person.
(e)
If the whereabouts of any owner or party in interest is unknown and the whereabouts cannot be ascertained by the public officer in the exercise of reasonable diligence and the public officer shall make an affidavit to that effect, then the service of such complaints or orders upon such persons shall be made in the same manner as provided in subsection (c) of this section or service may be perfected upon any person holding himself out as an agent for the property involved.
(f)
A copy of such complaints or orders shall be filed in the proper office or offices for the filing of lis pendens notice in the county, and such filing of the complaints or orders shall have the same force and effect as other lis pendens notices provided by law. Any such complaints or orders or an appropriate lis pendens notice may contain a statement to the effect that a lien may arise against the described property and that an itemized statement of such lien is maintained on a lien docket maintained by the clerk of the county commission.
Sec. 26-47. - Injunctions against order to repair, close, or demolish.
Any person affected by an order issued by the public officer may petition to the county superior court for an injunction restraining the public officer from carrying out the provisions of the order. The court may, upon such petition, issue a temporary injunction restraining the public officer pending the final disposition of the cause; provided, however, that such person shall present such petition to the court within 15 days of the posting and service of the order of the public officer. De novo hearings shall be had by the court on petitions within 20 days. The court shall hear and determine the issues raised and shall enter such final order or decree as law and justice may require; provided, however, that it shall not be necessary to file bond in any amount before obtaining a temporary injunction under this section.
Sec. 26-48. - Taking by eminent domain; police power.
Nothing in this article shall be construed as preventing the owner of any property from receiving just compensation for the taking of such property by the power of eminent domain under the laws of this state nor as permitting any property to be condemned or destroyed except in accordance with the police power of this state.
Sec. 26-49. - Authority to use revenues, grants, and donations to repair, close, or demolish.
The county may make such appropriations from its revenues as it may deem necessary and may accept and apply grants or donations to assist it in carrying out the provisions of this division.
Sec. 26-50. - Construction of this division with other laws, ordinances, and regulations.
Nothing in this division shall be construed to abrogate or impair the powers of the courts or of any department of the county to enforce any provisions of its ordinances or regulations, nor to prevent or punish violations thereof. The powers conferred by this division shall be in addition to and supplemental to the powers conferred by any other law or ordinance.
State Law reference— Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975, O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq.
DIVISION 3. - JUNK VEHICLES[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted July 14, 2021, set out provisions intended for use as Art. II, Div. 2. At the editor's discretion, to prevent duplication of division numbers, these provisions have been included as Art. II, Div. 3.

Sec. 26-51. - Title.
new
This division will be known as the "Junk Vehicle Ordinance".
(Ord. of 07-14-2021)
Sec. 26-52. - Definitions (Reserved).
new
(Ord. of 07-14-2021)
Sec. 26-53. - General.
new
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, except within a fully enclosed building or structure or otherwise shielded or screened from public view, on any property unless properly zoned or permitted; any motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, recreational vehicle, camper, boat or all-terrain vehicle which is inoperable or which has no current licensed tag. Covering the vehicle with a tarp does not meet this criteria. As used in this section "inoperable vehicle" means any motor vehicle which is not in operating condition; or which for a period of 30 days or longer, has been partially or totally dismantled or disassembled by the removal of tires, wheels, engine or other such essential parts required for the operation of the vehicle.
(b)
The provisions of subsection (a) of this section shall not apply to a licensed business which is regularly engaged as an automobile dealer, salvage dealer or scrap processor.
(Ord. of 07-14-2021)
Secs. 26-54—26-70. - Reserved.
new
