Chapter 10 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND EMERGENCY SERVICES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 10-1—10-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ALARM SYSTEMS

Sec. 10-19. - False alarms.
(a)
Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to define false alarm, to make the activation of an alarm system or placement of a telephone call to report an emergency when there is no emergency a violation of the ordinance from which this article is derived, to establish penalties for initiating a false alarm, and related items.
(b)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alarm means any signal (audio or video, recorded or live) transmitted to the county, indicating a predetermined emergency condition exists, when the alarm is received by:
(1)
The county 911 communications center or the city's telephone;
(2)
A private alarm service company relaying the alarm to the county 911 communications center or the city's telephone; or
(3)
An automated telephone alarm system, playing a recorded message when received at the county 911 communications center or the city's telephone.
Additionally, the term "alarm" means any audible or visual sign or signal received by the county 911 communications center or the city's telephone.
Alarm system means an assembly of equipment and devices designed and arranged to detect a fire or signal an unauthorized intrusion onto premises, or attempted robbery at protected premises, or other emergency situation, and, with respect to said signal, public safety officers are expected to respond.
False alarm means the activation of an alarm system when none of the emergency situations for which the alarm system has been installed have, in fact, occurred. This includes the accidental activation of an alarm by the property owner, premises lessee, resident or tenant.
Telephone alarm system means any alarm system which automatically transmits by telephone line a recorded electronic or mechanical signal to a telephonic instrument located at the county 911 communications center or offices of the city. A telephone alarm system is prohibited.
(c)
Unlawful activation; failure to notify police department of malfunctioning alarm system when reporting an activated alarm. It is unlawful for anyone to activate any fire, robbery or burglar alarm for the purpose of summoning public safety officers except in the event of an actual fire, attempted burglary or robbery or other emergency. It is unlawful for anyone to notify the police department or the fire department of an activated alarm when that person knows that activation of the alarm was caused by a malfunction of the alarm system or by maintenance or repair work on the alarm system without simultaneously telling the police department about the malfunction or maintenance or repair.
(d)
Response to false alarm; fees; corrective action.
(1)
For each response to a false alarm, the property owner or premises lessee shall, within five business days, provide a written explanation to the city's police department describing the reasons for the false alarm.
(2)
Upon receipt of the explanation, the police department may take the following actions:
a.
For the first false alarm from a premises within a three-month period, leave an alarm response notice and a copy of the ordinance from which this article is derived at the premises (on or under the main or front door). The notice shall include information that continued false alarms will lead to a service charge.
b.
For the second false alarm from a premises within a three-month period, inform the property owner or premises lessee that the alarm system should be inspected by a state-licensed contractor and corrective measures taken. The property owner or premises lessee is responsible for payment of such inspection and/or repair.
c.
For the third false alarm from a premises within a three-month period, charge the property owner or premises lessee a fee established by the city.
d.
For the fourth false alarm from a premises within a three-month period and for each subsequent false alarm from a premises within a three-month period, charge the property owner or premises lessee a fee established by the city.
(3)
Civil penalties. Violations of any provision of this article shall be enforced through the assessment of civil penalty(ies) as maintained in the City of Emerson Fee Schedule.
(4)
Exceptions.
a.
The police department shall have the discretion to waive assessment of the fee if:
1.
The false alarm was activated by inclement weather; or
2.
Within ten days of the occurrence of a false alarm, the property owner or premises lessee demonstrates that the alarm system has been examined by an authorized repair service and the repair service certifies that the alarm system now works correctly.
b.
Notwithstanding the foregoing in this subsection (4), within a three-month period, only one such explanation from the property owner or premises lessee shall be accepted as the basis for avoiding a fee assessment.
(5)
Payment of civil penalties. Civil penalties shall be paid within 30 days from the date of the invoice from the city.
(6)
Noncriminal (civil) violation. A violation of any of the provision of this division shall be civil in nature and shall not constitute a misdemeanor or infraction.
(7)
Appeals process. Assessments of civil penalties and other enforcement decisions made under this division may be appealed by filing a written notice of appeal with the police chief, as applicable, within 30 days after the date of notification of the assessment of civil penalties or other enforcement decisions. The written notice of appeal shall contain the cause for the appeal and any other pertinent information relevant to the case. The failure to give notice of appeal within this time period shall constitute a waiver of the right to consent the assessment of penalties or other enforcement decisions. The police chief shall designate a hearing officer from the police department to hear appeals related to their agency. The respective hearing officer shall render a decision within five business days and give written notification of his/her decision. The hearing officer's decision may be appealed to the chief of police by filing a written notice of appeal within ten days of receipt of the hearing officer's decision. The chief of police shall have the final decision in this matter. The hearing officer's decision and the decision of the respective chief are subject to review by the courts having jurisdiction by proceeding in the nature of writ of certiorari.
(8)
Appeal standard. The hearing officer shall review an appeal from the assessment of civil penalties or other enforcement decisions using a preponderance of the evidence standard. Notwithstanding a determination that the preponderance of the evidence supports the assessment of civil penalties or other enforcement decision, the hearing officer shall have the discretion to dismiss or reduce civil penalties or reverse any other enforcement decision where warranted.
(9)
Responsibility for fees/costs. In the event the appeal is not upheld, the owner or lessee shall also be responsible for any fee assessed to reimburse the city for any costs incurred by the hearing officer in enforcing this article.
(Ord. of 8-27-2007(1), §§ 1—3; Ord. No. 2020-011 , § 1, 9-28-2020)
