ARTICLE IV. - PROCEDURE FOR PLAT APPROVAL

Sec. 34-101. - Procedure.
modified
(a)
Subdivision defined. A "subdivision" is the division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots or building sites. "Subdivision" also relates to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided. The term shall also include the opening of a new street or road. The combination or recombination of portions of previously platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots meet the standards of the county subdivision regulations are not included within this definition.
(b)
Steps for approval. The procedure for review, consideration and approval of a subdivision plat consists of two separate steps, which are:
(1)
Preliminary subdivision plat (step 1);
(2)
Final subdivision plat (step 2).
(c)
Official submission dates. For the purpose of this chapter, the date of the meeting of the planning commission at which the hearing of a preliminary plat or public meeting on approval of a final subdivision plat, including any adjourned date thereof, is closed, accordingly shall constitute the official submission date of the plat on which the statutory period required for formal approval, conditional approval or disapproval of the preliminary plat or final plat submittal shall commence to run.
(d)
Compliance with plat requirements. Approval of all steps is contingent upon full compliance with the plat requirements specified in sections 34-131—34-141 and 34-171—34-178. Step 1 shall be completed prior to making any street improvement or installing any utilities. Step 2 shall be completed prior to the sale of any lots in the proposed subdivision.
(e)
Exemptions from preliminary plat requirements.
(1)
A subdivision which will have four or fewer lots fronting on a road or street shown on the official road map of the county; provided no new street, community water system, or community sewer system is required and provided no new lots have a depth greater than 2.5 times the width, shall be exempted from the requirements of a preliminary plat approval. The subdivision shall be required to obtain a recording and approval certificate as a final plat.
(2)
Any division of land to heirs or any division of land pursuant to a judicial partition, or any division of land occurring from the foreclosure of a deed of trust; provided, however, that such exemption shall not require the county to issue permits if the resulting lots or parcels fail to meet any applicable regulations of the local jurisdiction. A plat meeting this exemption must have the following notation on the plat:
"This final plat is exempt from the preliminary plat requirements, however, the lots shown on the plat are for estate planning purposes only, do not meet the minimum requirements of the Land Development Ordinance of Lincoln County, and no building permit will be issued for development on these lots as they are shown on this plat.
(Ord. No. 48, § 5-1, 1-9-2003; Ord. of 8-12-2021)
Sec. 34-102. - Preapplication.
Prior to the review, consideration and approval of a preliminary plat by the planning commission, the subdivider may schedule an initial meeting with the director of planning and zoning to discuss the proposed development. The developer may offer a simple sketch plan for comments from the director if desired. The purpose of the meeting is to assist the subdivider with questions he may have prior to extensive site planning necessary for the preparation of the preliminary plat and enable the subdivider to become familiar with the regulations affecting the land to be subdivided. Recommendations received from the director of planning and zoning concerning the proposed development or the sketch plan do not authorize the developer to begin the proposed construction or improvements.
(Ord. No. 48, § 5-2, 1-9-2003)
Secs. 34-103—34-130. - Reserved.
