ARTICLE IX. - DEDICATION AND RESERVATION[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 30; natural resources, ch. 46; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 62.

Sec. 34-281. - Streets.
(a)
All land designated for street purposes or street widening shall be laid out and shown on the map of the subdivision and shall have provided rights-of-way not less than the widths specified in sections 34-241—34-248.
(b)
All streets which are designated as part of the general highway system of the county, or part, division, or section thereof, as amended, shall be coordinated with adjoining links in the system and dedicated at the same or greater widths.
(Ord. No. 48, § 10-1, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-282. - Drainage.
All drainage easements offered for dedication to public use shall have a minimum width of 15 feet, except under unusual circumstances, where a greater or lesser width may be required and/or approved. The county may or may not accept an easement for drainage maintenance purposes over or along a creek or natural drainage channel.
(Ord. No. 48, § 10-2, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-283. - Utility easements.
Utility easements for electric and telephone service lines, underground mains and cables, sewage lines, water lines, or other such utilities located along rear lot lines or side lot lines or passing through a lot shall be at least 15 feet wide and 7½ feet on each lot. The facilities for underground utilities shall be consistent with the requirements provided in section 34-203 of this chapter. No structure shall be built on such easement.
(Ord. No. 48, § 10-3, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-284. - Preservation of natural features and amenities.
(a)
Generally. In all new development or construction, no trees with a diameter of six inches or over, measured 4½ feet above ground level shall be taken down, damaged or destroyed without prior written approval of the planning commission. Limits of root damage shall be taken into consideration prior to such approval. Trees with a diameter of six inches or over and located in buffer or setback areas shall be shown on development and/or building site plans. It shall be the intent of this section to retain as many trees as possible for the visual attractiveness, natural preservation and energy conservation benefit gained by doing so. This provision shall not apply to individual owner-occupied parcels of land. Existing features that would add value to residential development or to the local government as a whole, such as trees, as herein defined, watercourses and falls, beaches, historic spots, and similar irreplaceable assets, shall be preserved in the design of the subdivision. No trees shall be removed from any subdivision nor any change of grade of the land effected until approval of the preliminary plat has been granted. All trees on the plat required to be retained shall be preserved, and all trees where required shall be welled and protected against change of grade. The preliminary plat shall show the number and location of existing trees as required by these regulations and shall further indicate all those marked for retention.
(b)
Shade trees planted by developer. As a requirement of subdivision approval, where the development is not naturally wooded, the applicant shall plant shade trees on the property within the subdivision from the entrance to the subdivision to the first lot along that street. Trees are to be planted within five feet of the right-of-way of the road within and abutting the subdivision. One tree shall be planted for every 40 feet of frontage along each road from the entrance to the subdivision to the first lot. New trees shall have a minimum trunk diameter (measured 12 inches above the ground level) of not less than two inches. Only long-lived shade trees shall be planted.
(c)
Maintenance of planted trees. The developer shall be responsible for replacing any tree that dies within one year of the completion of the entire development or, if a phased development, within one year of the completion of the phase in which the now dead tree was planted.
(d)
Common areas. A disclosure statement shall be present on all plats of the subdivision and/or individual lots and shall be included in the sales contract. This statement shall set forth the ownership of common areas, the rights of purchasers and others to use common areas, provisions and responsibilities for the maintenance and liability, and rights of purchasers to enforce such provisions. Further, the disclosure statement shall advise purchasers that the county is not responsible for the maintenance of such common areas. An alternative, which must be approved by the planning commission on a project by project basis, is the establishment of a responsible association with the authority to maintain the common areas.
(e)
Open space recommended: In residential subdivisions, as defined in this chapter, with greater than 60 lots averaging less than one acre per lot, an area up to ten percent of the land area of the subdivision may be set aside as protected greenspace.
(Ord. No. 48, § 10-4, 1-9-2003; Amend. of 9-9-2004, § 10-4)
Secs. 34-285—34-310. - Reserved.
