ARTICLE VIII. - DESIGN STANDARDS

Sec. 34-241. - Scope.
The design standards contained in this article shall apply to all new development and they shall conform to the minimum requirements of the property's zoning designation as required in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 48, § 9-1, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-242. - Streets.
Streets shall conform to current county road construction and maintenance specifications.
(1)
Conformity to existing maps or plans. The location and width of all proposed streets shall be in conformity with official plans and maps and with existing amended plans of the planning commission.
(2)
Continuation of adjoining street system. The proposed street layout shall be coordinated with the street system of the surrounding area. Where possible, existing major streets shall be extended.
(3)
Access to adjacent properties. Where it is desirable to provide for street access to adjoining property, proposed streets shall be extended by dedication to the boundary of such property and a temporary turnaround of a 30-foot radius shall be provided. Houses fronting on minor streets shall have access from minor streets only.
(4)
Entrances to streets. All driveway entrances and other openings onto streets within the county's jurisdiction shall be constructed so that:
a.
The vehicles can enter and exit from the lot in question without posing any substantial danger to themselves, pedestrians, or vehicles travelling in abutting streets;
b.
Interference with the free and convenient flow of traffic in abutting or surrounding streets is minimized;
c.
Vehicular access from properties to streets shall not exceed 30 feet in width;
d.
No more than two points of vehicular ingress/egress from a property to each abutting public street shall be permitted for each 400 feet of lot frontage, or fraction thereof; provided, however, that lots with less than 100 feet of frontage shall have no more than one point of ingress/egress to any one public street;
e.
No point of ingress/egress shall be allowed within 35 feet of the right-of-way line of any street intersection;
f.
No curbs on county roads or rights-of-way shall be cut or altered for ingress/egress without approval of the county road department;
g.
An ingress/egress driveway shall be located not closer than 30 feet to another such driveway on the same street.
(5)
Street names. Proposed streets, which are obviously in alignment with other existing and named streets, shall bear the assigned name of the existing streets. In no case shall the name of the proposed streets duplicate or be phonetically similar to existing street names, regardless of the use of suffix, street, avenue, boulevard, drive, place, court, etc. It shall be unlawful for any person in laying out any new street or road to name such street or road on any plat, by marking or in any deed or instrument, without first getting approval of the director or his designee.
(6)
Local streets. Local streets shall be so laid out that their use by through-traffic will be discouraged.
(7)
Trees. It is recommended that as many trees as possible remain on the site during the initial clearing and grading and that trees normally remain unless they lie within a planned public right-of-way, within a planned building site or within the necessary paved area surrounding or adjacent to the primary structure.
(8)
Railroads and highways (freeways, expressways). Railroad rights-of-way and limited access highways where so located as to affect the subdivision of adjoining lands shall be treated as follows:
a.
In the residential district a buffer strip not less than 25 feet in depth in addition to the normal depth of the lot required in the district shall be provided adjacent to the railroad rights-of-way or limited access highways. This strip shall be part of the platted lots and shall be so designated on the plat: "This strip is reserved for the planting of trees and shrubs by the owner. The placement of structures hereon is prohibited."
b.
In districts zoned for commercial or industrial uses, the nearest street extending parallel or approximately parallel to the railroad shall be at a sufficient distance therefrom to ensure suitable depth for commercial or industrial sites.
c.
All other streets which are parallel to the railroad, when intersecting a street which crosses the railroad at grade, shall, to the extent practicable, be at a distance of at least 150 feet from the railroad right-of-way. Such distance shall be determined with due consideration of the minimum distance required for future separation of grades by means of appropriate approach gradients.
(9)
Street jogs. Street jogs with centerline offsets by less than 125 feet shall be prohibited.
(10)
Right angle intersections. Street intersections shall be as nearly at right angles as practicable.
(11)
Cul-de-sac. A minor street not to extend more than 1,200 feet in length and provided with a turnaround having a minimum roadway diameter of at least 80 feet, a maximum roadway diameter of 200 feet, and a right-of-way diameter of at least 100 feet. Turnarounds having a roadway diameter of 200 feet shall include a landscaped area, a minimum of 100 feet in diameter in the center of the turnaround. Temporary dead-end streets shall be provided with a turnaround having a 30-foot radius. See subsection 34-247(3) for radial lots.
(12)
Alley. Service alleys or drives may be required in multiple dwelling, commercial and industrial developments and shall have a minimum surface treatment width of 15 feet, but shall not be provided in one-family and two-family residential developments unless the subdivider provides evidence satisfactory to the planning commission of the need for alleys.
(13)
Street right-of-way widths. For street right-of-way widths, reference County Ordinance No. 5. If County Ordinance No. 5 requires more restrictive standards than those standards enumerated in this section, then the provisions of that ordinance shall govern. Street rights-of-way are designed and developed to serve several functions: (i) to carry motor vehicle traffic, and in some cases, allow on-street parking: (ii) to provide a safe and convenient passageway for pedestrian traffic; and (iii) to serve as an important link in the county's drainage system. In order to fulfill these objectives, minimum street right-of-way widths shall be as follows:
_____
In order to fulfill these objectives, minimum street right-of-way widths shall be as follows:
Curb and gutter type construction:
EXPAND
Pavement Width (feet) Right-of-Way (feet)
(Total) (Total)
Local street:
Two-lane with parking 32 80*
Collector street:
Two-lane 22 80*
Two-lane with left turn lane 40 80*
Two-lane with left turn
and service lane 40 80*
Four-lane 48 80
Four-lane w/service lanes 78 90
Arterial street:
Two-lane 24 80*
Four-lane 48 80
Four-lane w/service lanes 64 100
Four-lane w/left turn lane 68 90
Four-lane w/left turn lane
and service lanes 86 100
  Shoulder-type lane construction:
EXPAND
Pavement Shoulder Ditch Right-of-Way
(feet) (feet) (feet) (feet)
Local:
Two-lane 20 5 to 8 13 80*
Two-lane
cul-de-sac 20 5 to 8 10 100*
Collector or arterial:
Two-lane 22 5 to 8 13 80*
Four-lane 40 10 16 100
Four-lane
w/ left turn lane 50 10 15 100
  * Includes 60 feet of right-of-way and five feet on each side for utility easements.
Inverted crown type construction:
EXPAND
Pavement Grass Shoulder
(feet)
Local:
Two-lane 20 Five to eight-feet centipede or comparable mat
Two-lane
cul-de-sac 20 Five to eight-feet centipede or comparable mat
Collector or arterial: Not permitted
  1.
When inverted crown is used the minimum grade shall not be less than one-half of one percent.
2.
Except for local streets, roadway widths shown do not provide for on-street parking; service lanes are intended only for loading and unloading of passengers and goods and for disabled vehicles and not for the storage of vehicles.
3.
Right-of-way width listed is for only that portion of the typical section between the limits indicated in diagram. Sloping rights of additional right-of-way will be required for cut and fill slopes outside these limits; these future slope areas beyond indicated right-of-way limits should also be kept clear of development until slopes have been constructed.
4.
Right-of-way widths greater than minimum are encouraged because they make for a safer, more aesthetic and more "comfortable" facility and permit future roadway widening without disrupting abutting property.
(14)
Sight distance for vertical curves. Where vertical curves are used, the minimum sight distance shall be as follows:
EXPAND
Design Speed (mph) Minimum Curve Minimum Stopping
Radii (feet) Sight Distance (feet)
Local 30 275 300
Collector 35 350 350
Arterial 40 500 400
  (15)
Horizontal curves. Where a deflection angle of more than ten degrees occur in the alignment of a marginal access or local street or road, a curve of reasonable radius shall be introduced. A curve shall be introduced at any change in direction of a collector, commercial or industrial service street or major thoroughfare. On major thoroughfares the centerline radius of curvature shall be determined by the state department of transportation or county road superintendent. On collector, commercial or industrial service streets, the centerline radius of curvature shall not be less than 350 feet. On local streets, the centerline radius of curvature shall not be less than 150 feet unless the topography of the land to be subdivided makes this impractical.
(16)
Relationship of streets to topography. Streets shall be related appropriately to the topography. In particular, streets shall be designed to facilitate the drainage and stormwater runoff objectives set forth in this chapter and street grades shall conform as closely as practicable to the original topography.
(17)
Street grades. Grades on major thoroughfares shall be established by the state department of transportation or county road superintendent. Grades on collector streets shall not exceed eight percent unless topographic conditions make this impractical. Grades on local streets shall not exceed 15 percent, unless topographic conditions make this impractical. All streets should have a minimum grade of not less than one-half of one percent.
(18)
Access to arterial roads. When a subdivision is proposed with frontage along an existing arterial road, or state numbered highway, every attempt must be made to provide an access road or frontage road for direct access to the proposed lots. The planning commission shall evaluate this requirement in an attempt to reduce the number and frequency of curb cuts along arterial roads and state numbered highways. Where a driveway or curb cut along a state highway is necessary, approval from the state department of transportation must be submitted when the preliminary subdivision plat is submitted to the department of planning and zoning for approval.
(Ord. No. 48, § 9-2, 1-9-2003; Amend. of 9-9-2004, §§ 9-2.11, 9-2.13; Amend. of 5-11-2006)
Cross reference— Streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 62.
Sec. 34-243. - Construction specification for curb and gutter and streets.
Construction specifications for curb and gutter and streets shall be completed in accordance with Lincoln County Ordinance No. 5.
(Ord. No. 48, § 9-3, 1-9-2003)
Cross reference— Streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 62.
Sec. 34-244. - Road and sidewalk requirements in unsubdivided developments.
(a)
Within unsubdivided developments, all private streets and accessways shall be designed and constructed to facilitate the safe and convenient movement of motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic.
(b)
Whenever a road in an unsubdivided development connects two or more collector or arterial streets in such a manner that any substantial volume of through traffic is likely to make use of this road, such road shall be constructed in accordance with the standards applicable to subdivision streets and shall be dedicated. In other cases when roads in unsubdivided developments within the county are constructed in accordance with the specifications for subdivision streets, the county may accept an offer of dedication of such streets.
(c)
In all unsubdivided residential developments, sidewalks shall be provided linking dwelling units with other dwelling units, the public street and on-site activity centers such as parking areas, laundry facilities and recreational areas and facilities.
(d)
Whenever the permit-issuing authority finds that a means of pedestrian access is necessary from an unsubdivided development to schools, parks, playgrounds or other roads or facilities and that such access is not conveniently provided by sidewalks adjacent to the roads, the developer may be required to reserve an unobstructed easement of at least ten feet to provide such access.
(e)
The sidewalks required by this section shall be at least four feet wide and constructed according to the specifications set forth in section 34-246, except that the permit-issuing authority may permit the installation of walkways constructed with other suitable materials when it concludes that:
(1)
Such walkways would serve the residents of the development as adequately as concrete sidewalks; and
(2)
Such walkways could be more environmentally desirable or more in keeping with the overall design of the development.
(Ord. No. 48, § 9-4, 1-9-2003)
Cross reference— Streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 62.
Sec. 34-245. - Pedestrianways.
Crosswalks, not less than ten feet wide, may be required by the planning commission where it is deemed essential in order to provide circulation or access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation or other community facilities.
(Ord. No. 48, § 9-5, 1-9-2003)
Cross reference— Streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 62.
Sec. 34-246. - Sidewalk requirements in subdivisions.
The sidewalks in subdivisions shall be at least four feet in width and sidewalk construction shall be similar to street construction, with subgrade compacted to 100 percent AASHTO T99. Concrete sidewalks shall be four inches thick (increasing to six inches thick at driveway entrances). Expansion joints shall be provided every 30 feet, and false joints every ten feet. However, the permit-issuing authority may permit the installation of walkways constructed with other suitable materials when it concludes that:
(1)
Such walkways would serve the residents of the development as adequately as concrete sidewalks; and
(2)
Such walkways would be more environmentally desirable or more in keeping with the overall design of the development.
Whenever the permit-issuing authority finds that a means of pedestrian access is necessary from the subdivision to schools, parks, playgrounds or other roads or facilities and that such access is not conveniently provided by sidewalks adjacent to the streets, the developer may be required to reserve an unobstructed easement of at least ten feet in width to provide such access.
(Ord. No. 48, § 9-6, 1-9-2003)
Cross reference— Streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 62.
Sec. 34-247. - Lots.
Residential lots shall meet the minimum lot width, depth and area requirements of the design standards of the zoning district in which the lot is located. Additional requirements include:
(1)
Orientation of lot lines. Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to street lines.
(2)
Building setback lines. A building line meeting the front yard setback requirements of this chapter shall be established on all lots.
(3)
Radial lots. The planning commission may reduce the minimum lot frontage of radial lots fronting on a cul-de-sac up to two-thirds of the required minimum lot frontage.
(Ord. No. 48, § 9-7, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-248. - General suitability of soils.
The planning commission and the director shall not approve a subdivision where the soil conditions have been determined not suitable for development by the county health department pursuant to local, state, and federal laws, regulations and standards. Clustering of lots on soil appropriate for development is encouraged leaving areas with soils inappropriate for development undisturbed.
(Ord. No. 48, § 9-8, 1-9-2003)
Secs. 34-249—34-280. - Reserved.
