Chapter 70 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC WAYS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the city saved from repeal, § 1-6(6); any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes for such improvements saved from repeal, § 1-6(9); any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the city saved from repeal, § 1-6(15); public works department, § 2-271 et seq.; buildings and construction, ch. 18; parks and recreation, ch. 54; peddlers, ch. 58; signs, ch. 66; traffic, ch. 78; utilities and services, ch. 82; zoning, app. A; land development ordinance, app. B.
State Law reference— State, county and municipal road systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-1 et seq.; powers with respect to municipal street system, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-92; regulation of maintenance and use of public roads generally, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-1 et seq.; power of city to open, close or extend public streets, alleys and sidewalks, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3; municipal street improvements, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-1 et seq.; power to construct and maintain roads, including curbs, sidewalks, street lights and devices to control the flow of traffic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(4).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 70-1. - Permission required for planting, cutting trees, vegetation.
It shall be unlawful for any person to plant, cut, trim, prune, transplant, remove or interfere with any tree, flower, vine, plant or shrub in or upon any of the streets, alleys or sidewalks within the city, or any boxing, pot or other thing provided for their protection. See Article XI, section 1112 through 1119 of the Land Development Ordinance [Appendix B].
(Code 1980, § 17-1; Ord. No. 717, 7-1-99)
Sec. 70-2. - Minimum design standards for streets.
All streets constructed in the city shall be done so in accordance with the minimum design standards established in the subdivision regulations of the city (see appendix B). Such streets must meet such minimum design standards regardless of whether they are in a platted subdivision. All streets in unplatted areas and in industrial and commercial areas must meet such minimum design standards.
(Code 1980, § 17-3)
Sec. 70-3. - Use of rights-of-way, removal of unattended property.
(a)
No person shall leave a vehicle other than a motor vehicle or trailer attached thereto, boat, equipment, or other personal property unattended upon the public sidewalks, paths, streets, alleys, walkways, parks, parking lots, rights-of-way, or other public lands of the city or upon state rights-of-way without obtaining an encroachment permit or event permit. Unattended property may be removed, impounded, sold in conformance to city ordinances or state laws, or disposed of as trash. As used in this section 70-3, such property shall be considered abandoned if it is left unattended overnight.
(b)
No person shall erect any unpermitted structure, tent, or barricade, or install stakes or other hazardous items or items that block driver or pedestrian visibility in or upon the public sidewalks, paths, streets, alleys, walkways, parks, parking lots, rights-of-way, or other public lands of the city or upon state rights-of-way within the city limits. No person shall place blankets, tarps, or other personal property in or upon the public sidewalks, paths, streets, alleys, walkways, parks, parking lots, rights-of-way, or other public lands of the city or upon state rights-of-way within the city limits overnight or place such items prior to dawn on the day of a special event. Any such items may be removed, impounded, sold in conformance to city ordinances or state laws, or disposed of as trash.
(c)
This article shall not apply to signs placed in conformance with chapter 66 of this Code.
(d)
All issues pertaining to abandoned vehicles shall be handled in accordance with state law.
(Ord. No. 1061, § 1, 6-6-2013)
Secs. 70-4—70-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PATH SYSTEM

Sec. 70-36. - Use.
All persons using the path system in the city shall abide by the following rules and regulations:
(1)
Users of recreation paths: As permitted under section 78-94.
(2)
Prohibited users of recreation paths: As prohibited under section 78-95.
(3)
Special rules. Paths are for transportation and public recreation. No individual or group shall engage in hazardous activities on the paths. Such hazardous activities shall include but are not limited to the following:
a.
Racing of any form, except for special events approved by the city.
b.
Blocking of public access, except for special events approved by the city.
c.
None of the prohibited users (subsection (2)) shall use the path system bridges or underpasses for any purpose.
d.
Pedestrians and vehicles shall not loiter on pedestrian bridges or in pedestrian underpasses.
(4)
Rules of the road.
a.
Normal rules of the road apply to the paths. For instance, when approaching oncoming path users, each user shall move to his right side of the path. Passing shall be on the left side.
b.
Any vehicle using paths during darkness must use headlights and must have appropriate reflectors.
c.
Each user shall be considerate of the welfare and safety of other users. Dangerous conduct will not be tolerated.
d.
Littering on the paths shall be subject to twice the fines and penalties as littering on the streets. All litter shall be deposited in the receptacles provided.
(5)
Liability. Each person using the paths is liable for his own actions.
(Code 1980, § 17-2; Ord. No. 757, 4-19-01; Ord. No. 797, 11-21-02)
Secs. 70-37—70-39. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - NATURE TRAILS

Sec. 70-40. - Generally.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to operate, drive, or in any manner cause to locate on the dirt trails and other nature trails which are marked with signs required in this section the following vehicles:
(1)
An electric or gasoline powered golf cart;
(2)
An electric or traditional bicycle;
(3)
Automobile;
(4)
Minibike;
(5)
Moped;
(6)
Go-cart; and
(7)
Electric or gasoline powered scooter.
(b)
All trails which are governed by this section shall be marked with a sign at all points of entrance to the trail from parks and other recreational areas, streets, and recreation paths.
(c)
The trails which are governed by this section are Flat Creek Nature Trail and Line Creek Nature Trail.
(Ord. No. 759, 5-3-01)
