Chapter 74 - TAXATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes for such improvements saved from repeal, § 1-6(9); any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code saved from repeal, § 1-6(14); administration, ch. 2; taxation of alcoholic beverages by the drink, § 6-161 et seq.; finance, ch. 34.
State Law reference— Municipal street improvements, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-1 et seq.; ad valorem taxation of property, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-1 et seq.; municipal ad valorem taxation, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-350 et seq.; ad valorem taxation of motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-440 et seq.; joint county and municipal sales and use tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-8-80 et seq.; limitation on taxing power of municipalities and counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ VIII.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 74-1. - False and fraudulent information returns.
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly make false or fraudulent returns of property for taxation, and any person committing the offense of making a false and fraudulent return shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction may be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Code 1980, § 18-1)
Sec. 74-2. - Telephone license tax.
All telephone companies shall pay, on or before August 31 of each year, an occupational license tax for that calendar year in the amount of three percent of recurring local service revenues received by the company from subscribers located within the city; the annual amount due may be computed by annualizing the taxable revenues billed during the month of June preceding the date of payment. The first payment under this section shall cover the period from its effective date through December 31 of the year in which enacted; shall be three percent of the taxable revenues billed during that part of the year; and shall be paid on or before March 15 of the following year. Any amount of license tax previously paid, and absorbed by the company, which is applicable to any period subsequent to the effective date of this tax shall be credited against the amounts imposed in this section, or by subsequent ordinance. "Recurring local service revenues" shall mean:
(1)
Monthly charges for local exchange service, including:
a.
Charges for additional listings and joint users;
b.
The guarantee portion of the charge for semipublic pay station services;
c.
Charges for local message rates service, including mobile service local messages; and
d.
Subscriber station revenues from tele-typewriter exchange service.
(2)
Charges for morse transmission, signaling, data transmission, remote metering and supervisory control where both terminal points are within the city.
(3)
All charges for local private line services (except audio and video program transmission services) where both terminals of the private line are within the city.
(Code 1980, § 13-27)
Secs. 74-3—74-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - OCCUPATIONAL TAXES

Sec. 74-36. - Required; occupation tax required for business dealings in the city.
(a)
Each person engaged in any business, trade, profession or occupation in the city, whether with a location in the city or in the case of an out-of-state business with no location in the state exerting substantial efforts within the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, shall pay an occupation tax for the business, trade, profession or occupation, which tax and any applicable registration shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the place of business if the taxpayer has a permanent business location in the city. If the taxpayer has no permanent business location in the city, such occupational tax registration shall be shown to the financial services director or designee, code enforcement officer and/or police officers of the city, upon request.
(b)
The following businesses are not covered by the provisions of this article but may be assessed an occupation tax or other type of tax pursuant to the provisions of other general laws of the state or by act of local law:
(1)
Those businesses regulated by the Georgia Public Service Commission.
(2)
Those electrical service businesses organized under O.C.G.A. Chapter 3 of Title 46.
(3)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including agribusiness.
(4)
Cooperative marketing associations governed by O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105.
(5)
Insurance companies governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.
(6)
Motor common carriers governed by O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15.
(7)
Those businesses governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355.
(8)
Agricultural products and livestock raised in the state governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356.
(9)
Depository financial institutions governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(10)
Facilities operated by a charitable trust governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-55.
(11)
Persons engaged in recreation activities sponsored by the parks and recreation department of the city.
(12)
The following classes of persons may peddle, conduct business, or practice the professions and semiprofessions without paying an occupation tax, administrative fee, or regulatory fee for the privilege of so doing:
a.
Any disabled veteran of any war or armed conflict in which any branch of the armed forces of the United States engaged, whether under United States command or otherwise;
b.
Any blind person; or
c.
Any veteran of peace-time service in the United States armed forces who has a physical disability incurred during the period of such service;
provided such person receives a certificate of exemption issued by the commissioner of veterans service, has furnished proof of disability, and provides documentation that the person making application is a resident of this state and that the income of such person is such that he or she is not liable for the payment of state income taxes, subject to O.C.G.A. § 43-12-1, et. seq.
(Code 1980, § 13-1; Ord. No. 831, 8-5-04; Ord. No. 1133, § 1, 9-7-2017)
Sec. 74-37. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative fee means a component of an occupation tax that approximates the reasonable cost of handling and processing the occupation tax.
Dominant line means the type of business, within a multiple-line business, that the greatest amount of income is derived from.
Employee means an individual whose work is performed under the direction and supervision of the employer and whose employer withholds FICA, federal income tax or state income tax, or whose employer issues to such individual for purposes of documenting compensation a form I.R.S. W-2 but not a form I.R.S. 1099.
Location of office shall not include a temporary work site which serves a single customer or project.
Number of employees shall be computed on a full-time position basis or full-time position equivalent basis; provided that for the purposes of this computation an employee who works 40 hours or more weekly shall be considered a full-time employee, and the average weekly hours of employees who work less than 40 hours weekly shall be added and such sum divided by 40 to produce full-time positive equivalents.
Person includes sole proprietors, corporations, partnerships, nonprofit or any other form of business organization (but specifically excludes charitable nonprofit organizations which utilize 100 percent of their proceeds for charitable purposes).
Practitioner of profession or occupation means one who by state law requires state licensure regulating such profession or occupation. The term does not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business if the business pays an occupation tax.
(Code 1980, § 13-2)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 74-38. - Administration.
The financial services director shall administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter for the levying and assessment and collection of the occupational tax and penalties. The clerk shall have the power and authority to make and publish reasonable rules and regulations not inconsistent with this chapter or other laws of the city and the state, or the constitution of the state or the United States, for the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter and the collection of the occupational tax fees.
(Code 1980, § 13-3; Ord. No. 1133, § 1, 9-7-2017)
Sec. 74-39. - Occupation tax levied.
An occupational tax shall be levied upon those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices in the corporate limits of the city and/or upon the applicable out-of-state businesses with no location or office in Georgia pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7 based on the number of employees of the business or practitioner. The tax rate shall be that rate adopted by the city council and maintained by the financial services director.
(Code 1980, § 13-4; Ord. No. 722, 10-21-99; Ord. No. 773, 8-16-01; Ord. No. 1133, § 1, 9-7-2017)
Sec. 74-40. - Paying occupation tax on business with no location in state.
Registration and assessment of an occupation tax is imposed on those businesses and practitioners of professions with no location or office in the state if the business's largest dollar volume of business in the state is in the city and the business or practitioner:
(1)
Has one or more employees or agents who exert substantial efforts within the jurisdiction of the city for the purpose of soliciting business or serving customers or clients; or
(2)
Owns personal or real property which generates income and which is located within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Code 1980, § 13-5)
Sec. 74-41. - Each line of business to be identified on business registration.
The business registration of each business operated in the city shall identify the dominant line of business that the business conducts.
(Code 1980, § 13-6)
Sec. 74-42. - The number of businesses considered to be operating in the city.
Where a person conducts business at more than one fixed location, each location or place shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of occupation tax.
(Code 1980, § 13-7)
Sec. 74-43. - Professionals as classified in state law, paragraphs 1 through 18.
Practitioners of professions as described in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1), paragraphs (1) through (18) shall pay their tax based on the number of employees as all other businesses.
(Code 1980, § 13-8)
Sec. 74-44. - Practitioners exclusively practicing for a government.
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, a municipality or county of the state, instrumentalities of the United States, the state, or a municipality or county of the state shall not be required to obtain a license or pay an occupation tax for that practice.
(Code 1980, § 13-9)
Sec. 74-45. - Purpose and scope of tax.
The occupation tax levied in this article is for revenue purposes only and is not for regulatory purposes; nor is the payment of the tax made a condition precedent to the practice of any such profession, trade or calling. The occupation tax only applies to those businesses and occupations which are covered by the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-5—48-13-26. All other applicable businesses and occupations are taxed by the local government pursuant to the pertinent general and/or local law and ordinance.
(Code 1980, § 13-10)
Sec. 74-46. - When tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax is delinquent.
(a)
Each occupation tax shall be for the calendar year unless otherwise specifically provided. The certificate and occupation tax shall be due and payable annually within 30 days of January 1, of each year and shall, if not paid by May 1 of each year, be subject to a penalty of ten percent of the tax or fee due. On any new profession, trade or business begun in the city before July of any year, the certificate and tax shall be delinquent if not obtained immediately upon beginning business and a ten percent penalty imposed if not paid within 90 days from the date business is commenced. When any person commences business on or after July 1 in any year, the occupation tax for the remaining portion of the year shall be 50 percent of the tax imposed for the entire year. Any certificate not renewed prior to May 1 shall be suspended.
(b)
In addition to other remedies available to the city for the collection of occupation taxes from persons subject to the tax who fail or refuse to pay the tax, the court for the city is authorized to impose a civil fine for failure to pay the occupation tax. Such fine shall not exceed $500.00 and may be enforced by the contempt power of the court.
(Code 1980, § 13-11; Ord. No. 722, 10-21-99)
Sec. 74-47. - Occupational tax registration to be displayed.
All persons shall exhibit and display the occupation tax registration issued to them in some conspicuous place in their business establishment. Any transient person doing business within the city, and liable for occupational tax within the city, shall carry such registration either upon his person or in any vehicle or other conveyance which he uses in such business; and such person shall exhibit the registration to any authorized enforcement officer of the city when so requested.
(Code 1980, § 13-12)
Sec. 74-48. - License transferable.
All occupational tax registrations shall be transferable for a business moving from one location to another if such person or business notifies the finance division in writing of such new address no later than the day of moving.
(Code 1980, § 13-13; Ord. No. 1133, § 1, 9-7-2017)
Sec. 74-49. - Duration of occupational tax.
Each occupational tax issued under this article shall automatically expire on December 31 of the year of its issuance unless otherwise provided in this article.
(Code 1980, § 13-14)
Sec. 74-50. - Evidence of state registration required if applicable; state registration to be displayed.
(a)
Each person who is licensed by the secretary of state pursuant to O.C.G.A. tit. 43 shall provide evidence of proper and current state licensure before the city registration may be issued.
(b)
Each person who is licensed by the state shall post the state license in a conspicuous place in the licensee's place of business and shall keep the license there at all times while the license remains valid or have the license available for review at the request of a city enforcement official.
(Code 1980, § 13-15)
Sec. 74-51. - Evidence of qualification required if applicable.
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualification, certificates of competency, or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the issuance of a city business registration, show evidence that such requirements have been met.
(Code 1980, § 13-16)
Sec. 74-52. - Penalty for violation.
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction before the city judge, be punished in accordance with section 1-11.
(Code 1980, § 13-17)
Sec. 74-53. - Amendment, repeal of provisions.
This chapter shall be subject to amendment or repeal, in whole or in part, at any time; and no such amendment or repeal shall be construed to deny the right of the city to assess and collect any of the taxes or other charges prescribed. An amendment may increase or lower the amounts and tax rates of any occupation. The payment of any occupation tax provided for shall not be construed as prohibiting the levy or collection by the jurisdiction of additional occupation taxes upon the same person.
(Code 1980, § 13-18)
Sec. 74-54. - Liability of officers and agents; registration required; failure to obtain.
All persons subject to the occupation tax levied pursuant to this chapter shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for the business as described in this chapter; and in default, the officer or agent soliciting for or representing such persons shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons who fail to obtain a registration. Every person commencing business in the city after January 1 of each year shall likewise obtain the registration before commencing business; and any person transacting or offering to transact in the city any of the kinds of business, trade, profession or occupation without first having so obtained such registration shall be subject to penalties provided for failure to do so.
(Code 1980, § 13-19)
Sec. 74-55. - Applications of provisions to prior provisions.
This chapter does not repeal or affect the force of any part of any ordinance heretofore passed where taxes levied under such prior ordinance have not been paid in full. So much and such parts of ordinances heretofore and hereinafter passed as provided for the issuing and enforcing of execution for any tax or assessment required by such ordinances, or that imposed fines or penalties for the nonpayment of such tax, or for failure to pay regulatory fees provided for in such ordinance or ordinances, or failure to comply with any other provisions of this chapter, shall continue and remain in force until such tax, regulatory fee or assessment shall be fully paid.
(Code 1980, § 13-20)
Sec. 74-56. - Provisions to remain in full force and effect until changed by council.
This chapter shall remain in full force and effect until changed by amendments adopted by the city council. All provisions relating to any form of tax levied in this article shall remain in full force and effect until such taxes have been paid in full.
(Code 1980, § 13-21)
Sec. 74-57. - Requirement of public hearing before tax increase.
After January 1, 1996, the city council shall conduct at least one public hearing before adopting any ordinance or resolution which will increase the rate of occupation tax in this chapter.
(Code 1980, § 13-22)
Sec. 74-58. - Appeals.
Any person who desires to contest the determination of the financial services director with respect to any provision of this chapter shall so notify the mayor in writing within ten days of such determination, specifying the reasons such person believes the determination of the clerk is incorrect. The mayor shall thereupon notify such person of the time and place of the next meeting of the council, or of an occupational tax review board consisting of not less than three members of the council; and such aggrieved person may appear at such time and place to present arguments as to why the determination of the clerk is incorrect. The determination of the council or of the review board appointed by the council, as the case may be, with respect to the contested determination of the financial services director shall be binding and conclusive upon such person.
(Code 1980, § 13-24; Ord. No. 1133, § 1, 9-7-2017)
Sec. 74-59. - Requirement of public hearing.
After January 1, 1996, the city council shall conduct at least one public hearing before adopting any ordinance or resolution which will increase the rate of occupation tax as set forth in this chapter.
(Code 1980, § 13-41)
Secs. 74-60—74-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - INSURERS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Local tax on other than life insurance companies, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2; general assembly authorized to provide for taxation of insurance companies based on gross direct premiums received from insurance policies within the unincorporated areas of counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV, ¶ I(c).

Sec. 74-91. - Gross premiums tax.
(a)
Imposition.
(1)
Gross premiums tax imposed on life insurers. There is levied an annual tax based solely upon gross direct premiums upon each insurer writing life, accident and sickness insurance within the city in an amount equal to one percent of the gross direct premiums received during the calendar year in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1. "Gross direct premiums," as used in this section, shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premium tax levied by this section is in addition to the license fees imposed by this article.
(2)
Gross premiums tax, all other insurers. There is levied an annual tax upon each insurer insuring risks within the city in an amount equal to 2½ percent of the gross direct premiums received during the calendar year, excluding premiums tax imposed on life insurers, in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2. "Gross direct premiums" as used in this section shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premium tax levied by this section is in addition to the license fees imposed by the city.
(b)
Due date. The premium taxes levied by subsection (a) of this section are due and payable on January 15 each year. Gross premium taxes not paid by January 15 following the end of each calendar year shall be delinquent. The city council shall add the sum of 20 percent of the total amount of such tax for failure to pay the taxes on or before January 15 of each calendar year.
(c)
Report. Every insurance company doing business within the city and subject to the taxes imposed in this section shall file on or before January 15 following the calendar year with the finance division a report setting out complete information regarding the classes of insurance written, and the premiums received by class from policies written on risks residing or located within the city. Such report shall be made over affidavit of an officer of such company. It is declared to be a violation of this Code for any person or any person's agent to knowingly give false or incomplete information on any such report.
(d)
Confidentiality. All reports required to be filed under this section shall be confidential, and the information contained in such reports shall be solely for the use of the city council for administering this section.
(e)
Enforcement. The taxes levied by this section may be enforced by execution in the same manner as other taxes of the city.
(Code 1980, § 13-25; Ord. No. 1133, § 2, 9-7-2017)
Sec. 74-92. - Annual license fees.
(a)
Levied. There is hereby levied for the year 2002 and for each year thereafter an annual license fee upon each insurer doing business within the city in the amount of $100.00. For each separate business location in excess of one not covered by subsection (b) of this section, which is operating on behalf of such insurers within the city, there is levied a license fee in the amount of $100.00 For the purposes of this section, the term "insurer" means a company which is authorized to transact business in the class of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5(1).
(b)
Insurers insuring certain risk at additional business locations. There is hereby levied for the year 2002 and for each year thereafter for each separate business location, not otherwise subject to a license fee under this section; operated and maintained by a business organization which is engaged in the business of lending money or transacting sales involving term financing and in connection with such loans or sales, offers, solicits or takes application for insurance through a licensed agent of a life insurer for life insurance, the insurer shall pay an additional license fee of $35.00 per location.
(c)
Agency license fees; independent insurance agencies, brokers not otherwise licensed. There is hereby levied for the year 2002 and for each year thereafter an annual license fee upon independent agencies and brokers for each separate business location from which an insurance business is conducted and which is not subject to the company license fee imposed by subsection (a), in the amount of $100.00 for each such location within the city.
(Code 1980, § 13-26; Ord. No. 775, 11-15-01)
Secs. 74-93—74-125. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Local depository financial institutions business license tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.

Sec. 74-126. - Bank tax (depository financial institution tax) levied.
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93, and levied in the year 1984, by official resolution of the city council dated December 1, 1983, and levied for each year thereafter, an annual tax will continue to be levied upon all depository financial institutions located within the city at a rate of 0.25 percent of the gross receipts of such depository financial institutions. "Gross receipts" shall mean gross receipts as defined in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93. "Depository financial institutions" shall mean state and national banks, state building and loan associations, and federal savings and loan associations.
(Ord. No. 687, § 13-28, 3-5-1998)
Sec. 74-127. - Minimum tax.
The minimum annual amount of tax due from any financial institution pursuant to this article shall be $1,000.00.
(Ord. No. 687, § 13-28(1), 3-5-1998)
Sec. 74-128. - Filing of return.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93(c), each depository financial institution subject to the tax levied in this article shall file a return of its gross receipts with the financial services director on March 1 of the year following the year in which such gross receipts are measured. Such return shall be in the manner and in the form prescribed by the commissioner of the department of revenue based on the allocations method set forth in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93(d). The financial services director shall assess and collect the tax levied pursuant to this article based upon the information provided in the return.
(Ord. No. 687, § 13-28(2), 3-5-1998; Ord. No. 1133, § 3, 9-7-2017)
Sec. 74-129. - Due date of taxes.
Taxes levied pursuant to this article shall be due no later than 30 days after filing of the return prescribed by section 74-128 unless extended by the city council.
(Ord. No. 687, § 13-28(3), 3-5-1998)
Secs. 74-130—74-160. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - LODGING TAX[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Excise tax on rooms, lodging and accommodations, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq.

Sec. 74-161. - Purpose and intent.
It is the intent of this article to impose a tax, pursuant to authority granted by the general assembly of the state, the funds from which taxation shall be used for public purposes primarily promoting, attracting, stimulating and developing conventions and tourism, including economic growth in the city.
(Code 1980, § 13-30)
Sec. 74-162. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Due date means the 20th day after the close of the monthly period for which tax is to be computed.
Guest room means a room occupied, or intended, arranged or designed for occupancy, by one or more occupants for the purpose of living quarters or residential use. It shall not include meeting rooms or exhibitions halls.
Hotel means any structure or any portion of a structure, including any lodginghouse, roominghouse, dormitory, turkish bath, bachelor hotel, auto court, inn, public club or private club, containing guest rooms and which is occupied or is intended or designed for occupancy by guests, whether rent is paid in money, goods, labor or otherwise. It does not include any jail, hospital, asylum, sanitarium, orphanage, prison, detention or other buildings in which human beings are housed and detained under legal restraint.
Monthly means the calendar months of any year.
Occupancy means the use or possession or the right to the use or possession of any room or apartment in a hotel or the right to the use or possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the room or apartment.
Occupant means any person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses or has the right of use or possession of any guest room in a hotel under any lease, concession, permit, right of access, license to use or other agreement, or otherwise.
Operator means any person operating a hotel in the city, including but not limited to the owner or proprietor of such premises, lessee, sublessee, lender in possession, licensee or any other person otherwise operating such hotel.
Permanent resident means any occupant as of a given date who has or shall have occupied, or has or shall have the right of occupancy, of any guest room in a hotel or motel for at least 30 consecutive days next preceding the given date; provided that state and local government officials and employees traveling on official governmental business shall be considered permanent residents pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(g)(3).
Person means an individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, nonprofit corporation or cooperative nonprofit membership, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit, the plural as well as the singular number, excepting the United States of America, the state, and any political subdivision of either upon which the city is without power to impose the tax provided in this article.
Rent means the consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction whatsoever.
(Code 1980, § 13-31; Ord. No. 959, § 1, 11-6-2008; Ord. No. 1053, § 1, 6-6-2013)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 74-163. - Imposition and rate of tax.
(a)
There is hereby levied and imposed an excise tax on any person or legal entity licensed by or required to pay a business or occupation tax to the city for operating a hotel, motel, inn, lodge, tourist camp, tourist cabin, campground, or any other place in which rooms, lodgings, or accommodations are regularly furnished for value at a tax at the rate of eight percent of the lodging charges actually collected from the hotel or motel guest and who receives a room, lodging, or accommodation that is subject to the tax. The city's prior levy of a six percent occupancy tax is hereby repealed as of July 31, 2013; provided that such repeal shall not affect any existing liability for amounts still due and owing by operators and the city retains the rights to full payment of those outstanding obligations along with any applicable interest and penalties.
(b)
The proceeds of this tax shall be used and applied in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(b). Specifically, the allocations of the eight percent levy shall be as follows: Three percent for general city operations; two percent for the purpose of promoting tourism, conventions and trade shows; two percent through a contract with a destination marketing organization for the purpose of promoting tourism, trade shows, and conventions; and one percent for capital projects and operating costs for tourism product development, such amount to be divided through the annual budget and allocated among the city and the Peachtree City Convention & Visitors Bureau, Inc. Sums devoted to promoting tourism, conventions and trade shows shall be administered through the Peachtree City Convention & Visitors Bureau, Inc. pursuant to its contract with the city and in accordance with the budget established by Peachtree City Convention & Visitors Bureau and approved by the city in its annual budget process.
(Code 1980, § 13-32; Ord. No. 756, 4-19-01; Ord. No. 782, 1-17-02; Ord. No. 849, 6-16-05; Ord. No. 1053, § 2, 6-6-2013)
Sec. 74-164. - Collection generally; proceeds of the tax.
(a)
Every operator maintaining a hotel in this city and renting guest rooms in this city not exempted under this article shall collect a tax at the rate established in section 74-163 from the occupant.
(b)
The proceeds of the tax collected pursuant to this article shall be used in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(a)(3.4).
(Ord. No. 849, 6-16-05)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 849, adopted June 16, 2005, repealed and reenacted § 74-164 to read as herein set out. Formerly, § 74-164 pertained to the collection of tax by operator; receipt to occupant; and rules for collection schedules, and derived from the Code of 1980, § 13-33, and Ord. No. 793, adopted October 17, 2002.
Sec. 74-165. - Exemptions.
No tax shall be imposed under this article upon those persons exempted under state law as found in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51 and as it may be amended.
(Code 1980, § 13-34; Ord. No. 793, 10-17-02)
Sec. 74-166. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 850, § 1, adopted July 7, 2005, repealed § 74-166 in its entirety, which pertained to registration of operators; forms and contents; execution; and certificate of authority, and derived from the Code of 1980, § 13-35, and Ord. No. 793, adopted October 17, 2002.
Sec. 74-167. - Determination, returns and payments.
(a)
Due date of taxes. All amounts of taxes levied in this article shall be due and payable monthly on or before the 20th day of every month next succeeding each respective monthly period.
(b)
Return; time of filing; persons required to file; contents. On or before the 20th day of the month following each monthly period, a return for the preceding monthly period shall be filed with the finance division showing the gross rent, rent from permanent residence, taxable rent, amount of tax collected or otherwise due for the related period, and such other information as may be required by the financial services director.
(c)
Collection fee allowed operators. Operators collecting the tax shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting and payment of the amount due if the amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of deduction shall be as established and as authorized for deduction by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-52.
(Code 1980, § 13-36; Ord. No. 793, 10-17-02; Ord. No. 1133, § 4, 9-7-2017)
Sec. 74-168. - Deficiency determinations.
(a)
Recomputation of tax; authority to make; basis of recomputation. If the financial services director is not satisfied with the return of the tax or the amount of the tax required to be paid to the city by any person, he may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon the basis of any information within his possession or that may come into his possession. One or more deficiency determinations may be made of the amount due for one or more monthly periods.
(b)
Interest and penalties on deficiency. The amount of the determination shall incur penalties and bear interest at the rate established by the state law of Excise Tax on Rooms, Lodgings, and Accommodations found at O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-50 et seq.
(c)
Notice of determination; service of. The financial services director or his designated representative shall give to the operator written notice of his determination. The notice may be served personally or by mail; if by mail, such service shall be addressed to the operator at his address as it appears in the records of the financial services director. Service by mail is complete when delivered by certified mail with a receipt signed by the addressee.
(d)
Time within which notice of deficiency determination to be mailed. Except in the case of failure to make a return, every notice of a deficiency determination shall be mailed within three years after the 20th day of the calendar month following the monthly period for which the amount is proposed to be determined, or within three years after the return is filed, whichever period should last expire.
(Code 1980, § 13-37; Ord. No. 793, 10-17-02; Ord. No. 1133, § 4, 9-7-2017)
Sec. 74-169. - Determination if no return made.
(a)
Estimate of gross receipts. If any person fails to make a return, the financial services director shall make an estimate of the amount of the gross receipts of the person, or as the case may be, of the amount of the total rentals in this city which are subject to the tax. The estimate shall be made for the period or periods in respect to which the person failed to make the return and shall be based upon any information which is or may come into the possession of the financial services director. Written notice shall be given in the manner prescribed in this article.
(b)
Interest and penalties on amount found due. The amount of the determination shall include penalties and bear interest at the rate established by the state law of Excise Tax on Rooms, Lodgings, and Accommodations found at O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-50 et seq.
(Code 1980, § 13-38; Ord. No. 793, 10-17-02; Ord. No. 1133, § 4, 9-7-2017)
Sec. 74-170. - Administration of article.
(a)
Authority of financial services director. The financial services director shall administer and enforce the provisions of this article for the collection of the tax imposed by this article.
(b)
Records required from operators. Every operator renting guest rooms in this city to a person shall keep such records, receipts, invoices and other pertinent papers in such form as the financial services director may require.
(c)
Examination of records; audits. The financial services director or any person authorized in writing by the financial services director may examine the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of any operator renting guest rooms to a person and any operator liable for the tax, in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made by the operator, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid.
(d)
Authority to require reports; contents. In administration of the provisions of this article, the financial services director may require the filing of reports of any persons having in such persons' possession or custody information relating to rentals of guestrooms which are subject to the tax. The reports shall be filed with the finance division when required by the financial services director and shall set forth the rental charge for each occupancy, the dates of occupancy, and such other information as the financial services director may require.
(Code 1980, § 13-39; Ord. No. 1133, § 4, 9-7-2017)
Sec. 74-171. - Violations; collections.
(a)
Any person responsible for reporting, return or payment of the taxes levied pursuant to this article shall be subject to punishment as provided in O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-58.1—48-13-63. In the event any such person is in violation of any of the provisions of this article that are not otherwise covered by state law then, upon conviction, such person shall be deemed guilty of an offense and shall be punished in municipal court to the extent of that court's authority.
(b)
Such person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day during any portion of which any violation of any provision of this article is committed, continued, or permitted by that person, and shall be punished accordingly. Any operator or any other person who fails to register as required herein, or to furnish any return required to be made, or who fails or refuses to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the city, or who renders a false or fraudulent return shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as aforesaid.
(c)
At any time within three years after any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected becomes due and payable, and at any time within three years after the delinquency of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected under this article, the city may bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction to collect the amount delinquent, together with the interest, court fees, filing fees, attorneys' fees and other legal fees incident thereto.
(Code 1980, § 13-40; Ord. No. 793, 10-17-02; Ord. No. 1053, § 3, 6-6-2013)
Secs. 74-172—74-199. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - SENIOR HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is Act 203 (H.B. 590) as adopted by the Georgia General Assembly and approved by the Governor on May 5, 2005. The Act was approved by voter referendum on November 8, 2005. Amendments to this act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 74-200. - Homestead Exemption Act.
To provide for a homestead exemption from city ad valorem taxes for municipal purposes in the amount of $5,000.00 of the assessed value of the homestead for residents of that city who are 65 years of age or over and whose income does not exceed $30,000.00; to provide for definitions; to specify the terms and conditions of the exemption and the procedures relating thereto; to provide for applicability; to provide for a referendum, effective dates, and automatic repeal; to repeal conflicting laws, and for other purposes.
(1)
As used in this Act, the term:
Ad valorem taxes for municipal purposes means all ad valorem taxes for municipal purposes levied by, for, or on behalf of the city, except for any ad valorem taxes to pay interest on and to retire municipal bonded indebtedness.
Homestead means homestead as defined and qualified in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-40, as amended.
Income means federal adjusted gross income determined pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for federal income tax purposes.
Senior citizen means a person who is 65 years of age or over on or before January 1 of the year in which application for the exemption under subsection (b) is made.
(b)
Each resident of the city who is a senior citizen is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from city ad valorem taxes for municipal purposes in the amount of $5,000.00 of the assessed value of that homestead. The exemption granted by this subsection shall only be granted if that person's income together with the income of the spouse who also occupies and resides at such homestead does not exceed $30,000 for the immediately preceding year. The value of that property in excess of such exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation.
(c)
A person shall not receive the homestead exemption granted by subsection (b) unless the person or person's agent files an application with the governing authority of the city, or the designee thereof, giving such information relative to receiving such exemption as will enable the governing authority of the city, or the designee thereof, to make a determination as to whether such owner is entitled to such exemption. Such application shall be filed on an annual basis, and shall also include an affidavit of the age of the applicant.
(d)
The governing authority of the city, or the designee thereof, shall provide application and affidavit forms for the exemptions granted by this section which shall require such information as may be necessary to determine the initial and continuing eligibility of the owner for the exemption under subsection (b).
(e)
The exemption under subsection (b) shall be claimed and returned as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-50.1. The exemption under subsection (b) shall be renewed each year unless the governing authority of the city, or the designee thereof, determines that such person is ineligible for that exemption. It shall be the duty of any person granted the homestead exemption under subsection (b) to notify the governing authority of the city, or the designee thereof, in the event that person for any reason becomes ineligible for that exemption.
(f)
The exemption granted by subsection (b) shall not apply to or affect state ad valorem taxes, county ad valorem taxes for county purposes, or county or independent school district ad valorem taxes for educational purposes. The homestead exemption granted by subsection (b) shall be in addition to and not in lieu of any other homestead exemption applicable to municipal ad valorem taxes for municipal purposes.
(g)
The exemption granted by subsection (b) shall apply to all taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2006.
(Ord. No. 866, § 1, 1-19-06)
