Chapter 54 - OFFENSES[1]

Sec. 54-1. - Discharge of firearms.
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any explosive, pistol, gun, or other weapon or instrument likely to produce injury to person or property, except in defense of person or property, within a radius of 300 yards from any occupied dwelling without the express permission of the occupant of such dwelling. Nothing in this section shall apply to any person authorized by law to use firearms in the course of his duty.
(Ord. No. 90-008, § 10-106, 6-25-90; Ord. No. O-2013-002 , 5-13-2013)
State Law reference— Discharge of firearm near public highway or street, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-103; discharge of firearm on property of another, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-104; Georgia Firearms and Weapons Act, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-120 et seq.
Sec. 54-2. - Idling or loitering in public parks, public areas and public buildings.
It shall be disorderly conduct and unlawful for any person, except the duly employed and authorized employees and agents of this city, or of its commissions or agencies, in the regular and necessary conduct and management of their employment by the city, to be upon or to appear within any of the public parks, public areas and public buildings, owned or controlled by the city, or by any of its subsidiary agencies, commissions or boards in an idling or loitering manner between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., except and unless such person has a right to be upon and within such designated public places by virtue of a lawful admission, invitation or ticket to some activity, or entertainment as authorized and then being carried on by the city, or by such subsidiary agency, commission or board of the city, as may have control over such public park, area, grounds and buildings. This section does not cover or apply to public streets outside such designated places.
(Code 1984, § 10-115)
State Law reference— Loitering or prowling, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-36; ordinances proscribing loitering or related activities not preempted, O.C.G.A. § 16-6-24.
Sec. 54-3. - Vagrancy.
It shall be unlawful for any person who has no known legitimate business, employment or property yielding an income sufficient to support such person to idle, stroll, loaf, stand or sit about the streets, sidewalks, parks or other public places in the city, nor shall any person be permitted to idle, loaf or loiter in any factory, depot, house or on any private property without the consent of the owner or the person in charge.
(Code 1984, § 10-117)
Sec. 54-4. - Disorderly conduct.
Any person who shall do or engage in any of the following within the municipal city limits shall be guilty of disorderly conduct:
(1)
Act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby any person is placed in fear of safety of his life, limb or health;
(2)
Act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby the property of any other person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged;
(3)
Cause, provoke or engage in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another;
(4)
Assemble or congregate with another or others for the purpose of or with the intent to engage in gaming;
(5)
Frequent any public place with intent to obtain money from other persons by illegal and fraudulent schemes, tricks, artifices or devices;
(6)
Assemble for the purpose of engaging in any fraudulent scheme, device or trick to obtain any valuable thing in any place or from any person, or to aid or abet therein;
(7)
Accost or force one's company upon any person;
(8)
Frequent any place where gaming or the illegal sale or possession of alcoholic beverages or narcotics or dangerous drugs are practiced, allowed or tolerated, for the purpose of or with the intent to engage in gaming or the purchase, use, possession or consumption of said illegal drugs, narcotics or alcoholic beverages;
(9)
Use "fighting words" towards another, that is, words which by their very nature tend to incite an immediate breach of the peace;
(10)
By acts of violence interfere with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation;
(11)
Congregate with another or others in or on any public way so as to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuse to clear such public way when ordered by the city police or other authority;
(12)
Disrupt, by excessive noise or disorderly actions, the undisturbed activities of any institution of learning, house of worship or any hospital;
(13)
Throw bottles, paper, cans, glass, sticks, stones, missiles or any other debris on public property;
(14)
Stand or remain in or about any street, sidewalk, overpass, or public way so as to impede the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic, and to fail to clear such street, sidewalk, overpass, or public way after being ordered to do so by a police officer or other lawful authority; or
(15)
Making unreasonable noise or offensively coarse utterances, gestures or displays, or communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language to any person, thereby causing annoyance or alarm to another.
(Code 1984, § 10-123; Ord. No. O-2009-006 , 8-3-09)
Sec. 54-5. - Drinking in public.
It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any spirituous malt or alcoholic beverage in or upon the street, alley, sidewalk or other public way or place in the city, or within any public building.
(Code 1984, § 10-127)
Sec. 54-6. - Smoking in public places.
It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke tobacco in any form in any of the following public places:
(1)
An enclosed elevator which is used by or open to the public and which is clearly designated by a no smoking sign;
(2)
Any place on a public transportation vehicle which is used by the public and which is clearly designated by a no smoking sign; or
(3)
Any area which is used by or open to the public and which is clearly designated by a no smoking sign.
(Ord. No. 86-005, § 1, 7-28-86)
State Law reference— Smoking in public places, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-2.
Sec. 54-7. - Public drunkenness.
It shall be unlawful for any person to be drunk, intoxicated or under the influence of intoxicating liquors, or to be drinking alcoholic or intoxicating liquors to excess upon the streets, lanes, roads and alleys within the corporate limits of the city. It shall be further unlawful for any person to be drunk, intoxicated or under the influence of intoxicating liquors or to be drinking alcoholic or intoxicating liquors in excess in any motor vehicle upon the streets, lanes, roads and alleys within the corporate limits of the city, and such conduct is hereby defined and declared to be improper, indecent or disorderly conduct and injurious to the public morals and public safety of the citizens of the city.
(Ord. No. O-2009-007 , 8-3-09)
