ARTICLE VI. - PAWNBROKERS[4]

Sec. 18-181. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Pawnbroker means any person with whom property is deposited as security for the payment of a debt.
(Ord. No. 96-002, § I, 1-8-96)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 18-182. - Enforcement of article.
(a)
Criminal provisions. The criminal provisions of this article shall be enforced by those persons or agencies designated by the city.
(b)
Suspension of business license. Those persons or agencies authorized by the city to enforce this article shall have the authority to suspend the business license of the establishment in question, upon just cause, for violation of this article until a judicial hearing.
(Ord. No. 96-002, § X, 1-8-96)
Sec. 18-183. - Penalty for violation of article.
Whenever by this article any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful, or the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision of this article shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-11. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation of this article.
(Ord. No. 96-002, § XI, 1-8-96)
Sec. 18-184. - Property received.
(a)
By purchase. Property received by purchase shall be retained for 60 days before it will be made available for resale.
(b)
By pawn. Property received for pawn shall be retained for 60 days before it will be made available for resale.
(c)
Presented with altered serial number. Any property presented to the pawnshop that bears any indication of having an altered serial number shall be immediately reported to the respective law enforcement agency.
(Ord. No. 96-002, § II, 1-8-96)
Sec. 18-185. - Documentation of pawn or purchase transactions.
(a)
Availability; types of documentation. Documentation of pawn or purchase transactions shall be made available to the respective law enforcement agency within two working days of the transaction. Documentation will include:
(1)
Transaction number;
(2)
Name of pledgor or seller;
(3)
Address of pledgor or seller;
(4)
Date and time of transaction;
(5)
Maturity date;
(6)
Identification (only state or federal picture identification shall be acceptable);
(7)
Current home phone number;
(8)
Race;
(9)
Sex;
(10)
Date of birth;
(11)
Height;
(12)
Weight;
(13)
Quantity, type, make, model, color, size, length and serial number of any and all items received from pledgor or seller; and
(14)
Fingerprint (right index finger) of the pledgor.
(b)
Legibility. All documentation shall be legible. Documentation that is illegible shall be returned to the pawnshop who shall be responsible for obtaining the appropriate information and shall forward same to the appropriate law enforcement agency within 72 hours. Special attention should be made to ensure that legible fingerprints are obtained. Acceptable legibility shall be the determination of the law enforcement agency.
(c)
Provision to police of copy of pawn and purchase transactions. The pawnshop shall provide the city police department with a computer readable and searchable copy of all pawn and purchase transactions in a format acceptable by the police department.
(d)
Transaction numbers. Transaction numbers will be reflected on all pawn cards which will display preprinted sequential numbers prominently displayed on the face of such card.
(e)
Voided pawn cards. Voided pawn cards will be retained and submitted as other cards.
(f)
Accessibility of other documentation. All copies, logs, files and/or other documentation concerning pawn tickets and/or transactions shall be accessible for no-notice audit by law enforcement agencies during normal business hours.
(Ord. No. 96-002, § III, 1-8-96)
Sec. 18-186. - Disposition of property—Criminal case.
(a)
Evidence will be surrendered to police and proper documentation will be completed. Proper documentation shall consist of an official receipt bearing the letterhead of the law enforcement agency appropriating the property (on which shall be listed a thorough description of the property being seized). A copy of same will be provided to the pawnshop. A copy of the original incident report shall be made available to the pawnshop if so requested.
(b)
The pawnshop shall retain the ability to pursue civil or criminal prosecution of the individual that originally pawned the property.
(Ord. No. 96-002, § IV, 1-8-96)
Sec. 18-187. - Same—Personal warrant or civil case.
(a)
Upon notification, property in question will be segregated from normal inventory and will be held for a maximum of ten working days. Prior to the expiration of the hold period, the plaintiff in such case must provide the pawnshop and the respective law enforcement agency with adequate proof of ownership of the property in question. If such proof is provided, the plaintiff may retrieve the property once the balance due on the property has been paid. If the provisions of this subsection is not accomplished, the property will be released from hold.
(b)
The pawnshop shall retain the ability to pursue civil or criminal prosecution of the individual that originally pawned the property.
(Ord. No. 96-002, § V, 1-8-96)
Sec. 18-188. - Access to property and transaction records by law enforcement officers.
Representatives of law enforcement agencies shall have access to both property and records of transactions during the course of active investigations. Law enforcement officers shall be permitted to make copies, photos, videos and any other such reproductions of such property or associated records.
(Ord. No. 96-002, § VI, 1-8-96)
Sec. 18-189. - Transactions with minors.
No pawnbroker shall receive any article in pawn or purchase any article for resale from any person under 18 years of age.
(Ord. No. 96-002, § VII, 1-8-96)
Sec. 18-190. - Licenses.
(a)
Annual business license. Pawnshops shall be required to purchase and appropriately display an annual business license for their establishment.
(b)
Retail sales license. A pawnshop shall be required hereby to purchase a separate retail sales license if the total gross income based on the sale of new (unpledged) merchandise equals or exceeds $1,000.00.
(Ord. No. 96-002, § VIII, 1-8-96)
Sec. 18-191. - Hours and/or days of operation.
(a)
A pawnshop business shall not be operated between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
(b)
A pawnshop business shall not be operated on any Sunday of the year or on Christmas or Thanksgiving Day.
(Ord. No. 96-002, § IX, 1-8-96)
Secs. 18-192—18-215. - Reserved.
