Chapter 86 - VEGETATION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 86-1—86-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TREES

Sec. 86-31. - Jurisdiction of article.
The provisions of this article shall apply to all lands public and private within the incorporated area of the city.
(Ord. No. 96-007, § II, 4-22-96)
Sec. 86-32. - Purpose of article.
The purpose of this article is to:
(1)
Lessen air pollution and carbon dioxide levels in the air, and promote clean air quality by increasing dust filtration;
(2)
Prevent reductions in the drainage holding capacity of land;
(3)
Minimize increases in temperatures on lands with natural planted tree cover;
(4)
Maintain moisture levels in the air of lands with natural tree cover;
(5)
Emphasize the importance of trees and vegetation as both a visual and physical buffer;
(6)
Minimize liability risks and improve safety for the public;
(7)
Defend and enhance property values;
(8)
Protect and enhance the aesthetic qualities of the community to ensure that tree removal does not reduce property values;
(9)
Defend historical and social values; and
(10)
Maintain and improve values and functions received from trees for quality of life.
(Ord. No. 96-007, § III, 4-22-96)
Sec. 86-33. - Findings of fact.
It is hereby found and determined that:
(1)
Trees are proven producers of oxygen, a necessary element for survival of mankind.
(2)
Trees appreciably reduce the ever-increasing and environmentally dangerous carbon dioxide content of the air and play a vital role in purifying the air.
(3)
Trees play an important role in the hydrologic cycle, transpiring considerable amounts of water each day, thereby precipitating dust and other particulate airborne pollutants from the air.
(4)
Trees play an important role in neutralizing wastewater which passes through the ground from the surface to groundwater tables and lower aquifers.
(5)
Trees, through their root systems, stabilize the soil and play an important and effective part in city-wide soil conservation, erosion control and flood control.
(6)
Trees are an invaluable physical and psychological addition to the city, making life more comfortable by providing shade and cooling both air and land, reducing noise levels and glare, and breaking the visual monotony of development on the land.
(7)
Trees provide wildlife habitat and play other important ecological roles.
(8)
The protection of trees within the city is not only desirable, but essential to the present and future health, safety and welfare of all the citizens of the city.
(9)
Some trees are more beneficial than others as necessary contributors to the city's environment, and it is not necessary to protect each and every tree in order to attain the public benefit of this article's provisions.
(10)
Trees have a useable life period and reach old age and die at various ages depending upon the severity of site stresses.
(Ord. No. 96-007, § IV, 4-22-96)
Sec. 86-34. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Appeal means a request for a review of the administrator's interpretation of any provision of this article or a request for a variance.
Buffer means an area of land which includes living or nonliving landscaping materials established for the purpose of separating, screening or shielding a use from a dissimilar or more intense use.
Building means any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls that encloses a space and intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of any individual, animal, process, equipment, goods or materials of any kind or nature or as further defined in the building code.
Developer means the legal or beneficial owner of a lot or of any land included in a proposed development, including the holder of any option or contract to purchase, or other persons having enforceable proprietary interest in such lands.
Development means any manmade change to improve or unimproved real estate including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filing, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations or permanent or temporary storage of material.
Drip line means an imaginary vertical line running from the outermost branches or portions of the tree crown to the ground.
Emergency means any manmade or natural disaster which is specifically declared to be an emergency by a resolution geographically defining the emergency area; or as adopted by the mayor and council.
Exceptional tree means any tree determined by the administrator to be of notable historic interest, high aesthetic value or of unique character because of species, type, age, size or location.
Greenspace means any area retained as permeable unpaved ground and is dedicated to supporting vegetation.
Owner means any person having a majority fee simple interest in real estate, or a majority interest through any form of ownership.
Permit means a permit from the city required for any work affecting trees as described in this article.
Protected tree means any tree not specifically exempted by this article.
Public property means all lands owned by the city, public rights-of-way and utility easements.
Public tree means any woody plant that has a single trunk or the capability of having a single stem through trained growth and will eventually attain a height of at least ten feet, existing or planted on land owned by, or over which, the city has easement rights.
Right-of-way means a strip of land over which the city has the rights, by ownership or easement, to construct a public street, sidewalk or use for public utilities.
Site plan means any map and supporting documentation which describes for a particular site where vegetation is to be retained or provided in compliance with this article, the types of vegetation and how such vegetation will be provided.
Street means any public thoroughfare which affords the principal means of vehicular access to abutting property.
Tree means a living, woody, self-supporting plant with a main stem or cluster of main stems that are eight inches, DBH (diameter at breast height, which is 54 inches above the ground). For purposes of this definition, any dogwood (cornus florida), or American holly (ilex opaca), whose trunk measures no less than two or three feet from the ground, shall be considered a tree.
Tree administrator means the person appointed to administer this article.
Tree destruction permit. Subject to the exemptions of this article in section 86-38, it shall be unlawful for any person to cut down, kill or destroy any tree growing on land within the city without a tree destruction permit issued by the administrator.
Tree protection zone means the area surrounding a preserved or planted tree that is essential to that tree's health, structural integrity and survival, and is protected within the guidelines of this article.
Variance means a grant of relief from the requirements of this article which permits land disturbing activities in a manner otherwise prohibited by this article.
(Ord. No. 96-007, § VI, 4-22-96)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 86-35. - Enforcement jurisdiction.
The city tree administrator is authorized and empowered to make cases for violations of this article, to issue summons directed to the offenders in the police district and to appear in the municipal court.
(Ord. No. 96-007, § XV, 4-22-96)
Sec. 86-36. - Penalty for violation of article.
(a)
Any person, whether as owner, lessee, principal, agent, employee or otherwise, who violates any of the provisions of this article and permits any such violation or fails to comply with any of the requirements of this article; or who uses any land in violation of any detailed statement or plan submitted by him and approved under the provisions of this article shall be subject to punishment as provided by law. Each day upon which such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. Any use of any land which is conducted, operated or maintained contrary to any of the provisions of this article shall be declared to be unlawful.
(b)
Any person failing to comply with any of the provisions of this article shall be guilty, for each offense, of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in section 1-11, or must replace the tree with size and species recommended by the building official, or be required to take any other action as directed by the court.
(Ord. No. 96-007, § XXII, 4-22-96)
Sec. 86-37. - Permit—Required; fee.
(a)
No person shall do any of the following acts to any trees, exempted by section 86-38, without first obtaining the proper permit from the city:
(1)
Cut, prune, climb with spikes or hooks, break, damage, remove, kill, or cause to be killed.
(2)
Cut, disturb or interfere in any way with any woody roots within the drip line.
(3)
Place or spray with any toxic chemical as listed in the maintenance standards.
(4)
Attach or fasten any rope, wire, sign or other device.
(5)
Remove or damage any guard devices placed to protect any tree.
(6)
Maintain a stationary fire or device which vaporizes noxious fumes deleterious to tree health.
(7)
Pave with concrete, asphalt or other impervious material within five feet of a drip line tree.
(8)
Conduct razing, removal or renovation of any structures if deemed by the administrator to be damaging to neighboring trees.
(9)
Trenching, tunneling, topping, hedging, soil cuts or fills.
(b)
A fee as provided in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk shall be assessed for each permit and shall be applicable to the particular job specified by the permit.
(Ord. No. 96-007, § VII, 4-22-96)
Sec. 86-38. - Same—Exemptions.
The requirement for permits shall not apply to the following:
(1)
Private property owners who are cutting down, killing or otherwise destroying trees on their own property with no intentions of development of the property for commercial use and solely for the enhancement or safety of their own property.
(2)
Cutting down, killing or otherwise destroying any tree which has become or threatens to become a danger to human life or property due to disease, pest infestation, accidental causes, neglect, abuse or other threatening emergency.
(3)
Cutting down, killing or otherwise destroying trees on commercial horticultural properties such as farms, nurseries, Christmas tree farms, orchards or commercial forests. This exception shall not be interpreted to include lumber harvesting incidental to imminent development of the land.
(4)
Cutting down, killing or destroying trees by public service companies and natural gas companies performing normal construction and maintenance pursuant to applicable state or federal safety or construction laws and regulations.
(5)
Cutting down, killing or otherwise destroying trees by the city pursuant to recreation area management plans developed by the city and approved by the administrator.
(6)
All acceptable development permits applied for prior to April 22, 1996.
(7)
Minor residential subdivisions which create no additional frontage on public roads.
(8)
All single-family lots recorded prior to April 22, 1996.
(Ord. No. 96-007, § V, 4-22-96)
Sec. 86-39. - Protection—Generally.
(a)
It shall be a violation of this article for any person, except in accordance with the provisions of this article, to remove a tree or cause a tree to be removed in the city in preparation for, in connection with or in anticipation of the development or redevelopment of land for any residential subdivision, mobile home park, travel trailer park, multifamily development, commercial or industrial use, parking lot, golf course or recreational area without a permit issued in accordance with this article.
(b)
If no tree removal permit is required, a statement noting compliance with section 86-40 shall be submitted prior to any site development requiring preliminary plan or site and development plan approval by the planning and appeals board or a building permit under the city building code.
(Ord. No. 96-007, § VIII, 4-22-96)
Sec. 86-40. - Same—During development.
During any building, renovating or razing operations, the builder shall erect and maintain suitable protective barriers around the dripline of all trees specified to be maintained so as to prevent damage to such trees and shall not allow storage of equipment, materials, debris or fill to be placed in this area except as may be necessary for a reasonable time if no other storage space is available.
(Ord. No. 96-007, § IX, 4-22-96)
Sec. 86-41. - Site plan for development or improvement.
(a)
A site plan for the development or improvement of any tract of land, 1.1 acres or more located in the city, shall be submitted to the city along with the application for a building permit. No building permit shall be issued until the site plan has been reviewed and approved, in writing, by the planning and appeals board and a permit has been issued. Such plans shall be reviewed and either approved or denied and a permit issued or denied within 30 days of submittal, or the plan will be automatically approved.
(b)
A site plan for development or improvement of any tract or parcel of land, 1.1 acres or more for single-family, multifamily residential development (as defined in the city zoning ordinance), commercial or industrial shall indicate the following items:
(1)
All existing trees, that meet the definition of a tree in section 86-34.
(2)
Which trees will be removed and which will be maintained.
(3)
Plans for protection of existing trees during the construction.
(4)
Plans for replacing the trees that are removed, based upon the approved list, designated type, size and completion date for seasonable and timely planting of trees.
(5)
Developers of new construction sites shall be required to indicate at least one tree on public right-of-way for every 40 feet (or fraction thereof) of street frontage, and may request that the public works department of the city plant the appropriate trees along the right-of-way adjoining their property. This planting will be at the developer's expense.
(Ord. No. 96-007, § X, 4-22-96)
Sec. 86-42. - Principles and standards for greenspaces, tree protection, tree establishment and landscaping—In commercial, industrial and multifamily development.
(a)
Applicability. Except as provided in this section, a greenspace plan shall be submitted for all proposed commercial, industrial or multifamily development. Such plan shall include a tree protection, tree establishment and landscape plan.
(b)
Standards and requirements. Such plans shall conform to the following standards and requirements:
(1)
A minimum of five percent of the total land area of the development shall be devoted to greenspace.
(2)
Sidewalks, curbing or other paved and proposed paving or impermeable surfaces within the greenspace area shall not count towards the five percent minimum greenspace requirement.
(3)
Existing stands of mature native trees and the associated plant communities beneath them shall be retained wherever possible.
(4)
Locations for planting and/or preserving trees as follows:
a.
Street trees may be planted within the front yard development setback, provided such tree does not conflict with any existing utility, public safety drainage or other easements.
b.
Parking areas shall have landscaped islands and medians located between parking bays.
c.
Buffer of ten horizontal feet shall be provided when separating a dissimilar or more intense use.
d.
Sales lots and storage areas may be waived for such uses if the requirements have been met elsewhere on the site.
(Ord. No. 96-007, § XI, 4-22-96)
Sec. 86-43. - Same—In new single-family residential subdivision development.
(a)
Applicability. This section shall apply to new single-family residential subdivisions.
(b)
Indications on site plan. The site plan, in addition to the requirements of this article, shall indicate the following items:
(1)
All existing trees.
(2)
Trees to be removed and trees to be maintained.
(3)
Specifications for removal or protection of existing trees during the construction.
(4)
Grade changes or other work such as trenching, soil cutting and filling to a tree within its drip line which would affect it adversely.
(5)
A replanting program based upon the approved list of trees specifying size, type and completion date for seasonal and timely planting of trees. The developers of new construction sites shall be required to indicate at least one tree on public right-of-way for every 40 feet (or fraction thereof) of street frontage and may request that the public works department of the city plant the appropriate trees along the right-of-way adjoining their property.
(6)
Buffers of ten feet shall be provided when separating a use from a dissimilar or more intense use.
(Ord. No. 96-007, § XII, 4-22-96)
Sec. 86-44. - Transmitted disease and insect infestations.
The city council shall have the authority to insist that all the property owners treat or else allow the city to treat trees, at the property owners' expense, suffering from transmittable diseases or insect infestations which are on private property but are affecting the health and structure of public trees on public property. If infestation warrants drastic action to curb its spread to healthy and structurally sound public trees, at the direction of the administrator, the property owner shall remove and dispose of such trees or allow the city to do so.
(Ord. No. 96-007, § XIII, 4-22-96)
Sec. 86-45. - Emergencies.
In case of emergencies such as wind storms, ice storms or other disasters, requirements may be waived by the tree administrator during the emergency period so that this article would in no way hamper private or public work to restore order in the city.
(Ord. No. 96-007, § XIV, 4-22-96)
Sec. 86-46. - Cooperation with other departments.
There shall be close cooperation between the tree administrator and the public works department when their work affects public trees.
(Ord. No. 96-007, § XVI, 4-22-96)
Sec. 86-47. - Appeals.
If any person is dissatisfied with a decision of the tree administrator adversely affecting such person involving the application of this article, such person may make a written request to the chairman of the planning and appeals board, which together with the building official, shall hear any complaints of such person. After a full and complete hearing of the complaints of such person, the appeal board, consisting of such parties, shall render its written opinion affirming, overruling or modifying the decision of the tree administrator as may be fit and proper under the existing circumstances.
(Ord. No. 96-007, § XVIII, 4-22-96)
Sec. 86-48. - Street tree trimming guidelines.
The following guidelines will outline accepted tree trimming and tree maintenance standards to be followed when such work is deemed necessary on street trees. A street tree means any tree on the street right-of-way. The following guidelines apply to public utilities, contractors hired by public utilities and tree crews working for the city:
(1)
All trees designated for trimming shall be trimmed according to International Society of Arboriculture Terminal and American National Standards Institute (A300) standards.
(2)
Trees trimmed for clearance from utility lines may be trimmed by qualified utility line clearance personnel in such a manner as to provide clearance from the utility lines for a designated period of time or cycle. Clearance is defined as the distance necessary to prevent regrowth from contacting utility lines before the tree is retrimmed on the designated cycle. In all cases where conditions permit, drop-crotch or side trimming, or directional pruning methods to obtain necessary clearance will be used.
(3)
When necessary trimming harms the shape of the tree, such additional trimming shall be done so as to give the tree satisfactory shape and appearance and minimize present and future structural problems. All cuts two inches in diameter or more shall be painted with appropriate tree paint.
(4)
Where possible, all cuts should be made leaving the basal branch collar intact in order to eliminate excessive sprouts and unsightly stubs. A stub is defined as any limb not cut to a branch collar or any limb cut to a lateral less than one-third the diameter of the cut limb.
(5)
All cuts shall be made in a method to prevent rips, tears or disruption on the bark.
(6)
No limb hangers shall be left in trees.
(7)
The persons trimming the trees are responsible for disposal of wood residue (chips, logs and limbs) and safety and control of the area while on the site.
(Ord. No. 96-007, § XX, 4-22-96)
Sec. 86-49. - Official tree of city.
The official tree of the city is cornus florida (dogwood).
(Ord. No. 96-007, § XXI, 4-22-96)
Sec. 86-50. - Official tree list.
The official tree list of the city is as follows:
Acer barbatum Florida maple
Acer rubrum red maple
Aesculus pavia red buckeye
Alnus serrulata hazel alder
Aralia spinosa devil's walking stick
Asimina triloba pawpaw
Baccharis halimifolia baccharis
Betula nigra river birch
Carpinus caroliniana hornbeam
Carya aquatica water hickory
Carya cordiformis bitternut hickory
Carya glabra pignut hickory
Carya tomentosa mockernut hickory
Castanea pumila Allegheny chinkapin
Celtis laevigata sugarberry
Celtis tenuifolia Georgia hackberry
Cephalanthus occidentalis buttonbush
Chionanthus virginicus fringetree
Cliftonia monophylla buckwheat tree
Cornus florida dogwood
Cornus stricta swamp dogwood
Cyrilla racemiflora cyrilla
Diospyros virginiana persimmon
Fagus grandifolia beech
Forestiera acuminata swamp-privet
Forestiera segregata Florida-privet
Fraxinus caroliniana Carolina ash
Fraxinus pennsylvanica green ash
Fraxinus profunda pumpkin ash
Gleditsia aquatica waterlocust
Gordonia lasianthus loblolly-bay
Halesia carolina Carolina silverbell
Halesia diptera two-wing silverbell
Hamamelis virginiana witch-hazel
Ilex ambigua Carolina holly
Ilex coriacea large gallberry
Ilex decidua possumhaw
Ilex myrtifolia myrtle dahoon
Ilex opaca American holly
Ilex vomitoria yaupon holly
Juglans nigra black walnut
Kalmia latifolia mountain laurel
Liquidambar styraciflua sweetgum
Liriodendron tulipifera yellow-poplar
Lyonia ferruginea lyonia
Magnolia grandiflora Southern magnolia
Magnolia pyramidata pyramid magnolia
Magnolia tripetala umbrella magnolia
Magnolia virginiana sweetbay
Morus rubra red mulberry
Myrica cerifera Southern bayberry
Myrica heterophylla evergreen bayberry
Nyssa aquatica water tupelo
Nyssa ogeche Ogeechee tupelo
Nyssa sylvatica blackgum
Osmanthus americana devilwood
Ostrya virginiana ironwood
Oxydendrum arboreum sourwood
Persea borbonia redbay
Pinckneya pubens pinckneya
Pinus echinata shortleaf pine
Pinus elliottii slash pine
Pinus glabra spruce pine
Pinus palustris longleaf pine
Pinus taeda loblolly pine
Planera aquatica planer-tree
Platanus occidentalis sycamore
Populus deltoides cottonwood
Populus heterophylla swamp cottonwood
Prunus angustifolia chickasaw plum
Prunus caroliniana laurelcherry
Prunus serotina black cherry
Prunus umbellata flatwoods plum
Ptelea trifoliata hoptree
Quercus alba white oak
Quercus falcata Southern red oak
Quercus falcata var. pagodaefolia cherrybark oak
Quercus incana bluejack oak
Quercus laevis turkey oak
Quercus laurifolia laurel oak
Quercus lyrata overcup oak
Quercus marilandica blackjack oak
Quercus michauxii swamp chestnut oak
Quercus muehlenberrgii chinkapin oak
Quercus nigra water oak
Quercus phellos willow oak
Quercus shumardii Shumard oak
Quercus stellata post oak
Quercus virginiana live oak
Rhus coppalina shining sumac
Sabal minor dwarf palmetto
Salix caroliniana Coastal Plain willow
Salix nigra black willow
Sambucus canadensis elder
Sassafras albidum sassafras
Serenoa repens saw-palmetto
Staphylea trifolia bladdernut
Stewartia malacodendron stewartia
Styrax americana American snowbell
Styrax grandifolia bigleaf snowbell
Symplocos tinctoria sweetleaf
Taxodium distichum baldcypress
Taxodium distichum var. nutans pondcypress
Tilia caroliniana Carolina basswood
Toxicodendron vernix poison sumac
Ulmus americana American elm
Vaccinium arboreum sparkleberry
Viburnum nudum possumhaw viburnum
Viburnum obovatum Walter viburnum
Viburnum rufidulum rusty blackhaw
Yucca aliofolia aloe yucca
(Ord. No. 96-007, § XXII, 4-22-96)
Sec. 86-51. - Storm damaged tree management.
(a)
The tree administrator and the public works director will assess damaged trees and prioritize public safety concerns by the tree damage classifications. When too many storm damaged trees are left standing in communities after storm clearance activities have been completed and these trees remain, or can quickly become, hazardous, the hazardous trees must be removed as soon as possible. Trees that could quickly develop into hazardous trees need to be evaluated and treated at the same time.
(b)
Good storm damage management is the removal of fallen, heavily damaged, hazardous, and soon to be hazardous trees. Good storm damage management is much more cost-effective over the long run than cleaning up fallen materials now and reacting to tree calls in the future. While equipment and personnel are available, all trees in need shall be treated.
(c)
Storm damaged tree evaluations should be performed by a trained urban forester/arborist before or at the time of initial tree crew attack. Minimizing liability risks, protecting community assets (including trees), and/or better management of community asset appreciation are the primary reasons for any treatment.
(d)
Tree work shall be prioritized by public safety concerns and tree damage class as follows:
(1)
Class I damage:
Dead tree
Snapped or twisted stem breaks
Major branch collapse (greater than 50 percent of live crown affected)
Roots broken, tree pushed over
Roots broken, tree leaning
Leaning or bent pine
Lightning strike, general pines
Lightning strike, hardwoods (greater than 30 percent of bark circumference affected)
Branch damage leaving severely lopsided crown (70 percent or more of crown on one side of tree)
Tree left with large stress or twist cracks in main stem
Interfering with utility right-of-way safety and maintenance
Split tree (hazard from remaining stem falling)
Hardwood tree with more than 50 percent of live branches broken or damaged
Pines with more than 30 percent of live branches broken or damaged
Top broken (greater than 50 percent of live crown gone in hardwoods or greater than 30 percent of live crown gone in pine)
Mechanical damage to main stem (greater than 30 percent of bark circumference affected)
(2)
Class II damage:
Top broken (less than 50 percent of live crown gone in hardwoods or less than 30 percent of live crown gone in pine)
Hardwoods with less than 50 percent of live branches broken or damaged
Pines with less than 30 percent of live branches broken or damaged
Stagheading (dead branches)
(3)
Class III damage:
Lightning strike, hardwoods (less than 30 percent of bark circumference affected)
Foliage destroyed
Twigs and small branches blown off or broken
Mechanical damage to main stem (less than 30 percent of bark circumference affected)
(e)
Treatment of damage shall include the minimization of stress, watering, waiting one growing season to fertilize and prune, watching for pest attack and initiating tree replacement and a planting enrichment program.
(Ord. No. 96-007, § XXIII, 4-22-96)
