Chapter 66 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 66-1—66-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - STREET NUMBERING

Sec. 66-31. - System.
(a)
Adoption. Each building located in the city shall be numbered and the numbers for each building now in the city shall be in accordance with the schedule which is marked Exhibit A and made a part of this article by reference, which Exhibit A shows the name of each street. Each building hereafter constructed or located in the city shall be numbered in accordance with numbers assigned thereto by the city council, and such numbers shall be affixed to each building prior to final inspection being made.
(b)
Materials of numbers. The numbers shall be made of reflective metal material.
(c)
Size of numbers. Each number shall be three inches in height and 2½ inches in width.
(d)
Responsibilities of owner. It shall be the responsibility of each building owner to obtain and affix the numbers to the owner's building at a prominent place which shall be visible from the street in front of the building.
(e)
Due date for affixing numbers. Each building owner in the city shall have three months from October 13, 1986, in which to have such numbers affixed to the owner's building.
(Ord. No. 86-006, 10-13-86)
Secs. 66-32—66-55. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PARADES, PROCESSIONS AND DEMONSTRATIONS[2]

Sec. 66-56. - Permit—Required.
It shall be unlawful to promote, organize or hold, or to assist in organizing or holding, or to take part or participate in, any parade or procession or other public demonstration in the public streets, or public ways of the city, unless a permit therefor has been secured from the mayor and council.
(Code 1984, § 10-201)
Sec. 66-57. - Same—Application.
To secure such permit, except for those parades and processions exempted, written application shall be made to the mayor and council setting forth the hour and date; the probable number of persons, vehicles and animals which will be engaged in such parade, procession or other public demonstration; the purpose for which it is to be held or had; and the streets or other public ways over, along or in which it is desired to have or hold such parade, procession or public demonstration.
(Code 1984, § 10-202)
Sec. 66-58. - Same—Granting; refusing; conditions.
The mayor and council may grant or refuse such applications as a privilege permit, as such body may, in its judgment, determine whether the parade, procession or other demonstration is or is not in the best interest, welfare, peace, safety, health, good order, morals or convenience of the citizens of the city and the public. If the application is granted, the mayor and council reserves the right to set the hour, time limit, and streets and public ways wherein the parade, procession or other public demonstration shall be had, moved or held.
(Code 1984, § 10-203)
Sec. 66-59. - Distributing articles from parade vehicles.
It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute or cause to be distributed from any vehicle participating in a parade or procession or other public demonstration in the public streets or public highways within the city any item, either perishable or otherwise, to any bystander or onlooker. It shall also be unlawful for any owner or operator of any vehicle participating in a parade within the city to allow or permit any item, perishable or otherwise, to be distributed to any bystanders or onlookers from the vehicle. The term "vehicle" as used in this section shall include any device which moves on wheels or on tracks whether under its own power or otherwise. This section shall apply to gratuities and to items offered for sale.
(Code 1984, § 10-204)
