Chapter 46 - LAW ENFORCEMENT[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 46-1—46-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - POLICE DEPARTMENT[2]

Sec. 46-31. - Composition.
The police department shall consist of the chief of police and such other police officers as may be appointed by the city council.
(Code 1984, § 3-403(1))
Sec. 46-32. - Chief of police.
(a)
Appointment. The chief of police shall be appointed by the city council and shall serve as the head of the police department, subject always to the rules and regulations established by such authority.
(b)
Bond and oath. The chief of police shall, before entering upon the discharge of his duties, execute a bond as required by the city council and take and subscribe the oath prescribed in section 2-122.
(c)
Duties. The chief of police shall be responsible for performing those duties specified in this subsection:
(1)
See to the proper service of all summonses, subpoenas, citations, executions, attachments and rules of the city council;
(2)
See to the collection of all fines and costs imposed by the municipal court;
(3)
See that the ordinances, rules and regulations of the city and all statutes applicable therein are faithfully enforced;
(4)
Preserve the public peace, prevent infractions of the law, and arrest violators thereof;
(5)
Oversee the conduct of the officers and men of the police force, and to be held strictly responsible for such conduct and for the general good order of the department;
(6)
Submit monthly to the state department of public safety the uniform crime report prescribed by state law;
(7)
Be responsible for all bonds and bondsmen; and
(8)
Discharge such other duties as may be required of him by the mayor and council.
(Code 1984, § 3-403(2))
Sec. 46-33. - Police officers.
(a)
Qualifications. Any person employed by the city as a police officer shall meet the minimum qualifications imposed by the Georgia Peace Officers Standards and Training Act, as provided in O.C.G.A. § 35-8-1 et seq.
(b)
Bond and oath. All police officers shall, before entering upon the discharge of their duties, execute a bond as required by the city council, and take and subscribe the oath prescribed by section 2-122.
(c)
Duties. It shall be the duty of all officers of the police department to acquire a full knowledge of and to enforce all of the ordinances of the city and all statutes applicable therein, to become familiar with the rules and regulations established by the mayor and council concerning the discipline, good order, proper conduct, care and management of the police department and to respect and obey all orders of the chief of police not in conflict with the laws or ordinances of the city.
(d)
Conduct. Every member of the police department shall conduct himself in a proper and law-abiding manner at all times and shall avoid the use of unnecessary force. Prohibited conduct shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1)
Absence from regular hours of duty without permission;
(2)
Sleeping on duty;
(3)
Insubordination or disobedience of orders;
(4)
Drinking any intoxicating beverage while on duty or in uniform;
(5)
Willful maltreatment of any person or prisoner;
(6)
Using profane language; and
(7)
Accepting bribes of money, gifts or other articles of apparent or actual value, or accepting any fee, reward or gift of any kind from a person arrested or from any friend in his behalf while he is in custody or after his release or discharge.
(e)
Penalties for improper conduct. Any police officer who violates the rules or regulations of the police department or of this Code, upon conviction therefor by the mayor and council, after due notice and proper hearing, or upon the plea of guilty, shall be reprimanded, fined, suspended or dismissed as the mayor and council deem appropriate. Any one or more of such penalties may be imposed at the discretion of the mayor or council.
(f)
Entering private dwelling. No police officer shall enter a private dwelling without a search or arrest warrant, unless he is in pursuit of a fugitive who the officer has personal knowledge or probable cause to believe has committed or attempted to commit a felony.
(g)
Arrest involving bodily injury. Any police officer involved in an arrest in which there is inflicted bodily injury requiring medical treatment upon such officer, person arrested, or bystander shall make a written account of the incident to be filed in city hall.
(Code 1984, § 3-403)
