ARTICLE I. - INTRODUCTION

Sec. 90-1. - Enactment.
In accordance with the authority granted by the Constitution of the State of Georgia as enacted by the Georgia General Assembly and Ratified by General Election, the City Council of Rincon, Georgia, hereby ordain and enact into law the City of Rincon Zoning and Growth Management Ordinance. As part of this chapter so enacted into law is "The Official Zoning Map of Rincon, Georgia."
( Ord. of 8-23-10 )
Sec. 90-2. - Title.
This chapter shall be known as the "Zoning Ordinance and Growth Management Ordinance of the City of Rincon, Georgia." The map herein referred to, which is identified by the title, shall be known as the "The Official Zoning Map of the City of Rincon, Georgia."
( Ord. of 8-23-10 )
Sec. 90-3. - Purpose.
The zoning regulations and districts as herein set forth have been made for the purpose of:
(1)
Promoting the public health, safety, morals, general welfare, convenience and prosperity of the citizens of the City of Rincon, Georgia; and
(2)
Coordinating all the local and other government policies and regulations for the protection and conservation of woodlands, grasslands, streams, wetlands and similar classes of natural resources, and the enhancement of natural areas.
The regulations and arrangements of districts are designed to lessen congestion in the streets, to secure safety from fire, to provide adequate light and air, to prevent the overcrowding of land, to avoid undue concentration of population, to facilitate the adequate provision of water, sewer, schools, parks and other public requirements and to direct the most appropriate use of land throughout the city.
( Ord. of 8-23-10 )
Sec. 90-4. - Scope.
This chapter of the City of Rincon, Georgia:
(A)
Regulates the location, height, bulk, number of stories and size of buildings and other structures; the percentage of lot which may be occupied; the sizes of yards and other open spaces; the density and distribution of population.
(B)
Regulates the uses of buildings; structures and lands for trade, industry, residence, recreation, conservation, water supply, sanitation, public safety, public activities, and roads/streets.
(C)
Regulates the preservation of scenic areas, protection against floods, rising waters and erosion, and other purposes.
(D)
Establish a system by which all land within the territorial limits of the City is divided into Land Use Zoning Districts, by which each district is named, and by which each district may permit land uses different than those permitted in other districts.
(E)
Defines certain terms used herein.
(F)
Provides for the method of administration, appeal and amendment, enforcement, duties and the provision of penalties for violation.
(G)
Provide an official List of Allowable or Prohibited Uses, to show which land uses have been determined to be most compatible with others in the same district and in adjacent districts, and which are prohibited in each respective district.
(H)
Properly design and adopt an official City Growth Management Plan to generally encourage the most beneficial and require the appropriate use of land and buildings within the City.
(I)
Provide a forum for all citizens to actively engage in all public meetings pertaining to growth and planning.
(J)
Define and establish public service impact fee policies.
(K)
Establishes fair and uniform standards governing all land use, land development and land subdivision activities that will prevent overcrowding of land by uses or buildings, prevent excessive concentrations of human population and help protect the safety of occupants and residents of all land developments.
(L)
Establish fair and concise public policies which clearly state acceptable and unacceptable land development practices, to guide investors, building contractors and land developers who conduct their activities within the City.
(M)
Encourage the use of new, improved and advanced planning, design and engineering methods which are intended to produce better, more attractive, and more economical residential, commercial, industrial and public land developments, when such advances are not contrary to the public purposes of this chapter.
(N)
Require specific plans and designs for all land developments, to assure deliberate distribution of buildings and other development features within each development, and to promote a safe system of community roadways.
(O)
Assure protection of natural soil and natural vegetation from unnecessary, deliberate, systematic, careless or wanton damage or destruction during the course of all land development activities.
(P)
Provide regulations to prevent, control and require repair of soil erosion and sedimentation resulting from land-disturbing activities during development or residential, commercial, industrial or public use projects.
(Q)
Acknowledge the special additional operational burdens each new private or public land development project will place on public services and facilities.
(R)
Minimize the future public cost burden of all new streets and roads, water supply and sanitary sewer systems, stormwater drainage systems, and other public facilities intended to be dedicated for perpetual public use and maintenance, by requiring recognized engineering design standards and construction methods to be used for their construction.
(S)
Define and establish public policies that require all new residential, commercial, industrial or public land developments to pay a fair and equitable portion of the estimated cost burden on public services and/or facilities each unit of such development may cause.
( Ord. of 8-23-10 )
Sec. 90-5. - Uniform applicability.
No public or private land shall be used, improved, developed, recombined, re-subdivided, or subdivided whether for immediate or future use, and no public or private building or structure, advertising sign, road or street, bridge, water supply system, sanitary sewerage system or stormwater drainage system shall be constructed, reconstructed, remodeled, altered, relocated, dismantled or demolished except in full conformance with all the terms, conditions, rules, standards and requirements of this chapter.
( Ord. of 8-23-10 )
Sec. 90-6. - Appeals from ordinance administration.
(A)
Qualification for appeal: Any qualified applicant or aggrieved person who alleges an official error in the administration of this chapter, or who alleges loss of a real property right, or whose legal right in or to any real property has allegedly been invaded, or whose monetary interest has allegedly been otherwise adversely affected by any official order, requirement, interpretation, determination or decision by the City Planner, may file an appeal to the Planning and Zoning Board;
(B)
Purpose of appeal and official decision: An appeal to the Planning and Zoning Board may request reversal of any official act by the City Planner or may request "administrative relief" from such action in the form of a variance from the application of any term, condition or provision of this chapter to any affected real property or person;
(C)
Authority of official decision on appeal: Any official decision of the Planning and Zoning Board on any appeal may reverse or affirm or modify, in whole or in part, any official order, requirement, interpretation, determination or decision by the City Planner that is the subject of the appeal, or may grant a variance from the application of any term, condition or provision of this chapter to any affected real property or person, and may direct the City Planner to issue a land development permit or other permit or certificate; and
(D)
Establish condition use: Any qualified applicant may, in accord with other provisions of this chapter, file a petition to the Planning and Zoning Board for authorization to establish a condition use reference in the zoning district article of this chapter, but only if such use complies with all the requirements of this chapter and with all other applicable City, County, State and Federal Requirements.
( Ord. of 8-23-10 )
Sec. 90-7. - Notice of disclaimer of liability.
(A)
Ordinance standard and provisions established for public protection: The specific minimum standard and provisions of this chapter are established as legitimate public policies intended for and necessary for the protection of the public health, safety, morality and general welfare of the citizens of the City of Rincon;
(B)
No endorsement or warranty construed: Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as an endorsement of, nor as an implied or express warranty for, any particular land use, land development method, construction method, or construction material;
(C)
Express waiver of liability to City: Each and every land use, land development or land subdivision created or established under the terms of this chapter shall be conducted under, and shall be deemed to have included, a grant of express waiver of liability to the City of Rincon; and
(D)
Officials, employees, contractors and consultants held harmless: The city and all its officials, employees, contractors and consultants shall be held harmless for any inconvenience, hardship, financial loss or failure, and for any direct, indirect, incidental or consequential damage, or for any structural or construction material failure, and for any other adverse circumstance or loss which may result from any land use, land development or land subdivision activities conducted, created or established under the terms and conditions of this chapter.
( Ord. of 8-23-10 )
Sec. 90-8. - Severability and conflict.
(A)
If any section, subsection, clause [or] provision of these regulations shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not affect any other section, subsection, clause, provision or portion of these regulations which is not invalid or unconstitutional. Where the provisions of this chapter are in conflict with other ordinances, the most restrictive provisions shall be enforced.
(B)
Repeal of previous ordinances: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent necessary to give this chapter full force and effect.
( Ord. of 8-23-10 )
Secs. 90-9—90-20. - Reserved.
