Chapter 38 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 38-1. - Adoption of rules and regulations of state safety fire commissioner.
The rules and regulations promulgated for the prevention of destruction of life and property by fire, explosion and related hazards in this state by the state safety fire commissioner, under the authority of the powers vested in and duties imposed upon such officer by the provisions of O.C.G.A. tit. 25, ch. 2, are hereby adopted as the rules and regulations of this city.
(Ord. No. 90-009, § 4, 8-13-90)
Sec. 38-2. - Appeals from building official decisions.
Whenever the building official shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of this chapter do not apply or that the true intent and meaning have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision to the city council within 30 days from the date of the decision appealed.
(Ord. No. 90-009, § 5, 8-13-90)
Sec. 38-3. - Obstructing engine, hook and ladder or hose house.
It shall be unlawful for any person willfully or knowingly to put any trash or other obstructions of any kind in front of any engine, hook and ladder or hose house.
(Ord. No. 90-009, § 8, 8-13-90)
Sec. 38-4. - False alarms.
It shall be unlawful for any person willfully and knowingly to give or cause to be given a false alarm of fire.
(Ord. No. 90-009, § 9, 8-13-90)
Secs. 38-5—38-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT[2]

Sec. 38-31. - Created.
The volunteer fire department of the city is hereby made a department of the city and shall be known hereafter as the city volunteer fire department.
(Ord. No. 90-009, art. II, § 1, 8-13-90)
Sec. 38-32. - Membership.
The membership of the city volunteer fire department shall consist of any person 18 years old or older who is a resident of the city or the territory surrounding the city; who desires to participate in the activities of the department; and meets the requirements of "The Policy and Procedure Requirements," latest revision, adopted by the board of fire commissioners and in accordance with the city personnel policies and procedures manual, latest revision, adopted by the city council. The condition for membership shall be mandatory obedience to the terms of the rules and regulations of such policies.
(Ord. No. 90-009, art. II, § 2, 8-13-90)
Sec. 38-33. - Officers.
(a)
Election; term. All officers of the city volunteer fire department shall be elected by the firefighters according to the latest revision of the policy and procedures adopted by the board of fire commissioners. The term of office for all officers shall be for one year.
(b)
Removal; vacancy. An officer may be removed from his position and his office declared vacant upon receipt of an affirmative vote of five members of the board.
(c)
Qualification. Officers of the city volunteer fire department shall consist of those declared by the policies and procedures of the department.
(d)
Duties. Duties of the officers of the city volunteer fire department are as outlined in the policy and procedures, latest revision.
(Ord. No. 90-009, art. II, § 4, 8-13-90)
Sec. 38-34. - Equipment—Purchase and title.
(a)
Purchase. The city may purchase from the funds of the city and furnish to the city volunteer fire department such equipment and supplies for the department as the mayor and council at the time shall, in their discretion, deem necessary and advisable and which meets the requirements set forth by the board of fire commissioners and in accordance with the department's annual capital improvements program.
(b)
Legal title. Legal title to all uniforms, equipment and property of the city volunteer fire department, acquired by the city, is vested in the city and hereafter acquired equipment, property and uniforms shall continue to vest in the city.
(Ord. No. 90-009, art. II, § 5, 8-13-90)
Sec. 38-35. - Same—Damaging.
It shall be unlawful for any person willfully or knowingly to injure or damage in any way or manner whatsoever any engine, hose, hook, ladder or any other implement, material or fixture of any kind connected with or used by the city volunteer fire department.
(Ord. No. 90-009, § 6, 8-13-90)
Sec. 38-36. - Injury to realty of department.
It shall be unlawful for any person to injure any house, ground, tree or shrub which is the property of the city volunteer fire department.
(Ord. No. 90-009, § 7, 8-13-90)
Sec. 38-37. - Funds.
(a)
All monies collected in the name of the city volunteer fire department are funds of the department and shall be accounted for in the same manner as all other funds of the city. All monies appropriated by the city for the city volunteer fire department shall be transferred to the board of fire commissioners with proper arrangements for accounting for funds. Funds shall be provided for the department by the city at the rate set forth in the contract to cover the city. Fire protection outside of the city limits, but lying within the jurisdiction of the department, shall be by subscription.
(b)
The funds earned by the city volunteer fire department or its volunteers or donated to such department shall be earmarked solely for the use of the city volunteer fire department. Such funds shall be deposited in a federally insured bank in the name of the "City of Rincon—Rincon Volunteer Fire Department." Such funds may be obtained from the account on approval of the board of fire commissioners and upon the signature of the chief and/or the treasurer of the city volunteer fire department. Such funds shall be available for public inspection.
(c)
The board of fire commissioners shall incur no debt unless repayment of the debt can be verified, and the debt is expressly ratified and confirmed by majority vote of the city council.
(Ord. No. 90-009, art. II, § 6, 8-13-90)
Sec. 38-38. - Interference with department, chief or member while discharging duties.
It shall be declared unlawful for any person to interfere with the city volunteer fire department or the chief of such department, or any member of the department while they, or any of them, are engaged in the discharge of their duties in extinguishing or preventing a fire or other declared emergency.
(Ord. No. 90-009, art. II, § 7, 8-13-90)
State Law reference— Obstruction or hindering of firefighters, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-24.1.
Secs. 38-39—38-41. - Reserved.
Article III. - Fire Fees

Sec. 38-42. - Monthly fees for fire protection.
(a)
Monthly fire protection fees to be paid by commercial and residential customers will be as provided in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk.
(b)
The above referenced billing will be based on the square footage being serviced by each water meter.
(Ord. No. 99-012, 12-27-99)
