Chapter 66 - PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS[1]

Sec. 66-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Peddler includes all peddlers, solicitors, hawkers, canvassers, itinerant merchants and transient vendors of merchandise.
(Code 1982, § 14-60)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 66-2. - Registration and card required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to go from house to house or from place to place in the city soliciting, selling or taking orders for goods, wares, merchandise or services, including insurance contracts, subscriptions to magazines or newspapers, to expose plates or films to make negatives, to make pictures or photographs for future delivery, or any articles for future delivery unless such peddler shall first have registered with the chief of police and shall have applied for and received from the chief of police a registration card showing such registration.
(Code 1982, § 14-61)
Sec. 66-3. - Registration card applications; fees; exemptions; fingerprinting.
(a)
Any person desiring a registration card as required by section 66-2 shall file an application with the chief of police. Such application shall give:
(1)
The applicant's full name and home address;
(2)
The name of the last three municipalities in which the applicant worked, if any;
(3)
The name of the company or individual such applicant represents or works for, if any;
(4)
The merchandise, services or products to be sold, disposed of, peddled or hawked by the applicant;
(5)
Two recent photographs of the applicant; and
(6)
If the applicant represents another individual or company, the applicant must present to the chief of police satisfactory proof of authority to represent such company or individual.
(b)
The application shall be accompanied by a fee as set by the mayor and city council to help defray the expense of investigation.
(c)
Persons offering for sale agricultural products, meats, poultry or other articles of food grown or produced by such persons or civic, educational or religious organizations shall not be required to pay the fees required by subsection (b) of this section, but the registration card required hereby shall be issued to such persons by the chief of police upon satisfactory proof that they have produced or grown the products to be peddled or that the purpose for peddling any property is for civic, educational or religious purposes and such card shall so state.
(d)
At the time of making application for the registration card, the applicant shall submit to, and be fingerprinted by, the chief of police. Such fingerprints shall be kept as a permanent record in the office of the chief of police.
(Code 1982, § 14-62)
Sec. 66-4. - Registration card issuance, contents, expiration and display.
(a)
No registration card shall be issued until the applicant shall have complied with all of the provisions and requirements of this chapter.
(b)
When such registration card is issued, it shall be signed by the city clerk; be dated as of the date of its issuance; and be void after three months from the date of its issuance. Any card not dated and signed as required in this subsection, or which is issued in violation of this section, shall be void.
(c)
Every peddler shall display such registration card on such his person by means of a cellophane badge at all times while such person is engaged in such business.
(Code 1982, § 14-63)
Sec. 66-5. - Reregistration after expiration of registration card.
(a)
After the expiration of a registration card, subsequent registration cards may be obtained by re-registering with the chief of police and applying for such subsequent registration card, and in all other respects complying with the provisions of this chapter. Any peddler may reregister and apply for subsequent registration cards as often as desired.
(b)
The chief of police shall issue a subsequent registration card to each applicant within 48 hours after such applicant has complied with all requirements for such reregistration as prescribed in this section. Such subsequent card shall be similar to the original card, except the date thereof.
(Code 1982, § 14-64)
Sec. 66-6. - Compliance with registration provisions prerequisite to engaging in business.
All peddlers must comply with the registration provisions of this chapter at least 48 hours prior to going in or upon any private residence within the city for the purpose of soliciting orders for the sale of magazines, goods, wares, services or merchandise of any kind or character, and/or for the purpose of disposing of and/or peddling and/or hawking such services or merchandise, to expose plates or films to make negatives, and make pictures or photographs for future delivery, unless requested or invited to do so by the owner or occupant thereof.
(Code 1982, § 14-65)
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 22.
Sec. 66-7. - Restriction of sale in public places.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any article of any kind or nature whatsoever to be sold or offered for sale from vehicles, conveyances, boxes, stands or other containers while standing or located on the streets, sidewalks or public places of the city, without the express written permission of the mayor and city council.
(b)
The provisions of this section shall not apply to sales made by any business holding an occupational license on the sidewalk adjacent to its business premises, or to any vendor holding a valid contract with the Georgia Peach Festival, Inc.
(Code 1982, § 14-67)
Cross reference— Streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 78.
State Law reference— Obstructing highways, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-43.
Sec. 66-8. - Sales on private property.
Articles may be sold from vehicles, conveyances, boxes or otherwise while located on private premises, but not until and unless the person offering such articles for sale has first secured the written consent of the owner of such premises to sell such articles thereon, and has paid for and secured from the city clerk the regular license to conduct such business within the city, and with the express written permission of the mayor and city council.
(Code 1982, § 14-68)
Sec. 66-9. - Time of sales restricted.
Under no circumstances shall any person canvass or peddle any article whatsoever within the city prior to 9:00 a.m. and after 9:00 p.m. of any day.
(Code 1982, § 14-69)
