ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 22-1. - Rummage, garage, carport and similar sales; permit required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to hold a rummage, garage, carport, outdoor auction of personal property, or similar sales within the city without first obtaining from the city manager, or the city manager's designated representative, a permit for the holding of such sale at some designated place which shall be approved by the city manager. Such sales, when held under such permit, shall be governed by such rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the city manager.
(Code 1967, § 16-29; Ord. No. O-22-11 , § 2(Exh. A), 10-17-22)
Sec. 22-2. - Peddling or soliciting; permit required.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to go from residence to residence and offer for sale, solicit orders for, or sell any merchandise, or to solicit to perform services, or to engage in charitable solicitation within the city without first obtaining a permit to do so from the City of Decatur.
(b)
The chief of police, or the chief of police's designee, shall cause each person requesting such a permit to be photographed and fingerprinted and shall take such other steps as are necessary to ensure proper identification of the person. The chief of police shall issue a permit to any person who is not disqualified pursuant to subsection (c).
(c)
The chief of police shall deny a permit to any person who has been convicted, been on probation, parole, or been imprisoned for the violation of any of the following offenses of the State of Georgia, of any other state, or of the United States within a period of five years immediately prior to the date of request for a permit: homicide; rape; aggravated battery; burglary; aggravated assault; kidnapping; robbery; child molestation; criminal solicitation to commit any of these listed offenses; attempts to commit any of these offenses; any crime of violence or theft; sale or distribution of controlled substances; or violation of any other state law or local government ordinance involving improper residential solicitation activities.
(d)
A fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges shall be charged for each permit, except that the permit fee shall be waived for persons officially representing charitable organizations, as that term is defined by O.C.G.A. § 43-17-2.
(e)
If a permit is issued, it shall be on the person engaged in going from residence to residence and offering for sale, soliciting orders for, or selling merchandise, or soliciting to perform services, or in making charitable solicitations.
(f)
Permits issued pursuant to subsection (b) shall be valid from 9:00 a.m. until 8:00 p.m. and will expire 90 days after date of issuance.
(Code 1967, § 16-24; Ord. No. O-97-12, 4-7-97; Ord. No. O-08-10, 8-4-08; Ord. No. O-22-11 , § 2(Exh. A), 10-17-22)
State Law reference— Peddlers and itinerant traders, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-1 et seq.
Secs. 22-3, 22-4. - Reserved.
