Chapter 62 - VEGETATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Plant disease, pest control and pesticides, O.C.G.A. § 2-7-1 et seq.; forest resources and other plant life, O.C.G.A. § 12-6-1 et seq.; timber harvesting and removal requirements, O.C.G.A. § 12-6-23 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 62-1—62-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WEEDS AND GRASS

Sec. 62-19. - Purpose.
The purpose of this section is to prevent unduly high grass and weeds from detracting from the appearance of a neighborhood, inviting infestation of such area by snakes and rodents and providing other health hazards to the area.
Sec. 62-20. - Height regulations.
It shall be unlawful for the owner, tenant, lessee or resident of any property within the city to permit grass or weeds to grow to a height in excess of 12 inches upon property on which he resides or has an interest.
Sec. 62-21. - Notice of violation.
Upon notification by the city that certain property is in violation of this section, the owner, tenant, lessee or resident of such property shall have ten days in which to have the grass and weeds cut below the 12-inch height. Notification may consist of an agent of the city posting a sign on the property, attaching a written notice to the door of any building on the property or mailing a written notice by first class mail to the owner or resident of the property at the address listed for the respective property in the real estate property tax records of the city.
Sec. 62-22. - Failure of owner to abate; abatement by city; abatement costs.
If the grass and weeds have not been cut below the 12-inch height by the end of ten days from the date of the notice to cut the grass and weeds, a lawn care contractor representative for the city will cut the grass and weeds and the city will assess a charge to the owner, tenant, lessee or resident for the work that is done by the lawn care contractor. The assessment charge will be the same charge as the charge submitted to the city by the respective lawn care contractor.
Sec. 62-23. - Payment of abatement costs; failure to pay.
Upon completion of the work done by the contractor for the city, the owner, tenant, lessee or resident will have 15 days in which to make payment of the cost of the work. If the assessment cost is not paid within the 15-day time period, a lien will be taken out against the respective property and the city will take actions it deems appropriate to collect the debt from the owner, tenant, lessee or resident of the property.
(Code 1992, § 10-10; Ord. No. 92-6, §§ 1, 2, 7-7-1992)
