Chapter 16 - COURTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.; appointment of judges of municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-2; powers of municipal court judges in criminal cases, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-3; alternative sentences by municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-5; jurisdiction of municipal court, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-6 et seq.; training courses for judge of municipal court, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-11; municipal court clerk training, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-13.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 16-1—16-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MUNICIPAL COURT

Sec. 16-19. - Name; court schedule.
The city municipal court, created by the city charter, shall be convened at regular intervals, and at such other times as may be determined by the judge. A court schedule shall be published and made available to the public, either at city hall or at the city police department.
Sec. 16-20. - Jurisdiction; powers.
(a)
The municipal court shall try and punish violations of this Code, the city charter, all city ordinances, and such other violations as permitted by general state law.
(b)
The court shall have the authority to punish those in its presence for contempt, provided that such punishment shall not exceed a fine as authorized by law or ten days in jail.
(c)
The court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction, not to exceed a fine of $1,000.00, or imprisonment for six months, or both a fine and imprisonment, or may fix punishment by fine, imprisonment, community service, or any other form of alternative sentencing as now or hereafter provided by law. If state law authorizes punishment in excess of the fine and/or imprisonment specified herein, then the court may impose the greater punishment.
(d)
The court shall have authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray its costs of operation, and, with regard to prisoners bound over to any superior court for violations of state law, shall be entitled to reimbursement for the actual costs of meals, transportation, general caretaking expenses, court costs, administrative fees, and such other fees as are authorized to be collected by state law as presently enacted or hereafter amended.
(e)
The court shall have the authority to establish bail and recognizance to ensure the presence of those charged with violations before said court and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash, personal or real property as surety for the appearance of persons charged with such violations. Whenever any person gives bond for his appearance and fails to appear at the time fixed for trial, the bond may be forfeited by the judge presiding at that time, and, in that event, execution shall be issued thereon by serving the defendant's sureties with a rule nisi, within ten days of a failure to appear for hearing. In the event that cash or property is accepted in lieu of bond to secure the appearance of a defendant at trial, and if such defendant fails to appear at the time and place fixed for trial, the cash so deposited shall be on order of the municipal judge declared forfeited to the city; or the property so deposited shall have a lien against it for the amount forfeited, which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as a lien for unpaid city property taxes and fees.
(f)
The court shall have the same authority as the superior court of the county to compel the production of evidence in the possession of any party, to enforce obedience to its orders, judgments, or sentences, and to administer such oaths as may be necessary.
(g)
The court shall have the authority to bind defendants over to the appropriate court when it appears by probable cause that state law has been violated, or where a defendant makes a request for a trial by jury, or under other circumstances in which a transfer is authorized by state law.
(h)
The court is specifically vested with all jurisdiction and power throughout the corporate limits of the city as granted generally by law to municipal courts, and particularly by such laws that authorize the abatement of nuisances and prosecution of traffic violations.
(i)
Subject to the approval of the city council, the municipal court is further authorized to enter into any contracts or agreements it deems necessary or expedient for certain services, including, but not limited to, housing persons charged with city offenses in other jail facilities, probation and related supervision services, collection of fines, fees, and other delinquent payments, and similar such services.
State Law reference— Jurisdiction of municipal court, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-6 et seq.
Sec. 16-21. - Certiorari.
The right of certiorari from the decisions and judgments of the municipal court shall exist in all criminal cases, ordinance violation cases, and such other cases in which certiorari is appropriate under state law. Such certiorari shall be obtained under the sanction of a judge of the superior court of the county, under the state law regulating the granting and issuance of writs of certiorari.
State Law reference— When writ of certiorari will lie in superior court, O.C.G.A. § 5-4-1.
Secs. 16-22—16-45. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - MUNICIPAL JUDGE

Sec. 16-46. - Qualifications.
The municipal court shall be presided over by a parttime municipal judge and any other standby or substitute judges as may be provided by ordinance. No person shall be qualified and eligible to serve as a judge of the city municipal court unless that person:
(1)
Has attained the age of 30 years;
(2)
Is a qualified and registered voter in the county;
(3)
Has resided in the county for no fewer than five years immediately preceding appointment; and
(4)
Possesses, or completes within one year from the date of appointment, all other certifications and qualifications as may be required by law.
State Law reference— Municipality to set qualifications and compensation of municipal judge, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-2.
Sec. 16-47. - Appointment; term; compensation.
The judge of the municipal court shall be appointed annually by, and serve at the pleasure of, the city council, and shall serve until a successor is duly appointed and qualified. The city council shall fix the compensation of the municipal judge. The municipal judge shall serve at will and may be removed from office at any time by majority vote of the city council, unless otherwise provided by ordinance.
State Law reference— Appointment of judges of municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-2.
Sec. 16-48. - Oath of office.
Before assuming office, the municipal judge shall take an oath, to be administered by the mayor, that he will honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of office to the best of his ability, and without fear, favor, or partiality. The oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the city council as maintained by the clerk.
State Law reference— Oath of public officers, O.C.G.A. § 45-3-1.
Sec. 16-49. - Authority.
(a)
The municipal judge shall have all power and authority conferred upon municipal judges by state law and the city charter including, but not by way of limitation, the specific additional authority set forth in this section.
(b)
The municipal judge may compel the presence of all parties necessary for the proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summons, subpoenas, and warrants, which may be served or executed by any officer as authorized by law of the city charter.
(c)
The municipal judge shall be authorized to issue warrants for the arrest of any person charged with violations of this Code and any ordinances of the city.
(d)
The judge shall have the same authority as a magistrate of the state or county to issue warrants for violations of state laws committed within the corporate limits of the city. The judge shall also have the authority to issue warrants for the arrest of persons charged with violating any of the terms or conditions of any sentence of probation imposed upon them in the municipal court and revoke any or all of said personsï¿½1/21/2 remaining probated sentence, if those persons are found to have violated the terms and conditions of their probation.
State Law reference— Powers of municipal court judges in criminal cases, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-3; jurisdiction, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-6 et seq.
Sec. 16-50. - Rules of court.
With the approval of the city council, the municipal judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court. However, the city council may adopt, in whole or in part, the rules and regulations applicable to the court.
Sec. 16-51. - Judges pro tem.
In the absence, sickness or disqualification of the regularly appointed chief judge, the judges pro tem as designated by the city council shall be clothed with all the powers of the chief judge and hold the municipal court.
(Code 1992, § 9-1; Ord. No. 94-4, § 1, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 16-52. - Compensation of judge.
The compensation of the chief judge and judge pro tem shall be determined each year and set forth in the annual budget.
(Code 1992, § 9-2; Ord. No. 94-4, § 2, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 16-53. - Sessions of court.
Municipal court shall convene at such times as may be designated by the chief judge after consultation with the city attorney, city solicitor, court clerk, and the chief of police and may be additionally convened at such other times and dates as deemed necessary by the chief judge; provided, however, that in the discretion of the chief judge, any regularly scheduled court session can be canceled.
(Code 1992, § 9-3; Ord. No. 94-4, § 3, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 16-54. - Acceptance, refusal of bonds.
(a)
The chief of police or his designee may take bond with security or bond without security at his discretion, payable to the city, for appearance of any person accused or suspected of being guilty of a violation of any law or ordinance of the city to stand to and abide his trial before the municipal court; provided, however, the chief of police shall not accept bonds from a surety as to whom a written order has been signed by the municipal court clerk removing him from the list of acceptable sureties.
(b)
If any party shall fail or refuse to give bond and security or bond as required of him, such persons so failing or refusing may be confined in the city jail or any jail used by the city or kept under a guard so as to be present, to abide the trial or to testify, as the case may be.
(Code 1992, § 9-4; Ord. No. 94-4, § 4, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 16-55. - Acceptance of cash bonds.
The municipal judge is hereby designated as the person authorized to specify by written order what offenses a cash bond may be accepted for and who may set and accept cash bonds. A driver's license may be accepted as cash bond as provided by state law.
(Code 1992, § 9-5; Ord. No. 94-4, § 5, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 16-56. - Professional bondsmen.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Professional bondsman means any person who charges a fee for posting bail for another.
(b)
All professional bondsmen who act as sureties on bail bonds required by the municipal court shall be required to adequately secure the payment of any bail bonds signed by them in the event such bonds are forfeited.
(c)
In order to provide adequate security, the professional bondsman must:
(1)
Own property in the county where the equity in such property is sufficient to cover all bonds signed by such professional bondsman, but such equity shall not be less than $25,000.00;
(2)
Post a surety bond to be approved by the chief of police in an amount equal to the amount of outstanding bonds signed by a professional bondsman, but such bond shall be an amount not less than $25,000.00; or
(3)
Post a cash bond in the amount of $25,000.00, provided that the outstanding bonds signed by such professional bondsman do not exceed $25,000.00, a cash bond will be required to cover any amounts in excess of $25,000.00.
(d)
The municipal court clerk, in consultation with the municipal judge, is authorized to establish such other reasonable rules, regulations and procedures relating to the securing of the payment of forfeited bonds as may be deemed by him to be appropriate.
(e)
Adequate records showing the total amount of bonds signed by each professional bondsman shall be maintained in the office of the chief of police at all times to ensure the proper enforcement of this section.
(f)
Nothing in this section shall prevent an individual from posting his own cash bond or posting a property bond, provided any such property bond is approved by the chief of police or any officer to whom he may delegate such authority.
(Code 1992, § 9-6; Ord. No. 94-4, § 6, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 16-57. - Law violators.
Any person who is charged with a violation of any ordinance of the city, or any provisions thereof, or who is charged with a violation of the criminal laws of the state may, depending on the violation, be required to give bond or recognizance with good security, or a cash bond or collateral conditioned to appear before the municipal judge to answer the charge preferred against him.
(Code 1992, § 9-7; Ord. No. 94-4, § 7, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 16-58. - Judgment on violator's bond.
In the event the principal in any bond or recognizance given by a person charged with a violation of an ordinance of the city, or any provision thereof, or who is charged with a violation of the criminal laws of the state should fail to appear before the municipal court when his case is called to trial, the municipal court may proceed at once to forfeit the bond or recognizance and notice to the surety and, if no sufficient cause is shown, the municipal court shall enter judgment against the principal and surety for the full amount of the bond or recognizance and costs, and the municipal court of the city shall issue execution for the amount of the judgment. In addition, the municipal judge may pass an order prohibiting acceptance of bonds signed by the surety if the execution is not paid within the time provided by statute.
(Code 1992, § 9-8; Ord. No. 94-4, § 9, 4-5-1994)
State Law reference— Authority to provide for forfeiture of appearance bonds, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-4.
Sec. 16-59. - Uniform traffic citations.
A uniform traffic citation consistent with the form developed by the state commissioner of public safety shall be used for enforcement of this Code, including, but not limited to, traffic regulations.
(Code 1992, § 9-9; Ord. No. 94-4, § 9, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 16-60. - Service of summons.
Any person charged with violating any city ordinance, other than traffic violations and ordinances of this Code, shall receive notice by service of a summons as herein provided. Such summons may be issued by the clerk of the municipal court, the city marshal, the chief building inspector or any police officer of the city. Service of a summons may be made by any of the aforenamed officials by either serving the accused personally or by leaving a copy of the accused's most notorious place of abode. The summons shall be directed to the accused and shall distinctly state the offense charged, and the day, hour and place of trial, requiring the accused to appear before the judge of the municipal court to answer to the charge described in such summons.
(Code 1992, § 9-10; Ord. No. 94-4, § 10, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 16-61. - Court costs.
In addition to state mandated court surcharges and fees, municipal court costs in the amount of $50.00 shall be collected on all cases heard in municipal court which result in a plea or finding by the court of guilty or nolo contendere. Such municipal costs shall be waived when a party disposes of a citation, when allowed under state law, not less than 24 hours prior to the designated court session.
(Code 1992, § 9-11; Ord. No. 94-4, § 11, 4-5-1994; Ord. No. 2008-1, 1-8-2008)
Sec. 16-62. - Failure to appear and warrant fees.
In addition to state mandated court surcharges and fees and municipal court costs, anyone who fails to appear in municipal court on arraignment or trial day shall pay a fee of $50.00 in addition to any other fines and fees associated with the case. If a warrant has been issued as a result of failure to appear on arraignment or trial day, an additional $100.00 fee shall apply in addition to any other fines and fees associated with the case.
(Ord. No. 2014-8, 11-18-2014)
Secs. 16-63—16-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - PROSECUTING ATTORNEY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2012-7, adopted July 17, 2012, set out provisions intended for use as art. IV, §§ 16-22—16-30. For purposes of preserving the style of this Code, and at the editor's discretion, these provisions have been included as art. IV, §§ 16-91—16-98.

Sec. 16-91. - Findings and intent.
This article is adopted to address requirements made under Georgia law for the city to pass an ordinance or resolution creating the office of prosecuting attorney of the municipal court because the city has chosen to hire or have a prosecuting attorney of the municipal court. Under state law, in order to have a municipal court prosecutor, the city must pass the ordinance codified in this article or resolution and provide to the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia a copy of the same. The city is also required to submit the name of the person appointed to be the prosecuting attorney of the municipal court within 30 days of such appointment in order to maintain the office of prosecuting attorney of the municipal court. It is therefore the intent of the city to comply with Georgia law, particularly O.C.G.A. § 15-18-5, and to enact this article.
(Ord. No. 2012-7, 7-17-2012)
Sec. 16-92. - Establishment of office.
The office of prosecuting attorney of the municipal court is hereby established for the purpose of providing representation of the City of Centerville in matters pertaining to ordinance violations of the city and state offenses enforceable in the municipal court as allowed by Georgia law. The prosecuting attorney for the municipal court shall be a part-time position.
(Ord. No. 2012-7, 7-17-2012)
Sec. 16-93. - Qualifications.
Any person appointed as the prosecuting attorney for the Municipal Court of the City of Centerville shall be a member in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia and admitted to practice before the trial and appellate courts of this state. Nothing in this article shall prevent the city from appointing the city attorney to be the prosecuting attorney for the municipal court, so long as all other requirements under the law are met.
(Ord. No. 2012-7, 7-17-2012)
Sec. 16-94. - Oath.
The prosecuting attorney of the Municipal Court for the City of Centerville shall take and subscribe to the following oath:
"I swear (or affirm) that I will well, faithfully, and impartially and without fear, favor, or affection, discharge my duties as prosecuting attorney of the Municipal Court for the City of Centerville."
(Ord. No. 2012-7, 7-17-2012)
Sec. 16-95. - Term of office.
Unless otherwise provided by the Charter for the City of Centerville, the prosecuting attorney for the municipal court shall serve until otherwise designated by the mayor and council as authorized by O.C.G.A. § 15-18-91(c).
(Ord. No. 2012-7, 7-17-2012)
Sec. 16-96. - Jurisdiction, duties and authority.
The Office of the Prosecuting Attorney of the Municipal Court for the City of Centerville shall have the duty and authority to represent the city as defined by the City Charter and by state law,, particularly as described in O.C.G.A. § 15-18-96.
(Ord. No. 2012-7, 7-17-2012)
Sec. 16-97. - Assistant prosecuting attorney.
The prosecuting attorney of the municipal court may appoint one or more assistant prosecuting attorneys whose appointment shall be ratified by the city council before becoming an assistant prosecuting attorney for the municipal court. Such assistant prosecuting attorney shall be a member in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia or satisfy the provisions of the Third Year Practice Act, found in O.C.G.A. § 15-18-22.
(Ord. No. 2012-7, 7-17-2012)
Sec. 16-98. - Ratification.
This article shall ratify all actions that have been taken by the persons acting in the positions of the office of the prosecuting attorney for the municipal court to date as authorized by the mayor and his council.
(Ord. No. 2012-7, 7-17-2012)
Secs. 16-99—16-125. - Reserved.
