Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Incorporation, boundaries and wards, art. I; miscellaneous provisions, art. XVII.

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as the "Code of the City of Rome, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1959, § 1-1; Code 1981, § 1-1001)
Charter reference— Codification of ordinances, § 2-13.
State Law reference— Exemplification of municipal minutes and other records, O.C.G.A. § 24-7-21.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city commission:
City. The terms "the city" and "this city" mean the City of Rome, Georgia.
Commission. Whenever the term "commission" is used, it is construed to mean the city commission of the City of Rome.
County. The terms "the county" and "this county" mean the County of Floyd, Georgia.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only extends and is applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Number. Words used in the singular include the plural, and words used in the plural include the singular.
Oath. The word "oath" is construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "swear" and "sworn" are equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The term "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Officials, etc. Whenever a reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, and departments by title only, i.e., "city manager," "chief of police," etc., it is deemed to refer to the officials, boards, commissions and departments of the city.
Person. The term "person" means companies, firms, partnerships, associations, organizations, bodies politic and corporate, other entities, and any combination thereof, and individuals.
Secretary, secretary of the commission. Whenever the terms "secretary" and "secretary of the commission" are used, they are construed to mean the secretary of the city commission.
Shall, may. The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is permissive.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means a strip of land in front of or on the sides of a building or lot of land lying between the property line and the street.
Signature, subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription" include a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The terms "the state" and "this state" mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" is construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public highways in the city.
Tense. Terms used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past or present.
Written, in writing. The terms "written" and "in writing" include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
(Code 1959, § 1-2; Code 1981, § 1-1002)
State Law reference— Construction of statutes generally, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1; definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of the sections of this Code, printed in boldface type, italics or otherwise, are intended merely as catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(Code 1959, § 1-3; Code 1981, § 1-1003)
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the repealed ordinance took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the repealed ordinance.
(Code 1959, § 1-4; Code 1981, § 1-1004)
State Law reference— Operation of laws, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-5.
Sec. 1-5. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city commission that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
(Code 1959, § 1-5; Code 1981, § 1-1005)
Sec. 1-6. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections or subsections, or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. Any and all additions and amendments to this Code, when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the commission to make the same a part hereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated herein, so that a reference to the Code shall be understood and intended to include such additions and amendments.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code shall be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language:
"That section _____ of the Code of the City of Rome, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions shall then be set out in full.
(c)
If a new section not existing in the Code is to be added, the following language shall be used: "That the Code of the City of Rome, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which section (or article or chapter) reads as follows:…." The new provisions should then be set out in full.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1959, § 1-6; Code 1981, § 1-1006)
Sec. 1-7. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city.
(3)
Any ordinance fixing salaries of officers or employees of the city.
(4)
Any appropriation ordinance.
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the commission to any person.
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city.
(7)
Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city.
(8)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor.
(9)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city.
(10)
Any ordinance fixing ad valorem taxes.
(11)
Any temporary or special ordinance.
(12)
Any ordinance relating to elections.
All such ordinances or acts are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this section.
Sec. 1-8. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part of this Code, or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever, except by ordinance of the city commission, which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented.
(Code 1959, § 1-7; Code 1981, § 1-1007)
Sec. 1-9. - General penalty; continuing violations; adjudging fines and imprisonments.
(a)
Whenever in this Code any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in such Code the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $2,000.00 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 days, or sentence of work on the streets or public works, or community service work, for not to exceed six months, or any combination of such punishments, in the discretion of the judge of the municipal court or any officer trying the offender. Each day any violation of any provision of this Code shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
In addition to the penalties provided in subsection (a), any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be, by the city, abated as provided by law, and each day that such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(Code 1959, § 1-8; Ord. No. 82-6-4, § 1, 6-21-82; Code 1981, § 1-1008)
Charter reference— Penalties for offenses against laws and ordinances, § 2-12; enjoining violation of charter provisions, § 17-5.
State Law reference— Confinement of violators of ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-8.
Sec. 1-10. - Exercise of powers.
The powers of the city may be exercised by the city as provided in this Code, or by other agencies as provided by contract.
