PART II - RELATED STATE LAWS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein are local constitutional amendments and state laws of local application that apply to the city but are not a part of the city charter. Amendments to the included provisions are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original law. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. A uniform style of headings and catchlines, and citations to the state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets. The title, enactment, severability, repealer, transitional, ratification, publication and effective date provisions have been omitted, and where a section has been amended by a later provision, only the current language is included. The editor has added section numbers and catchlines to facilitate indexing and the use of this compilation. This compilation is not an official codification of any act, but is presented here for convenient reference by the users of the Code. Formal citations should always be to the original act and not to this compilation.

ARTICLE I. - ROME-FLOYD COUNTY DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— This article is derived from 1962 Ga. Laws, page 1067, which amended Ga. Const. (1945), art. VII, § VII, par. V. See Ga. Const. (1983), art. IX, § VI.

Section 1-101 - Authorization to issue revenue obligations; purposes.
In addition to the purposes for which revenue anticipation obligations may be issued by counties, municipal corporations and political subdivisions as provided in said article VII, section VII, paragraph V of the Constitution of the State of Georgia [of 1945, now article IX, section VI, of the Constitution of 1983], the Rome-Floyd County Development Authority, hereinafter created, is hereby authorized to issue revenue obligations to provide funds to be used by said authority in assisting, promoting, establishing and developing new industries, and assisting, promoting and expanding existing industry, agriculture, trade and commerce within the territorial limits of Floyd County, Georgia, as hereinafter provided. Said purposes are hereby found, determined and declared to be for the benefit of the citizens and residents of said county and to be an essential governmental function in relieving unemployment, improving the economy, limiting poor relief assistance, developing natural resources and otherwise promoting the general welfare.
Section 1-102 - Creation; purposes; scope of authority.
In furtherance of the purposes for which such issuance of revenue anticipation obligations is authorized there is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the "Rome-Floyd County Development Authority," which shall be deemed to be a creature of the State of Georgia, an instrumentality of the County of Floyd, and a public corporation. The name of said authority may be changed from time to time by an act of the General Assembly. The said authority is created for the purpose of assisting, promoting, establishing and developing new industry, and assisting, promoting and expanding existing industry, agriculture, trade and commerce within the territorial limits of Floyd County, Georgia, both within and without the limits of municipalities therein, for the public good and general welfare of said county and its citizens. The scope and jurisdiction of the authority is restricted to the territorial limits of Floyd County, Georgia. The authority shall not be operated for profit, is an institution of purely public charity, and is an industrial development agency qualified to receive loans and other assistance from the industrial development commission of the State of Georgia, or other governmental agencies.
Section 1-103 - Functions authorized.
In carrying out the foregoing objectives, the authority shall be deemed to be engaging in such functions of government, activities and transactions as the County of Floyd, the City of Rome, and the City of Cave Spring are by law authorized to undertake.
Section 1-104 - Members; appointment, terms of office and oath.
The said authority shall consist of seven (7) members, one (1) of whom shall be the chairman of the city commission of the City of Rome; one (1) of whom shall be the chairman of the board of commissioners of roads and revenues of Floyd County; one (1) of whom shall be the president of the chamber of commerce of Rome and Floyd County, or its successor; one (1) of whom shall be the chairman of the industrial development committee of the chamber of commerce of Rome and Floyd County, or its successor; and three (3) of whom shall be appointed by the other four (4) members first above mentioned.
(1)
The terms of office of the members who are the chairman of the city commission of the City of Rome, the chairman of the board of commissioners of roads and revenues of Floyd County, the president of the chamber of commerce of Rome and Floyd County, or its successor, and the chairman of the industrial development committee of the chamber of commerce of Rome and Floyd County, or its successor, shall run concurrently with their respective tenures of such offices in said bodies, and their respective successors in such offices shall succeed them as members of the said authority.
(2)
The three (3) members initially appointed by the other four (4) members first mentioned shall be appointed for terms expiring December 31, 1963, December 31, 1964 and December 31, 1965, respectively; and thereafter their respective successors shall be appointed for terms of three (3) years. In the event of the death or resignation of either one (1) of said appointed members, his successor shall be appointed by the remaining members for the balance of the unexpired term. No vacancy shall impair the power of the authority to act.
(3)
Prior to taking office the members shall subscribe to the following oath, to wit: "I do solemnly swear that I will fully and fairly perform the duties as a member of the Rome-Floyd County Development Authority, So Help Me God."
(4)
The members of the said authority shall be entitled to no compensation.
Editor's note— The words "of roads and revenues" in the above section are obsolete. (O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20)
Section 1-105 - Definitions.
As used herein, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
(1)
The word "authority" shall mean the "Rome-Floyd County Development Authority," created hereby.
(2)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include the property, real and/or personal, acquired or held by the authority for the assistance, promotion, establishment or development of a new industry or industries, or the assistance, promotion or expansion of existing industry, trade or commerce in Floyd County, or any combination thereof; the acquisition of any such property for any such purpose or purposes; the improvement of any such property or properties; and/or the construction, installation and/or expansion of one (1) or more buildings, plants and/or articles of equipment for the purpose of using, selling, donating, leasing and/or renting such land, properties, improvements, structures or equipment to public or private persons, firms, corporations and/or associations for such purposes.
(3)
The term "cost of project" shall embrace: the cost of lands, buildings, improvements, machinery, equipment, properties, easements, rights, franchises, materials, labor and services acquired and/or contracted for; the cost of financing charges and/or of interest prior to and during construction; architectural, accounting, engineering, inspection, fiscal and/or legal expenses; cost of plans and/or specifications; and/or any other expenses necessary or incident to construction and/or improvements, and/or to determining the feasibility and/or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, and/or the acquisition, construction, equipping and/or operating any project or any part thereof.
Section 1-106 - Quorum.
Any four (4) members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of ordinary business of the authority; however, any action with respect to any project of the authority must be approved by not less than four (4) affirmative votes.
Section 1-107 - Powers.
The powers of the authority herein created shall include, but are not limited to, the power, for its corporate purposes:
(1)
To have a corporate seal and alter the same at pleasure.
(2)
To contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead or be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity; to contract with the State of Georgia and any instrumentality thereof, any county or municipality thereof and any other political subdivisions, and with private persons, firms, corporations and associations.
(3)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts.
(4)
To buy, acquire, receive as gifts, own, improve, expand, develop, operate, maintain, sell, donate, lease as lessor or lessee, mortgage, pledge, convey to secure debt and/or otherwise encumber and/or dispose of land, buildings, equipment, furnishings and/or property of all kinds, real and/or personal, within Floyd County, Georgia, and to make a contract or contracts and/or to execute any instrument or document for the accomplishment thereof, or other purposes.
(5)
To make contracts, and to execute any and all instruments necessary or convenient to, or in aid of, the accomplishment of any of the purposes of said authority, and/or the exercise of any power or powers of said authority.
(6)
To enter into any contract or contracts for any period of time not exceeding 50 years.
(7)
To appoint and select officers, agents and employees, including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and to fix their compensation.
(8)
To construct, erect, buy, receive as a gift, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, equip, furnish, extend, expand, develop, improve, donate, sell, lease as lessor or lessee, add to, operate and manage projects and to pay the costs of any such project from any income of the authority, from the proceeds of revenue bonds issued and sold by the authority or others, from any taxes levied for the purpose by the State of Georgia, Floyd County, or any of the municipalities therein, or from any contributions or loans by political subdivisions or instrumentalities, persons, firms or corporations, all of which the authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use.
(9)
To elect its own officers from the membership of the authority; to elect and employ an executive director who is not required to be a member of the authority; and to authorize and empower such officers to act for the authority generally or in any specific matter.
(10)
To borrow money and to execute debentures, bonds, notes, mortgages, deeds or bills of sale to secure debt, trust deeds and or other such instruments as may be necessary or convenient to evidence and secure such borrowing.
(11)
To issue and sell revenue bonds for the purpose of raising funds for the payment, in whole or in part, of the cost of any project of the authority; to secure the payment of the obligations of such bonds by, but not limited to, selling, conveying, mortgaging, pledging and/or assigning any or all of its funds, income and/or property; and to exercise all the rights, powers and privileges, and to be subject to all the duties and liabilities, which a municipality may exercise and/or be subject to under the provisions of the Revenue Bond Law (chapter 87-8 of the Code of Georgia), as the same now is, or hereafter may be, amended. The rights, powers and privileges of the authority are not limited to those of such a municipality, however.
(12)
To use public funds appropriated to it, the rents, profits and proceeds from the projects erected, leased or sold, and other funds and income of the authority, to provide for the operation and maintenance of such projects or other projects, to discharge the principal, interest and expenses of bonds, revenue bonds and notes issued by the authority, to pay other debts of the authority and to further and promote the objectives of the authority.
(13)
To exercise any power granted by the laws of the State of Georgia to public corporations or authorities performing similar functions.
(14)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested.
(15)
To adopt, alter, amend and/or repeal its own bylaws, rules and regulations governing the manner in which its business may be transacted and in which the powers granted to it may be enjoyed, as the authority may deem necessary or expedient in facilitating its business.
(16)
To do all things necessary and convenient to carry out the powers expressly conferred by this act upon the authority.
Editor's note— The Revenue Bond Law is now found in O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq. As instructed by the city, one (1) of the two (2) instances of the word "equip" in § 1-107(8) has been deleted.
Section 1-108 - Issuance of bonds.
The acquisition, construction, improvement, betterment, expansion or extension of any undertaking or project of the authority, and the issuance in anticipation of the collection of revenues of such undertaking or project, of bonds to provide funds to pay the whole or a part of the costs thereof, may be authorized by resolution or resolutions of the authority which may be adopted at a regular or special meeting by a majority of the members of the authority. Unless otherwise provided therein, such resolution or resolutions shall take effect immediately and need not be laid over or published or posted. The authority in determining the cost of any undertaking or project for which revenue bonds are to be issued may include all costs as hereinbefore defined. Such bonds shall bear such date or dates, mature at such time or times, not exceeding 30 years from their respective dates, bear interest at such rate or rates not exceeding seven percent (7%) per annum, and may be in such denominations and may carry such registration privileges and be subject to redemption and may contain such terms, covenants, assignments and conditions as the resolution or resolutions authorizing the issuance of such bonds may provide. Except as herein provided to the contrary, such bonds shall be issued and validated in the superior court of Floyd County, Georgia, in the same manner as revenue bonds of municipalities are issued and validated under the "Revenue Bond Law" (1937 Georgia Laws, pages 761—774; chapter 87-8 of the Code of Georgia), as now and hereafter amended. In the proceedings to validate such bonds, the Rome-Floyd County Development Authority shall be named as party defendant. In [the] event no bill of exceptions is filed within the time prescribed by law, or if filed, the judgment validating the bonds shall be affirmed by the Supreme Court of Georgia, such judgment shall be forever conclusive as to the validity of said bonds and the security therefor against said authority.
Editor's note— The Revenue Bond Law is now found in O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.
State Law reference— Interest rates established by general law development authorities, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-8(f).
Section 1-109 - Tax exemption.
All property, real and personal, the title to which is vested in the authority, and all debentures, notes, bonds and revenue bonds issued by the authority, and interest thereon and income therefrom, shall be exempt from state, county, city and local taxation for any purpose.
Section 1-110 - Persons handling funds; bond required.
It shall be the duty of the authority to have all persons handling funds of the authority fully and adequately bonded for their faithful accounting for such funds.
Section 1-111 - Debt against state, county or city prohibited.
The authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability or obligation, against the State of Georgia, Floyd County or any municipality therein. No debt, liability or obligation of the authority shall be considered a pledge or loan of the credit of the State of Georgia, or any county, city or other subdivision thereof.
Section 1-112 - Conveyance of land to authority.
If the authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project or use any project already constructed on lands, the title to which shall be in the County of Floyd and/or any incorporated city or town in said county, the governing authorities of the County of Floyd and of said municipalities, respectively, are authorized in their discretion to convey title to such lands, including any improvements thereon, without cost, to the authority. Said county and/or said municipalities may donate to said authority real estate, personal property and services for any such project. Any such land, improvements, or personal property so conveyed or donated to the authority may be mortgaged, conveyed, or pledged to secure obligations of the authority.
Section 1-113 - Title to property of authority.
Should said authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of every kind and nature, real and personal, held by the authority at the time of such dissolution, shall be conveyed to Floyd County subject to any mortgages, liens, leases or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property. No private interest shall exist in the property of the authority. The authority shall hold title only for the benefit of the public.
Section 1-114 - Books and records; audit.
The books and records of the authority shall be audited at least annually, at the expense of the authority, by a competent independent auditor; and the minutes and records of the same shall be filed with the clerk of the board of commissioners of roads and revenue of said county, and shall be available for public inspection.
Editor's note— The words "of roads and revenue" in the above section are obsolete. (O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20)
Section 1-115 - Existence of authority.
The authority shall exist and have all of said powers, and the right to exercise the same for its corporate purposes, regardless of whether or not it shall issue revenue anticipation obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE II. - ROME-FLOYD COUNTY INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— This article is derived from 1961 Ga. Laws, page 3207. The sections are in their original order. For example, § 2-101 is from § 1, and § 2-102 is from § 2.

Section 2-101 - Created.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Rome-Floyd County Industrial Development Authority, which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation, and in that name, style and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, plead and be interpleaded and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. In the event the name of said authority shall ever become the subject of change same may be accomplished by an act of the general assembly.
Section 2-102 - General powers.
The said authority is created for the purpose of expanding and developing industry in Floyd County and for improving the general welfare of said county, including the purchase and/or leasing of land and/or the construction thereon of facilities and/or improvements for lease and/or sale to industries so as to relieve abnormal unemployment conditions, and is an industrial development agency qualified to receive loans and other assistance from the Industrial Development Commission of the State of Georgia, or other governmental agencies. In carrying out these objectives the authority shall be deemed to be performing an essential governmental function, and engaged in activities which the State of Georgia or other political subdivisions could themselves lawfully undertake.
Section 2-103 - Members; terms; oath; compensation.
The said authority shall consist of seven (7) members, one (1) of whom shall be the chairman of the city commission of the City of Rome; one (1) of whom shall be the chairman of the board of commissioners of Floyd County; one (1) of whom shall be the president of the chamber of commerce of Rome and Floyd County, or its successor; one (1) of whom shall be the chairman of the industrial development committee of the chamber of commerce of Rome and Floyd County, or its successor; and three (3) of whom shall be appointed by the other four (4) members first above mentioned.
(a)
The terms of office of the members who are the chairman of the city commission of the City of Rome, the chairman of the board of commissioners of Floyd County, the president of the chamber of commerce of Rome and Floyd County, or its successor, and the chairman of the industrial development committee of the chamber of commerce of Rome and Floyd County, or its successor, shall run concurrently with their tenure of office, and their successors in such respective offices shall succeed them as members of the said authority.
(b)
The three (3) members initially appointed by the other four (4) members first mentioned shall be appointed for terms expiring December 31, 1961, December 31, 1962, and December 31, 1963, respectively; and thereafter their respective successors shall be appointed for terms of three (3) years. In the event of death or resignation of either [sic] one of said appointed members, his successor shall be appointed by the remaining members for the balance of the unexpired term.
(c)
Prior to taking office the members shall subscribe to the following oath, to-wit: "I do solemnly swear that I will fully and fairly perform the duties as a member of the Rome-Floyd County Industrial Development Authority, So Help Me God."
(d)
The members of the said authority shall be entitled to no compensation.
Section 2-104 - Definitions.
As used herein, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
(a)
The word "authority" shall mean the "Rome-Floyd County Industrial Development Authority," created hereby.
(b)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include property, real and/or personal, acquired or held by the authority for the development, expansion and promotion of industry in Floyd County; the acquisition of such property for such purposes; the improvement of such properties and/or the construction of buildings, plants, and/or equipment for the purpose of using, selling, leasing or renting such land, properties, improvements, structures or equipment to public or private persons, firms, corporations or associations for such purposes.
(c)
The term "cost of project" shall embrace the cost of lands, buildings, improvements, machinery, equipment, properties, easements, rights, franchises, materials, labor and services acquired or contracted for, the cost of financing charges and of interest prior to and during construction, architectural, accounting, engineering and legal expenses, cost of plans and specifications and other expenses necessary or incident to construction or improvements or to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, and all other expenses necessary or incident to the acquisition, construction, equipping and/or operating any project or any part thereof.
Section 2-105 - Quorum.
Any four (4) members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of ordinary business of the authority; however, any action with respect to any project of the authority must be approved by not less than four (4) affirmative votes.
Section 2-106 - Specific powers enumerated.
The powers of the authority herein created shall include, but are not limited to, the power:
(a)
To have a corporate seal and alter the same at pleasure.
(b)
To contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead or be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity, to contract with the State of Georgia, any county or municipality thereof, and other political subdivisions, and with private persons, firms, corporations and associations.
(c)
To acquire, hold and dispose of real and personal property, including the stock of other corporations for its corporate purposes.
(d)
To buy, acquire, receive as gifts, improve, own, operate, maintain, sell, lease as lessor or lessee and mortgage, as well as execute deeds and other instruments to secure debt to and for, land, buildings and property of all kinds, real and personal, within the County of Floyd.
(e)
To enter into contracts for any period of time not exceeding 50 years.
(f)
To acquire in its own name by purchase on such terms and conditions, and in such manner as it may deem proper, real property or rights of easement therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue, to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of the same, or to sell the same, in any manner it deems to be the best advantage of the authority.
(g)
To encourage and promote the expansion of industry in the County of Floyd, and the municipalities in said county, and to make a long range plan therefor.
(h)
To appoint and select officers, agents and employees, including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and to fix their compensation.
(i)
To make contracts, and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient to the acquisition, maintenance and operation of projects, including contracts for construction of projects, and leases, and rental and sale of projects, or contracts with respect to the use of projects, which it erects or acquires.
(j)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, extend, improve, sell, lease, equip, expand, add to, operate and manage projects and to pay the costs of any such project from any income of the authority, or from any contributions or loans by persons, firms or corporations, all of which the authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use.
(k)
To elect its own officers from the membership of the authority; to elect and employ an executive director who is not required to be a member of the authority; and to authorize and empower such officers to acts [sic] for the authority generally or in any specific matter.
(l)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to execute debentures, bonds, notes, mortgages, deeds or bills of sale to secure debt, trust deeds and other such instruments as may be necessary or convenient to evidence and secure such borrowing.
(m)
To use the rents, profits and proceeds from the projects erected, leased or sold, to provide for the operation and maintenance of such projects or other projects, to discharge the principal and interest of notes issued by the authority, to pay other debts of the authority and to further and promote the objectives of the authority.
(n)
To do all things within its powers to encourage industrial expansion and development, and the location of new industries in Floyd County and the municipalities therein.
(o)
To exercise any power granted by the laws of the State of Georgia to public corporations or authorities performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the constitution and laws of this state.
(p)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested.
(q)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts.
(r)
To adopt, alter or repeal its own bylaws, rules and regulations governing the manner in which its business may be transacted and in which the power granted to it may be enjoyed, as the authority may deem necessary or expedient in facilitating its business.
(s)
To do all things necessary and convenient to carry out the powers expressly conferred by this act upon the authority.
Section 2-107 - Personnel bonds.
It shall be the duty of the authority to have all persons handling funds of the authority fully and adequately bonded for their faithful accounting for such funds.
Section 2-108 - Debt of authority not debt of county or state.
The authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability or obligation, against the State of Georgia, Floyd County, or any municipality therein. No debt, liability or obligation of the authority shall be considered a pledge or loan of the credit of the State of Georgia, or any county, city or other subdivision thereof, except said authority.
Section 2-109 - Property.
If the authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project or use any project already constructed on lands, the title to which shall be in the County of Floyd and/or any incorporated city or town in said county, the governing authorities of the County of Floyd and of said municipalities, respectively, are authorized in their discretion to convey title to such lands, including any improvements therein, without cost, to the authority. Said county and/or said municipalities may donate to said authority personal property and services for any such project.
Section 2-110 - Gratuities.
The authority shall not grant any donation or gratuity, directly or indirectly, to any person, firm, corporation or association.
Section 2-111 - Reversion of property.
Should said authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of every kind and nature, real and personal, held by the authority at the time of such dissolution, shall revert to Floyd County and the municipalities therein subject to any mortgages, liens, leases or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property. No private interest shall exist in the property of the authority. The members thereof shall not use it for private gain or benefit. The authority shall hold title only for the benefit of the public.
Section 2-112 - Audits.
The books and records of the authority shall be audited at least annually, at the expense of the authority, by a competent independent auditor; and the minutes and records of the same shall be filed with the clerk [secretary of the city commission] of the City of Rome and shall be available for public inspection.
