PART I - CHARTER[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the Charter, as adopted by the General Assembly in 1918 Georgia Laws, page 813. Where not otherwise stated, references to sections in parentheses are to the sections of the above act. Amendments to the Charter are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the language has been changed as instructed by the city during the preparation of this Code or the 1981 Code. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. A uniform style of headings and catchlines, and citations to the state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
This codification reflects a technical compilation of the charter. Those provisions of the 1918 Act and subsequent amendatory acts which have been superseded by general law or which were of a transitory nature and have expired have been deleted. The remaining provisions have been arranged according to subject matter and renumbered for the user's convenience.
Those sections which include no historical note represent the substance of former sections as they have been simplified or modernized to bring them into line with current practices or requirements. However, since these sections have not been adopted by the legislature, where required, or by home rule ordinance, they are not, in fact, law. Therefore they should not be relied upon by the city from a legal standpoint until such time as they are adopted by law either as amendments to the 1918 charter or as part of a totally new, revised charter.
The codified charter as contained in part I should not be used in any pleadings in any court involving litigation in which the city is a party. This is a codification of the charter, as amended. The official legal charter of the city can be found in 1918 Ga. Laws, page 813, and amendments thereto. Such amendments will be found in the session laws of the General Assembly and in the official minutes of the city commission in the case of home rule amendments.

ARTICLE 1. - INCORPORATION, BOUNDARIES AND WARDS

Section 1-1 - Incorporation, name and style, general rights, powers and privileges.
The inhabitants of the territory hereinafter described, all of which is located in Floyd County, State of Georgia, be and are hereby incorporated under the name and style of the "City of Rome," a body politic and corporate, and by that name shall have perpetual succession, and is hereby vested with all the rights, powers and privileges incident to municipal corporations in the State of Georgia, and all rights, powers, titles, property easements and hereditaments, within or without its corporate limits, now belonging to the City of Rome; shall be and are hereby vested in the City of Rome as created by this act and the City of Rome, as created by this act, may, by its corporate name, sue and be sued, contract and be contracted with, plead and be impleaded, have and use a common seal, make and enact through its commissioners such ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations and resolutions for the transaction of its business and the welfare and proper government of the city as the commissioners may deem proper, not in conflict with this charter, nor in conflict with the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, nor in conflict with the constitution and laws of the United States of America. And the City of Rome shall have the right and power to purchase, hold, rent, lease, sell, exchange, enjoy, possess and retain in perpetuity, or for any terms of years, any property, estate, real or personal, land, tenements and hereditaments of whatsoever kind, within or without the limits of the city for corporate purposes, and the City of Rome shall have the right to rent, lease or operate any and all public buildings for any purpose whatsoever; and the city shall have the right and power to receive gifts, donations, bequests and public trusts and agree to conditions and terms accompanying the same, and the commission of the city is herein empowered to bind the city to carry out the same. The City of Rome, as created by this act, shall succeed to all the rights and remedies of and is hereby made responsible as a body corporate for all the legal debts, liabilities and undertakings of the present City of Rome, and its former governing authorities or the former board of public works of the city as a body corporate, as heretofore incorporated.
(§ 1)
Section 1-2 - Wards.
The City of Rome shall be composed of three (3) wards to be known as Ward no. 1, Ward no. 2, and Ward no. 3. Ward no. 1 shall include all of the property lying within the City of Rome at the present time, or which may hereafter be incorporated within said city, lying between the center line of the Etowah River and thence generally westerly and northwesterly to the center line of the Oostanaula River. Ward no. 2 shall include all of the property lying within the City of Rome at the present time, or which may hereafter be incorporated within said city, lying between the center line of the Etowah River and thence generally westerly and southwesterly to the center line of the Coosa River. Ward no. 3 shall include all of the property lying within the City of Rome at the present time, or which may hereafter be incorporated within said city, lying between the center line of the Coosa River thence generally north and northeast to the center line of the Oostanaula River.
(§ 112; 1929 Ga. Laws, page 1254; 1966 Ga. Laws, page 2379)
Section 1-3 - Corporate limits.
The boundaries of the city are as now or hereafter fixed and established by law.
ARTICLE 2. - CITY COMMISSION

Section 2-1 - Vesting of governing and legislative authority; commission members, eligibility, compensation, Mayor, legal process; election and terms.
(a)
The governing and legislative authority of the city shall be vested in a commission of nine members. Three members of said commission from each ward of the city shall be elected by a plurality of the consolidated vote of the entire city. The members of said commission shall have attained the age of 21 years and shall have been residents of said city for at least 12 months next preceding their election. The members at the time of and during their continuance in office shall be bona fide residents and citizens of the city and the ward for which they are elected and must at the time of their qualification for election have been a registered voter and elector of the city at least 90 days prior to qualification for election, and have been a resident and citizen of the ward in which they seek office for at least 90 days prior to, and at the time of, qualification for election. Each member of said commission shall receive a salary of $8,400.00 per annum. At their first meeting, or as soon thereafter as possible, the members of said commission shall elect one of their members as mayor, who shall receive a salary of 110 percent of the salary of a city commissioner, and one as mayor pro tempore. The mayor, or in his or her absence the mayor pro tempore, shall preside over the deliberations of the commission and shall have the right to vote on all questions; shall preserve order and decorum at all meetings of the commission and shall enforce the rules of the body; shall have power to punish all persons for contempt of such rules; and shall perform all other duties incident to his or her office, Service of legal process directed to or against the city shall be served upon the mayor of the commission.
(b)
An election shall be held in the city on the first Tuesday in December, 1984, to elect commissioners who shall serve and hold office from January, 1985, until the time hereinafter set forth and until their successors are duly elected and qualified.
(c)
Candidates from Wards 1 and 3 who are elected shall serve and hold office from the first Monday in January, 1985, until the first Monday in January, 1988, and until their successors are duly elected and qualified.
(d)
Candidates from Ward 2 who are elected shall serve and hold office from the first Monday in January 1985, until the first Monday in January, 1990, and until their successors are duly elected and qualified.
(e)
At the expiration of the terms of the commissioners elected on the first Tuesday in December, 1984, commissioners shall be elected to terms of four (4) years thereafter and until their successors are duly elected and qualified. Elections subsequent to the December, 1984, election shall be held on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November in the year next preceding the expiration of the respective terms and the commissioners elected shall serve and hold office for terms of four (4) years from the first Monday in January of the year they assume office and until their successors are duly elected and qualified.
(§ 3; 1949 Ga. Laws, page 2005; 1961 Ga. Laws, page 2282; 1966 Ga. Laws, page 2382; 1983 Ga. Laws (Act No. 355), § 1; Ord. No. 84-8-1, § 1, 8-6-84; Ord. No. 87-6-11, § 1, 6-15-87; Ord. No. 97-8-1, § I, 8-4-97; Ord. No. 02-9-1, §§ I, II, 9-3-02; Ga. Laws (Act 587), § 1)
Section 2-2 - Vacancy in elective offices, filling.
In case of a vacancy in elective offices under this Charter, caused by resignation, death or other cause, such vacancy shall be filled by the remaining members of the Rome City Commission until the next regular election for the election of the Rome City Commission.
Section 2-3 - Oath of office.
Before entering upon the discharge of duty, each of the commissioners shall take and subscribe to the following oath, which shall be entered upon the minutes of the commission:
"I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully and impartially demean myself as a commissioner of the City of Rome during my continuance in office; that I will discharge the duties of the office to which I have been elected to the best of my ability; that I will have due regard for the Charter of the City of Rome, the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, and of the United States of America; I do further swear that I will not knowingly permit my vote in the election or appointment of any person to a position in the city government to be influenced by fear, favor or affection, reward or hope thereof, but in all things pertaining to my said office I will be governed by my convictions as to the public good, so help me God."
(§ 12; Ord. No. 84-10-1, § 1, 10-1-84)
Section 2-4 - Unlawful promises, penalty therefor.
No candidate for commissioner shall, before his election, or in any party primary election, directly or indirectly promise any person to appoint or vote for such person, or any other person, to any office, agency or employment in the government of the city. For a violation of this provision, the candidate making the promise, and the person exacting the same, shall forfeit his [sic] office and either or both shall, upon conviction, be punished as for a misdemeanor, and upon the trial of any person for the violation of this section of this act, both the candidate making the promise and the person exacting the same shall be a [sic] competent witness, one against the other, and shall be compelled to give evidence, and nothing then said by the witness shall at any time be received or given in evidence against him in any prosecution except upon an indictment for perjury in any matter to which he may have testified.
(§ 13)
Section 2-5 - Devotion of time to duties, performance of duties.
The commissioners of the city shall devote as much of their time to the duties of their office as may be necessary, and shall perform such duties as may be required of them by this charter and the laws, ordinances and resolutions adopted by the commission not repugnant to this act.
(§ 19)
Section 2-6 - Powers of magistrate.
Each of the commissioners shall be to all intents and purposes a magistrate, so far as to enable them or any one of them to issue warrants for offenses committed within the jurisdiction of the city, or for a fugitive from justice found within the jurisdiction, which warrant shall be executed by any officer authorized under this charter, or the ordinances of the city, or the laws of the State of Georgia to make arrests, and the commissioners are empowered to commit such persons to the common jail of Floyd County, or admit to bail such offenders (provided the offense is bailable) for their appearance before the next superior or municipal court thereafter for the County of Floyd, and it shall be the duty of the jailer of the county to receive all such persons so committed and safely keep the same until discharged by due course of law.
Section 2-7 - Meetings, regulations, minutes, quorum, adopting vote.
The commission shall have power to fix regular meetings at such times as it may select by resolution; it may adopt such rules and regulations for control and guidance as it may see fit, with a right to change same at any time by a majority vote at two (2) separate meetings; or it may suspend such rules temporarily by unanimous consent. The commission may meet as often in extra session as the Mayor, or any two (2) commissioners, may designate or call, provided personal notice is given to each commissioner present in the city. Five (5) commissioners shall constitute a quorum at any meeting for the transaction of any business. It shall keep accurate minutes of its proceedings, and shall have all its acts and doings recorded thereon, and all votes taken shall be "aye" or "no," and shall be made to appear on the minutes. All meetings of the commission for the transaction of business shall be open to the public.
(§ 21; 1927 Ga. Laws, page 1503, § 3; Ord. No. 85-5-3, § 1, 5-6-85; Ord. No. 02-9-1, §§ I, III, 9-3-02)
Section 2-8 - Reserved.
Section 2-9 - Legislative powers; passage of ordinances and resolutions.
The commission shall be vested with full legislative power. It may pass ordinances, adopt resolutions, levy taxes and provide for their collection, fix licenses and provide for their payment, and perform all legislative rights and powers incident to the government of the city. All ordinances and resolutions shall first be reduced to writing, and shall be acted on by the commission, which shall have authority to approve, disapprove or amend the same. A resolution may be passed at the time it is offered, but in no case shall an ordinance be put upon its passage until it has been read at two (2) different regular meetings on two (2) separate days. Five (5) members of the commission must vote affirmatively to pass any ordinance, resolution, or motion. Unless inconsistent with the provisions of this Charter or the Code of Ordinances passed thereunder, Robert's Rules of Order shall govern procedure before the commission. In case any proposed legislation is defeated or passed over the protest of the Mayor, he shall have authority within forty-eight (48) hours thereafter to suspend the operation of the same, and order a referendum thereon. The legislation shall be published in the official organ of Floyd County at least ten (10) days prior to said referendum.
(Ord. No. 02-9-1, §§ I, IV, 9-3-02)
Section 2-10 - Regulatory powers and jurisdiction.
The commission shall be vested with full power and authority from time to time to make and establish such rules, bylaws and ordinances, and to impose penalties for failure to comply with same respecting city property, streets, lanes, alleys, bridges, cemeteries, public buildings and grounds, public houses, wharves, water courses, markets, railroads, telegraph and telephone companies, electric light and power companies, gas companies, erection of buildings, construction of houses, plumbing, drainage, sewerage, fire engines, pumps, forges, blacksmith shops, foundries, fertilizer plants, breweries, tanneries, lumber yards, warehouses, storage room, pawn shops, junk dealers, auctioneers, slaughter houses and all kinds of business places and enterprises operated in the city; they shall have power to regulate and prohibit the storage of all kinds of explosive and all combustible material in the city; they shall have full power and authority to pass all laws and ordinances they may consider necessary for the peace, good order, health, prosperity, comfort and security of the city, and of the inhabitants thereof, and that may be necessary to foster virtue and good morals in the city; to suppress lewdness, gambling, disorderly conduct and to enforce such laws and ordinances by such penalties as are authorized by this charter. The commission shall have full power to adopt and enforce any and all ordinances they may consider necessary or advisable to carry out the powers granted to the city and the commission by this charter, and to do any and all other acts and exercise all other powers conferred upon them by this act, or that may be done or exercised under the laws of this state, conferring powers upon municipal corporations; provided, said laws, ordinances, rules and regulations are consistent with the laws of this state. For these purposes the city is given jurisdiction for two (2) miles from the corporate limits thereof.
(§ 28)
Section 2-11 - Nuisances.
The commission is hereby empowered to declare what shall constitute a nuisance and to pass such ordinances as may be necessary to prevent same; and by ordinance they may empower the municipal judge to abate same and authorize the removal of the nuisance by the proper officials; they may provide for the punishment for the person, persons, firm or corporation causing or suffering the nuisance to exist, and they may provide for the assessment of the expense of the removal of the nuisance against the person, persons, firm or corporation causing or continuing same, and provide for the collection of such expense by execution, said execution to have the same force and effect as city tax executions, and to be enforced in the same way.
Section 2-12 - Penalties for offenses against laws and ordinances.
The commission shall have power and authority to prescribe by ordinance adequate penalties for all offenses against the laws and ordinances of the city, and to punish offenders by fine not to exceed $2,000.00, imprisonment not to exceed 90 days, or sentence to work on the streets or public works of said city, or community service work, not to exceed six (6) months, any one or more or any part of any one or more of said punishments, in the discretion of the judge of the municipal court or any officer trying the offender.
Section 2-13 - Codification of ordinances.
The commission shall codify all ordinances and by-laws of the city, together with the charter of the city, into one book, to be known as the Code of the City of Rome, Georgia, and when same is adopted by the commission, the code shall be admitted in evidence in any of the courts of this state, upon the certificates of the secretary of the commission certifying the same to be the code of ordinances and laws of the city.
Section 2-14 - Powers over streets, water courses, sewers, drains, bridges and public property, assessment of costs, right of condemnation.
The City of Rome, through the city commission, shall have full power and authority to make contracts concerning and having exclusive power over the streets, alleys, water courses, sewers, drains, bridges, public grounds, levees or flood control structures and public buildings and any other public property within the city, except as afterwards provided in this charter and except such authority as has heretofore been delegated to the County of Floyd over certain bridges within the corporate limits of the city by special legislative enactment. The city authorities may also drain and fill up wells, ponds, cellars or low ground or compel the owners to do so, and may provide for the assessment of the cost of any such improvements upon the property thereby benefited or for the payment of such cost by the city; the city commission may also cause buildings, structures or other things in the way of any street, sewer, levees, flood control structures, or other public improvements, to be taken down, removed or appropriated upon payment of damages, as provided by law, and may enter upon, seize, appropriate and condemn for streets, alleys, sewers, drains, parks, cemeteries, levees or other flood control structures or other public purposes, or lands, easements or rights-of-way of any person, company or corporation owning, controlling or having an interest in any streams, railroad, electric or other street railway or any other property whether used for private or public purposes and whether such land, easement and right-of-way, or other public or private property, be occupied by any person, company or corporation, or not, upon payment of damages for the purpose so taken. In case the parties at interest cannot agree, then the city may proceed to condemn the property.
Section 2-15 - Powers as to public property and eminent domain.
The commission shall have full power and authority to lay out, establish, plot, open, widen, narrow, straighten, extend, grade, pave, or otherwise improve streets, lanes, alleys, public grounds, parks, public buildings, wharves, landings, docks, bridges, viaducts, markets and other places within the city, or to have same done under the direction of the city manager, and whenever the city commission shall exercise or desire to exercise the power of establishing, plotting, opening, widening, narrowing, straightening, extending or to do anything else which would involve the actual taking of private property, they shall proceed to do so in accordance with Georgia law.
Section 2-16 - Condemnation of lands beyond corporate limits.
The city shall have power to acquire by condemnation or other lawful means, rights-of-way for streets, lanes and alleys, sewers and drains through and upon lands outside of and beyond the corporate limits of the city, for the purpose of connecting the streets, lanes and alleys of the city with public highways outside of the city limits, and the sewers and drainage within the city with streams and water sheds beyond the corporate limits, whenever and wherever such connections are ordered by proper corporate action by the city authorities, with power and jurisdiction to build, construct, maintain, protect and police such extra urban streets, alleys, lanes, sewers and drains as complete as if they were located within the city limits. Whenever it is necessary to condemn any property for the purpose above indicated, the same shall be done in the same manner and under the same rules and regulations provided in this charter for the condemnation of property within the city limits.
(§ 125)
Section 2-17 - Authority to provide for and collect rental for sewer connections.
The city commission of Rome may provide for and collect a monthly, bi-monthly or annual rental in an amount to be determined by the Rome city commission for each connection made to any sewer in the city from any resident and from any place of business in the city; and any connections made outside the city limits, terms, conditions and rentals thereof shall be determined before any such connections are made, but may be changed from time to time by the commission.
Be it further provided that the rental for the connection, either inside or outside the city limits, of any trunk or main sewer to a sewer of the City of Rome by any person, including any political subdivision, shall be determined by the Rome city commission.
(§ 82; 1960 Ga. Laws, page 2988, § 2)
Section 2-18 - Damage bonds, authority to require.
The commission is empowered to compel persons about to undertake any work which may be dangerous, or is likely to involve liability upon the city, to execute a bond with good and sufficient security, conditioned for the payment of any damage that may be sustained by any person by such work.
ARTICLE 3. - CITY MANAGER

Section 3-1 - Employment, administrative head of municipal government, compensation, qualifications, powers.
It shall be the duty of the commissioners to employ a city manager, who shall be the administrative head of the municipal government, and shall be responsible for the efficient administration of all departments. He shall give his entire time to the city and shall be paid a salary as determined and fixed by the city commission. The powers of the city manager shall be:
(a)
To appoint, except as otherwise provided in this chapter [sic], subject to the approval of a majority of the commissioners, the secretary of the commission, the city attorney, the city physician, the municipal court judge, and the heads of all departments of the municipal government.
(b)
To remove any of his appointees, or the appointees of the head of any department whose appointment requires his approval, at any time, when he deems such removal necessary or advisable for the public good.
(c)
To exercise control over all departments created herein or that may hereafter be created by the commission.
(d)
The city manager shall have general supervision of all streets, lanes, alleys, and sidewalks in the city, the construction and upkeep of all public buildings and grounds in the city, the laying and construction of all sewers, drains and curbs in the city, the waterworks and all that is connected therewith, the electric lights and all that is connected therewith, and the performance of all other duties that may be required of him by ordinance or resolution.
Section 3-2 - Duties of city manager.
The duties of the city manager shall be:
(a)
To see that the laws and ordinances are enforced.
(b)
To attend all meetings of the commission with the right to take part in the discussion, but having no vote.
(c)
To recommend to the commissioners for adoption such measures as he may deem necessary or expedient.
(d)
To keep the commission fully advised as to the financial condition and needs of the city.
(e)
To make the commission a budget each year, at the time of levying taxes, showing the estimated income and expenditures of the city for the ensuing year.
(f)
To perform such other duties as may be prescribed by this charter, or be required of him by ordinance or resolution of the commission.
Section 3-3 - Control and supervision of public property and construction.
It shall be the duty of the city manager, and he is given full power and authority, to improve, keep in repair, light, sprinkle and clean, as far as the same is possible within the appropriations made by the commission for such purposes, the streets, sidewalks, crossings, bridges, lanes, alleys, waterworks, public buildings and grounds, sewers, drains and other property of the city, except where otherwise provided in this charter, either by contract or by agents and employees of the city, and shall have authority to purchase all necessary materials and implements for any and all such work to be done, and shall also have complete control and authority over any new construction work of any kind which may be determined upon and ordered by the commission. The city commission shall determine and pass resolutions providing for all new construction work upon the streets, sidewalks, crossings, bridges, lanes, alleys, sewers, drains, waterworks, public buildings and grounds, and other public property, and shall also specify the character and quality of materials to be used, and the work to be done under the supervision and control of the city manager. In the event any work is done by contract under the provisions of this section, such contract shall be made after advertisement once a week for two (2) weeks for proposals, with the right reserved to reject any and all proposals; and in the event of any contract being made, the contractors shall execute a bond payable to the City of Rome, in an amount equal to the contract price, by a surety company authorized to do business in this state, conditioned for the faithful performance of the contract. Before beginning to pave or otherwise improve any street, the commission shall fix and designate the location and position for telegraph, telephone, electric light and power and street-railway poles and wires and gas pipes thereon, and shall have power and authority to require the owners or persons using same to place the same as thus located.
Section 3-4 - Reports.
The commission may require the city manager to come before them at any regular or special meeting and answer questions, either orally or in writing, and they may require from the city manager at any time written reports upon any matter involving the city that they may deem proper; and the city manager shall report periodically to the commission his general acts and doings and shall file full and complete reports as the commission may require.
ARTICLE 4. - MUNICIPAL OFFICERS GENERALLY

Section 4-1 - Creation, powers, duties, compensation.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this charter, the commission, by ordinance, may create, abolish, merge or consolidate such offices, departments, boards and commissions of the city as they shall deem necessary for the proper administration of the affairs and government of the city.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided in this charter, the commission, by ordinance, may prescribe the powers, duties, functions, composition, terms of office, manner of appointment and removal, compensation, and other matters relative to any such offices, departments, boards and commissions created pursuant to this section.
Section 4-2 - Unlawful interest in contracts, commissioners disqualified from acting in certain matters.
It shall not be lawful for any member of the commission or any officer of the city to be interested, either directly or indirectly, in any contract with the City of Rome, or any subordinate agency thereof, having for its object the public improvement of the city, or any part thereof, or the expenditure of its money. Any violator of this section, on conviction thereof by the municipal judge, upon such conviction becoming final, shall be punished as provided by section 2-12 of this charter, and all profits growing out of said contract shall be refunded to the city, and the city attorney is required to institute suit to recover the same and push said suit vigorously to a conclusion, or if the contract has not been executed, the same may be enjoined at the instance of citizens of the city. No commissioner or other officer of the city shall exercise any right to act or vote on any subject matter committed to him under this charter, when the result of such vote or action would promote his personal interests directly or indirectly; nor shall any commissioner or other officer under the city government, in the exercise of the power of appointment or election to any position, or the approval thereof, exercise said power in behalf of any person who is related to him, or in case of a member of the commission or of any city board, related to him or any other member of the commission or board of which he is a member, as near as or nearer than the second degree of affinity, or consanguinity, or any person who is wholly dependent upon him or any other member of the commission or board of which he is a member for maintenance and support, and any election or appointment within the foregoing specific degree shall be ipso facto void.
Section 4-3 - Officers, department heads and employees, removal or discharge.
All officers, heads of departments and subordinate employees shall be subject to removal or discharge by the person or persons appointing them, with or without cause, at any time, and the city manager may likewise remove any employee of any department whose original appointment required his approval under the provisions of this charter.
Section 4-4 - Political activities restricted.
No officer or employee of the city shall be an officer or member of any political party executive committee having control of primary elections for the election of city officers.
(§ 123)
Section 4-5 - Secretary of city commission; maintenance of records, appointment.
The secretary of the Rome city commission shall be required to keep the books and records of all departments of the city government, except where otherwise provided in this charter, including the minutes and records of the commission. The secretary shall be appointed by the city manager, with the approval of the city commission. One of the assistants shall be the deputy secretary of the Rome city commission and in the absence of the secretary, the deputy secretary shall have all of the powers, rights and duties of the secretary.
Section 4-6. - Auditor, appointment and duties.
The commission shall select a city auditor whose duty it shall be to thoroughly examine and audit the books of all city departments and operations.
ARTICLE 6. - CIVIL SERVICE

Section 6-1 - Civil service board of appeals.
There is hereby created a civil service board of appeals which shall be constituted and governed according to the personnel policies of the city.
ARTICLE 8. - WATERWORKS

Section 8-1 - Control of waterworks.
The commission shall have full power and control of the waterworks system and sewer system of the City of Rome, lying within and without the city limits; to make such renewals, extensions and betterments thereof as can be paid out of any surplus income therefrom, or out of any appropriations that may be made by the commission for that purpose; to regulate the distribution and use of water in all places and for all purposes, and from time to time to fix the price and payment for the use thereof, including reasonable sums for maintenance and repair of the system, and for the retirement of the bonds issued, or which may hereafter be issued, for the construction or extension of the plant; to control and manage the system in all places and for all purposes; to regulate the disposal of sewage and from time to time to fix the price and payment for the use of said sewage disposal system; to expressly create automatic liens for the amount of unpaid water and sewer charges against the property served. The secretary of the commission shall issue execution against tenants and landlords, jointly and severally, for water and/or sewer charges due by them, or either of them, to be levied and collected by the chief of police and the city in the same manner and under the same rules and regulations as now apply to sheriff's sales in this state, and the cost thereof shall be the same as now apply to such sales. Defendants in such executions who are not indebted for water and/or sewer tax, may resist the payment thereof by affidavit of illegality, returnable to the Superior Courts of Floyd County. The city manager or his designate [sic] is authorized to require payment in advance, or at maturity, for water and/or sewer services furnished by the city in or upon any building, place or premises, and in case payment shall not be made as required, to shut off the water and/or sewer services from such building, place or premises and to keep the same, at his discretion, shut off until the arrears due for water and/or sewer services, with interest thereon, shall be fully paid; and by himself, officers or agents, to enter any dwelling or other house where water is taken or used and where unnecessary waste of water is known or suspected, and examine the cause thereof, to prevent any such waste; and to make or require to be made any alteration in the pipes, stop cocks or other apparatus necessary for such purpose; examine all surface pipes, stop cocks and other apparatus connected with the system, and to ascertain whether the same are of the character and dimensions fixed in the manner directed therefor and to shut off the supply of water until such examination and repairs are made.
Section 8-2 - Water supply to nonresidents or beyond corporate limits.
The governing and legislative body of the City of Rome is hereby vested with the right and power, by ordinance or otherwise, to regulate and control all city water supplied by the city to nonresident persons, firms or corporations, or to any person outside the corporate limits of the city, and to fix the rates to be paid by such persons, firms or corporations to the city for water, and to provide for the payment by such persons, firms or corporations for said water, and to provide how, when and where such persons, firms or corporations may connect with the water mains of the city and also to provide for disconnecting from the water mains of the city and pipes of such persons, firms or corporations now connected or hereafter connected with its water mains; however, nothing herein contained shall be construed to require or obligate the city to lay any water mains outside the corporate limits of the city, or to require or obligate the city to allow the water pipes of such persons, firms or corporations to be connected with its water mains, or those now connected to remain connected therewith.
(1920 Ga. Laws, page 1479, § 2)
ARTICLE 10. - FINANCE

Sections 10-1, 10-2 - Reserved.
Section 10-3 - Additional indebtedness authorized.
The City of Rome shall have authority to incur additional indebtedness as provided for by the Constitution and general laws of the State of Georgia. There shall be levied by the governing authorities of the City of Rome, prior to the issuance of such additional debt, a tax upon all of the taxable property within the city collectible annually sufficient to pay in full the principal and interest of such additional debt when and as due. Such tax shall be in addition to and separate from all other taxes levied by the taxing authorities of the city and the collections of such tax shall be kept separate and shall be held, used and applied solely for the payment of the principal and interest of such additional indebtedness.
Section 10-4 - Costs of work, assessment for same.
When, in accordance with the provisions of this charter, except as may otherwise be specifically provided herein, any demolition, repair, cleaning, change, alteration or work of any kind is ordered done by the commission of the city, or any of its duly authorized agents or agencies, and the person, firm or corporation ordered to do the same, fails or refuses to do so within the time fixed, upon such default, the city may make such changes, alterations, or work, and the commission or its duly authorized authority shall have the power and authority to assess the total cost thereof against the person, firm or corporation in default, and it shall be the duty of the secretary to issue execution forthwith against such person, firm or corporation thereof, which execution may be enforced in the same manner as tax fi. fas.; the execution shall be a lien against the property of such person, firm or corporation next in dignity to taxes.
ARTICLE 11. - BONDED INDEBTEDNESS

Section 11-1 - Funds to pay bonds, duties of finance director.
It shall be the duty of the finance director to keep separate all funds levied to pay the bonds of the City of Rome and the interest thereon, and to see that all such funds are applied to the payment of the principal and interest of such bonds as they mature; and such funds shall not be used for any other purpose than that for which they were levied.
Section 11-2 - Reserved.
Section 11-3 - Registration of bonds, cancellation of coupons.
It shall be the duty of the finance director to provide records to control the issuance, recording, transfer, payment and cancellation of the bonds of the City of Rome. When any bonds are registered and the coupons are detached therefrom, the finance director shall report such fact to the commission and produce such coupons at the next meeting of the commission, and such coupons shall there be defaced and cancelled as provided in section 55 [article 5 of this compilation] hereof.
Section 11-4 - Records of bonds.
It shall be the duty of the secretary of the commission to record all bonds given by city officials on the minutes of the commission, and to thereafter file and preserve as a permanent record of his office the originals of such bonds.
(§ 57; 1931 Ga. Laws, page 926, § 2)
Sections 11-5, - Reserved.
ARTICLE 12. - TAXATION

Section 12-1 - Property taxes authorized.
The commission is empowered and authorized to levy a tax upon all property, real and personal, within the city.
(§ 66)
Section 12-2 - Ad valorem tax, rate and apportionment.
For the purpose of raising revenue for the support and maintenance of the government of the City of Rome, including the payment of bonds, interest on the bonded debt, and the creation of a sinking fund for the extinguishment of the bonded debt, and for paving and for exercising all city powers, and for all other purposes, the city commission shall have full power and authority for the assessment, levy and collection of ad valorem taxes on all real and personal property owned or held within the corporate limits of the city which, under the laws of the state, is subject to taxation, provided that one and five-tenths percent (1.5%) of the assessed value of all such property shall be used only for the support and maintenance of the public school system of the City of Rome, including buildings, repairing buildings and improving school grounds.
(Ord. No. 99-6-1, § I, 6-7-99)
Section 12-3 - Payment of taxes.
The city commission may, by resolution or ordinance, provide for the payment of ad valorem property taxes in installments or in one lump sum, and may authorize the voluntary payment of taxes prior to the time when due, and may provide for interest on late installments.
Section 12-4 - Collection of delinquent taxes and fees.
The city commission may, by resolution or ordinance, provide for the collection of delinquent taxes, fees, or other revenue due the city pursuant to authority granted by this charter or by the constitution and general laws of Georgia or by any other authority not precluded by the constitution and general laws of Georgia. This authority shall include providing for the dates when the taxes, fees or other revenues are due; late penalties or interest; issuance and execution of fi. fas.; creation and priority of liens; making delinquent taxes, fees and other revenues, personal debts of the persons required to pay the taxes, fees or other revenues imposed; revoking city licenses for failure to pay any city taxes, fees or other revenues; allowing exceptions for hardship; providing for the assignment or transfer of executions and collection of transferred executions; providing for the billing and collecting of principal, interest and costs of delinquent executions as an addition to and a part of the annual ad valorem tax bill.
Section 12-5 - Executions, issuance, advertisement of levy and sale, redemption, title taken by city.
(a)
All executions in favor of the city for the enforcement and collection of any fine, forfeiture, assessment, taxes or other claims, demand or debt, shall be issued by the secretary of the commission and shall be directed to the chief of police, and shall state for what issued and made returnable to the City of Rome City Commission 90 days after issuing the same; and it shall be the duty of the chief of police, to advertise the sale of such real estate or personal property as may have been levied upon to satisfy the execution in the same manner respectively as sheriffs' sales are required by law to be made. Whenever any land is sold for taxes, the owner thereof shall have the privilege of redeeming it within one (1) year by paying the purchaser the amount thereof, with 10 percent premium thereon.
(b)
Whenever at such sales no one present shall bid for the property put up for sale as much as the amount of such execution and all costs, and after such property shall have been cried for a reasonable time, then any duly appointed or authorized agent of the city may bid off such property for the city, and the chief of police or such other officer making the sale shall make the City of Rome a deed to the property so sold and deliver the same, and the title thus acquired by the city shall be perfect and valid after the period provided for redemption by the owner shall have expired, and the chief of police or other officer making the sale shall put the city in possession. The secretary shall enter on his execution docket all executions, giving the date, amount of each and to whom delivered, and all proceedings thereunder. The execution shall be returned to the office of the secretary after being satisfied. All sales and conveyances made under execution as provided in this section shall have all the force and effect of sales and conveyances made by sheriffs of this state, and the officer making the sale shall have the power as the sheriff to put purchasers in possession of property sold by them.
Section 12-6 - Tax to retire bonds.
The City of Rome shall have authority to levy and collect, in order to retire all bonds issued by the city, such taxes as are allowed by the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
Section 12-7 - Reserved.
Section 12-8 - Improvements and assessments therefor.
(a)
Whenever the Rome City Commission shall deem it necessary to grade, pave, drain, curb, gutter or otherwise improve any street, avenue, alley, lane, or any part thereof within the limits of the City of Rome, the commission shall by resolution declare such work or improvement necessary to be done, which resolution may combine and provide for the doing of any one or more of said improvements as being a part of and include the same in the one and same improvement project, and such resolution shall be published at least once in a daily newspaper published and having a general circulation in the City of Rome, and a copy of the resolution shall be served personally or by mail upon the owners of the land liable to assessment to pay for the improvements, if resident in the City of Rome, or upon their agent if not resident in the City of Rome, and if no agent service shall be perfected by mailing a copy to the owners direct to the last known address of such owners; and such owners shall have the right at any time within 10 days from the date of the service of such notice to protest in writing the doing of such improvements, which protest shall be heard at the next regular meeting of the commission held after such protest is filed, and if such protest be decided adversely to the owner by the commission, or if no such protest be filed, then the commission shall have power to cause the improvement to be made and to contract therefor, and to levy assessments or liens as hereinafter provided for. Any number of streets, avenues, alleys, lanes, or other public places or parts thereof, to be so improved, may be included in one resolution, but any protest or objection shall be made as to each street, avenue, alley, lane, or other public place, or other highway separately. If a majority of the owners of the land liable to assessment for any such improvement shall petition the Rome City Commission for such improvement of any street, alley, lane, or avenue or other public place or any part of either, describing in such petition the character of the improvement so desired, the width of the same, and the materials preferred by the petitioners for such improvements, the commission may, in its discretion, promptly cause the improvement to be made, in accordance with the prayer of the petition, and the commission shall, by resolution, provide for the improvement and proceed as in this section provided; provided, however, that if all of the owners of land liable to assessment for such improvement shall join in the petition, then it will not be necessary to either publish or serve a copy of the resolution, as hereinbefore provided.
(b)
Except as hereinafter provided with reference to sidewalks, curbs, and gutters, as a separate project from the paving as provided in subparagraph (j) of this section, the lots, pieces or parcels of land fronting and abutting on both sides of the improvements shall be charged with the cost thereof according to the just pro rata share of the entire cost of the improvement for the frontage on basis of lineal-foot frontage; provided, that the frontage of intersecting streets, avenues, lanes or alleys, including headers, aprons, and intakes, drainage or storm sewers, shall be assessed to or against real estate abutting upon the street, lane, alley, or avenue paved or otherwise improved, pro rata on the basis of lineal-foot frontage; and provided further, that street-railway companies now having or which may hereafter have tracks running through the street, lanes, alleys, or avenues paved, or otherwise improved, shall be assessed so much of the paving, macadamizing, or other improvement, as is occupied by its tracks and two (2) feet on each side of the rail thereof, and in case there are two (2) or more tracks on the same street, the street-railway company shall pay the cost of paving or other improvement for not more than four and one-half (4½) feet between such tracks, except in cases where the street-railway companies voluntarily locate their tracks wider apart than four and one-half (4½) feet, in which event they shall pay for the paving or other improvement of all space between the tracks, and the pro rata share to be paid by the street-railway companies to be deducted from the total cost, and the balance to be paid by the abutting property owners, as hereinbefore provided.
(c)
Upon the completion of one or more sections of paving or other improvement, the city commission shall, by resolution, ascertain and assess the proportional cost of such pavement, including, if any, street intersection, headers, curbing, gutter, drainage and storm sewers, and intakes chargeable to abutting owners, railroads, street-railways, or other public-service corporations, or other persons occupying or using the streets, and shall cause the secretary of the commission to give written notice of such result to the abutting owners, public-service corporations, or other persons, and the amounts so assessed shall be and become immediately due and payable; a copy of which notice shall be served upon the owner, agent, or occupant thereof by any officer of the city and return thereof made on the original, which original shall be kept in the secretary's office and recorded on the minutes, together with the entry of service thereon, and the city shall proceed immediately to collect the same; provided such abutting owners, railroad, street-railway or other public service corporations, or such other persons may, at their election, under the procedures authorized by law, pay the amount assessed against them in annual installments, with interest thereon at the rate authorized by law, payable annually from the date of such notice; provided further, that on default of any of the installments, the remaining installments shall become immediately due and payable and may be collected as herein provided.
(d)
A special lien superior to all other liens except the general liens for taxes is hereby created on and against the land of abutting owners and on and against the land and all other property of such railroads, street-railway companies or public service corporations and others within the city for assessments so made against them; and on failure to pay the full amount of such assessment in cash within thirty (30) days after the service of such notice, the city commission shall, by its secretary, cause executions to be issued against such abutting owners, railroads, street-railways or other public service corporations or others for the amounts of such assessment or assessments, bearing seven (7) per cent interest from the date of such notice; but if such abutting owners, street-railway or public service corporations, or others shall elect to pay their assessment on the installment plan, then in that event the secretary shall issue executions for the unpaid installments, to be held in abeyance, subject to transfer, as part payment of the contract price, or to be held by the city, should the city on any account be entitled thereto, but not to be levied or collected unless and until default shall be made in the payment of any one or more of the installments.
(e)
All executions authorized to be issued under this act or under any provisions of the Charter of the City of Rome, relating to the subject matter herein referred to, shall be levied and collected as tax executions in favor of the city are now levied and collected.
(f)
The secretary of the commission may, by direction of the commission, transfer the executions by suitable entry thereon, and they shall be docketed as state and county tax executions are docketed when transferred under the laws of this state, and the liens herein created thereby preserved. On the payment of all installments the executions shall be fully satisfied by the holders thereof.
(g)
Should any abutting owner, street-railway company or public service corporation, or other person desire to contest the amount of their assessment or the legality of any proceeding growing out of or connected with the paving, or other improvement of the streets, sidewalks, avenues, alleys, lanes, or other public places of the city, they may do so by filing with the levying officer an affidavit of illegality and stating therein the cause of such illegality and the amount which he admits to be due, which amount so admitted to be due shall be paid to the levying officer before the affidavit shall be received, and the affidavit shall be returned to the superior court of Floyd County, Georgia, and there tried and the issue determined as in the cases of illegality, subject to the penalties provided as in cases of illegality filed for delay.
(h)
The method herein provided for the collection of the proportionate parts of paving or other improvement accounts from any and all persons and corporations liable therefor, in favor of contractors and other transferees of execution, is for their use and benefit, and shall not be held or taken in any event to make the city liable on account thereof, or for court costs in contested case, or on any claim.
(i)
The secretary of the commission may transfer and assign, without recourse on the city, any execution or executions issued under this act or any of the other provisions of the Charter of the City of Rome, and in that event the owners of such executions shall be entitled to any and all the remedies herein provided for levy and collections of such executions by and through the officers of the city as though no transfer or transfers had been made, and all rights and remedies heretofore existing in favor of such owners prior to the passage of this act are herein expressly preserved.
(j)
Whenever, in the judgment of the city commission it shall be deemed necessary to construct sidewalks, curbing and guttering only, or curbing only or guttering only, as an improvement project independent of street paving or other improvements on any street of the city, the commission may, by resolution, declare such work or improvements necessary to be done, which resolution shall be published at least once in a daily newspaper having a general circulation in the City of Rome, and thereafter the owner or owners of any of the land liable to assessment for such improvement shall have the right, at any time within ten (10) days from the publication of such notice, to protest in writing the doing of such improvement, which protest shall be heard at the next regular meeting of the commission held after such protest is filed; and if such protest be decided adversely to the owner by the commission, or if no such protest be filed, then the commission shall have power to cause the improvement to be made, and to contract therefor, and to levy assessments or liens as hereinafter provided for. The commission shall, therefore, have the rights and powers to fix by resolution, and collect as provided in subsection (e) of this section, the costs of such sidewalks, curbing, and guttering, or sidewalks only, or curbing and guttering, or curbing only or guttering only, the total of which shall be assessed against the abutting property owners only; and when the costs of such sidewalks, curbing and guttering, or sidewalks only, or curbing or guttering, or curbing only or guttering only, has been ascertained the city shall, through the city manager, give ten (10) days' notice to the abutting property owners of the amount that will be due by them for such sidewalks, curbing and guttering, or sidewalks only, or curbing and guttering, or curbing only or guttering only. The abutting property owners shall pay said assessment as follows:
(a)
In full upon receipt thereof; or
(b)
On the date established as the due date for the city ad valorem taxes at least twenty-five (25) percent of the amount of said assessment and at least twenty-five (25) percent of the remainder on each of the three (3) subsequent anniversary dates of said tax bill.
Unless said assessment is paid in full on the due date, there shall be further assessed on the unpaid balance thereof interest at a rate equal to the then-current rate being assessed for delinquent ad valorem taxes (said rate being presently twelve (12) percent); provided, that on default in the payment of any one of the installments, the remaining installments shall become immediately due and payable, and may be immediately collected. A special lien is hereby created on and against the land of abutting owners for any and all assessments made against them under the provisions of this section of this act relating to such sidewalks, and/or curbing and/or guttering, and all the rights, remedies and powers of the City of Rome for issuing, collecting and transferring executions for any such improvements, and all rights and remedies of abutting property owners relating thereto, shall be in all respects the same as laid down and provided in subsections (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) of this section of this act.
(k)
The Rome city commission, upon the passage of the resolution confirming and levying the assessments for the paving or otherwise improving the streets, avenues, alleys, lanes, or any parts thereof of the city, may, by resolution, provide for the issuance of bonds in the aggregate amount of such assessments remaining unpaid, bearing date fifteen (15) days after the passage of the resolution levying the assessments, and of such denominations as the commission may determine, which bond or bonds shall in no event become a liability of the City of Rome. The bonds shall be payable in equal annual installments over the same period of years, not less than two nor more than ten, as has been fixed and provided by the city commission for the payment of the assessments in installments. The bonds shall bear interest at a rate not exceeding ten (10) percent per annum from their date until maturity, payable annually, and shall be designated as street improvement bonds, and shall, on the face thereof, recite the street or streets, part of street or streets, or other public places for the improvement of which they have been issued as herein provided, and that they shall be payable solely from assessments levied upon the lots and tracts of land benefited by the improvement under authority of this act. The bonds shall be signed by the mayor and attested by the secretary of the commission, and shall have the impression of the corporate seal of such city thereon, and shall have interest coupons attached, and all bonds issued by authority of this act shall be payable at such place either within or without the State of Georgia as shall be designated by the Rome city commission. The bonds shall be sold at not less than par, and the proceeds applied to the payment of the contract price or other expenses of the improvements on which they are issued by the Rome city commission; or such bonds, in the amount that shall be necessary for that purpose, may be turned over and delivered to the contractor at par value in the payment of the amount due him on his contract, and the portion thereof which shall be necessary to pay other expenses incident to and incurred in providing for the improvements shall be sold or otherwise disposed of as the Rome city commission shall direct. The bonds shall be registered by the finance director in a book to be provided for that purpose, and certificates of registration by the finance director shall be endorsed upon each of the bonds. Such bonds may be validated by proceedings in the superior court held for that purpose, and shall be incontestable after such validation.
(l)
The assessments provided for and levied under the provisions of this act, whether or not executions have been issued thereon, shall be payable by the person owning the lots or tracts of land, as the several installments become due, together with interest thereon, to the finance director, who shall give proper receipts for such payments. It shall be the duty of the finance director to keep an accurate account of all such collections made by him, and such collections shall be kept in a special fund to be used and applied for the payment of such bonds, and the interest thereon and expenses incurred in connection therewith, and for no other purpose.
(m)
In all cases where the Rome city commission shall deem it necessary to repave, redrain, or otherwise reimprove any street, alley, avenue, lane, or other public place, which had been paved or improved prior to the passage of this act, or which shall hereafter be paved or drained under the provisions of this act, such repavement or reimprovement is hereby authorized to be done under and in pursuance of the provisions of this act, and in such cases all provisions of this act providing for making such improvements and levying assessments therefor and the issuance of bonds shall apply.
(n)
In all cases where a sewer shall be laid in the City of Rome, by or under authority of the city, in any street, the just pro rata share of the entire cost as provided by law per lineal foot shall be assessed upon the property respectively abutting on the street on each side of the street in which the sewer is laid, the abutting owners upon each side to be subject to the full assessment of such share against each of them, and in consideration of the payment of the assessment the owners of such abutting property shall have the right to connect their drains from the abutting property for the discharge of sewage into the sewer; provided, that where such sewer abuts property which is unimproved, the city commission may postpone the collection of such assessment until such time as the owner or owners of the abutting property shall improve such property or until such time as the city commission shall direct that such assessment be collected, at which time the assessment shall be enforced against them. Before any such owners shall be permitted to connect their drains to such sewer, all assessment due shall be paid by them.
(o)
Whenever, in the judgment of the city commission, it shall be deemed necessary to construct sewers on any of the streets of the City of Rome as an improvement project, the commission may, by resolution, declare such work or improvements necessary to be done, which resolution shall be published at least once in a daily newspaper having a general circulation in the City of Rome; and thereafter the owner or owners of any of the land liable to assessment for such improvement shall have the right, at any time within ten (10) days from the publication of such notice, to protest in writing the doing of such improvement, which protest shall be heard at the next regular meeting of the commission held after the protest is filed; and if the protest be decided adversely to the owner by the commission, or if no such protest be filed, then the commission shall have power to cause the improvement to be made and to contract therefor, and to levy assessments or liens as hereinafter provided for. The commission shall thereupon have the right and power to fix by resolution, and collect as provided in subsection (e) of this section, the assessment for such sewers provided for in subsection (n) of this section; and when the sewers shall have been laid and completed, the city shall, through the city manager, give ten (10) days' notice to the abutting property owners of the amount that will be due by them for such sewers. The abutting property owners shall pay one-fourth (¼) of the amount assessed against them in cash within ten (10) days from the service of the notice, and the remaining three-fourths (¾) in three (3) annual installments with interest thereon at the rate authorized by law payable from date of the service of such notice; provided, that on default in the payment of any one of the installments, the remaining installments shall become immediately due and payable, and shall be immediately collected. Provided, the city commission may, by resolution, postpone the collection of such assessment against improved property as provided in subsection (n) of this section; and when such resolution shall be adopted, such assessment shall not thereafter become due until payment be demanded by resolution of the city commission; and provided further, that no limitation shall extend or operate against the liability for such assessment until payment thereof shall be so demanded. The rights and remedies of abutting property owners and of the City of Rome, as laid down and provided in subsections (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) of this section of this act, shall apply to and be in force in regard to all sewers laid under this subsection, insofar as the subsections are not in conflict with this subsection.
(Ord. No. 02-9-1, § V, 9-3-02)
State Law reference— Street improvements, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-1 et seq.; basis of assessments for improvements, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-4; interest on assessments, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-14; street improvement bonds, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-25 et seq.
ARTICLE 13. - LICENSES

Section 13-1 - Occupational licenses and taxes therefor.
The commission shall have full power and authority to require any person, firm, company or corporation, whether resident or nonresident, of the city, who may engage in, prosecute, or carry on, or who is engaged in prosecuting or carrying on any trade, business, calling, vocation or profession in the corporate limits of the city by themselves, or their agents, to register their names, business, calling, vocation or profession annually, and to require the person, company or corporation to pay for the registration and for license to prosecute, engage in or carry on any business, calling or profession, such amount as the commission may provide by ordinance or resolution. The commission may provide by ordinance or resolution for the punishment of all persons, firms, companies, or corporations required by ordinance or resolution to pay such taxes or to take out such licenses for the same, who shall engage in such business, profession or occupation, before paying such taxes, or taking out such licenses, who fail to comply in full with all requirements of such ordinances or resolutions made in reference thereto.
Section 13-2 - Vehicles for hire.
The commission shall have full power and authority to condemn, regulate, tax and license all automobiles, buses, trucks, limousines and all other vehicles, whether motorized or not, using the streets in the city for hire.
Section 13-3 - Places of public entertainment, stables, garages, etc.
The commission may, by ordinance or resolution, license, tax, regulate or prohibit billiard rooms, inns, taverns, hotels, restaurants, lunch stands, cafes, social clubs, saloons, theaters, moving picture shows, dance halls or other places kept for public entertainment. They are also empowered to license and regulate livery stables, garages, or other places of this kind for the use and benefit of the public.
ARTICLE 15. - MUNICIPAL COURT

Section 15-1 - Municipal court, jurisdiction and powers.
There is hereby established for and in the city a court to be known as the Municipal Court of the City of Rome, Georgia, to be presided over by the judge of the municipal court, who shall be appointed by the city manager, subject to approval of the commission, with jurisdiction to try all violations of the ordinances of the city, and such other offenses as by general law provided. Said municipal court judge shall have power and authority to punish for said violations and for contempt of court. The judge shall have full power and authority to compel attendance of parties and witnesses at the court, and for this purpose shall have full power and authority to require bail to secure such attendance, and to issue appropriate orders for the forfeiture of recognizance given in pursuance of this charter; all warrants, summons, subpoenas or other process issued, requiring appearance or attendance at said municipal court, shall be issued by the judge or clerk of the municipal court, directed to the chief of police, any policeman or other arresting officer of said city, and bear teste in the name of the municipal court judge; said municipal court shall be governed by the rules of the superior courts of the State of Georgia insofar as they may be applicable to such court, and a sound construction of this charter and the laws of the city. The commission may, from time to time, pass such further rules and regulations regarding the court, not in conflict with this charter and the laws of the State of Georgia. Authority to punish for said violations or contempt shall be as provided by section 2-12 of this Charter.
Section 15-2 - Judge.
It shall be the duty of the judge of the municipal court to preside over the municipal court, with full power and authority to issue warrants for the violation of any municipal ordinance, and to hold such court, and at such times and places and under such rules and regulations as are prescribed by this charter, or by ordinance or by court rule for the trial of offenders, and to impose such penalties for a violation thereof as may be prescribed by ordinance, and he shall have full power and authority incident to or belonging to the office of the magistrate, except for the trial of civil cases.
Section 15-3 - Forms of process.
The municipal court is empowered to provide such forms of accusations, warrants, summons and other papers necessary in trials for the violations of the laws and ordinances of the city.
Section 15-4 - Witnesses, compulsory attendance, bail-bonds.
The commission and the municipal court shall have power and authority to compel the attendance of parties and witnesses at the municipal court, and upon meetings of the commission, and shall have full power and authority to provide for the taking and receiving from parties and witnesses of such bail as may be necessary to secure the attendance of parties and witnesses; and the commission is further empowered to provide for the forfeiture and collection of such bail-bonds in the same manner as such bail-bonds are now forfeited in the Superior Courts of this state.
Section 15-5 - Standby associate judge.
Whenever, from any cause, the judge of the municipal court of the city cannot be in attendance to hold municipal court, or if it should appear that he is disqualified in any case, it shall be the duty of the city manager to appoint a standby associate judge to preside in the court in place and stead of the municipal judge, and all actions of the appointee shall be as binding as if performed by the municipal judge.
Section 15-6 - Appellate review.
The orders, verdicts, judgments and sentences of the court shall be subject to application for writ of certiorari in the Superior Court of Floyd County or as otherwise provided by general law.
Section 15-7 - Reserved.
ARTICLE 16. - FRANCHISES

Section 16-1 - Power to grant, maximum term.
The commission shall have power and authority to grant franchises, permits, easements and rights of way in or under and over the streets, alleys, lanes, sidewalks, parks and other property of the city upon such terms, reservations and conditions as the commission may fix; provided, however, that the same shall not be granted for a longer term than 35 years, nor without compensation to the city.
Section 16-2 - Records to be kept.
The secretary of the commission shall keep a book, to be known as the "Record of Franchises," which shall be a public document and properly indexed, and each and every franchise granted by the City of Rome shall be recorded in said book, together with the petition therefor, and all proceedings and references thereto and reference by page to the proceedings in other books; said record shall be made within 30 days after said franchise is finally granted, or such franchise shall be null and void.
(§ 115)
Section 16-3 - Reserved.
Section 16-4 - Application for franchise and action thereon.
Each and every applicant for a public franchise or renewal of franchise to go upon, along, through, over or under any of the streets of said city, shall file such application as may be required by the City Commission, which said application shall be published at the expense of the applicant in at least one daily newspaper in said city immediately after filing. Thereupon said city commission shall, at a regular meeting, have power and authority to act upon such franchise or special privilege. Said application as finally approved by said commission, containing the full terms and stipulations of such application and grant, shall at once be published, at the expense of the applicant, in the official organ of Floyd County, once a week for four (4) weeks; said grant shall not become operative for a period of 30 days from the time of its adoption by the said commission.
