ARTICLE VIII. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 8.10. - Bonds for officials.
The officers and employees of this city, both elected and appointed, shall execute such surety or fidelity bonds in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the governing body shall from time to time require by ordinance or as may be provided by law. Premiums on such bonds shall be paid by the city.
Section 8.11. - Prior ordinances.
All ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations now in force in the city not inconsistent with this charter are hereby declared valid and of full effect and force until amended or repealed by the governing body.
Section 8.12. - General laws may be used.
The governing body, in its discretion, may elect to use the provision of any general laws of the state in addition to the provisions of this charter.
Section 8.13. - Pending matters.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this charter, all rights, claims, actions, orders, contracts, and legal or administrative proceedings shall continue and any such ongoing work or cases shall be completed by such city agencies, personnel, or offices as may be provided by the governing body.
Section 8.14. - Construction.
(a)
Section captions in this charter are informative only and are not to be considered as a part thereof.
(b)
The word "shall" is mandatory and the word "may" is permissive.
(c)
The singular shall include the plural, the masculine shall include the feminine, and vice versa.
(d)
The term "governing body" shall mean the mayor and city council of the City of Gainesville, Georgia.
Section 8.15. - Specific repealers.
An Act incorporating the City of Gainesville, approved April 11, 1979 (Ga. L. 1979, p. 3302), as amended, is hereby repealed in its entirety.
Section 8.16. - Preclearance.
The Board of Education of the City of Gainesville shall through its legal counsel cause this Act to be submitted for preclearance under the federal Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended; and such submission shall be made to the United States Department of Justice or filed with the appropriate court no later than 45 days after the date on which this Act is approved by the Governor or otherwise becomes law without such approval.
Section 8.17. - Effective date.
This Act shall become effective upon its approval by the Governor or upon its becoming law without such approval.
Section 8.18. - General repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
Passed in House March 14, 2012.
Passed in Senate March 26, 2012.
Approved by Governor April 11, 2012.
