ARTICLE VI. - FINANCE
A. - PROPERTY TAXES

Section 6.10. - Property tax.
The governing body may assess, levy, and collect an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the City of Gainesville that is subject to such taxation by the state and county. This tax is for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government, of providing governmental services, of providing public education, of providing parks and recreation, for the repayment of principal and interest on general obligations, and for any other public purpose as determined by the governing body in its discretion. The taxable property within the limits of said city shall be assessed at 100 percent of its fair market value as determined by general state law.
Section 6.11. - Millage rate; due dates; payment methods.
The governing body, by ordinance, shall establish a millage rate for the city property tax, a due date, and the time period within which these taxes must be paid. The governing body, by ordinance, may provide for the payment of these taxes by two installments or in one lump sum, as well as authorize the voluntary payment of taxes prior to the time when due.
B. - OCCUPATION TAXES AND REGULATORY FEES

Section 6.12. - Occupation and business taxes.
The governing body by ordinance shall have the power to levy such occupation or business taxes as are not denied by law. The governing body may classify businesses, occupations, or professions for the purpose of such taxation in any way which may be lawful and may compel the payment of such taxes as provided in Section 6.18 of this charter.
Section 6.13. - Regulatory fees; permits.
The governing body by ordinance shall have the power to require businesses or practitioners doing business within this city to obtain a permit for such activity from the city and pay a reasonable regulatory fee for such permit as provided by general law. Such fees shall reflect the total cost to the city of regulating the activity and, if unpaid, shall be collected as provided in Section 6.18 of this charter.
Section 6.14. - Excise taxes.
The governing body shall have the authority to impose, assess, levy, and collect an excise tax upon the sale, transfer, or dispensing of wine, malt beverages, or distilled spirits by wholesale and retail dealers within the city.
Section 6.15. - Franchises.
(a)
The governing body shall have the power to grant franchises for the use of this city's streets and alleys for the purposes of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, electric companies, electric membership corporations, cable television and other telecommunications companies, gas companies, transportation companies, and other similar organizations. The governing body shall determine the duration, terms, whether the same shall be exclusive or nonexclusive, and the consideration for such franchises; provided, however, no franchise shall be granted for a period in excess of 35 years and no franchise shall be granted unless the city receives just and adequate compensation therefor. The governing body shall provide for the registration of all franchises with the city clerk or designee in a recorded format kept by the clerk. The governing body may provide by ordinance for the registration within a reasonable time of all franchises previously granted.
(b)
If no franchise agreement is in effect, the governing body has the authority to impose a tax on gross receipts for the use of this city's streets and alleys for the purposes of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, electric companies, electric membership corporations, cable television and other telecommunications companies, gas companies, transportation companies, and other similar organizations.
Section 6.16. - Service charges.
The governing body by ordinance shall have the power to assess and collect fees, charges, and tolls for sewers, sanitary, and health services or any other services provided or made available inside and outside the corporate limits of the city. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in Section 6.18 of this charter.
Section 6.17. - Construction; other taxes and fees.
This city shall be empowered to levy any other tax or fee allowed now or hereafter by law, and the specific mention of any right, power, or authority in this article shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general powers of this city to govern its local affairs.
C. - COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT TAXES

Section 6.18. - Collection of delinquent taxes and fees.
The governing body, by ordinance, may provide generally for the collection of delinquent taxes, fees, or other revenue due the city under Sections 6.10 through 6.17 of this charter by whatever reasonable means as are not precluded by law. This shall include providing for the dates when the taxes or fees are due; late penalties or interest; issuance and execution of fi.fa.'s; creation and priority of liens; making delinquent taxes and fees personal debts of the persons required to pay the taxes or fees imposed; revoking city permits for failure to pay any city taxes or fees; and providing for the assignment or transfer of tax executions.
D. - BORROWING

Section 6.19. - General obligation bonds.
The governing body shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized under this charter or the laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuance by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
Section 6.20. - Revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the governing body as state law now or hereafter provides. Such bonds are to be paid out of any revenue produced by the project, program, or venture for which they were issued.
Section 6.21. - Short-term loans.
The city may obtain short-term loans and must repay such loans not later than December 31 of each year, unless otherwise provided by law.
Section 6.22. - Lease purchase contracts.
The city may enter into multiyear lease, purchase or lease purchase contracts for the acquisition of goods, materials, real and personal property, services, and supplies provided the contract terminates without further obligation on the part of the municipality at the close of the calendar year in which it was executed and at the close of each succeeding calendar year for which it may be renewed. Contracts must be executed in accordance with the requirements of Code Section 36-60-13 of the O.C.G.A. or other such applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
E. - ACCOUNTING AND BUDGETING

Section 6.23. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the city government shall begin on the first day of July of each year and shall end on the last day of June of the following year. This fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for financial accounting and reporting of each and every office, department, agency, and activity of the city government unless otherwise provided by state or federal law.
Section 6.24. - Preparation of budgets.
The governing body shall provide an ordinance on the procedures and requirements for the preparation and execution of an annual operating budget, a capital improvement plan, and a capital budget, including requirements as to the scope, content, and form of such budgets and plans. The governing body may also approve by resolution additional, supplemental budgetary policies and procedures that shall be consistent with this charter and city code.
Section 6.25. - Submission of operating budget to governing body.
The manner of submission of the budget to the council shall be prescribed by ordinance.
Section 6.26. - Action by governing body on operating budget.
(a)
The governing body may amend the operating budget proposed by the city manager; except that the budget as finally amended and adopted must provide for all expenditures required by state law or by other provisions of this charter and for all debt service requirements for the ensuing fiscal year, and the total appropriations from any fund shall not exceed the estimated fund balance, reserves, and revenues.
(b)
The governing body by ordinance shall adopt the final operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than June 30 of each year. If the governing body fails to adopt the budget by this date, the budget as submitted by the city manager shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year. Adoption of the budget shall take the form of an appropriation resolution setting out the estimated revenues in detail by sources and making appropriations according to fund and by organizational unit, purpose, or activity as set out in the budget preparation ordinance adopted pursuant to Section 6.24 of this charter.
(c)
The amount set out in the adopted operating budget for each organizational unit shall constitute the annual appropriation for such, and no expenditure shall be made or encumbrance created in excess of the otherwise unencumbered balance of the appropriations or allotment thereof to which it is chargeable.
Section 6.27. - Tax levies.
The governing body shall levy by ordinance such taxes as are necessary. The taxes and tax rates set by such ordinances shall be such that reasonable estimates of revenues from such levy shall at least be sufficient, together with other anticipated revenues, fund balances, and applicable reserves, to equal the total amount appropriated for each of the several funds set forth in the annual operating budget for defraying the expenses of the general government of this city.
Section 6.28. - Changes in appropriations.
The governing body by resolution may make changes in the appropriations contained in the current operating budget at any regular meeting or special or emergency meeting called for such purpose, but any additional appropriations may be made only in accordance with generally accepted accounting practices.
Section 6.29. - Capital budget.
(a)
On or before the date fixed by the governing body but no later than 60 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the city manager shall submit to the governing body a proposed capital improvements plan with a recommended capital budget containing the means of financing the improvements proposed for the ensuing fiscal year. The governing body shall have power to accept, with or without amendments, or reject the proposed plan and proposed budget. The governing body shall not authorize an expenditure for the construction of any building, structure, work, or improvement unless the appropriations for such project are included in the capital budget, except to meet a public emergency as provided in Section 2.25 of this charter.
(b)
The governing body shall adopt by resolution the final capital budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than June 30 of each year. No appropriation provided for in a prior capital budget shall lapse until the purpose for which the appropriation was made shall have been accomplished or abandoned; provided, however, the city manager may submit amendments to the capital budget at any time during the fiscal year, accompanied by recommendations. Any such amendments to the capital budget shall become effective only upon adoption by ordinance.
Section 6.30. - Independent audit.
There shall be an annual independent audit of all city accounts, funds, and financial transactions by a certified public accountant or firm of such accountants selected by the governing body. The audit shall be conducted according to generally accepted auditing principles. Any audit of any funds by the state or federal government may be accepted as satisfying the requirements of this charter. Copies of annual audit reports shall be available at printing costs to the public. The governing body may provide for more frequent audits as it deems necessary.
F. - PROCUREMENT AND PROPERTY MANAGEMENT

Section 6.31. - Contracting procedures.
No contract with the city shall be binding on the city unless:
(1)
It is in writing;
(2)
Has been reviewed as to form by the city attorney;
(3)
It is made or authorized by the governing body and such approval is entered in the governing body minutes of proceedings pursuant to Section 2.21 of this charter or is authorized as part of the budget process; and
(4)
It is executed by the mayor, mayor pro tempore, or city manager whose signature shall cause the city seal to be affixed.
Section 6.32. - Centralized purchasing.
The governing body shall by ordinance prescribe procedures for a system of centralized purchasing for the city.
Section 6.33. - Sale and lease of city property.
(a)
The governing body may sell and convey or lease any real or personal property owned or held by the city for governmental or other purposes as now or hereafter provided by law; provided, however no public utility owned or operated by the city shall be sold by the governing body unless the governing body, by a majority vote with all members participating, first resolve that such utility shall be sold, and, thereafter, the proposed sale is approved by a majority vote of the electors of the City of Gainesville voting in a special election called and held for that purpose.
(b)
The governing body may quitclaim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon report by the city manager and adoption of a resolution, both finding that the property is not needed for public or other purposes and that the interest of the city has no readily ascertainable monetary value.
(c)
Whenever in opening, extending, or widening any street, avenue, alley, or public place of the city, a small parcel or tract of land is cut off or separated by such work from a larger tract or boundary of land owned by the city, the governing body may authorize the city manager to sell and convey said cut-off or separated parcel or tract of land to an abutting or adjoining property owner or owners where such sale and conveyance facilitates the enjoyment of the highest and best use of the abutting owner's property. Included in the sales contract shall be a provision for the rights of way of said street, avenue, alley, or public place. Each abutting property owner shall be notified of the availability of the property and given the opportunity to purchase said property under such terms and conditions as set out by ordinance. All deeds and conveyances heretofore and hereafter so executed and delivered shall convey all title and interest the city has in such property, notwithstanding the fact that no public sale after advertisement was or is hereafter made.
