Title 2 - FISCAL AFFAIRS[1]
CHAPTER 2-1. - TAXATION
ARTICLE 1. - AD VALOREM TAXES

Sec. 2-1-1. - Exclusions from taxation prohibited.
No property in the city otherwise subject to taxation for ad valorem taxes shall be exempted from such taxation, and no taxes paid on such property shall be relieved or rebated, unless otherwise mandated by state or federal law or to correct error or to prevent manifest injustice, unless first authorized by a majority vote of the electors in a referendum called for such a purpose.
(Code 1958, § 2-20)
State Constitution reference— Exemptions from ad valorem taxation, Art. 7, § 2.
State Law reference— Return and collection of taxes on property unlawfully exempted by county, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-21; tax exemptions, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-40 et seq.
Sec. 2-1-2. - Specified persons to furnish statement of inventory and value thereof when making return for taxation.
(a)
Every person, agent, guardian, trustee, administrator or executor owning or controlling merchandise held as stock in trade, manufactured goods, commodities and supplies materials for manufacture or processing, or in the process of manufacture, shall upon making return of the same for taxation to the city, furnish to the county board of tax assessors a statement of the inventory of the same and the value thereof which was reported by such taxpayer on its last returns for income tax purposes made to the government of the United States and the state, when requested to do so by the county board of tax assessors.
(b)
Failure to furnish the information required in subsection (a) shall constitute an offense against the city and upon conviction therefor the offending party shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of section 1-1-7 of this Code.
(Code 1958, § 21-2)
State Law reference— County board of tax assessors, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-290 et seq.; exemption of certain salesmen and merchants from municipal taxes and license fees, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-354.
Secs. 2-1-3—2-1-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 2. - HOTEL-MOTEL EXCISE TAX[2]

Sec. 2-1-21. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Due date means from the twentieth day after the close of the monthly period for which tax is to be computed.
Guest room means a room occupied, or intended, arranged, or designed for occupancy, by one (1) or more occupants for the purpose of living quarters or residential use.
Hotel means any structure or any portion of a structure, including any lodging house, rooming house, dormitory, Turkish bath, bachelor hotel, studio hotel, motel, motor hotel, auto court, truckstop, tourist cabin, lodge, inn, timeshare or other condominium, apartment community, public club, or private club, containing guest rooms and which is occupied, or is intended or designed for occupancy, by paying guests, whether rent is paid in money, goods, labor, or otherwise. It does not include any hospital, asylum, sanitarium, orphanage, jail, prison, or other buildings in which human beings are housed and detained under legal restraint.
Occupancy means the use or possession, or the right to use or possession of any room or apartment in a hotel, or the right to the use or possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the room.
Occupant means any person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has the right to use or possess any room in a hotel under any lease, concession, permit, right of access, license or use, or other agreement, or otherwise.
Operator means any person operating a hotel in this city including, but not limited to, the owner or proprietor of such premises, the lessee, sublessee, lender in possession; licensee or any other person otherwise operating such hotel.
Permanent resident means any occupant as of a given date who has or shall have occupied or has or shall have the right of occupancy of any guest room in a hotel for more than thirty (30) consecutive days.
Person means an individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, nonprofit corporation or cooperative nonprofit membership, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit, the plural as well as the singular number, excepting the United States of America, the state and any political subdivision of either thereof upon which the city is without power to impose the tax herein provided.
Rent means the consideration received for occupancy valued in money—whether received in money or otherwise—including all receipts, cash, credits and property or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
Return means any return filed or required to be filed as herein provided.
(Code 1958, § 21-3; Ord. No. 2000-73, § I, 11-7-00; Ord. No. 2009-07, § I, 2-17-09)
Sec. 2-1-22. - Penalties.
(a)
When any operator fails to make any return or to pay the full amount of the tax required by this chapter, there shall be imposed, in addition to other penalties provided by law, a penalty to be added to the tax in the amount of five (5) percent or five dollars ($5.00), whichever is greater, if the failure is for not more than thirty (30) days and an additional five (5) percent or five dollars ($5.00), whichever if greater, for each additional thirty (30) days or fraction of thirty (30) days during which the failure continues. The penalty for any single violation shall not exceed twenty-five (25) percent or twenty-five dollars ($25.00) in the aggregate, whichever is greater. If the failure is due to providential cause shown to the satisfaction of the city in affidavit form attached to the return and remittance is made within ten (10) days of due date, the return may be accepted exclusive of penalties and interest. In the case of a false or fraudulent return or of a failure to file a return where willful intent exists to defraud the city of any tax due under this chapter, a penalty of fifty (50) percent of the tax due shall be assessed.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any operator to fail, neglect, or refuse to collect the tax provided in this chapter, either by himself or herself, or through his or her agents or employees. In addition to the penalty of being liable for and paying the tax himself or herself, any person who violates this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) or imprisonment in the county jail for not more than three (3) months, or both.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any operator required by this chapter to make, render, sign, or verify any return to make a false or fraudulent return with intent to evade the tax levied by this chapter. Any person who violates this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) or confinement in the county jail for not less than thirty (30) days nor more than three (3) months, or both fine and confinement.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any operator subject to this chapter to fail or refuse to furnish any return required to be made by this chapter or to fail or refuse to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the city. Any person who violates this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction therefor shall be punished as provided for in section 1-1-7 of this Code.
(e)
It shall be unlawful for any operator subject to this chapter to fail to keep records or to fail to open the records to inspection as required by law. Any person who violates this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction therefor, shall be punished as provided in section 1-1-7 of this Code.
(f)
It shall be unlawful for any operator to violate any other provision of this chapter for which punishment is not otherwise provided. Any person who violates this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction therefor, shall be punished as provided in section 1-1-7 of this Code.
(Code 1958, § 21-16; Ord. No. 2000-30, § I, 6-20-00)
Sec. 2-1-23. - Collection of tax by operator.
It shall be the duty of every operator of a hotel located within the city to collect the tax on occupants imposed in Title 10.
(Code 1958, § 21-5)
State Law reference— Tax authorized, OCGA § 48-13-51.
Sec. 2-1-24. - Exemptions.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article:
(1)
No tax shall be imposed hereunder upon a permanent resident.
(2)
No tax shall be imposed on charges made for hotel rooms, provided to any person who certifies that they are staying in such hotel room, as a result of the destruction of their home or residence by fire or other casualty.
(3)
The tax authorized by this chapter shall apply to the fees or charges for any hotel room during the first thirty (30) days of continuous occupancy and shall not apply to charges imposed for any continuous occupancy thereafter. The tax authorized by this chapter shall not apply to charges made for the use of meeting rooms and other such facilities or to any hotel room provided without charge.
(4)
The tax authorized by this chapter shall not apply to the charges for any hotel room, furnished for a period of one (1) or more days for use by Georgia state or local government officials or employees when traveling on official business. Notwithstanding the availability of any other means of identifying the person as a state or local government official or employee, whenever a person pays for any hotel room with a state or local government credit card, such room shall be deemed to have been furnished for use by a Georgia state or local government official or employee traveling on official business for purposes of the exemption provided by this section.
(Code 1958, §§ 21-3, 21-6; Ord. No. 2000-30, § II, 6-20-00; Ord. No. 2009-07, § II, 2-17-09)
Sec. 2-1-25. - Registration of operator.
(a)
Every person engaging in or about to engage in business as an operator of a hotel in this city shall immediately register such business with the city marshal, on a form provided by the city marshal for such purpose. The required registration hereunder shall set forth the name under which the operator transacts business or intends to transact business, the location of his place or places of business, and such information as would facilitate the collection of the tax by the city marshal. The registration shall be signed by the owner if a natural person; by a member or partner in case of ownership by an association or partnership; by an officer in the case of ownership by a corporation.
(b)
A separate registration shall be required for each place of business of an operator.
(Code 1958, § 21-7; Ord. No. 2000-30, § III, 6-20-00)
State Law reference— Procedures determined by taxing authority, OCGA § 48-13-53.
Sec. 2-1-26. - Certificate of taxing authority.
Upon the registration of an operator under this chapter, the city marshal shall issue to such operator without charge a certificate of authority to collect the tax on occupants. Each certificate shall state the name and location of the business to which it relates.
(Code 1958, § 21-8; Ord. No. 2000-30, § IV, 6-20-00)
Sec. 2-1-27. - Due date and required report.
(a)
All taxes levied by this section shall be due and payable to the city marshal monthly on or before the twentieth day of every month next succeeding each respective month in which such taxes are collected, and payment shall be accompanied by a return for the preceding monthly period showing the gross rent, rent from permanent residents, taxable rent, amount of tax collected or otherwise due for the period, and such other information as may be required by the city marshal. The tax imposed by this article shall become delinquent for each month after the twentieth day of each succeeding month during which it remains unpaid.
(b)
Penalty and interest for failure to pay tax by due date. A lodging provider who fails to make any return or to pay the amount of tax as prescribed, shall be assessed a specific penalty to be added to the tax in the amount of five (5) percent or five dollars ($5.00), whichever is greater, if the failure is for one (1) month or less; and an additional five (5) percent or five dollars ($5.00), whichever is greater, for each additional month or fraction thereof in which such failure shall continue; provided, however, that the aggregate penalty for any single violation shall not exceed twenty-five (25) percent or twenty-five dollars ($25.00), whichever is greater. Delinquent amounts shall bear interest at the rate of one (1) percent per month, or fraction thereof, until paid.
(Code 1958, § 21-9; Ord. No. 2000-30, § V, 6-20-00; Ord. No. 2000-73, § III, 11-7-00)
Sec. 2-1-28. - Collection fee allowed operators.
Operators collecting the tax shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting and paying the amount due, if the amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of the deduction shall be three (3) percent of the amount due, but only if the amount due was not delinquent at the time of payment.
(Code 1958, § 21-10; Ord. No. 2000-73, § II, 11-7-00)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, OCGA § 48-13-52.
Sec. 2-1-29. - Determination if no return made.
(a)
If any operator fails to file a return as required under the provisions of this chapter the city marshal shall make an estimate of the amount of gross rentals of such operator which are subject to the tax. The estimate shall be made for the period or periods in which the operator failed to file the return and shall be based upon any information which is or may come into the possession of the city marshal.
(b)
The city marshal or his designated representative shall give to the operator written notice of his determination as herein provided. The notice may be served personally or by mail; if by mail, such service shall be addressed to the operator at his address as it appears in the records of the city marshal. Service by mail is complete when delivered by certified mail with a receipt signed by the addressee.
(c)
Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty or interest has been paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city, it may be refunded by the governing authority. If the lodging provider or person determines that he has overpaid or paid more than once, which fact has not been determined by the city marshal, such person shall have three (3) years from the date of payment to file a claim in writing stating the specific ground upon which the claim is founded. The claimant may request a hearing before the governing authority at which the claim and any other information available will be considered. The governing authority shall approve or disapprove the claim, and notify the claimant of its action.
(Code 1958, § 21-11; Ord. No. 2000-30, § VI, 6-20-00; Ord. No. 2000-73, § IV, 11-7-00)
Sec. 2-1-30. - Required records.
Each operator collecting a tax under the provisions of this chapter shall keep, for a period of at least three (3) years, all records, receipts, invoices and other pertinent papers setting forth the rental charged for each occupancy, the date or dates of occupancy, and such other information as the city marshal may require.
(Code 1958, § 21-12; Ord. No. 2000-30, § VII, 6-20-00)
Sec. 2-1-31. - Administration and enforcement.
The city marshal shall administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter for the collection of the tax herein imposed, and in so doing shall have the following powers:
(1)
To examine, or authorize the examination of, the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of any operator renting hotel rooms to persons subject to the tax, in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made by the operator, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid;
(2)
To require the filing of reports by any person having in his possession or custody information relating to rentals of hotel rooms which are subject to the tax herein levied.
(Code 1958, § 21-13; Ord. No. 2000-30, § VIII, 6-20-00)
Sec. 2-1-32. - Action for collection of tax.
At any time within three (3) years after any tax levied under this chapter or any portion of such tax required to be collected becomes due and payable, the city attorney may bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction in the name of the city to collect such amount due, together with interest, court fees, filing fees, attorney's fees and other legal fees incident thereto.
(Code 1958, § 21-14)
State Law reference— Limitations of actions, O.C.G.A. § 9-3-1 et seq.; statute of limitations for tax executions, O.C.G.A. § 48-3-21.
Sec. 2-1-33. - Successors or assignees of operator.
If any operator liable for any tax, interest, or penalty imposed by this chapter sells his or her business or quits the business, he or she shall make a final return and payment within fifteen (15) days after the date of selling or quitting the business. The operator's successors or assigns, if any, shall withhold a sufficient amount of the purchase money to cover the amount of the taxes, interest, and penalties due under this chapter and unpaid until the former owner and/or operator produces either a receipt from the city showing that the taxes, interest, and penalties due under this chapter have been paid or a certificate from the city that no tax, interest, or penalty is due under this chapter. If the purchaser of a business fails to withhold the purchase money as required by this chapter, that person shall be personally liable for the payment of any taxes, interest, and penalties accruing under this chapter and unpaid by any former owner and/or operator and/or assignor. The personal liability of the purchaser in such a case shall not exceed the amount of the total purchase money, but the property being transferred shall in all cases be subject to the full amount of the tax lien arising from the delinquencies of the former owner and/or operator and/or assignor. Paid executions may be transferred and enforced as otherwise provided by law.
(Code 1958, § 21-15; Ord. No. 2000-30, § IX, 6-20-00)
Sec. 2-1-34. - Deficiency determinations.
(a)
Recomputation of tax; authority to make; basis of recomputation. If the city marshal is not satisfied with the return or returns of the tax or the amount of the tax required to be paid to the city by any lodging provider, he may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon the basis of any information within his possession or that may come into his possession. One (1) or more deficiency determinations may be made of the amount due for one (1) or more monthly periods.
(b)
Penalty and interest for failure to pay tax. Penalty and interest shall be assessed upon the amount of any determination as provided in section 2-1-27(b).
(c)
Notice of determination; service of. The city marshal shall give to the lodging provider written notice of his determination. The notice may be served personally or by mail; if by mail, such service shall be addressed to the lodging provider at his address as it appears in the records of the city. Service by mail is complete when delivered by certified mail with a receipt signed by the addressee, or when made by statutory overnight delivery.
(d)
Time within which notice of deficiency determination to be mailed. Except in cases of failure to make a return or of fraud, every notice of deficiency determination shall be mailed within three (3) years after the twentieth day of the calendar month following the monthly period of which the amount is proposed to be determined, or within three (3) years after the return is filed, whichever period should last expire.
(Ord. No. 2000-73, § V, 11-7-00)
Sec. 2-1-35. - Proceeds of the tax.
The proceeds of this tax shall be used in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(a)(4).
(Ord. No. 2005-18, § I, 6-7-05)
CHAPTER 2-2. - REVENUES AND SERVICE FEES

Sec. 2-2-1. - Returned checks—Service charge.
When payment of any amount due the city or any of its departments (including, but not limited to, tax, the Georgia Mountains Center, or parks and recreation) occurs with a check which is subsequently returned by the bank or financial institution upon which it is written due to insufficient funds, closed account or any other reason, the customer shall pay a returned check charge in the amount of thirty dollars ($30.00). The city may also charge the customer an additional fee in an amount equal to that charged to the city by the bank or financial institution as a result of the check not being honored. Such charges shall be considered part of the original amount due to the city or any of its departments for the purposes of determining nonpayment of such amount. For charges between $50.00—$2,500.00, the city manager may review the charge, upon written request from the customer. If the city manager determines that the dishonored check was due to inadvertence or mistake, the city manager may, in his discretion waive part of the returned check charge which exceeds thirty dollars ($30.00). The city council must review any charges exceeding two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). If the city council determines that the dishonored check was due to inadvertence or mistake, the city council may, in its discretion waive part of the returned check charge which exceeds thirty dollars ($30.00).
(Ord. No. 97-25, § I, 5-6-97; Ord. No. 2006-09, § I, 4-4-06; Ord. No. 2011-03, § I, 2-15-2011)
CHAPTER 2-3. - FINANCE GENERALLY[3]
ARTICLE 1. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-3-1. - Signs posted on city property advertised for sale; contents.
Signs shall be posted on any city property that is authorized to be advertised for sale. Such sign shall state the lot size, time and date bids are to be returned, and other information pertinent to the bid request. The bidder may be requested to submit proposed development plans as required.
(Code 1958, § 2-05)
Related law reference— Disposition of property, § 1.3.1 et seq.
State Law reference— Disposition of municipal property, OCGA § 36-37-6 et seq.
Sec. 2-3-2. - Disposition of parcels of narrow strips of land; terms and conditions of purchase.
(a)
As set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-37-6(g), as hereinafter amended, the city may sell and convey parcels of narrow strips of land, so shaped or so small as to be incapable of being used independently as zoned or under applicable subdivision or other development ordinances, or as streets, whether owned in fee or used by easement, to abutting property owners where such sales and conveyances facilitate the enjoyment of the highest and best use of the abutting owner's property without first submitting the sale or conveyance to the process of an auction or the solicitation of sealed bids; provided, however, that each abutting property owner shall be notified of the availability of the property and shall have the opportunity to purchase said property under such terms and conditions as set out by ordinance.
(b)
If city-owned property is identified for potential sale or conveyance pursuant to subsection 2-3-2(a), the city, through the city manager or the city manager's designee, may make the following determinations in writing:
(1)
That the real property sought to be sold or conveyed meets the criteria set forth in subsection 2-3-2(a) and state law, as amended; and
(2)
The reasonable fair market value of the property, based upon an appraisal conducted by a licensed real estate appraiser within one year of making such determination.
(c)
Upon completion of the determinations set forth in subsection 2-3-2(b), the city may notify in writing by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery as defined in O.C.G.A. § 9-10-12, as hereinafter amended, each abutting property owner of the availability of the property for purchase and present the opportunity to purchase the property at its fair market value, as determined by the city manager or the city manager's designee under subsection 2-3-2(b). The notice shall further provide that the abutting property owner has 30 days from the date of the notice to express a desire in writing to purchase the property at the fair market value stated in the notice. The abutting property owner's written response expressing the desire to purchase shall be delivered to the city representative identified in the written notice to the abutting property owner.
(d)
If the city receives only one response from an abutting property owner expressing a desire to purchase the property, then a recommendation may be presented by the city manager or the city manager's designee to the city council for its consideration and approval to sell such property to the abutting property owner for the fair market value set forth in the notice to the abutting property owner.
(e)
If the city receives a response from more than one abutting property owner expressing a desire to purchase the property, then a recommendation may be presented by the city manager or the city manager's designee to the city council for its consideration and approval as to the disposition of property that facilitates the enjoyment of the highest and best use of the abutting owner's property.
(f)
In the event the city receives no response from any abutting property owner, then the city may consider conveying the property in the best interest of the city, negotiating the sale or conveyance with one or more abutting property owners, or selling the property via a competitive bidding process as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-37-6(a), as hereinafter amended.
(g)
Nothing in this section shall obligate the city in any manner to sell and/or convey any property identified hereunder.
(Ord. No. 2016-24, § I, 10-4-16)
Secs. 2-3-3—2-3-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 2. - ANNUAL BUDGET GENERALLY[4]

Sec. 2-3-26. - Adoption of budget.
On or before the first day of each budget year, the city council shall adopt a budget which shall set forth a program for the financial operation of the city throughout that budget year.
(Code 1958, § 2-1)
State Law reference— Adoption of budget, OCGA § 36-81-6.
Sec. 2-3-27. - Budget year.
The budget year of the city shall begin July first and run through the following June thirtieth.
(Code 1958, § 2-2)
State Law reference— Establishment of fiscal year, OCGA § 36-81-3.
Sec. 2-3-28. - Balanced budget.
The budget which shall be adopted shall be a balanced budget.
(Code 1958, § 2-3)
State Law reference— Annual balanced budget required, OCGA § 36-81-3.
Secs. 2-3-29—2-3-45. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 3. - PREPARATION AND SUBMISSION OF BUDGET

Sec. 2-3-46. - Preparation by city manager.
The city manager shall be considered to be the budget officer. The city manager shall prepare the proposed annual budget. For such purposes, he, or an officer designated by him, shall obtain from the head of each office, department, or agency estimates of revenues and expenditures of that office, department or agency, along with any supporting data as may be required. The head of each office, department, or agency shall also submit an estimate of all capital projects which are either pending or are projects which the department head believes should be undertaken (a) within the current budget year and (b) within the next five (5) succeeding years. In preparing the budget, the city manager, shall review the estimates of each department, shall hold hearings with the department heads and other appropriate officials thereon, any may revise the estimates as he may deem advisable.
(Code 1958, § 2-4; Ord. No. 2005-26, § I, 6-21-05)
State Law reference— Appointment of budget officer, OCGA § 36-81-4; preparation of proposed budget, OCGA § 36-81-5.
Sec. 2-3-47. - Submission, contents.
At least forty-five (45) days prior to the beginning of each budget year, the city manager shall submit his proposed budget to the city council. The budget as submitted by the city manager shall contain the following items:
(1)
Budget message.
a.
General. The city manager shall explain the budget in a budget message. Such message shall address established goals and objectives, service delivery issues, and preservation of financial health, and shall describe in connection therewith the important features of the proposed budget program. It shall also set forth the reasons for proposed changes from the previous years' cost and revenue items, if any.
b.
Capital improvements. As a part of the budget message, the city manager shall include a statement of pending capital projects and proposed new capital projects and shall relate these projects to the various means of financing them proposed within the budget.
c.
Capital program. The city manager shall include in the budget message, or attached thereto, a capital program of proposed capital projects for the five (5) fiscal years next succeeding the budget year, together with his comments thereon and estimates of costs.
d.
Supporting schedules. Attached to the budget message shall be such supporting schedules, exhibits and other explanatory materials, in respect to both current operations and capital improvements, as the city manager shall believe useful to the city council.
(2)
The budget.
a.
Balanced budget. The budget as proposed by the city manager shall be a balanced budget with respect to the general fund, each special revenue fund and each debt service fund. Each capital projects fund shall operate under a project-length balanced budget. Balanced budgets shall also be prepared for enterprise funds such as public utilities, internal service funds, and component units such as parks and recreation.
b.
Budget summary. The submitted budget shall include a summary of revenues, including property tax, and expenditures. Such information shall be presented in a manner as will provide the taxpayers a simple and clear summary of the detailed estimates of the budget.
c.
Budget details. Detail of revenues and expenditures shall be provided for each budgeted fund. Revenue detail shall include all significant revenues or financing sources with the proposed budget amount. Expenditure detail shall include all expenditure and financing use categories with the proposed budget amount including, but not limited to departments, agencies, and other organizational units; functions; activities; and line item objects of expenditure. Budget detail shall reflect the State of Georgia Uniform Chart of Accounts and the city's chart of accounts.
d.
Draft appropriations resolution. The budget submission shall include a draft of the appropriations resolution that may be adopted or modified by the council based upon its budget review.
(Code 1958, § 2-5; Ord. No. 2005-26, §§ II—VI, 6-21-05)
State Law reference— Submission of budget, OCGA § 36-81-5; form of budget, OCGA § 36-81-6.
Secs. 2-3-48—2-3-65. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 4. - ADOPTION OF BUDGET

Sec. 2-3-66. - Public hearing to be held.
At least one (1) week before taking final action on the budget, the city council shall hold a public hearing on the budget, public notice of which shall be prominently advertised not less than seven (7) days prior to such hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the city. At such hearing, all interested persons shall be given an opportunity to be heard, for or against the proposed budget or any item thereof.
(Code 1958, § 2-6; Ord. No. 2005-26, § VII, 6-21-05)
State Law reference— Budget hearing, OCGA § 36-81-5.
Sec. 2-3-67. - Adoption of budget.
After such public hearing, the city council may make such adjustments in the budget as shall seem appropriate, but where the city council shall increase the total proposed expenditures, it shall also provide for increase in the total anticipated revenue to at least equal such total proposed expenditures. The budget shall be adopted on a date at least one (1) week after the public hearing. The meeting for adoption shall be prominently advertised not less than seven (7) days prior to such meeting in a newspaper of general circulation within the city.
(1)
Vote required for adoption. The budget shall be adopted by the favorable votes of at least a majority of all members of the city council.
(2)
Failure to adopt. The budget shall be finally adopted not later than the first day of the budget year. Should the city council take no final action on or prior to such day, the budget as submitted by the city manager shall be deemed to have been finally adopted by the city council.
(Code 1958, § 2-7; Ord. No. 2005-26, § VIII, 6-21-05)
State Law reference— Adoption of budget, OCGA § 36-81-6.
Sec. 2-3-68. - Effective date.
Upon final adoption, the budget shall be in effect for the budget year. A copy of the budget, as finally adopted, shall be certified by the city manager and city clerk and filed in the city clerk's office. The budget so certified shall be published or reproduced and sufficient copies thereof shall be made available for the use of all offices, departments and agencies and for the use of interested citizens.
(Code 1958, § 2-8)
State Law reference— "Budget year" and "fiscal year" defined, OCGA § 36-81-2(4).
Sec. 2-3-69. - Adoption of budget establishes appropriations.
From the effective date of the budget, the several amounts stated therein as proposed expenditures shall be and become appropriated to the several objects and purposes therein named.
(Code 1958, § 2-9)
Sec. 2-3-70. - Legal level of control.
All budgets shall be adopted at the legal level of control. The legal level of control for revenues shall be all major revenue categories, including all budgeted revenues requiring mandatory reporting under the State of Georgia Uniform Chart of Accounts. The legal level of control for expenditures shall be the department, agency, or other organizational unit where applicable, or major expense category for non-departmental expenditures.
(Ord. No. 2005-26, § IX, 6-21-05)
Secs. 2-3-71—2-3-85. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 5. - ADMINISTERING OF BUDGET[5]

Sec. 2-3-86. - Interim budget reports.
The city manager shall keep the city council informed regarding budget activity throughout the fiscal year with monthly budget progress reports.
(Code 1958, § 2-10; Ord. No. 2005-26, § X, 6-21-05)
Sec. 2-3-87. - Budget amendments.
(a)
General amendment. The council may amend the budget as deemed necessary or advantageous during the fiscal year, provided additional revenues or funding sources are identified for any net increase in expenditure. Following the end of each fiscal year quarter, any approved adjustments, including budgets for any projects authorized during the quarter shall be enacted through a budget adjustment resolution upon a favorable vote of the city council. The supplemental budget resolutions shall be balanced for each and every fund that is amended.
(b)
Revenue shortfall. If, at any time during the budget year, the city manager shall determine that the available revenues and funding sources for the year will be less than the total appropriations, he shall so notify the council. He shall reconsider the work programs and appropriations of the several offices, departments, and agencies and prepare recommended amendments to the budget so as to forestall the making of expenditures in excess of the revenue. These recommendations shall be implemented upon a favorable vote of the city council.
(Code 1958, § 2-11; Ord. No. 2005-26, § XI, 6-21-05)
Sec. 2-3-88. - Transfers of appropriations.
The city manager may at any time transfer any unencumbered appropriation balance or portion thereof between general classifications of expenditures below the legal level of control within a department, agency, or organizational unit.
(Code 1958, § 2-12; Ord. No. 2005-26, § XII, 6-21-05)
Sec. 2-3-89. - When contracts and expenditures prohibited.
No officer, department, or agency shall, during any budget year, expend or contract to expend any money or incur any liability, or enter into any contract which by its terms involves the expenditures of money, for any purpose, in excess of the amounts appropriated for that general classification of expenditures in the budget. Any contract, verbal or written, made in violation of this section shall be null and void. Any employee of the city who shall violate this section shall be suspended from his employment. Nothing in this section, however, shall prevent the making of contracts or the spending of money for capital improvements which are to be financed in whole by the issuance of bonds.
(Code 1958, § 2-13)
Sec. 2-3-90. - Contracts between city and relatives of city council members, public officials, board members, or employees prohibited.
(a)
The city shall not enter into a contract for the sale or furnishing of products, goods, materials or services with any parent, spouse, lineal descendant or a lineal descendant's spouse of a city council member, public official, board member, or employee. Nor shall the city similarly contract with any corporation, partnership, trust or association in which any parent, spouse, lineal descendant or lineal descendant's spouse of a city council member, public official, board member, or employee owns a substantial interest. This section shall only apply to new contracts and shall not affect such existing contracts. The foregoing provision notwithstanding, this section shall not apply to contracts existing at the time of a future city council member's election, or the appointment or employment of any public official, board member, or employee, nor shall it invalidate any such existing contract or invalidate the council member's election or the appointment or employment of any public official, board member or employee.
(b)
A substantial interest is defined as ownership of ten (10) percent or more of the total outstanding stock and/or an investment value in excess of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) in a corporation, partnership, trust or association.
(Ord. No. 89-32, § I, 7-18-89)
Cross reference— Legislative, Ch. 1-4; personnel, Ch. 1-6; boards and commissions, § 1-5-1 et seq.; employment of relatives of council member, public official, employee, § 1-6-1.
State Law reference— Ethics in government, OCGA § 21-5-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-3-91. - Appropriations lapse at end of year.
All appropriations, other than project-length appropriations for capital projects, shall lapse at the end of the budget year to the extent that they shall not have been expended or lawfully encumbered.
(Code 1958, § 2-14; Ord. No. 2005-26, § XIII, 6-21-05)
Sec. 2-3-92. - Emergency appropriations.
In the event of a genuine emergency that poses an immediate threat to the public health, safety or welfare, the city manager shall, using prudent judgment, direct such action as necessary to eliminate or diminish the threat. The city manager shall notify the council of the threat and action to be taken without delay. To the extent that the response to the emergency requires expenditure beyond the amounts currently available in the budget, the city manager shall notify the council as soon as practical and seek formal amendment of the budget through the established budget amendment process.
(Code 1958, § 2-19; Ord. No. 2005-26, § XIV, 6-21-05)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 99-21, § I, adopted Apr. 6, 1999, deleted §§ 2-3-92—2-3-96, which pertained to contracts for city improvements, competitive bidding, control of purchases and purchasing agent, and derived from Code 1958, §§ 2-15—2-18, and renumbered § 2-3-97 as § 2-3-92.
Cross reference— Emergency management, § 3-1-46 et seq.
CHAPTER 2-4. - PURCHASING[6]
ARTICLE 1. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-4-1. - Scope.
This chapter shall govern acquisitions by the city of commodities, equipment, and services.
(Ord. No. 2016-27, § II, 12-20-16)
Sec. 2-4-2. - Purpose.
This chapter shall be construed and applied to promote its underlying purposes and policies which are:
(1)
To foster effective, fair and broad-based competition for public procurement within the free enterprise system; and
(2)
To provide safeguards for the maintenance of quality, integrity and equity in the purchasing process of the city.
(Ord. No. 2016-27, § II, 12-20-16)
Sec. 2-4-3. - Application of federal and state law.
It is intended that this chapter shall conform to all applicable provisions of the laws of the United States and of the state, and the provisions hereof shall be so construed wherever possible. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the city may enter into contracts, follow any procedure, or take any action which is otherwise at variance with this chapter if required as a condition to receiving funds from the State of Georgia or the United States Government.
(Ord. No. 2016-27, § II, 12-20-16)
Sec. 2-4-4. - Budgeted expenditures and expenses.
It is the responsibility of the department director to ensure all purchases are consistent with and support the current approved budget prior to committing funds.
(Ord. No. 2016-27, § II, 12-20-16)
Sec. 2-4-5. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, or phrases, when used in this chapter shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Acquisition means a transaction in which the city purchases, orders, contracts for, or otherwise agrees to obtain for value any commodity, service, real property or combination thereof.
Active vendor status means a vendor has completed and returned all necessary documents and met requirements according to the city's vendor program policy and procedures.
Bid means submission of information from an offeror that describes the offeror's commodities or services, and any other information necessary to respond to the specifications and other requirements set forth in a request for bids.
Bid bond means a bond with good and sufficient surety or sureties for the faithful acceptance of the contract payable to, in favor of, and for the protection of the city.
City means City of Gainesville, Georgia.
Commodity means a discrete and distinct item of tangible personal property, including, without limitation, any such item that is intended to become an integrated part of another item of tangible personal property or of any improvement to real property, but not including after incorporation into another item of personal property or real property in a manner which ends to separate character as personality under the law.
Confidential information means any information that is available to an employee because of the employee's status as an employee of the city and is not a matter of public knowledge or available to the public on request.
Contract means any agreement, purchase order, lease, or other document which creates or intended to create binding reciprocal obligations including, without limitation, any document evidencing a bid or proposal award that has been accepted by the offeror.
Contractor means any person who is party to a contract, except the city.
Day(s) means calendar day(s) unless otherwise stated.
Employee/official means an individual drawing a salary or wages from the city, whether elected or not; any noncompensated individual performing personal services for the city or any department, agency, commission, council, board, or any other entity established by the executive or legislative branch of the city; and any noncompensated individual serving as an elected official of the city.
Gratuity means a payment, loan, subscription, advance, deposit of money, service or anything of more than nominal value, present or promised, unless consideration of substantially equal or greater value is received.
Invitation to bid means all information and documentation disseminated by the city to solicit bids.
Local vendor means a bidder or offeror which operates and maintains a brick and mortar business, i.e., a physical business address, within the city limits of the City of Gainesville, has a current business license, has paid in full all real and personal taxes owed the city, is considered a vendor in good standing with the city and can obtain an active vendor status.
Offeror means any person who has submitted a bid or proposal to the city or otherwise offered to form a contract with the city.
Person means any individual or legal entity.
Proposal means submission of information from an offeror (including a consultant) which states how that offeror intends to fulfill the specifications and other requirements described in a request for proposals.
Purchasing manager means the employee designated by the city to review purchase requests and bids, make purchasing recommendations, and ensure that employees of the city comply with rules, regulations, and laws relating to purchasing.
Request for proposals means all information and documentation disseminated by the city to solicit proposals.
Responsive bidder or offeror means a person who has submitted a bid or proposal that conforms in all material respects to the requirements set forth in the invitation.
Services means the furnishing of labor, time or effort by a contractor which is not intended to accomplish the delivery of a specified tangible product other than reports that are merely incidental to the required performance, including, without limitation, a professional or consulting service.
Specification means, in connection with a request for bids or request for proposals, a list of the characteristics of the commodities or services that will meet the city's requirements.
(Ord. No. 2016-27, § II, 12-20-16)
Secs. 2-4-6—2-4-10. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 2. - PROCUREMENT ORGANIZATION

Sec. 2-4-11. - Procurement procedures.
The purchasing manager is authorized to establish, implement and enforce written operational procedures relating to procurement and contractual arrangements on behalf of the city. Such procedures shall, to the extent consistent with applicable law, be based upon generally accepted public purchasing principles and practices and shall become effective upon approval by the chief financial officer and the city manager. These procedures may be revised, as necessary.
(Ord. No. 2016-27, § II, 12-20-16)
Sec. 2-4-12. - Parks and recreation.
The city parks and recreation board was established as a legally separate entity through a special election in 1924 and operates pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-64-1 et seq., and is given the same status with parks and recreation transactions relative to purchasing as the city council has with respect to other city departments. The parks and recreation director, under full authority of the city parks and recreation board, is the chief executive officer and is given the same status with parks and recreation transactions relative to purchasing as the city manager has with respect to other city departments.
(Ord. No. 2016-27, § II, 12-20-16)
Secs. 2-4-13—2-4-15. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 3. - SOURCE SELECTION

Sec. 2-4-16. - Protests.
(a)
If a vendor or bidder/offeror may be aggrieved by any aspect of a solicitation, the vendor or bidder/offeror must protest in accordance with this section.
(b)
Bidders/offerors may protest the contract award in connection with the invitation to bid/request for proposal on which the bidder/offeror has submitted a bid/proposal. Any such protest must be filed no later than ten (10) days following the date of the notice of award or purchase order. Vendors who do not submit a timely bid proposal may not protest the contract.
(c)
Protests pertaining to events or facts arising during the solicitation process, including, but not limited to, specifications, must be filed no later than two (2) business days prior to the bid opening or proposal due date.
(d)
Issues not raised in the initial protest may at the discretion of the city be deemed waived with prejudice by the protestor.
(e)
A protest is filed when a written protest signed by a company officer authorized to sign contracts on behalf of the vendor is received by the purchasing manager or designee.
(f)
A written protest shall include as a minimum the following:
(1)
The name and address of the protestor;
(2)
Appropriate identification of the solicitation;
(3)
A statement of the reasons for the protest;
(4)
Supporting exhibits, evidence, or documents to substantiate any claims unless not available within the filing time; in which case the expected availability date shall be indicated.
(g)
Stay of procurement during protest.
(1)
When a protest pertaining to events or facts arising during the solicitation process, such as protests concerning specifications and evaluation criteria, has been timely filed at least two (2) business days prior to the bid opening or proposal deadline date, the city shall make no award of a contract until a final decision has been issued, unless the purchasing manager makes a written determination, after consulting with the user department, that the award of the contract without delay is necessary to protect the interests of the city.
(2)
When a protest has been filed in a timely fashion within ten (10) calendar days following the issuance of a contract award, the purchasing manager shall consult with the user department to determine if performance of the contract without delay is necessary to protect the interests of the city. If it is determined that it is necessary to proceed with contract performance without delay, the bidder/offeror with this contingent contract may proceed with performance and receive payment for work performed in strict accordance with the terms of the contract; however, such bidder/offeror shall not be entitled to reimbursement for any capital outlay costs, or other up front expenses incurred in performing the contract.
(h)
Decision by purchasing manager. A decision on a protest shall be made by the purchasing manager as expeditiously as possible after receiving all relevant requested information. If a protest is sustained, the available remedies include:
(1)
If a protest is sustained prior to an award: modification of the solicitation document, including but not limited to specifications, terms and conditions and evaluation criteria, and extension of the opening date if appropriate.
(2)
If a protest is sustained after an award is made: suspension or cancellation of the award, re-evaluation and re-award or re-solicitation with appropriate changes to the new solicitation document.
(i)
Request for formal review.
(1)
If a protestor or user department disagrees with the decision of the purchasing manager, the protestor or user department may request a formal review of the decision by the chief financial officer or designee within three (3) days of the date of the purchasing manager's decision. The request for formal review shall contain a detailed statement of the factual and legal grounds upon which reversal or modification is deemed warranted, specifying any errors in the purchasing manager's decision. The chief financial officer or designee may, in his/her sole discretion, allow the protestor to make an oral presentation, and may solicit whatever other information he/she deems appropriate.
(2)
The decision of the chief financial officer or designee shall be final.
(j)
Recovery of costs. In no event shall a protestor be entitled to recover any costs incurred in connection with the solicitation, including bid/proposal preparation costs or attorney's fees.
(Ord. No. 2016-27, § II, 12-20-16)
Sec. 2-4-17. - Local vendor preference.
(a)
Opportunity to match. For purchases, bids, proposals or contracts at twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) or more and less than one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00), the local vendor may be given an opportunity to match the lowest price proposal, if the quotation or bid of the local vendor is within three (3) percent of the lowest price proposal by a nonlocal vendor. In the event a local vendor matches the lowest price proposal, including all other terms, quality, service and conditions, then the local vendor shall be awarded the contract.
(b)
Multiple local vendors. In the event the price proposal of more than one (1) local vendor is within three (3) percent of the lowest overall price proposal of a nonlocal vendor, the local vendor with the lowest proposal will be given the first opportunity to match the lowest overall price proposal. If this local vendor declines to match the price proposal, then the local vendor with the next lowest bid within three (3) percent will be given the opportunity to match the lowest proposal. This process will continue with all local vendors having proposals within three (3) percent of the lowest overall bid by a nonlocal vendor.
(c)
Policy to be stated. This policy shall be so stated in all applicable solicitations.
(d)
Exemptions. This provision does not apply to public works construction projects or road projects pursuant to the laws of the State of Georgia or other situations to be found in conflict with federal or state laws or granting agency contracts.
(Ord. No. 2016-27, § II, 12-20-16)
CHAPTER 2-5. - FIXED ASSET MANAGEMENT

Secs. 2-5-1—2-5-40. - Reserved.
