DIVISION 3. - DRIVER PERMITS

Sec. 162-76. - Required.
It shall be unlawful for any drivers of vehicles for hire, including drivers of vans and sedans, to drive a vehicle for hire upon the highways of the city without first obtaining a permit from the bureau.
(Code 1977, § 14-8005(b); Ord. No. 1995-38, § 7, 7-11-95; Ord. No. 2005-68, § 8, 10-25-05)
Sec. 162-77. - Qualifications of applicant.
In order to secure a driver permit for a vehicle for hire, an applicant must provide the following information on a form provided by the bureau. The applicant must:
(1)
Be at least 18 years of age.
(2)
Possess a valid state driver's license which must have been held for a minimum period of one year prior to application, and the license must not be limited as defined in O.C.G.A. § 40-5-64.
(3)
Be a citizen of the United States or an alien admitted for permanent residence or otherwise granted employment authorization by the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service.
(4)
Be a resident, for at least one year immediately preceding the date of application, of the state.
(5)
Exhibit a proficiency with the English language so as to be able to comprehend and interpret traffic signs, issue written receipts to passengers and obey lawful orders of police and others in lawful authority.
(6)
Successfully complete a driver training course for new applicants administered by any company or third-party approved by the bureau. No company or third party seeking such approval shall be denied due to its employment of individuals otherwise employed by the City of Atlanta. The course shall include but shall not be limited to information on laws and sections of this Code and other ordinances governing the operation of vehicles for hire and on the location of streets, landmarks, institutions, driver courtesy, driving safety and attractions within the Atlanta Metropolitan Area. The bureau shall provide training in these subjects to instructors employed by the companies or third-parties approved by the bureau for the purpose of teaching driver training courses. All applicants must demonstrate sufficient knowledge of laws and sections of this Code and other ordinances governing the operation of vehicles for hire and of the location of streets, landmarks, institutions and attractions within the Atlanta metropolitan area by passing an examination administered by the bureau, or by any third party approved by the bureau, by a score of at least 70 percent. The examination shall be based upon information contained in a manual for operation of vehicles for hire available from the Bureau. The examination may be administered orally, and any applicant who fails three times may not take it again for a period of 30 days.
(7)
Be fingerprinted by the department of police and supply to the bureau two current photographs, size 2½ inches by 2¾ inches, accurately depicting the applicant's face and shoulders.
(8)
Submit written statements from a CPNC holder and a company, on forms to be provided by the bureau, showing that the applicant will be affiliated as a driver with that holder and that company upon issuance of the permit.
(9)
Not have been declared a habitual violator by the state department of public safety or the Police Department's Bureau of Taxicabs and Vehicles for Hire and not have been convicted, been on probation, parole or served time on a sentence for a period of five years prior to the date of application for the violation of any of the following criminal offenses of the state or any other state or of the United States: criminal homicide, rape, aggravated battery, mayhem, burglary, aggravated assault, kidnapping, robbery, driving a motor vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating beverages or drugs, driving with a suspended license, child molestation, any sex-related offense, leaving, the scene of an accident, criminal solicitation to commit any of such, criminal attempt to commit any of such, any felony in the commission of which a motor vehicle was used, perjury or false swearing in making any statement under oath in connection with the application for a driver's permit, any law involving violence or theft or possession, sale or distribution of narcotic drugs, barbituric acid derivatives or central nervous system stimulants, provided, however, that all applicants shall be entitled to the full benefits of O.C.G.A. Tit. 42, Ch. 8, Art. 3 (O.C.G.A. § 42-8-60 et seq.), the First Offender Act. If at the time of application the applicant is charged with any of such offenses, consideration of the application shall be suspended until entry of a plea or verdict or dismissal. For the purposes of this subsection, a plea of nolo contendere to any of the offenses set out in this subsection shall constitute a conviction. For purposes of the subsection, "habitual violator" as declared by the police department's bureau of taxicabs and vehicles for hire shall mean having eight or more moving traffic violations and/or violations of any ordinance of the city governing the conduct of drivers of vehicles for hire within any continuous eighteen month period after January 1, 2006. Violations shall be counted by incident and not by multiple violation citations.
(10)
Not have been convicted for a period of two years prior to the date of application of the violation of two or more sections of this Code or other ordinances of the city governing the conduct of drivers of vehicles for hire. If at the time of application the applicant is charged with any of the offenses enumerated in subsection (9) of this section, consideration of the application shall be suspended until entry of a plea or verdict or dismissal.
(Code 1977, § 14-8005(c); Ord. No. 1995-37, § 4, 7-11-95; Ord. No. 2005-68, § 9, 10-25-05; Ord. No. 2008-02(07-O-2187), § 1, 1-30-08; Ord. No. 2009-69(09-O-1045), § 1, 11-6-09)
Editor's note—
Section 3 of Ord. No. 2008-02(07-O-2187) provided for an expiration date of Dec. 31, 2008.
Sec. 162-78. - Duties of driver to maintain permit.
(a)
In order to maintain a permit to drive a vehicle for hire, a driver must:
(1)
Not operate a vehicle for hire unless the following is present in said vehicle: the trip record also known as a "trip sheet," containing the CPNC number, the date and time of dispatch, the driver's name, the driver's permit number, daily log of all passengers, the time, place of entry and the destination of each passenger, the amount charged, an itemization of any personal property left in the vehicle for hire. Further, a driver shall, at the beginning of each work shift, sign and certify on the trip record that the vehicle for hire and its equipment are in good working condition and that the items required in the taxicab are present, before operating the vehicle for hire.
(2)
Wear proper dress while providing or offering to provide "vehicle for hire services". As used herein, the term "proper dress" shall mean the following: Shoes which cover the foot (no sandals); pants to ankle length or a skirt or dress not shorter than knee length; pants shall not be noticeably torn; shirts or blouses must have sleeves, and a collar; the term "shirts or blouses" does not include tee shirts; shirts are required to be tucked in; clothing shall not be visibly soiled.
(3)
Continue to maintain the qualifications set out for obtaining a driver permit contained in section 162-77
(4)
Not smoke or play a radio or tape player if objected to by a passenger. Not alter any documentation issued by the bureau or airport taxi dispatcher.
(5)
Provide the bureau with notice of any change of address within five days of such change.
(6)
Successfully complete, annually, a driver's training course approved by the bureau and administered by any company or third-party approved by the bureau. No company or third party seeking such approval shall be denied due to its employment of individuals otherwise employed by the City of Atlanta.
(7)
Not apply for or accept more than one City of Atlanta driver's permit without the bureau's written permission.
(8)
Not permit any other person to use the driver's taxicab driver's license while operating any vehicle.
(9)
Not provide the bureau with any false or misleading information.
(10)
Notify, within 48 hours exclusive of weekends and holidays, the bureau in writing of the loss or theft of his driver's permit.
(11)
Report any change of mailing address to the bureau, either in person or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested within seven days exclusive of weekends or holidays. Any notice from the bureau shall be deemed sufficient if sent to the last mailing address furnished by the driver.
(12)
Not make erasures or obliterations on a trip record. The driver shall correct any wrong entry only by drawing a single line through the incorrect entry. A driver shall not leave blank lines between entries.
(13)
Not obstruct a passenger's view of the taximeter.
(14)
Not, while on duty, operate a vehicle for hire unless the roof light is lit when the taximeter is not in use or the driver is on a flat rate trip, and unlit when the taximeter is in use.
(15)
Not operate a vehicle for hire in which the taximeter or the seals affixed thereto by a licensed taximeter repair shop have been tampered with, broken or altered in any manner.
(16)
Notify the owner of a vehicle for hire and the bureau by telephone immediately, and in writing within 24 hours, upon the discovery of any of the following with respect to the following equipment:
(a)
Any material change to a taximeter in a vehicle for hire operated by the driver since the last inspection by the bureau of said vehicle;
(b)
Any taximeter seal in the vehicle for hire operated by the driver has been removed or tampered with.
(17)
Notify the bureau in writing of his conviction of a crime within 15 days of such conviction, and he shall deliver to the bureau a certified copy of the certificate of disposition issued by the Clerk of the Court within 15 days of sentencing.
(b)
Companies shall be responsible for the compliance of their affiliated drivers with this section. Failure of a driver to comply may result in the issuance of citations to both the driver and the company.
(Code 1977, § 14-8005(d); Ord. No. 1995-37, § 6, 7-11-95; Ord. No. 1997-67, § 1, 11-24-97; Ord. No. 1998-19, § 1, 3-23-98; Ord. No. 2002-69, §§ 6, 7, 9-25-02; Ord. No. 2004-13, § 2, 4-27-04; Ord. No. 2005-68, §§ 10, 11, 10-25-05; Ord. No. 2008-02(07-O-2187), § 2, 1-30-08)
Editor's note—
Section 3 of Ord. No. 2008-02(07-O-2187) provided for an expiration date of Dec. 31, 2008.
Sec. 162-79. - Reserved.
Sec. 162-80. - Renewal.
After the initial issuance of a permit under this division, application for renewal shall be made by the driver's birthday. Upon the providing of proof that the driver continues to possess the requirements necessary to obtain and maintain a permit as set forth above, the permit shall be renewed. Applications for renewal shall be accepted by the bureau up to 45 days prior to the driver's birthday. A late fee of $10.00 shall be charged after the driver's birthday. Drivers failing to renew within one year, shall be considered new and must attend Ambassador's Class.
(Code 1977, § 14-8005(f); Ord. No. 1995-37, § 8, 7-11-95)
Sec. 162-81. - Change in company affiliation.
Any driver of a vehicle for hire who intends to change the driver's company or CPNC affiliations must present the driver's permit to the bureau so that the permit may be replaced with a substitute permit reflecting such change in affiliation. Under no circumstances shall the driver drive for the CPNC holder or company with which the driver intends to affiliate before obtaining a substitute permit from the bureau. A fee of $15.00 shall be imposed upon the driver for each of such transfer, which must be approved by the bureau.
(Code 1977, § 14-8005(g))
Sec. 162-82. - Temporary permit for limousine drivers.
Any person holding a valid limousine driver's permit pursuant to the laws of any other jurisdiction may apply for and obtain a temporary driver's permit to be valid for seven consecutive days in the city after presentation of the foreign permit and other information on a form to be provided by the bureau. Such permit shall be applied for 14 days prior to the effective date of the permit. The fee for each such temporary driver's permit shall be $50.00. Temporary limousine driver permit holders shall be subject to all of the sections governing drivers in this article except those concerning residency, affiliation with companies and annual permits.
(Code 1977, § 14-8005(h))
Sec. 162-83. - Transferability.
Driver's permits issued under this division shall not be transferable.
(Code 1977, § 14-8014(c); Ord. No. 1995-37, § 15, 7-11-95)
Sec. 162-84. - Revocation or suspension.
(a)
Upon a finding of due cause, as defined in subsection (b) of this section, the police chief shall have the authority to revoke or suspend any driver's permit issued under this division by the city.
(b)
Due cause for the revocation or suspension of a driver's permit shall include but shall not be limited to the following:
(1)
The failure of the driver to maintain any and all of the general qualifications applicable to the issuance of a permit.
(2)
Obtaining a permit by providing false information.
(3)
Violation by a driver of any of the following offenses or violation or conviction of any city ordinance governing the conduct of vehicles for hire:
a.
Driving under the influence of intoxicating beverages or drugs; driving with a suspended license; or having been declared a habitual violator.
b.
Criminal homicide, rape, aggravated battery, leaving the scene of an accident, mayhem, burglary, aggravated assault, kidnapping, robbery, child molestation, criminal solicitation to commit any of such, criminal attempt to commit any of such, any felony in the commission of which a motor vehicle was used, any law involving violence or theft, or possession, sale or distribution of narcotic drugs, barbituric acid derivatives or central nervous system stimulants.
c.
Violation of any section of this Code or other ordinances of the city governing the conduct of drivers of a vehicle for hire.
(4)
Providing false information to the bureau.
(5)
Charging a fare in excess of those fares set out in section 162-118 or 162-133, if a taxicab driver or limousine driver.
(6)
Violation of any section of this Code or other ordinance or law, other than minor traffic offenses, in connection with the operation of a vehicle for hire.
(7)
Whenever it shall appear that a driver has disorders characterized by lapses of consciousness or other mental or physical disabilities affecting the driver's ability to drive safely.
(8)
Four or more moving traffic violations in any 12-month period.
(c)
Any driver charged with vehicular homicide shall immediately have his permit suspended by the bureau until the courts dispose of the case. No driver's permit issued by the city shall be revoked or suspended except upon a finding of due cause as defined in subsection (b) of this section and after a hearing and upon a prior five-day written notice to the driver stating the place, date, time and purpose of such hearing and setting forth the charge upon which the hearing shall be held. The hearing shall be held within 15 days of the date the notice is issued.
(d)
A duly appointed panel of hearing officers shall conduct the hearings and report its conclusions and recommendations to the police chief. The police chief, upon receiving the report, may revoke or suspend any driver's permit. In lieu of suspension or revocation, the police chief may impose a fine upon any driver, such fine not to exceed $1,000.00 for each violation.
(e)
After revocation of a driver's permit, no application for a driver's permit shall be accepted or considered for a period of 12 months from the date of revocation.
(f)
For due cause, for a violation of this article which results in a situation in which continued operation by the driver endangers the health, welfare or safety of the public, the police chief may suspend any driver's permit. Such immediate temporary suspension may be done by summary consideration of facts that indicate due cause and of facts that indicate an immediate danger. Notice of the temporary suspension shall be given immediately to the driver stating the facts upon which the suspension is based and stating the time and place of a full hearing as provided in subsections (d) and (e) of this section. The hearing shall take place as soon as a hearing panel can be assembled but in any case within two weeks.
(g)
Whenever any person holding a driver's permit is convicted of or pleads guilty to or pleads nolo contendere to any of the following offenses, in any court, such disposition shall constitute due cause for suspension, revocation or a fine in accordance with subsections (b), (c) and (d) of this section: Driving under the influence of intoxicating beverages or drugs, criminal homicide, rape, aggravated battery, mayhem, burglary, aggravated assault, kidnapping, robbery, child molestation, criminal solicitation to commit any of such, criminal attempt to commit any of such or possession, sale or distribution of narcotic drugs, barbituric acid derivatives or central nervous system stimulants.
(Code 1977, § 14-8008; Ord. No. 1995-37, § 12, 7-11-95)
Secs. 162-85—162-95. - Reserved.
