ARTICLE XIV. - RECORDS MANAGEMENT

Sec. 2-1781. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative committee means a committee composed of the mayor or designee, the director, office of enterprise assets management or designee, the municipal clerk or designee, the chief financial officer or designee and the city attorney or designee.
Department means all departments of government of the city.
Records means all documents, papers, letters, maps, books (except books in informally organized libraries), microfilm, magnetic tape or other material regardless of physical form or characteristics made or received pursuant to law or ordinance or in performance of functions by any department.
(Code 1977, § 5-4002; Ord. No. 2007-56(07-O-1899), § 10, 9-24-07)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 2-1782. - Purpose.
It is declared that the purpose of this article is to prevent the proliferation of records in original form maintained by the city, except to the extent that the records may be necessary. Further, it is the purpose of this article to comply with the Georgia Records Act (O.C.G.A. § 50-18-90 et seq.), enacted by the general assembly in 1972, and as the act may from time to time be amended.
(Code 1977, § 5-4001)
Sec. 2-1783. - Records management officer.
There is designated a records management officer whose duties shall consist of the following:
(1)
Establishing and maintaining an active and continuing program for the economical and effective management of records, including but not limited to a microfilm and retrieval system;
(2)
Implementing any rules and regulations issued by the administrative committee;
(3)
Assisting each department in the implementation of a program for records management;
(4)
Conducting training in records management to designees of departments;
(5)
Reporting annually to the state records committee, as is set forth in the Georgia Records Act (O.C.G.A. § 50-18-90 et seq.), the progress and savings from the records management officer's efforts;
(6)
Recommending the appointment of subordinate records officers to the administrative committee;
(7)
Preserving records of continuing value;
(8)
Removing records not in common and current use from high cost office space to the several city facilities and removing other records upon the expiration of their day-to-day utility in the office in accordance with approved disposition standards; and
(9)
Eliminating systematically all other records in accordance with approved disposition standards.
(Code 1977, § 5-4003)
State law reference— Records management officer, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-99(e)(1).
Sec. 2-1784. - Duties of administrative committee.
Under this article, the duties of the administrative committee shall consist of the following:
(1)
Adopt and utilize rules and regulations set forth in the State Records Act as the basis of establishing a records management program;
(2)
Develop and issue procedures, rules and regulations, not inconsistent with the purpose of this article, and, with the guidance of the state records committee and the department of archives and history, establish standards for economical and efficient management relating to the creation, utilization, maintenance, retention, preservation and disposition of records, filing and copying equipment, supplies, microfilming of records and vital records program;
(3)
Meet from time to time at the call of the director, office of enterprise assets management;
(4)
Receive communications from department heads concerning any proposed changes in the rules and regulations to be promulgated;
(5)
Review the activities of the records management officer; and
(6)
Recommend fees for copying records requested by the public. Such fees may include the following:
a.
Copies per page or portion thereof.
b.
Certification.
c.
Zoning ordinance.
d.
Zoning maps.
e.
Housing code.
f.
Transcripts of tapes or portion of tapes of city council meetings.
Any fees so collected by the municipal clerk or city departments shall be paid into the general fund through the medium of miscellaneous receipt. Whenever such rates are recommended by the administrative committee, they shall be subject to review and approval by the committee on the executive.
(Code 1977, § 5-4004; Ord. No. 2007-56(07-O-1899), § 11, 9-24-07)
Cross reference— Boards, councils, commissions and authorities, § 2-1851 et seq.
Sec. 2-1785. - Duties of department heads.
Under this article, it shall be the duty of each department head to:
(1)
Cause to be made and preserved records containing adequate and proper documentation of the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures and essential transactions of the office so designed to furnish the information necessary to protect the legal and financial rights of the city government and of persons directly affected by the office's activities;
(2)
Cooperate fully with the records management officer in complying with this article and the provisions of the Georgia Records Act (O.C.G.A. § 50-18-90 et seq.);
(3)
Implement records management procedures and regulations issued by the records management officer, the state records committee and the department of archives and history;
(4)
Submit to the records management officer, in accordance with the rules and regulations of the administrative committee, a recommended disposition standard for each records series in the department head's custody; and
(5)
Establish necessary safeguards against removal or loss of records and such further safeguards as may be required by regulation of the administrative committee. Such safeguards shall include notification to all officials and personnel that:
a.
City records are public property and as such shall constitute a record of public acts;
b.
Such records shall not be placed in the custody of private or semipublic institutions unless authorized by the city council or turned over to private individuals; and
c.
No records in the custody of a city officer are to be destroyed or otherwise alienated except in accordance with this article and the Georgia Records Act (O.C.G.A. § 50-18-90 et seq.).
(Code 1977, § 5-4005)
Sec. 2-1786. - Municipal clerk designated records certifying officer.
The municipal clerk is designated as the records certifying officer and is charged with the responsibility of certifying records for use by the public and the courts and shall charge a fee as recommended by the records management administrative committee and approved by the committee on the executive. Any fees so collected shall be paid into the general fund through a miscellaneous receipt.
(Code 1977, § 5-4006)
Cross reference— Municipal clerk, § 2-266 et seq.
Sec. 2-1787. - Furnishing copies of records for additional compensation.
No officer or employee shall furnish copies of the books of record of the city or any information concerning them to others and receive compensation for such services in addition to the usual salary of such officer or employee, unless the records manager be first notified of the description of work that is to be furnished. Any such compensation is the property of the city. It shall be the duty of the heads of the respective departments to see that this section is enforced.
(Code 1977, § 5-4007)
Secs. 2-1788—2-1810. - Reserved.
