Chapter 58 - HISTORIC PRESERVATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; fire prevention and protection, ch. 50; subdivisions, ch. 78; zoning, ch. 98.
State Law reference— Georgia Register of Historic Places, O.C.G.A. § 12-3-50.2; buildings presenting special hazards to persons or property, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-13; grants to municipal corporations for repairs on facilities of historical value, O.C.G.A. § 36-40-1; Georgia Uniform Conservation Easement Act, O.C.G.A. § 44-10-1 et seq.; Georgia Historic Preservation Act, O.C.G.A. § 44-10-20 et seq.; the Uniform Act for the Application of Building and Fire Related Codes to Existing Buildings, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-200 et seq.; certification as rehabilitated historic property for purposes of preferential assessment, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-7.2; landmark historic property, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-7.3.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 58-1. - Affirmation of existing building and zoning codes.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as to exempt property owners from complying with existing city building and zoning codes, nor to prevent any property owner from making any use of his property not prohibited by other statutes, ordinances, or regulations.
(Code 1965, § 15B-1)
Sec. 58-2. - Penalty for violation.
Violations of any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Code 1965, § 15B-2)
Sec. 58-3. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Certificate of appropriateness means a document evidencing approval by the historic preservation commission of an application to make a material change in the appearance of a designated historic property or of a property located within a designated historic district.
Exterior architectural features means the architectural style, general design and general arrangement of the exterior of a building or other structure including, but not limited to, the kind or texture of the building material and the type and style of all windows, doors, signs and other appurtenant architectural fixtures, features, details or elements relative to the building or structure.
Exterior environmental features means all those aspects of the landscape or the development of a site which affect the historical character of the property.
Historic district means a geographically definable area designated by the city council as a historic district pursuant to the criteria established in section 58-57.
Historic property means an individual building, structure, site, object or work of art including the adjacent area designated for the proper appreciation thereof designated by the city council as a historic property pursuant to the criteria established in section 58-58.
Material change in appearance means a change that will affect either the exterior architectural or environmental features of a historic property or any building, structure, site, object, landscape feature or work of art within a historic district, such as:
(1)
A reconstruction or alteration of the size, shape or facade of a historic property, including relocation of any doors or windows or removal or alteration or any architectural features, details or elements;
(2)
Demolition or relocation of a historic structure;
(3)
Commencement of excavation for construction purposes;
(4)
A change in the location of advertising visible from the public right-of-way; or
(5)
The erection, alteration, restoration or removal of any building or other structure within a historic property or district, including walls, fences, steps and pavements, or other appurtenant features.
(Code 1965, § 15B-3)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Secs. 58-4—58-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION

Sec. 58-26. - Created.
(a)
There is hereby created a commission, the title of which shall be "City of Thomaston Historic Preservation Commission," known as commission in this chapter.
(b)
The commission shall be part of the planning functions of the city.
(Code 1965, § 15B-11)
Sec. 58-27. - Membership; appointment; terms; and compensation.
(a)
The commission shall consist of nine members appointed by the mayor and ratified by the city council. All members shall be persons who reside within the city and who have demonstrated special interest, experience or education in history, architecture or the preservation of historic resources.
(b)
To the extent available in the city, at least three members shall be appointed from among professionals in the disciplines of architecture, history, planning, archaeology or related disciplines.
(c)
Members shall serve three-year terms. Subject to the provisions of subsection (a), members may serve additional terms. In order to achieve staggered terms, initial appointments shall be: three members for one year; three members for two years; and three years. Members shall not receive a salary, although they may be reimbursed for expenses.
(Code 1965, § 15B-12; Ord. No. 1037, 1-19-10; Ord. No. 1165 , 2-15-22)
Sec. 58-28. - Powers.
The commission shall be authorized to:
(1)
Prepare and maintain an inventory of all property within the city having the potential for designation as historic property;
(2)
Recommend to the city council specific places, districts, sites, buildings, structures, objects or works of art to be designated by ordinance as historic properties or historic districts;
(3)
Review applications for certificates of appropriateness; and grant or deny same in accordance with the provisions of this chapter;
(4)
Recommend to the city council that the designation of any place, district, site, building, structure, objects, or work of art as a historic property or as a historic district be revoked or removed;
(5)
Restore or preserve any historic properties acquired by the city;
(6)
Promote the acquisition by the city of facade easements and conservation easements in accordance with the provisions of the Georgia Uniform Conservation Easement Act as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 44-10-1 et seq.;
(7)
Conduct educational programs on historic properties located within the city and on general historic preservation activities;
(8)
Make such investigations and studies of matters relating to historic preservation, including consultation with historic preservation experts, which the city council or the commission itself may, from time to time, deem necessary or appropriate for the purposes of preserving historic resources;
(9)
Seek out local, state, federal and private funds for historic preservation, and make recommendations to the city council concerning the most appropriate uses of any funds acquired;
(10)
Submit to the historic preservation section of the department of natural resources a list of historic properties or historic districts designated;
(11)
Perform historic preservation activities as the official agency of the city historic preservation program;
(12)
Employ persons, if necessary, to carry out the responsibilities of the commission;
(13)
Receive donations, grants, funds, or gifts of historic property and acquire and sell historic properties; however, the commission shall not obligate the city without prior consent;
(14)
Review and make comments to the historic preservation section of the department of natural resources concerning the nomination of properties within its jurisdiction to the National Register of Historic Places; and
(15)
Participate in private, state and federal historic preservation programs and with the consent of the city council enter into agreements to do the same.
(Code 1965, § 15B-13)
Sec. 58-29. - Rules and standards.
The commission shall adopt rules and standards for the transaction of its business and for consideration of applications for designations and certificates of appropriateness, such as bylaws, removal from membership provisions, and design guidelines and criteria. The commission shall have the flexibility to adopt rules and standards without amendment to this chapter. The commission shall provide for the time and place of regular meetings and a method for the calling of special meetings. The commission shall select such officers as it deems appropriate from among its members. A quorum shall consist of a majority of the members.
(Code 1965, § 15B-14)
Sec. 58-30. - Conflict of interest.
At any time the commission reviews a project in which a member of the commission has ownership or other vested interest, that member will be forbidden from presenting, voting or discussing the project, other than answering a direct question.
(Code 1965, § 15B-15)
Sec. 58-31. - Authority to receive funding.
The commission shall have the authority to accept donations and shall ensure that these funds do not displace appropriated governmental funds.
(Code 1965, § 15B-16)
Sec. 58-32. - Records of meetings.
A public record shall be kept of the commission's resolutions, proceedings and actions.
(Code 1965, § 15B-17)
Secs. 58-33—58-55. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PROCEDURE FOR DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND PROPERTIES

Sec. 58-56. - Preliminary research by commission.
(a)
Mandate to conduct a survey of local historical resources. The commission shall compile and collect information and conduct surveys of historic resources within the city.
(b)
Power to recommend districts and buildings to city council for designation. The commission shall present to the city council recommendations for historic districts and properties.
(c)
Documentation of proposed designation. Prior to the commission's recommendation of a historic district or historic property to the city council for designation, the commission shall prepare a report consisting of:
(1)
A physical description;
(2)
A statement of the historical, cultural, architectural and/or aesthetic significance;
(3)
A map showing district boundaries and classification (i.e., historic, nonhistoric, intrusive) of individual properties therein, or showing boundaries of individual historic properties;
(4)
A statement justifying district or individual property boundaries; and
(5)
Representative photographs.
(Code 1965, § 15B-26)
Sec. 58-57. - Designation of district.
(a)
Criteria for selection of historic districts. A historic district is a geographically definable area, which contains buildings, structures, sites, objects, landscape features and works of art or a combination thereof, which:
(1)
Have special character or special historic/aesthetic value or interest;
(2)
Represent one or more periods, styles or types of architecture typical of one or more eras in the history of the municipality, county, state or region; and
(3)
Cause such area, by reason of such factors, to constitute a visibly perceptible section of the municipality or county.
(b)
Boundaries of a historic district. Boundaries of a historic district shall be included in the separate ordinances designating such districts and shall be shown on the official zoning map.
(c)
Evaluation of properties within historic districts. Individual properties within historic districts shall be classified as:
(1)
Historic, contributes to the district;
(2)
Nonhistoric, does not contribute but does not detract from the district, as provided for in subsection (a) of this section;
(3)
Intrusive, detracts from the district as provided for in subsection (a) of this section.
(Code 1965, § 15B-27)
Sec. 58-58. - Designation of property.
(a)
Criteria for selection of historic properties. A historic property is a building, structure, site, object, work of art, including the adjacent area necessary for the proper appreciation or use thereof, deemed worthy of preservation by reason of value to the city or local region, for one of the following reasons:
(1)
It is an outstanding example of a structure representative of its era;
(2)
It is one of the few remaining examples of past architectural style;
(3)
It is a place or structure associated with an event or persons of historic or cultural significance to the city or the region; or
(4)
It is a site of natural or aesthetic interest that is continuing to contribute to the cultural or historical development and heritage of the municipality, county, state, or region.
(b)
Boundary description. Boundaries shall be included in the separate ordinances designating such properties and shall be shown on the official zoning map.
(Code 1965, § 15B-28)
Sec. 58-59. - Requirements for adopting an ordinance for designation of historic districts and properties.
(a)
Application for designation of historic districts or property. Designations may be proposed by the city council, the commission, or:
(1)
For historic districts, a historic society, neighborhood association or group of property owners may apply to the commission for designation; and
(2)
For historic properties, a historical society, neighborhood association or property owner may apply to the commission for designation.
(b)
Required components of a designation ordinance. Any ordinance designating any property or district as historic shall:
(1)
List each property in a proposed historic district or describe the proposed individual historic property;
(2)
Set forth the names of the owners of the designated property or properties;
(3)
Require that a certificate of appropriateness be obtained from the commission prior to any material change in appearance of the designated property; and
(4)
Require that the property or district be shown on the official zoning map.
(c)
Required public hearings. The commission and the city shall hold a public hearing on any proposed ordinance for the designation of any historic district or property. Notice of the hearing shall be published in at least three consecutive issues in the principal newspaper of local circulation and written notice of the hearing shall be mailed by the commission to all owners and occupants of such properties. All such notices shall be published or mailed not less than ten nor more than 20 days prior to the date set for the public hearing. A notice sent via the United States mail to the last known owner of the property shown on the city tax roll and a notice sent via United States mail to the address of the property to the attention of the occupant shall constitute legal notification to the owner and occupant under this section.
(d)
Recommendations on proposed designations. A recommendation to affirm, modify or withdraw the proposed ordinances for designation shall be made by the commission within 15 days following the public hearing and shall be in the form of a resolution to the city council.
(e)
City council action on commission recommendation. Following receipt of the commission's recommendation, the city council may adopt the ordinance as proposed, may adopt the ordinance with any amendments it deems necessary, or reject the ordinance.
(f)
Notification of historic preservation section. No less than 30 days prior to making a recommendation on any ordinance designating a property or district as historic the commission must submit the report required in section 58-56(c) to the historic preservation section of the department of natural resources.
(g)
Notification of adoption of ordinance for designation. Within 30 days following the adoption of the ordinance for designation by the city council, the owners and occupants of each designated historic property, and the owners and occupants of each structure, site or work of art located within a designated historic district, shall be given written notification of such designation by the city council, which notice shall apprise the owners and occupants of the necessity of obtaining a certificate of appropriateness prior to undertaking any material change in appearance of the historic property designated or within the historic district designated. A notice sent via the United States mail to the last known owner of the property shown on the city tax roll and a notice sent via United States mail to the address of the property to the attention of the occupant shall constitute legal notification to the owner and occupant under this section.
(h)
Notification of other agencies regarding designation. The commission shall notify all necessary agencies within the city of the ordinance for designation, including the local historical organization.
(i)
Moratorium on applications for alteration or demolition while ordinance for designation pending. If an ordinance for designation is being considered, the commission shall have the power to freeze the status of the involved property.
(Code 1965, § 15B-29)
Secs. 58-60—58-80. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS

Sec. 58-81. - Required for alterations or new construction in historic districts or involving historic properties.
After the designation by ordinance of a historic property or of a historic district, no material change in the appearance of such historic property, or of a structure, site, object or work of art within such historic district, shall be made or permitted to be made by the owner or occupant thereof, unless or until the application for a certificate of appropriateness has been submitted to and approved by the commission.
(Code 1965, § 15B-36)
Sec. 58-82. - Ordinary maintenance or repair; exception.
Ordinary maintenance or repair of any exterior architectural or environmental feature in or on a historic property to correct deterioration, decay or damage, or to sustain the existing form, and that does not involve a material change in design, material or outer appearance thereof, does not require a certificate of appropriateness.
(Code 1965, § 15B-37)
Sec. 58-83. - Conformity of new construction required within designated districts.
The commission shall issue certificates of appropriateness as to new structures constructed within designated historic districts if these structures conform in design, scale, building materials, setback and landscaping to the character of the district specified in the design criteria developed by the commission.
(Code 1965, § 15B-38)
Sec. 58-84. - Guidelines and criteria for issuance.
When considering applications for certificates of appropriateness as to existing buildings, the secretary of the interior's "Standards for Historic Preservation Projects," including the secretary's "Standard for Rehabilitation," shall be used as a guideline, along with any other criteria adopted by the commission.
(Code 1965, § 15B-39)
Sec. 58-85. - Submission of plans with application.
An application for a certificate of appropriateness shall be accompanied by such drawings, photographs, plans or other documentation as may be required by the commission. Applications involving demolition or relocation shall be accompanied by postdemolition or relocation plans for the site.
(Code 1965, § 15B-40)
Sec. 58-86. - Action on application.
(a)
The commission shall approve the application and issue a certificate of appropriateness if it finds that the proposed material changes in the appearance would not have a substantial adverse effect on the aesthetic, historic, or architectural significance and value of the historic property or the historic district. In making this determination, the commission shall consider, in addition to any other pertinent factors, the historical and architectural value and significance, architectural style, general design arrangement, texture and material of the architectural features involved, and the relationship thereof to the exterior architectural style, and pertinent features of the other structures in the immediate neighborhood.
(b)
The commission shall deny a certificate of appropriateness if it finds that the proposed material changes in appearance would have substantial adverse effects on the aesthetic, historic or architectural significance and value of the historic property or the historic district.
(Code 1965, § 15B-41)
Sec. 58-87. - Public hearings on application; notice; right to be heard.
At least seven days prior to review of a certificate of appropriateness, the commission shall take such action as may reasonably be required to inform the owners of any property likely to be affected by reason of the application, and shall give applicant and such owners an opportunity to be heard. In cases where the commission deems it necessary, it may hold a public hearing concerning the application.
(Code 1965, § 15B-42)
Sec. 58-88. - Effect of interior alterations.
In its review of applications for certificates of appropriateness, the commission shall not consider interior arrangement or use having no effect on exterior architectural features.
(Code 1965, § 15B-43)
Sec. 58-89. - Authority of commission to seek technical advice.
The commission shall have the power to seek technical advice from outside its members on any application.
(Code 1965, § 15B-44)
Sec. 58-90. - Deadline for approval or rejection of application.
(a)
The commission shall approve or reject an application for a certificate of appropriateness within 45 days after the filing thereof by the owner or occupant of a historic property, or of a structure, site, object, or work of art located within a historic district. Evidence of approval shall be by a certificate of appropriateness issued by the commission. Notice of the issuance or denial of a certificate of appropriateness shall be sent by United States mail to the applicant and all other persons who have requested such notice in writing filed with the commission.
(b)
Failure of the commission to act within 45 days shall constitute approval, and no other evidence of approval shall be needed.
(Code 1965, § 15B-45)
Sec. 58-91. - Necessary actions by commission upon rejection of application; denial of building permit.
(a)
If the commission rejects an application, it shall state its reasons for doing so, and shall transmit a record of such actions and reason, in writing, to the applicant. The commission may suggest alternative courses of action it thinks proper if it disapproves of the application submitted. The applicant, if he so desires, may make modifications to the plans and may resubmit the application at any time after doing so.
(b)
In cases where the application covers a material change in the appearance of a structure which would require the issuance of a building permit, the rejection of the application for a certificate of appropriateness by the commission shall be binding upon the building inspector or other administrative officer charged with issuing building permits; and, in such a case, no building permit shall be issued.
(Code 1965, § 15B-46)
Sec. 58-92. - Variances in cases of undue hardship.
Where, by reason of unusual circumstances, the strict application of any provisions of this chapter would result in the exceptional practical difficulty or undue hardship upon any owner of a specific property, the commission, in passing upon applications, shall have the power to vary or modify strict adherence to such provisions, or to interpret the meaning of the provisions, so as to relieve such difficulty or hardship, provided such variances, modifications or interpretations shall remain in harmony with the general purpose and intent of the provisions, so that the architectural or historical integrity or character of the property shall be conserved and substantial justice done. In granting variances, the commission may impose such reasonable and additional stipulations and conditions as will, in its judgment, best fulfill the purpose of this chapter. An undue hardship shall not be a situation of the person's own making.
(Code 1965, § 15B-47)
Sec. 58-93. - Conformance with certificate required.
(a)
All work performed pursuant to an issued certificate of appropriateness shall conform to the requirements of such certificate. If work is performed not in accordance with such certificate, the commission shall issue a cease and desist order and all work shall cease.
(b)
The city council or the commission shall be authorized to institute any appropriate action or proceeding in a court of competent jurisdiction to prevent any material change in appearance of a designated historic property or historic district, except those changes made in compliance with the provisions of this chapter or to prevent any illegal act or conduct with respect to such historic property or historic district.
(Code 1965, § 15B-48)
Sec. 58-94. - Term of certificate; void if construction not timely commenced.
A certificate of appropriateness shall become void unless construction is commenced within six months of date of issuance. Certificates of appropriateness shall be issued for a period of 18 months and are renewable.
(Code 1965, § 15B-49)
Sec. 58-95. - Recording of applications.
The commission shall keep a public record of all applications for certificates of appropriateness, and of all the commission's proceedings in connection with such application.
(Code 1965, § 15B-50)
Sec. 58-96. - Acquisition of property.
The commission may, where such action is authorized by the city council and is reasonably necessary or appropriate for the preservation of a unique historic property, enter into negotiations with the owner for the acquisition by gift, purchase, exchange, or otherwise, to the property or any interest therein.
(Code 1965, § 15B-51)
Sec. 58-97. - Appeals.
Any person adversely affected by any determination made by the commission relative to the issuance or denial of a certificate of appropriateness may appeal such determination to the city council. Any such appeal must be filed with the city council within 15 days after the issuance of the determination pursuant to section 58-90(a) or, in the case of a failure of the commission to act, within 15 days of the expiration of the 45-day period allowed for commission action under section 58-90(a). The city council may approve, modify, or reject the determination made by the commission, if the governing body finds that the commission abused its discretion in reaching its decision. Appeals from a decision of the city council may be taken to the county superior court in the manner provided by law for appeals from convictions for city ordinance violations.
(Code 1965, § 15B-52)
Sec. 58-98. - Demolition or relocation—Commissioners authority to deny.
The commission shall have the authority to deny certificates of appropriateness for demolition or relocation.
(Code 1965, § 15B-53)
Sec. 58-99. - Same—Public hearing required.
A public hearing shall be scheduled for each application for a certificate of appropriateness for demolition or relocation.
(Code 1965, § 15B-54)
Sec. 58-100. - Consideration of postdemolition or postrelocation plans prerequisite granting certificate.
The commission shall not grant certificates of appropriateness for demolition or relocation without reviewing at the same time the postdemolition or postrelocation plans for the site.
(Code 1965, § 15B-55)
Sec. 58-101. - Demolition or relocation criteria.
Upon receipt of an application for a certificate of appropriateness for demolition or relocation, the commission shall use the criteria described in section 58-86 to determine whether to deny the application or issue a certificate of appropriateness for demolition or relocation.
(Code 1965, § 15B-56)
