Chapter 94 - VEHICLES FOR HIRE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 22; traffic and vehicles, ch. 86.
State Law reference— Reciprocal agreements as to operation of vehicles registered in other states inapplicable to motor vehicles for hire, O.C.G.A. § 40-2-95.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 94-1—94-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TAXICABS

Sec. 94-26. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Taxicab means any motor-propelled vehicle operated over the streets or public places of the city for the purpose of carrying passengers for hire.
(Code 1965, § 30-1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 94-27. - Applicability of article.
This article is intended to apply to all taxicabs operated on or over any of the streets or public places of the city, regardless of whether the place of business or taxi depot or taxi stands of the owner or operator thereof are within or without the city.
(Code 1965, § 30-2)
Sec. 94-28. - Compliance with article required.
It shall be unlawful for any person, either as principal, agent or employee, to use or operate or to cause to be operated upon any of the streets or public places of the city any taxicab without first complying with the provisions of this article.
(Code 1965, § 30-3)
Sec. 94-29. - Prerequisites to entering business generally.
Any person desiring to engage in the business of operating a taxicab in the city or to operate a taxicab therein, either as owner, lessee, operator or possessor in any right, shall, before operating, or allowing to be placed in operation any such taxicab on any street or public place of the city, comply with the following regulations and requirements:
(1)
Application for license. Each such person shall file with the city clerk a written application for a license for each taxicab to be operated, stating the name of the applicant, his address and place of business. Such application shall also describe the taxicab to be used, shall state the make and motor number thereof, and the number of passengers such taxicab is capable of carrying. If such applicant proposes to operate more than one taxicab, he shall file separate applications for each taxicab.
(2)
Insurance requirements. Each such applicant, at the time of filing an application for a license for the operation of a taxicab, shall file with the city clerk, for each taxicab proposed to be operated, a liability or indemnity insurance policy for injury to persons or property, in such amounts and containing such provisions as shall be approved by city council. Such policy or liability or indemnity insurance shall be in some liability or indemnity insurance company authorized to do business in the state. Such policy of liability insurance is intended to protect passengers in such taxicabs and the public against injury, against damage to property, and against injuries to person, whether fatal or nonfatal, caused by the operation of such taxicab, for which the owner or operator thereof may be liable under the laws of the state.
(3)
Application approval; license fee; issuance. Upon the filing of such application and policy of liability insurance by an applicant for a license to operate a taxicab, the city clerk shall approve such application and insurance policy if they are in accordance with this article, but if not in accordance with this article, he shall return same to the applicant stating the reason for disapproval, in order that the applicant may correct whatever defect is necessary for approval. Upon approval of such application and policy of insurance, the applicant shall pay to the city clerk the license fee or occupation tax as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges for the period for which a license is sought, and thereupon the city clerk shall issue a license to such applicant.
(Code 1965, § 30-4)
Sec. 94-30. - Revocation of license—Insurance becomes void or ineffective.
Should such policy of insurance, as required by section 94-29 become void or ineffective at any time during the period for which a license may be issued, such licensee shall cease the operation of the taxicab covered by such policy until another policy of liability insurance covering the operation of such taxicab shall be filed with the city clerk.
(Code 1965, § 30-5)
Sec. 94-31. - Same—Upon violation of certain provisions of this article or other ordinance.
The city reserves the right to revoke any license issued for the operation of a taxicab whenever the operator or the driver thereof is convicted of violating any provision of this article or other ordinance related to disturbing the peace or good order of the city.
(Code 1965, § 30-6)
Sec. 94-32. - Operating regulations—Generally.
It shall be unlawful for any person operating a taxicab or other motor vehicle for the transportation of passengers for hire in the city to:
(1)
Park or stop any such taxicab or motor vehicle on any part of the public streets of the city for the purpose of soliciting passengers for transportation;
(2)
Drive any such taxicab or motor vehicle over or along a public street of the city for the purpose of soliciting passengers for transportation;
(3)
Solicit passengers for transportation either while parked or stopped on any part of a public street in the city or while driving over or along any street in the city;
(4)
Stop or park on any portion of a public street of the city for the purpose of receiving or discharging passengers to or from or at a taxi depot or station or for the purpose of receiving calls from any such depot or station; to receive or discharge passengers to, from or at a taxi depot or station, or to receive orders or calls from any such depot or station, while stopped or parked on any part of any public street of the city; or
(5)
Have, maintain, operate or use a taxi depot or station in the city for the reception or discharge of passengers, unless a place is provided on the premises of such depot or station for the parking or stopping of such taxicabs or other vehicles while receiving or discharging passengers and while receiving orders or calls from such depot or station.
(Code 1965, § 30-7)
Sec. 94-33. - Same—Transporting intoxicating liquor; controlled substances.
No intoxicating liquor of any kind whatsoever may be transported at any time by any taxicab licensed by the city, or for which taxicab a license or permit has been issued by the city to any person whatsoever, nor shall any intoxicating liquor be within or upon such taxicab at any time whether such taxicab is moving or stationary. Nor shall any drugs or narcotics be transported by such taxicab except when transported pursuant to instructions of a licensed pharmacist. If it shall be made to appear to the satisfaction of the mayor and city council that this section is violated by the operator of any taxicab for which a license or permit has been issued by the city, then the mayor and city council may revoke the license or permit issued by it for the operation of such taxicab.
(Code 1965, § 30-8)
Secs. 94-34—94-55. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - BUSES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 94-56. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Bus carrier means every person owning, controlling, operating or managing any motor-propelled vehicle used in the transporting of persons on fixed schedule or from fixed termini, or over a prescribed route, other than permanent rail tracks, for hire on the public streets of the city.
Certificate means a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued under this article.
(Code 1965, § 30-9)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 94-57. - Applicability of article.
This article shall not apply to taxicabs, drays and trucks operating on the streets of the city which do not operate on schedule, over a fixed route, or between fixed termini.
(Code 1965, § 30-10)
Sec. 94-58. - Authority of city council to adopt rules and orders in enforcement of article.
The city council is authorized to adopt such rules and orders as they may deem necessary in the enforcement of the provisions of this article.
(Code 1965, § 30-11)
Sec. 94-59. - License fees.
Each bus carrier issued a permit of public convenience and necessity shall on beginning business, pay to the city a license fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges. Each bus carrier issued a permit under this article and operating in the city shall pay to the city a license fee annually in such amount as may be fixed by the city council, payable on January 1 of each calendar year.
(Code 1965, § 30-12)
Sec. 94-60. - City office to be maintained.
All bus carriers carrying passengers for hire in the city shall have and maintain an office and agent in the city upon whom legal process may be served and submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the county, upon all causes of action arising by reason of the operation of any bus within the city.
(Code 1965, § 30-13)
Sec. 94-61. - Number and capacity.
A bus carrier, having been granted a certificate of convenience and necessity, shall operate in the city such number of buses of a passenger capacity of not less than 16 persons as may be prescribed by the council when granting the certificate. Additional buses and routes may be required by the council when, in their opinion, the traffic requires such additional facilities.
(Code 1965, § 30-14)
Sec. 94-62. - Authority of carrier to establish rates; adjustment by council.
(a)
Any bus carrier, carrying passengers within the city for hire, shall prescribe just and reasonable rates, fares and charges for transportation.
(b)
A schedule of charges for fares shall be filed with the city council, and this schedule may be reviewed and altered by the council after 60 days' notice to the carrier if it shall be made to appear that it is excessive or that the charges are inadequate to maintain the service, provided that if any one of the buses extend in travel beyond the city the carrier shall submit to the state public service commission regulation of its business beyond the city.
(Code 1965, § 30-15)
Sec. 94-63. - Discrimination amongst passengers as to charges.
No bus carrier shall charge, demand, collect or receive a greater or less compensation for the transportation of passengers than the rates and charges approved by the city council, nor in any way discriminate between persons for service rendered with respect to charges.
(Code 1965, § 30-16)
Sec. 94-64. - Discontinuance of service under certain conditions.
Any bus carrier after having been granted a certificate of public convenience and necessity may discontinue its service after giving to the mayor 60 days' notice in writing and publishing such notice one time in the newspaper carrying the official advertisements for the city. The city council may cancel such certificate after a similar notice in writing.
(Code 1965, § 30-17)
Sec. 94-65. - Safety rules.
The city council shall have the authority to promulgate rules designed or deemed necessary by such city council to govern the operation of buses in the city, and such rules shall include the following:
(1)
Every motor unit and all parts thereof shall be maintained in a safe condition at all times, and the lights and brakes and equipment shall meet such safety requirements as the council shall from time to time promulgate.
(2)
Every driver employed by a bus carrier shall have reached at least 21 years of age, shall be of temperate habits and good moral character and shall be fully competent to operate the motor vehicle under his charge.
(3)
Accidents arising from or in connection with the operation of bus carriers shall be reported to the mayor.
(4)
The council shall require and every bus carrier shall have attached to each unit or vehicle such distinctive marking or tags as shall be adopted by the council.
(Code 1965, § 30-18)
Secs. 94-66—94-75. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CERTIFICATE OF CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY

Sec. 94-76. - Required.
No bus carrier shall operate without first obtaining from the city council, after a hearing under this article, a certificate of public convenience and necessity pursuant to findings to the effect that the public interest requires such operation.
(Code 1965, § 30-19)
Sec. 94-77. - Terms and conditions.
The city council may at any time, after 60 days' notice and opportunity to be heard and for good cause, suspend, revoke, alter or amend any certificate issued under this article, if it shall be made to appear that the holder of the certificate has willfully violated or refused to observe the conditions upon which the certificate was granted; any lawful or reasonable orders, rules or regulations prescribed by law; any of the provisions of this article or any other law of the city, this state or of the United States regulating the business carried on by the holder of such certificate; shall fail to pay any tax and license imposed upon such business in a lawful manner; or if it shall be made to appear that the holder of the certificate is not furnishing adequate service; or if the continuance of such certificate in its original form is incompatible with the public interest. If and when the city council shall undertake to revoke or modify any certificate on the ground of public interest being affected by the fact that traffic conditions do not justify the number of motor carriers operating within the city, the preference shall be given to holders of certificates in the order of the time of their issuance; other things being equal the junior certificates shall be cancelled first.
(Code 1965, § 30-20)
Sec. 94-78. - Transferability.
Any certificate described in section 94-77 may be transferred or hypothecated upon application to and approval by the city council and not otherwise.
(Code 1965, § 30-21)
Sec. 94-79. - Renewal and extension.
The city council may from time to time in its discretion, without any new application or any hearing or any notice, renew and extend any certificate of public convenience and necessity issued at any time under the provisions of this article or any amendment thereto, and may issue in lieu thereof a new certificate of public convenience and necessity to the original holder, or his legal assigns, which new certificate shall be issued for such time and on such terms as the city council may in its discretion deem proper, and shall likewise be subject to the same privilege of renewal in the discretion of the city council as provided in this section.
(Code 1965, § 30-22)
Sec. 94-80. - Factors to be considered in the granting of certificates.
In determining whether such certificate of public convenience and necessity, required by section 94-76 shall be granted, the council, among other things, shall consider the following:
(1)
Whether existing transportation service of all kinds is adequate to meet the reasonable public needs.
(2)
The volume of existing traffic over such route, and whether such traffic and that reasonably to be anticipated in the future can support already existing transportation agencies and also the applicant.
(3)
Financial ability of the applicant to furnish adequate continuous and uninterrupted service for the year round; and to meet the financial obligations of the service which the carrier proposes to perform.
(4)
The effect on existing transportation revenues and service of all kinds, and particularly whether the granting of such certificate will or may seriously impair essential existing public service.
(Code 1965, § 30-23)
Sec. 94-81. - Application—Contents; procedure.
(a)
The city council shall adopt rules prescribing the manner and form in which bus carriers for hire shall apply for certificates required by this article. Until further provision is made the following shall govern:
(b)
The application shall:
(1)
Be in writing and under oath.
(2)
Include a financial statement of the applicant and such information concerning the equipment proposed to be used as will enable the mayor and the city council to determine whether such equipment is adequate.
(3)
State the proposed route over which the applicant desires to operate.
(4)
Contain an agreement to submit a schedule for the operation of buses when required by the mayor.
(5)
Set forth facts enabling the council to determine whether there is a need upon the part of the public for the proposed service.
(6)
Contain such additional information as the city council may require.
(Code 1965, § 30-24)
Sec. 94-82. - Same—Hearing.
The city council, upon the filing of a petition for certificate of convenience and necessity, shall fix a time and place for hearing the petition and shall give notice thereof by advertising the same at the expense of the applicant in the official newspaper one time six days in advance of the hearing.
(Code 1965, § 30-25)
Sec. 94-83. - Bond.
No certificate required by section 94-76 shall be issued or continued in operation unless the holder shall give and maintain a bond or policy of indemnity insurance, substantially complying with the terms and provisions of O.C.G.A. § 46-7-12, which bond or policy of insurance shall be filed with the clerk of the city council.
(Code 1965, § 30-26)
Sec. 94-84. - Fees.
A fee shall be charged for the issuance of every certificate and a fee shall be charged for the transfer of a certificate, which fees shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges and paid to the city when the council shall have approved the application for the certificate or transfer. No certificate shall issue or be transferred as the case may be, until the fee shall have been paid.
(Code 1965, § 30-27)
Sec. 94-85. - Vested rights.
Nothing in this article shall be construed to vest in the owner or holder or assignee of any certificate of public convenience and necessity any vested right to use the public streets of the city.
(Code 1965, § 30-28)
