ARTICLE 98-13. - BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS

Sec. 98-13.1. - City zoning commission.
98-13.1.1. Created; membership; appointment; terms; compensation. There is hereby created and established the City of Thomaston zoning commission, referred to in this article as the zoning commission, the membership of which shall consist of five residents. One member shall be selected from each of the four city council election districts and one member shall be at large, to be appointed by city council as provided in this section. Initially, the member at-large and members from election districts 1 and 3 shall be appointed for a two-year term. Commission members from election districts 2 and 4 shall be appointed for a one-year term. Thereafter, the term of each commission member shall be a two-year term and until a successor has been appointed. Any member whose term of office has expired shall be eligible for reappointment for any number of additional terms. A vacancy in the membership of the zoning commission for any reason other than the normal expiration of a term shall be filled for the unexpired term by appointment by city council. Any member of the zoning commission may be removed by the council, with or without cause, following written notice given to such member and following a public hearing. All members of the zoning commission shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed by city council for actual expenses incurred in conjunction with their official duties.
98-13.1.2. Organization; meetings; operation. The zoning commission shall elect one of its members as chair and one as vice-chair, each of whom shall serve in such office for one year or until re-elected or until a successor is elected. The zoning commission shall appoint a secretary who may be an employee of the city. The zoning commission shall meet a minimum of once each month at the call of the chair, and at such other times as the chair or a majority of zoning commission members may determine, provided the commission shall not convene a meeting when no matter has been brought before the commission. The commission shall adopt rules for conducting the business of the commission and shall maintain a record of all resolutions, findings and determinations. Such records shall be public records.
98-13.1.3. Authority, functions and duties. It shall be the function and duty of the zoning commission to determine the need for comprehensive surveys and plans, studies of existing conditions and likely future development of the city, and to participate in preparation of such plans for physical, social and economic growth as will best promote the public health, safety, morals, convenience, prosperity, and the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the growth and development of the city. In particular, the zoning commission shall have the authority and duty to recommend to city council plans for the zoning and orderly growth and development of the city and to make recommendations to city council on matters referred to the commission by city council under the zoning ordinance or otherwise.
The zoning commission shall be authorized to assess the need for comprehensive surveys, studies and plans of existing conditions and likely future development of the city, and to participate in preparation of such plans for physical, social and economic growth of the community as will best promote public health, safety, morals, convenience, prosperity, and welfare as well as efficiency and economy in the growth of Thomaston. The zoning commission shall have the authority and duty to recommend to city council plans for the zoning and orderly development of the city and to make recommendations to city council on matters referred to the commission by city council under the zoning ordinance or otherwise.
The zoning commission may cooperate with federal, state or local public or semipublic agencies, private individuals or corporations in the performance of its duties.
City officials and city staff shall upon written request and within a reasonable time furnish to the zoning commission such available information as may be required for performance of the work of the commission. The zoning commission shall have such powers as may be necessary to enable it to perform its functions and promote the appropriate planning and zoning of the city.
Specifically, the zoning commission shall pursue the following tasks:
1.
Participate in preparation of comprehensive plans for development of the city;
2.
Provide input to the city manager and recommend zoning ordinance amendments and an official zoning map for adoption by city council;
3.
Provide input to the city manager concerning standards and procedures for the subdivision of land and review and approve preliminary plats as may be submitted to the city;
4.
Publish and distribute maps, plans, reports and recommendations related to the comprehensive plan and development of the city to public officials and agencies; public utility companies; civic, education, professional and other organizations; and residents of the city;
5.
Recommend to city council programs for public improvements and the financing of such programs; and
6.
Conduct such site visits on properties that are the subject of applications for rezoning or special use approvals for the purpose of performing examinations and assessments of the appropriateness of proposals contained in such applications; provided however, that the zoning commission members shall be liable for any injury or damage to property caused by a member during such site visits.
98-13.1.4. Member training. The zoning commission members shall participate in an annual training session given by the building official, city attorney and other city officials as appropriate to the training in January of each year. Such training may be supplemented by training programs offered by other entities, as approved by city council.
(Ord. No. 1166 , ยง 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-13.2. - Board of zoning appeals.
98-13.2.1. Composition; qualifications; terms of office; vacancies; removal; compensation. The board of zoning appeals is hereby created and established. Such board shall consist of five members, all of whom shall be resident within the corporate limits of the city and shall be appointed by mayor and city council for a term of not less than three years, or more than five years or thereafter until their successors are appointed. Any vacancy in the membership of the board shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the initial appointment. Board members shall be removable for cause by mayor and city council upon written charges and only after holding a public hearing concerning such removal. Members shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in performance of their official duties.
98-13.2.2. Organization; hearings; rules of procedure. The board of zoning appeals shall elect one of its members as chair who shall serve for one year or until re-elected or a successor is elected. A second member shall be elected as vice-chair who shall serve for one year or until re-elected or a successor is elected. The board of zoning appeals shall appoint a secretary who shall be an employee of the city. The board shall meet once each month at the call of the chair and at such other times as the chair or a majority of board members may determine. The board of zoning appeals shall adopt rules for the conduct of business, and shall maintain a record of its decisions, which shall be a public record.
98-13.2.3. Powers, duties and responsibilities, generally.
A.
The board of zoning appeals shall hear and decide all appeals filed by any person aggrieved by a decision made by any officer, department, board or bureau of the city pursuant to the provisions of the zoning ordinance, as amended. In hearing and deciding such appeals the board of zoning appeals shall have the following powers:
1.
To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged an error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination has been made by an administrative official in the enforcement of the zoning ordinance. The board of zoning appeals shall be guided by the following criteria in deciding appeals filed with the board:
a.
The degree to which the granting of the appeal, overturning the action by the quasi-judicial officer, board, or agency would adversely impact adjacent and nearby property as opposed to the public benefit realized in denial of the appeal.
b.
Whether the granting of the appeal would further the purposes of the zoning district which may be related to the appeal.
c.
Whether the granting of the appeal would cause significant adverse environmental impacts.
d.
Whether the granting of the appeal would allow a use or manner of operation otherwise in compliance with all other standards of the zoning district which may be related to the appeal.
e.
Whether the granting of the appeal is consistent with the established record of decision concerning identical or similar appeals.
2.
To authorize such variance from the terms of this zoning ordinance as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to unusual conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of the ordinance will, in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship so that the spirit of the ordinance shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice achieved. Such variance may be granted in such individual case of unnecessary hardship upon a finding by the board of zoning appeals that the following conditions characterize the property:
a.
Extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the property related to size, shape, topography, or characteristics of development are present;
b.
Strict application of the ordinance to the property would create an unnecessary hardship;
c.
Such conditions are unique to the property; and
d.
Relief would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purposes of the ordinance; provided, however, that no variance may be granted for a use of land or building that is otherwise prohibited by the ordinance.
B.
In exercising the powers described in this section, the board of zoning appeals may, in conformity with the provisions of this article, reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination, and to that end shall have all the powers of the official from whom the appeal is taken and may issue or direct issuance of a permit.
98-13.2.4. Member training. Board of zoning appeals members shall participate in an annual training session given by the building official, city attorney and other city officials as appropriate to the training in January of each year. Such training may be supplemented by training programs offered by other entities, as approved by city council.
(Ord. No. 1166 , ยง 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22; Ord. No. 1187 , ยง II, 6-6-23)
