Chapter 6 - ANIMALS[1]
modified
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Res. No. 2014-8, §§ 1—13, adopted June 12, 2014, replaced Chapter 6, §§ 6-1—6-5, in effect repealing and reenacting a new chapter, §§ 6-1—6-13, as set out herein. The former chapter pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. WC-51, parts 3—7, adopted May 14, 1987.
State Law reference— Licensing and registration of animals by local authorities, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-3; livestock running at large, O.C.G.A. § 4-3-1 et seq.; permitting dogs in heat to roam or run free, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-6; disposal of diseased, disabled, or dead animals, O.C.G.A. § 4-5-1 et seq.; dogs generally, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-1; dangerous dog control, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.; vicious dogs, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-40 et seq.; animal protection, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-1 et seq.; cruelty to animals, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-4; cruelty to dogs; authorized killing of dogs, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-5; rabies control, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1; liability of owner or keeper of vicious or dangerous animal for injuries caused by animal, O.C.G.A. § 51-2-6; Dangerous Dog Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.; Mercedes' Law (vicious dog control), O.C.G.A. § 4-8-40 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 6-1—6-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - RABIES ANIMAL CONTROL AND STRAY ANIMAL CONTROL

Sec. 6-19. - Vaccinations.
Within 60 days following the passage of the ordinance from which this article is derived, every owner of a dog or cat four months of age or older shall cause such dog or cat to be vaccinated against rabies as defined by this article. Dogs and cats will be revaccinated one year later. When dogs and cats are revaccinated at one year of age or older and vaccinated with vaccines accepted by the Department of Human Resources of Georgia for providing a three year duration of immunity, thereafter boosters will be required every three years. Cats are to be revaccinated at one or three year intervals at the discretion of the veterinarian administering the vaccine. Any dog or cat brought into Washington County for a permanent or temporary stay from outside the county shall be confined, or on leash until vaccinated as provided for by this article except, however, that when the owner of such dog or cat produces evidence that such dog or cat has been vaccinated in a manner and by procedures comparable to the requirements of this article.
(Res. No. 2014-8, 6-12-2014)
Sec. 6-20. - Certification of vaccination.
(a)
Evidence of vaccination shall consist of a certificate of vaccination. The certificate with each item answered shall be prepared in triplicate and signed by the veterinarian administering the vaccine. One copy of the certificate shall be given to the owner, one filed with the Washington County Health Department and one copy retained by the veterinarian.
(b)
Any veterinarian is authorized and required in connection with his practice to issue certificate of vaccination and vaccination tags provided he furnishes one copy of the animal's owner, one copy to the Washington County Health Department and retains one copy for his files. The issuance of tags for cats shall be at the discretion of the veterinarian administering the vaccine.
(c)
The certificates of vaccination furnished to the Washington County Health Department shall be maintained in an orderly indexed file for a period of not less than four years.
(Res. No. 2014-8, 6-12-2014)
Sec. 6-21. - Vaccination tags and owner identification.
Coincident with the issuance of the certificate of vaccination, the person authorized to furnish the certificate shall also furnish to the owner of the vaccinated dog or cat a serially numbered tag bearing the same number and year as the certificate bears. The tag shall be securely attached to the collar or harness worn by the dog for which the certificate and tag have been issued. Cats shall be tagged at the discretion of the veterinarian administering the vaccine. Also securely attached to the collar or harness will be the name and address of the owner of the animal either by metal plate or tag.
Responsibility for this means of identification is to be borne by the owner. Dogs or cats found without current vaccination tags and/or means of current owner identification will be considered strays and subject to immediate impoundment or disposal by any city or county law enforcement officer or by the animal control officer or his agent when such animal is suspected of carrying rabies or is suspected of having bitten a person and cannot be caught or is deemed necessary for the protection of life, health, or property.
(Res. No. 2014-8, 6-12-2014)
Sec. 6-22. - Animal control officer.
(a)
An animal control officer or officers, who is knowledgeable of animals shall be appointed by the board. This officer will be employed by Washington County.
(b)
Duties of animal control officer will include:
(1)
Investigate and maintain a record of animal bites in the county.
(2)
Issue instructions for proper confinement of an animal involved in a bite; or if the animal is dead or killed, preparation and submission of the head for laboratory examination.
(3)
Enforce proper disposition of animals exposed to known rabid animals.
(4)
Investigate stray animals, loud barking, destructive animals or nuisances relating to animals and such other duties as may be directed by the Board of Commissioners of Washington County.
(Res. No. 2014-8, 6-12-2014)
Sec. 6-23. - Authority of animal control officer.
The animal control officer will maintain enforcement of all regulations pertaining to confinement of dogs, cats or other animals. For the purpose of discharging the duties imposed by the rules and regulations and to enforce their provisions which says any Police Officer, Deputy Sheriff, or Animal Control Officer of Washington County is empowered to enter upon any premises upon which a dog or cat is kept or harbored and demand the exhibition by the owner of any such dog or other animal and/or the rabies certification for such dog or other animal and to take possession of each animal when in his opinion it poses a potential threat to the safety or health of any person. No person shall resist, interfere with, hinder, or molest the animal control officer in the performance of his duties imposed upon him in the rules and regulations, or seek to release any animal in the custody of the animal control officer. No person shall fail or refuse to surrender any animal for quarantine or destruction as required herein, when demand is made therefore by the animal control officer or his agent.
(Res. No. 2014-8, 6-12-2014)
Sec. 6-24. - Confinement of dogs, cats, or other animals.
Every animal whether vaccinated or not which bites a person shall be promptly reported to the Animal Control Officer of Washington County or his agent and shall thereupon securely be quarantined at the direction of the said officer for a period of ten days and shall not be released from such quarantine except by permission of said officer. In the discretion of the animal control officer or his agent such quarantine may be on the premises of the owner or at the owner's expense, in a veterinary hospital of his choice within the county. In the case of stray animals, or in the case of animals whose ownership is not known, such quarantine shall be at a veterinary hospital with boarding and disposing fee paid by the county or by the owner if ownership is later determined. No animal may be released for the quarantine without first having received a rabies vaccination from a veterinarian unless it is proven that the animal is currently vaccinated. The owner upon demand made by the animal control officer or his agent shall forthwith surrender an animal which has bitten a human or which is suspected of having been exposed to rabies, for supervised quarantine, which expense shall be borne by the owner; such animal may be reclaimed by the owner if adjudged free of rabies upon payment of the impoundment fee therefore and upon compliance with the rabies vaccination provisions as set forth in the previous paragraph.
When an animal under quarantine has been diagnosed as being rabid or suspected by a licensed veterinarian as being rabid, and dies while under such observation, the health officer or his agent shall immediately send the head of such animal to the Georgia Department of Human Resources for pathological examination.
Every animal bitten by an animal adjudged to be rabid shall be forthwith destroyed or, at the owner's expense may be treated for rabies infection by a licensed veterinarian provided such treatment is started within five days and such animal is held under six months' quarantine by the owner in a manner as determined by a veterinarian or the county animal control officer.
In the event there are additional positive cases of rabies occurring during the period of the quarantine period, such period of quarantine may be extended at the discretion of the animal control officer or his agent. No person shall kill or cause to be killed any animal suspected of being rabid, or any animal biting a human, except as herein provided, nor remove the same from Washington County without the permission of the animal control officer.
The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies, shall upon demand be surrendered to the animal control officer or his agent.
(Res. No. 2014-8, 6-12-2014)
Sec. 6-25. - Collar and tags to be worn.
The owner of all dogs kept in the county shall cause a collar with the name and address of the owner of such dog to be worn at all times by such dog, and it shall be the duty of the owner to cause a tag certifying that the dog has been inoculated against rabies during the current inoculation period, to be attached securely to the collar and kept there at all times during the license period.
(Res. No. 2014-8, 6-12-2014)
Sec. 6-26. - Confinement to owner's property.
All dogs shall be kept on the owner's property except when the dog is on a leash or is in the immediate control of the owner or his agent.
(Res. No. 2014-8, 6-12-2014)
Sec. 6-27. - Barking; destruction of property.
No person owning a dog shall permit the dog to disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood by barking, making other loud or unusual noises or by running through or across cultivated gardens or fields.
(Res. No. 2014-8, 6-12-2014)
Sec. 6-28. - Impoundment.
Any dog found in the county either without a tag or running at large under the conditions as set forth above is hereby declared to be a nuisance and shall be impounded as hereinafter provided.
Violation of the provisions of this article shall be impounded by the animal control officer or deputy sheriff.
The animal control officer shall keep a record of the animals impounded by him or her, showing the date of the impounding and a description of the animal and shall post a notice of at the courthouse where it will be visible to the public, describing the animal and the date of impounding. Any animal not redeemed by the owner within three days after posting of such notice is declared a public nuisance.
The animal control officer shall thereafter destroy or have the animal destroyed, or in the event some person desires to claim the animal, giving the necessary inoculation and paying the required fee, the animal control officer may release the animal to the person so claiming it.
In addition, if it is determined by the animal control officer that it would be in the best interest of the public or the animal itself to be euthanized, the said animal may be euthanized at the discretion of the animal control officer.
The animal control officer shall keep a written record of the date of the destruction of the animal and the reason for waiving the three day time period.
(Res. No. 2014-8, 6-12-2014)
Sec. 6-29. - Impoundment fees.
Any owner of an animal impounded under this article shall pay a daily boarding fee for the time the animal is impounded in the event the owner redeems the animal, plus the inoculation fee, in the event the animal has not been vaccinated during the current inoculation period.
(Res. No. 2014-8, 6-12-2014)
Sec. 6-30. - Quarantine of suspected rabies cases.
Every animal suspected of having rabies shall remain in quarantine until its natural death or until its freedom from suspicion of rabies has been established to the satisfaction of the animal control officer.
(Res. No. 2014-8, 6-12-2014)
Sec. 6-31. - Violations.
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be punished as for a misdemeanor in the State Court of Washington County and the animal control officer is authorized to initiate all necessary warrants.
(Res. 2014-8, 6-12-2014)
