Chapter 16 - EMERGENCY SERVICES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 16-1—16-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - E911

Sec. 16-19. - Property owner or occupant responsibilities regarding posting.
(a)
The owner or occupant of an occupied residence, business, or structure shall cause to be posted on two locations in three-inch high or larger letters. Such numbers will be in compliance with the E911 address, as officially provided by the tax assessor's office, or other personnel as directed by the board of county commissioners. Further the numbers shall be placed in the following manner:
(1)
The letters/numbers shall be placed on the structure itself, on the side visible to the driveway or to the street. Such numbers will be in compliance with the E911 address, as officially provided by the tax assessor's office, or other personnel as directed by the board of county commissioners.
(2)
The person shall place the letters/numbers on their mailbox at curb, visible from both sides. If the person does not have a mailbox at or near his driveway, then letters shall be placed visible from the street, on or above ground level, attached to a post or other object at the driveway or curb cut. The letters/numbers should be three inches in height or larger and of a color that contrasting with the color of their background and of reflective material.
(3)
It shall be the duty of the owner, or the occupant or person of said dwelling unit, business or structure upon affixing the new letters/numbers to remove any different letters/numbers which might be mistaken for or confused with the letters/numbers assigned to the structure.
(b)
Any person failing to comply with this section article will be given one warning of their failure to comply and given seven days within which time to comply. In the event the person fails to comply, cases for violation of this section article shall be made in the magistrate court of the county as described for ordinance violation.
(c)
Persons, firms or corporations constructing, renovating or planning to occupy a new location shall apply for, receive and install address numbers prior to occupancy.
(Ord. No. WC-53, 5-12-1994)
