ARTICLE V. - STORMWATER UTILITY

Sec. 25-555. - Findings.
The mayor and city council makes the following findings:
(1)
The city is authorized by the supplementary powers provisions of Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(6) to provide a stormwater collection and disposal system throughout the city.
(2)
The Federal Clean Water Act, as amended by the Water Quality Act of 1987 (33 USC 1251 et seq.), and rules promulgated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to the Act emphasizes the role of local governments in developing, implementing, conducting and funding stormwater programs which address water quality impacts of stormwater runoff.
(3)
Given the project cost of stormwater management programs, systems and facilities identified in the professional engineering and financial analyses performed by the county and obtained by the city, it is appropriate to adopt a stormwater service fee rate methodology and to charge service fees to properties and persons within the city in a manner that recovers the cost of programs, systems and facilities and other costs associated therewith, including but not limited to allocations of the cost of services provided to the stormwater management utility by other funds of the city and other government entities and agencies, interest on bonds, operational and emergency reserves, allowances for delinquencies and bad debt, and such other costs as may be deemed reasonable and appropriate by the mayor and city council to ensure the management, maintenance, protection, control, regulation, use and enhancement of stormwater programs, systems and facilities in the city.
(4)
The stormwater conditions reflected in the study conducted by the county and obtained by the city reflect the current conditions of the stormwater system in the city.
(5)
Stormwater management is applicable and needed throughout the city. Stormwater service fee rate methodology and service fees should be applicable throughout the city to enable the city to successfully manage operate and improve stormwater programs, systems and facilities at an advanced level. Service fees will also assist the city in meeting the regulatory obligations imposed by its National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permits by reducing pollution and increasing water quality within the city.
(6)
The stormwater needs in the city include but are not limited to protecting the public health, safety and welfare. Funding of stormwater programs, systems and facilities is therefore incidental to the fundamental regulatory function of the city in protecting the public health, safety and welfare.
(7)
Provision of stormwater management programs, systems and facilities renders and/or results in both services and benefits to individual properties, property owners, citizens and residents of the city and to all properties, property owners, citizens and residents of the city concurrently in a variety of ways as identified in the professional engineering and financial analyses, and the services and benefits differ among the individual properties, property owners, citizens and residents in relation to the demands they impose individually and collectively on the stormwater systems and facilities.
(8)
The services and benefits rendered or resulting from the provision of stormwater management programs, systems and facilities may differ over time depending on many factors and considerations, including but not limited to location, demands and impacts imposed on the stormwater systems and facilities, and risk exposure. It is not practical to allocate the cost of the city's stormwater management programs, systems and facilities in direct relationship to the services or benefits rendered to or received by individual properties or persons over a brief span of time, but it is both practical and equitable to allocate the cost of stormwater management among properties and persons in proportion to the long-term demands they impose on the city's stormwater programs, systems and facilities which render or result in services and benefits.
(9)
The city presently owns and operates stormwater management systems and facilities which have been developed, installed and acquired through various mechanisms over many years. The future usefulness of the existing stormwater systems owned and operated by the city, and of additions and improvements thereto, rests on the ability of the city to effectively manage, protect, control, regulate, use, and enhance stormwater systems and facilities in the city. In order to do so, the city must have adequate and stable funding for its stormwater management program operating and capital investment needs.
(Ord. No. 2013-05-03A, § 25-360, 5-14-2013)
Sec. 25-556. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Channel protection shall have the same meaning as the term is defined in the Georgia Stormwater Manual, Volume 2, as amended hereafter.
Credit means a conditional reduction in the amount of a stormwater service charge to an individual property based upon the terms and conditions of this article.
Customer means all persons, properties, and entities served by the utility's acquisition, management, maintenance, extension, and improvement of the public stormwater management systems and facilities and regulation of public and private stormwater systems, facilities, and activities related thereto, and persons, properties, and entities which will ultimately be served or benefited as a result of the stormwater management program.
Developed land means all property not deemed as undeveloped land.
Direct lien means a lien enforced against an individual or property prior to obtaining a judgment against the individual or property, such as liens established by operation of law for unpaid taxes.
Equivalent residential unit (ERU) means the unit of measure which provides the basis for comparing the runoff generated by one parcel with that generated by another. An ERU shall be the median impervious coverage of a statistical sampling of single detached dwelling lots in the city, which has been determined to be 3,000 square feet of impervious area.
Impervious surfaces means those areas, which prevent or impede the infiltration of stormwater into the soil as it entered in natural conditions prior to development. Common impervious surfaces include, but are not limited to, rooftops, sidewalks, walkways, patio areas, driveways, parking lots, storage areas, compacted gravel and soil surfaces, awnings and other fabric or plastic coverings.
Multiple dwelling lot means a developed lot on which more than one attached or detached residential dwelling units are located. Multiple dwelling lots include, but are not limited to, apartments, condominiums, duplexes and triplexes.
Other developed land means, but shall not be limited to, commercial and office buildings, industrial and manufacturing buildings, storage buildings and storage areas covered with impervious surfaces, parking lots, parks, recreation properties, public and private schools and universities, research stations, hospitals and convalescent centers, airports, and agricultural uses covered by impervious surfaces.
Overbank flood protection shall have the same meaning as the term is defined in the Georgia Stormwater Manual, Volume 2, as amended hereafter.
Service fees means the stormwater management service fees applicable to a parcel of developed land, which charge shall be used only for the purpose of funding the city stormwater utility's cost of providing stormwater management services and facilities.
Single dwelling lot means a developed lot containing one dwelling structure with its principal use being a residential dwelling. Single dwelling lots include, but are not limited to, single family homes and town homes characterized by fee simple ownership of both land and improved structures.
Stormwater management system means any one or more of the various devices used in the collection, treatment, or disposition of storm, flood or surface drainage waters, including all manmade structures or natural watercourse for the conveyance or transportation of runoff, such as: detention areas, berms, swales, improved watercourses, open channels, bridges, gulches, streams, gullies, flumes, culverts, gutters, pumping stations, pipes, ditches, siphons, catch basins and street facilities; all inlets; collection, drainage or disposal lines; intercepting sewers; disposal plants; outfall sewers; all pumping, power, and other equipment and appurtenances; all extension, improvements, remodeling, additions, and alterations thereof; and any and all rights or interests in such stormwater facilities. Stormwater facilities expressly excludes any of the foregoing which exist for, or are used exclusively for the purpose of collection, treating, measuring, supplying, or distributing potable water within or as part of the water supply and treatment system, or any of the foregoing which exist for or are used exclusively for the purpose of collecting, treating, or measuring effluent within or as part of the sanitary sewer system.
Undeveloped land means a lot in its unaltered natural state and which has no pavement, asphalt, or compacted gravel surfaces or structures which create an impervious surface that would prevent infiltration of stormwater or cause stormwater to collect, concentrate, or flow in a manner materially different than that which would occur if the land was in an unaltered natural state.
Water quality shall have the same meaning as the term is defined in the Georgia Stormwater Manual, Volume 2, as amended hereafter.
(Ord. No. 2013-05-03A, § 25-361, 5-14-2013)
Sec. 25-557. - Establishment of a utility.
(a)
There is established a stormwater utility which shall be responsible for stormwater management throughout the city's jurisdictional limits, and shall provide for the management, protection, control, regulation, use, and enhancement of stormwater systems and facilities. The stormwater utility management unit shall be composed of such personnel, employees and agents of the city as the mayor and city council may from time to time determine and their compensation shall be fixed and determined by the city manager as approved by the city council.
(b)
A stormwater enterprise fund shall be established in the city budget and accounting system for the purpose of dedicating and protecting all funding applicable to the purposes and responsibilities of the stormwater utility, including but not limited to rentals, rates, charges, fees and licenses as may be established by the mayor and city council and other funds that may be transferred or allocated to the stormwater utility. All revenues and receipts of the stormwater utility shall be placed in the stormwater enterprise fund and all expenses of the utility shall be paid from the stormwater enterprise fund, except that other revenues receipts, and resources not accounted for in the stormwater utility enterprise fund may be applied to stormwater management programs, facilities, operations and capital investments as deemed appropriate by the city council, upon recommendation by the city manager.
(c)
The mayor and city council confers upon the stormwater utility operational control over the existing stormwater management programs, systems and facilities performed, provided or owned and heretofore operated by the city and other related assets, including but not limited to properties other than roadways upon which such systems and facilities are located, easements, rights-of-entry and access, and certain equipment used solely for stormwater management.
(Ord. No. 2013-05-03A, § 25-362, 5-14-2013)
Sec. 25-558. - Scope of responsibility for the stormwater utility.
(a)
The stormwater utility shall be responsible for plan approval and construction inspection of both private stormwater facilities and public stormwater facilities located within the city. The stormwater utility shall be responsible for the design and construction of public stormwater facilities owned by the city and shall inspect, operate, and maintain them as prescribed herein.
(b)
The city drainage system consists of all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainageways, channels, ditches, swales, storm sewers, culverts, inlets, catch basins, pipes, head walls and other structures, natural or manmade, within the political boundaries of the city which control and/or convey stormwater through which the city intentionally diverts surface waters from its public streets and properties. The city owns or has legal access for purposes of operation, maintenance and improvement of those stormwater systems and facilities which:
(1)
Are located within public streets, rights-of-way and easements;
(2)
Are subject to easements, rights-of-entry, rights-of-access, rights-of-use or other permanent provisions for adequate access for operation, maintenance and/or improvement of systems and facilities;
(3)
Are located on public lands to which the city has adequate access for operation, maintenance and/or improvement of systems and facilities; or
(4)
Are determined by the city attorney to be the city's responsibility.
(c)
The stormwater utility shall provide for inspection of private facilities to ascertain that the stormwater facilities are functioning as designed and approved. The stormwater utility shall provide for remedial maintenance of facilities based upon the severity of stormwater problems and potential hazard to the public health, safety, and welfare, and in cases where such remedial maintenance is required the city may bill the owner of the private facility for the costs of such maintenance.
(Ord. No. 2013-05-03A, § 25-363, 5-14-2013)
Sec. 25-559. - General fund policy.
(a)
General fund policy. It shall be the policy of the city that funding for the stormwater utility program, systems and facilities shall be equitably derived through methods which have a demonstrable relationship to the varied demands and impacts imposed on the stormwater program, systems and facilities by individual properties or persons and/or the level of service rendered by or resulting from the provision of stormwater programs, systems and facilities. Stormwater service charge rates shall be structured so as to be fair and reasonable, and the resultant service charges shall bear a substantial relationship to the cost of providing services and facilities. Similarly situated properties shall be charged similar rentals, rates, charges, fees or licenses. Service charge rates shall be structured to be consistent and coordinated with the use of other funding methods employed for stormwater management within the city, including but not limited to general tax revenues allocated to stormwater management, plan review and inspection fees, special fees for services, fees in lieu of regulatory requirements, impact fees, system development charges and special assessments.
(b)
The cost of stormwater management programs, systems and facilities may include operating, capital investment and reserve expenses, and may consider stormwater quality as well as stormwater quantity management problems, needs and requirements.
(c)
To the extent practicable, credits against stormwater service charges and/or other methods of funding stormwater management shall be provided for on-site stormwater control systems and activities constructed, operated, maintained and performed to the city's standards by private property owners which eliminate, mitigate or compensate for the impact that the property or person may have upon stormwater runoff discharged to public stormwater systems or facilities or to private stormwater facilities which impact the proper function of public stormwater systems or facilities.
(d)
Stormwater utility service charge rates, fees and other similar charges shall be established by resolution of the mayor and city council.
(Ord. No. 2013-05-03A, § 25-364, 5-14-2013)
Sec. 25-560. - Stormwater service fees/rates.
Stormwater service fee rates may be determined and modified from time to time by the mayor and city council so that the total revenue generated by the fees and any other sources of revenues or other resources allocated to stormwater management by the city council shall be sufficient to meet the cost of stormwater management programs, systems and facilities, including but not limited to the payment of principal and interest on debt obligations, operating expense, capital outlays, nonoperating expense, provisions for prudent reserves and other costs as deemed appropriate by the city council. Stormwater service fee revenues in any given year may exceed or be less than the cost of service in that year, provided, however, that the stormwater service fee rate shall be based on meeting the long-term projected cost of stormwater management programs, systems and facilities. All unencumbered stormwater management funds derived from service fees and other sources of revenue not expended at the end of a fiscal year shall remain in the stormwater management utility enterprise fund account and balances shall be forwarded to the next fiscal year.
(Ord. No. 2013-05-03A, § 25-365, 5-14-2013)
Sec. 25-561. - Exemptions.
The following properties are exempt from stormwater utility fees:
(1)
Undeveloped land;
(2)
All public rights-of-way;
(3)
Railroad rights-of-way (tracks). However, railroad stations, maintenance buildings, or other developed land used for railroad purposes shall not be exempt from stormwater service charges; and
(4)
Any property whereby 100 percent of the stormwater runoff is contained on the premises and no runoff enters into the stormwater management system.
(Ord. No. 2013-05-03A, § 25-366, 5-14-2013)
Sec. 25-562. - Credits.
(a)
Property owners of developed land may receive a stormwater service charge credit for on-site systems or facilities. Stormwater service charge credits shall be determined based on the technical requirements design and performance standards contained in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual as may be updated or amended from time to time.
(b)
Property owners seeking service charge credits must apply for stormwater service charge credits through completion and submittal to the city of a stormwater service charge credit application prior to January 1 of the year in which stormwater service charges are to be billed by the city. Credits will only be granted through applications approved by the city for the remainder of the year in which stormwater service charges are to be billed. Any credits issued by the county in 2012 or any application received by the county before January 1, 2013, are accepted as valid credits and applications for the city for the calendar year 2013.
(c)
Upon receipt of a timely filed completed application, the city manager or designee shall review the application and make a determination as to whether the applicable criteria for a credit has been met. All decisions regarding the approval or disapproval of a stormwater credit shall be made within 45 days of the date the completed application was submitted to the city.
(d)
Any credit allowed against the service charge is conditioned on:
(1)
Continuing compliance with the city's design and performance standards as stated in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual as may be updated or amended from time to time; and
(2)
Upon continuing provision of the systems or facilities provided, operated, and maintained by the property owner or owners upon which the credit is based.
The city may revoke any credit at any time for noncompliance with this article.
(Ord. No. 2013-05-03A, § 25-367, 5-14-2013)
Sec. 25-563. - Inspection of private facilities.
Continuing compliance with the city's design and performance standards may be verified by city inspection of the systems or facilities upon which the credit is based. No credit shall be given under this article unless the property owner agrees in writing in its application that the city shall have the right for its designated officers, representatives, agents, and employees to enter upon private and public property, upon reasonable notice to the owner of such property, to inspect the property and conduct surveys and engineering testing on such property in order to assure compliance with the city's design and performance standards. On-site systems or facilities determined to no longer comply with the city's design and performance standards shall subject the property owner to revocation of all, or a portion of, stormwater service charge credits based on the city inspections' estimate of capacity reduction for a period of not less than one year.
(Ord. No. 2013-05-03A, § 25-368, 5-14-2013)
Sec. 25-564. - Stormwater service charge, billing, delinquencies and collections.
A stormwater service fee bill may be sent though the United States mail or by alternative means, notifying the customer of the amount of the bill, the date the payment is due, and the date when past due. The stormwater service fee bill may be billed and collected along with other fees and charges, including but not limited other utility bills, assessments or property taxes, as deemed most effective and efficient by the city manager. Failure to receive a bill is not justification for nonpayment. Regardless of the party to whom the bill is initially directed, the owner of each parcel of developed land shall be ultimately obligated to pay such fees and other charges and any associated fines or penalties, including but not limited to interest on delinquent service fees. If a customer is underbilled or if no bill is sent for developed land, the city may backbill for a period of up to one year, but shall not assess penalties for any delinquency during that back-billed period. A late charge of one percent of the unpaid balance of any stormwater utility service fee bill shall be charged when a bill becomes delinquent. Thereafter, an additional charge of one percent based on the unpaid bill and any applicable delinquency charge shall be charged for each month the bill remains delinquent.
(Ord. No. 2013-05-03A, § 25-369, 5-14-2013)
Sec. 25-565. - Stormwater utility service inspections and enforcement.
Every owner of real property located in the city, and every person who serves as a contractor or developer for the purpose of developing real property located in the city shall provide, manage, maintain, and operate on-site stormwater management systems and facilities sufficient to collect, convey, detain, control and discharge stormwater in a safe manner consistent with all city ordinances and development regulations, and the laws of the state and the United States of America. Any failure to meet this obligation shall constitute a nuisance and be subject to an abatement action filed by any damaged party or the city in any court of competent jurisdiction. In the event a public nuisance is found by the court to exist, which the owner fails to properly abate within such reasonable time as allowed by the court, the city may enter upon the property and cause such work as is reasonably necessary to abate the nuisance with the actual cost thereof assessed against the owner or developer, if any, on a joint and several basis. From the date of the filing of such action, the city shall have lien rights, which may be perfected, after judgment, by filing a notice of lien on the general execution docket of the superior court of the county. The city shall have the right, pursuant to the authority of this article, for its designated officers and employees to enter upon private and public property owned by entities other than the city, upon reasonable notice to the owner thereof, to inspect the property and conduct surveys and engineering tests thereon in order to assure compliance with this section.
(Ord. No. 2013-05-03A, § 25-370, 5-14-2013)
Sec. 25-566. - Appeals.
Any customer who believes the provisions of this article have been applied in error may appeal in the following manner:
(1)
An appeal must be filed in writing with the city manager or his designated representative. In the case of stormwater service fee appeals, the appeal shall include a survey prepared by a registered land surveyor or professional engineer containing information on the total property area, the impervious surface area, and any other features or conditions that influence the hydrologic response of the property to rainfall events.
(2)
Using information provided by the appellant, the city manager or designee shall conduct a technical review of the conditions on the property and respond to the appeal in writing within 60 days. In response to an appeal, the city manager may adjust the stormwater service fee applicable to any property in conformance with the general purposes and intent of this article.
(3)
All decisions by the city manager shall be served on the appellant personally or by registered or certified mail, sent to the billing address of the appellant. All decisions of the city manager shall be final.
(4)
Any person aggrieved by a decision or order of the city, after exhausting his administrative remedies, shall have a right to appeal by writ of certiorari to the superior court of the county within 30 days of the city's order or decision.
(Ord. No. 2013-05-03A, § 25-371, 5-14-2013)
Secs. 25-567—25-595. - Reserved.
