ARTICLE II. - WATER SYSTEM
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 25-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Agreement means a contract for water service between the city and other public or private water systems, counties or municipalities.
Approved means accepted in writing for planning, installation or activation by the director.
Appurtenance means an item attached to or made part of a water main to divert or control flow, excluding taps and waterlines.
As-built design means a graphical presentation of the characteristics and scope of work performed which has been prepared by the engineer and approved by the county.
Authorized person means a regular and designated employee of the county or its legal agent.
Backflow means the flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, gases or other substances into the distributing pipes of the potable water supply from any source or sources.
Backflow prevention device means any effective device, method or construction approved by the county, used to prevent backflow into a potable water system. The type of device used should be based on the degree of hazard, either existing or potential.
Back-siphonage means a form of backflow due to a negative pressure within a potable water system.
Back pressure means a form of backflow due to a negative pressure within a potable water system.
Billing period means the time interval between issuance of statements for service.
Commercial customer means a person receiving service at premises where such person engages in nonmanufacturing business operations, as licensed by the county.
Commodity charge means a billing to a customer reflecting the volume of water delivered.
Comprehensive plan means the currently adopted future land use plan for the city.
Construction cost means the contractor's expense in constructing any additions or modifications to the water system.
Contractor means a person with whom the county or a developer contracts for execution of work.
Cross connection means any actual or potential connection or structural arrangement between the public potable water system or a consumer's potable water system and any other source or system through which it is possible to introduce into any part of the potable system any used water, industrial fluid, gas or substance other than the intended potable water with which the system is supplied. Bypass arrangements, jumper connections, removable sections, swivel or changeover devices, and other temporary or permanent devices through which or because of which backflow can or may occur are considered to be cross connections.
Customer means a person receiving water service from the county.
Department means the public works department or such other water service provider as may hereafter be designated to enforce this article.
Developer means a person engaged in building residential subdivisions, commercial or industrial complexes.
Development means any action in preparation for construction activities which results in alteration of either land or vegetation. This definition shall not apply to individual single-family dwelling unit construction within a subdivision recorded subsequent to July 28, 1970, or to alteration, modification or additions to single-family dwelling units except for, in either case, individual single-family lots where site plans for each are required by special designation on the recorded plat or such lots are located within the intermediate regional floodplain.
Director means the public works director, or when a water service provider other than the public works department is designated to enforce provisions of this article, the director of such water service provider.
Dwelling means a domicile intended for one or more families.
Dwelling unit means that portion of a dwelling in which only one family resides.
Engineer means a professional engineer practicing civil-sanitary engineering who is licensed by the state.
Extension means an addition to the water system consisting of mains six inches or larger in diameter and all appurtenances required or accepted by the water service provider.
Fire hydrant means a system appurtenance for connection and flow control to temporary fire lines.
Fire line service means an unmetered or metered permanent connection to the system restricted to fire control use.
Guarantee deposit means a sum of money specified by the county deposited by a prospective customer as guarantee that bills for service will be paid.
Health hazard means an actual or potential threat of contamination, or pollution of a physical or toxic nature to the public potable water system or the consumer's potable water system to such a degree of intensity that there would be a danger to health.
Hearing means a public meeting called at the discretion of the city or water service provider with appropriate public notice to evaluate merits of a system extension or modification.
Industrial customer means a person engaged in manufacture or processing of goods or materials, as licensed by the county.
Inspection means an action by an authorized person who may enter a customer's premises to inspect the water system and any plumbing connected thereto for their compliance with county ordinances.
Inspection fee means a charge to a customer, contractor, developer or other person for inspecting extensions or existing or new connections to the water system for their compliance with county ordinances.
Meter means a manufactured unit which is part of the system, used to measure and totalize volume of water flowing from the system into a customer's piping system.
Miscellaneous service means any noncontinuous service for which charges are set.
Off-site mains means system water mains installed outside of private property or tracts planned for development.
On-site mains means system water mains installed in easements or dedicated rights-of-way within private property or tracts planned for development.
Oversized mains means water mains sized for capacity in excess of that required to meet the short-term needs that prompted extension.
Planned extension means an extension of the water system by the water service provider done as a programmed fulfillment of a step in its long-range planning process.
Plans means engineering drawings and specifications for extension of the system or for connections thereto, prepared by an engineer or by the water service provider.
Plumber means a person licensed to render plumbing services.
Plumbing means piping and associated fixtures on a premises that are connected in any way to the water system.
Plumbing fee means that fee paid for the issuance of a plumbing permit.
Potable water means water meeting the requirements of the latest United States Public Health Service set of regulations, drinking water standards, for use in control of water quality for interstate carriers.
Premises means building, house, store, plant or any other place where people live, work or congregate.
Private water system includes the water source, delivery piping and all appurtenances, excluding building plumbing, that serve more than one dwelling unit or a commercial or industrial premises as a potable water supply.
Property owner means a person holding legal title to a premises or an authorized representative thereof.
Sanitary sewer means a pipe which carries sanitary sewage and excludes groundwaters, surface waters and stormwaters.
Service means the acts and procedures of supplying water to system customers.
Service charge means billing for recurring service that is provided, whether service is used or not.
Service cock means the valve placed on the service connection which is used to turn on and turn off the flow of water from the water main to the premises.
Service connection means the procedure of making service available to a customer, which includes the service line, water meter, service cock and the tap on initial installation; subsequent service connections will normally only require a water meter.
Service connection charge means a charge made for the service connection including the tap fee when performed.
Service line means the waterline from a tap to and including meter and service cock if they are required.
Standard Methods refers to Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, latest edition, published by APHA, AWWA, WPCF.
Sterilize or sterilization means the procedure of disinfecting water mains, service lines, plumbing and appurtenances by county-approved methods.
Subdivision means any tract of land, divided, planned or developed as a subdevelopment with two or more residences, buildings or building sites.
Surge means a sudden pressure change in the water system caused by rapid valve operation.
Tap means the procedure and result of connecting a service line or water main to an existing or new water main.
Tap fee means a charge made for making a tap on its water main.
Unsanitary means unclean, unhealthy or harmful to the public health.
Valve means a plumbing appurtenance used to control flow in a water main or service line.
Water main or line means a pipeline in the water system.
Water system or system means the interrelated network for purification and delivery of drinking water, including all water mains, service lines and appurtenances.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-26, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-20. - Cross connection survey team.
The cross connection survey team shall work under the direction of the department, and shall have authority for implementation of the cross connection requirements of the water service provider. It shall have responsibility to see that backflow prevention devices are installed where required, tested for proper functioning upon completion of installation, and periodically tested for proper functioning after installation.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-27, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-21. - Feasibility of providing service.
Water service and fire protection shall be provided in the order of application and only if determined to be feasible and consistent with sound system operation.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-28, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-22. - Water quality standards; inspection; record of treatment operations.
The system shall supply potable water meeting current drinking water standards established by federal, state and local authorities. The system shall be open to inspection and tests by such authorities upon reasonable notice. The water service provider shall maintain a record of water treatment operations available for public inspection by appointment.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-29, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-23. - Continuity of service, consistency of quality.
The water service provider shall make every reasonable effort to provide continuous service and potable water. The city does not warrant that system malfunctions will not result in service interruptions or pressure changes, nor does it guarantee that water quality will not vary, nor does it guarantee that it will be directly suitable for special commercial or industrial processes. The city assumes no liability for damages caused by varying pressure, interrupted service or water quality changes.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-30, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-24. - Emergency restriction of service.
(a)
The city and water service provider reserve the right to shut off or diminish flow in system mains due to repairs, emergencies or water shortage. Notice shall be given in the event of water shortage or prolonged routine maintenance interruptions of service. Notice is not required for emergency diversions of water or emergency repairs.
(b)
During periods of dry weather, upon determination that a water shortage or potential water shortage exists to the extent that the water system may not have sufficient flows for domestic service and fire protection, the mayor or city council may issue such warning to the public as appropriate to effect conservation measures or the mayor or city council may by resolution direct that unessential water usages, such as lawn watering and automobile washing, may be restricted to certain hours of the day or not permitted at all until the shortage or potential shortage no longer exists. Persons shall not violate such an order.
(c)
Any person who does anything prohibited or fails to do anything required either by this section or by a resolution of the city council, upon citation and conviction of the violation in a court of competent jurisdiction, shall be subject to the penalties in accordance with this section and section 1-11. Where any offense or violation continues from day to day, each day's continuance thereof shall be deemed a separate offense.
(d)
For a first violation of the provisions of this section or of a resolution approved by the city council pursuant to this section, the director of community development or designee shall issue a written warning of the violation and if the violation is not corrected immediately, a notice of violation shall be issued. If the first violation presents an imminent threat to public health or safety, the director of watershed management or designee shall issue an immediate citation in lieu of a written warning.
(e)
Upon conviction of any violation of this section or of a resolution approved by the city council pursuant to this section, the court shall impose a fine of not less than $250.00 in addition to any other penalty or punishment imposed by the court however, the total fine shall not exceed $1,000.00.
(f)
Upon a second and subsequent conviction within a 12-month period measured from the date of the first conviction of any violation of this section or of a resolution approved by the city council pursuant to this section, the court shall impose a fine of not less than $500.00 in addition to any other penalty or punishment imposed by the court however, the total fine shall not exceed $1,000.00.
(g)
Upon a third and subsequent conviction within a 12-month period measured from the date of the first conviction of any violation of this section or of a resolution approved by the city council pursuant to this section, the court shall terminate water service to the property where the violation occurred for a period of time to be determined in the discretion of the court, impose a fine of not less than $1,000.00 and impose a minimum jail sentence of 24 hours.
(h)
The penalties provided in this section are not cumulative and shall not prohibit the city from pursuing any other civil or criminal remedies authorized by this Code, county, state, or federal law.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-31, 1-22-2013; Ord. No. 2019-02-08 , § 1(Attch.), 2-26-2019)
Sec. 25-25. - Enlargement, improvement of water supply.
The city may contract for additional water sources to enlarge and improve the water supply. A public evaluation study prior to contracting shall be made to determine cost effectiveness and to assess the impact of substantial improvements.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-32, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-26. - System financing.
The system shall be self-sustaining from its revenues, grants and other incomes. Expansions and improvements of service shall be effected using funds in system accounts or by sale of system revenue certificates.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-33, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-27. - General maintenance and protection of service policy.
The city shall take all reasonable and necessary measures to protect the water system from contamination and to assure a continuous supply of potable water. Customers and other persons shall observe all procedures promulgated by the city to meet the above objectives with particular reference to the maintenance and protection procedures contained in this article.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-34, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-28. - Protection of water sources, storage facilities.
No person shall enter the premises of water storage facilities or reservoirs without authorization. No person shall place any contaminating substances in water sources or water storage facilities.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-35, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-29. - Proximity of waterlines to sanitary sewers.
No sanitary sewer shall be placed within ten feet horizontally of a waterline nor less than three feet above or below a waterline without special protection approved by the department.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-37, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-30. - Surge protection.
Customers shall not employ fast-acting valves on any line or connection thereto without surge protection approved by the city or county.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-39, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-31. - Electrical grounding.
No new or revamped wiring systems or electrical appliances that may induce shock shall be grounded to the water system or connected thereto. Grounding rods or other devices will be employed.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-40, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-32. - Covering of appurtenances.
Pavement or earthwork shall not be placed over any valve or box cover nor shall such appurtenances to the system be rendered inaccessible.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-41, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-33. - Location, ownership of facilities.
The entire water system up to and including meters is the property of the water service provider, except for other water systems connected by agreement. In no case shall mains or appurtenances be placed outside of public rights-of-way or appropriate easements. Title shall not be conveyed for mains or appurtenances without simultaneous conveyance of necessary easements or rights-of-way. Title to any water system property or components shall not be conveyed to any person unless the water service provider approve such to be obsolete, surplus, and not needed in long-range system plans and further provided that the water service provider receives compensation or credit in amount of fair market value.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-43, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-34. - Inspection of premises; right of entry.
(a)
Application for water service shall constitute agreement that a customer shall allow the city water service provider inspection of the premises for violation of this article, maintenance of the system, meter reading, testing, surveys, and inspection of waterline construction. Entry to premises for any purpose other than routine and agreed-upon operations shall be preceded by due notice served as provided in this section.
(b)
Due notice shall consist of a certified letter, return receipt requested, being mailed to the person refusing to allow entry. This notice shall require acknowledgement and agreement of that person to allow entry, giving ten days' time after receipt of due notice for this to be made. When due notice is given for purpose of access for surveys or inspection, acknowledgement and agreement to allow entry shall be made within the same ten days and no offense is presumed. Thereafter the city may issue citations by certified letter for each day of violation now presumed only after issuing a second due notice for violation as outlined above.
(c)
The city and its authorized agents and employees may enter upon any lands in the city for the purpose of making such surveys, soundings, drillings, and examinations as may be deemed necessary or desirable to accomplish the purposes of planning and engineering water system improvements; and such entry shall not be deemed a trespass nor shall it be deemed an entry which would constitute a taking in a condemnation proceeding, providing that reasonable notice of such entry shall be done in a reasonable manner with as little inconvenience as possible to the owner or occupant of the property, and the county shall make reimbursement for any actual damages resulting from such entry.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-44, 1-22-2013)
Secs. 25-35—25-57. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ILLEGAL USE OF WATER REGULATIONS

Sec. 25-58. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning. Where words are not herein defined, but are defined in section 1-2 or elsewhere in this chapter, those words shall have the meaning as defined therein.
Commercial establishment means any hotel, motel, apartment, multifamily dwelling, roominghouse, restaurant, business, industrial, public or semipublic establishment of any nature or kind whatsoever but does not include a single-family dwelling or a condominium.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-50.1, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-59. - Illegal use of water.
It is unlawful for any person to obtain water from the water system with the intent to avoid payment for the water.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-50.2, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-60. - Fraudulent representation for use of water.
It is unlawful to make a false representation on the application for water service to any premises, or to use water in or upon any premises for purposes not set forth in the application.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-50.3, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-61. - Unauthorized connections prohibited.
No person shall connect to, tap on, or discharge water from any water line or water main belonging to the water service provider without first obtaining the written permission to do so and without first paying the required deposit, tap fee, and/or connection charge.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-50.4, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-62. - Unauthorized reconnection prohibited.
No person shall reconnect or turn on any water connection where the water connection has been disconnected for nonpayment of water bills, or for other purposes.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-50.5, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-63. - Damage of any appurtenances to water supply system prohibited.
No person shall damage, destroy, deface, impair the function of, or otherwise vandalize any portion of the water supply system.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-50.6, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-64. - Meter tampering prohibited.
No person shall break, alter, change the reading of, or tamper with the mechanism of any water meter.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-50.7, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-65. - Bypassing meter prohibited.
No person shall attach any pipe, device or mechanism of any kind or type to any water line, pipe, meter, or main in such a manner as to cause any water to flow through, by or around any water meter without the meter properly measuring and recording the quantity thereof.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-50.8, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-66. - Permission required to use unmetered water.
No person shall attach any pipe, device or other mechanism of any kind or type to any water line, pipe or main where a water meter has not been installed and the water taken does not flow through a water meter without first obtaining written permission from the water service provider.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-50.9, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-67. - Fire hydrants.
(a)
No person shall attach a hose, pipe or other mechanism to a fire hydrant or open a fire hydrant without first obtaining written permission except in case of a fire.
(b)
No person shall be allowed to use water from any fire hydrant connected to the water system, except by special permit from the director of the department of watershed management or the fire chief, except in case of fire.
(1)
Schedule of charges. In cases where a special permit is issued, the water service provider shall install a hydrant meter with a backflow preventer. The quantity of water used shall be charged to the customer at the prevailing rates in effect at the time of usage of water.
(2)
Deposits required. A deposit, as established from time to time by the water service provider, shall be required with each application for installation of a hydrant meter. Part of the deposit may be credited against the water charge for the hydrant usage when the meter is removed. If the meter is damaged prior to removal by the water service provider, the deposit shall be forfeited and retained by the water service provider.
(3)
Backflow prevention. Proper backflow prevention measures shall be used in the manner required by the cross connection control survey team.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-50.10, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-68. - Unauthorized possession of a fire hydrant meter.
It is unlawful for any person to have in his possession any unauthorized fire hydrant meter. Fire hydrant meters shall be installed by the water service provider after the requesting party completes an application and pays applicable fees. The hydrant meter shall be installed as close as possible to the requested location.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-50.11, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-69. - Unauthorized operation of valves or other water system control or regulating devices.
No person shall operate or change the adjustment of any water system valve, pressure regulating device, or other water system control device without first obtaining written approval from the director of the water service provider or their designee.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-50.12, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-70. - Water to be cut off in case of violation.
If any person, either as owner or tenant, shall violate or permit other persons to violate any provision of this division, the supply of water to the premises shall be shut off and service discontinued forthwith. The water shall not again be turned on until such unauthorized use of water is stopped and there shall have been paid such charges are determined to be due for water used in violation of this division and for the expense of discontinuing and restoring water service.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-50.13, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-71. - Criminal penalties.
(a)
Any person who does anything prohibited or fails to do anything required by these illegal use of water regulations, upon citation and conviction of the violation in a court of competent jurisdiction, shall be subject to the penalties in accordance with section 1-11. Where any offense or violation continues from day to day, each day's continuance thereof shall be deemed a separate offense.
(b)
Upon a second and subsequent conviction within a 12-month period measured from the date of the first conviction of any violation of these regulations, the court shall impose a fine of not less than $500.00 in addition to any other penalty or punishment imposed by the court however, the total fine shall not exceed $1,000.00.
(c)
Upon a third and subsequent conviction within a 12-month period measured from the date of the first conviction of any violation of these regulations, the court shall impose a fine of not less than $1,000.00 and impose a minimum jail sentence of 24 hours.
(d)
The penalties provided in this section are not cumulative and shall not prohibit the city from pursuing any other civil or criminal remedies authorized by this Code, county, state, or federal law. No provision of this division shall prevent the city from prosecuting the crime of theft of services to the fullest extent allowed by state law.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-50.14, 1-22-2013; Ord. No. 2019-02-08 , § 1(Attch.), 2-26-2019)
Secs. 25-72—25-100. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - WATER WASTE

Sec. 25-101. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning. Where words are not herein defined, but are defined in section 1-2, those words shall have the meaning as defined therein. Unless otherwise defined herein, words related to construction shall be as defined in this Code and in the latest adopted applicable editions of the Georgia codes applicable to building construction adopted pursuant to state law.
Economic hardship means a cost to comply with the requirements of section 25-102 that exceeds $1,000.00.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-55, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-102. - Waste of water.
It is unlawful for any person to allow water to be wasted by leaks, breaks, or malfunctions in any water pipe or fixture on premises owned or occupied by that person. If a person does not repair or report a leak, a break or a malfunction for any period of time beyond which the leak, break, or malfunction reasonably should have been corrected, water service may be terminated to the premises. A period of two business days after the person discovers such leak, break, or malfunction, or within two business days of receiving a notice of such condition, whichever comes first, shall be presumed to be a reasonable time within which the person shall correct such a condition. Notice shall be hand delivered or posted in a conspicuous place on the premises. If the leak, break, or malfunction poses a public health, public safety, or environmental threat to the citizens of the city, water service may be terminated immediately with no notice to the occupant of the premises. Water service to the premises shall not be restored until the leak, break, or malfunction is repaired, and all outstanding water bills, including the administrative fees for termination and restoration of water service, have been paid. The water service provider shall promulgate a written policy for crediting accounts for water leaks occurring before the leaks are discovered by the property owner or before the property owner receives written notification.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-56, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-103. - Economic hardships.
Any person who can provide proof of economic hardship may petition the water service provider, within two business days after the person discovers such leak, break, or malfunction, or within two business days of receiving a notice of such condition, for additional time to repair a leak, a break, or a malfunction. Should petition be granted the petitioner will receive no more than an additional 15 business days to correct the condition and, during this period, water service to the premises shall not be terminated. The petitioner shall be responsible for all costs and associated fees of water usage and wastage following the initial two-business-day period after discovery or notification until the leak, break, or malfunction is corrected.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-57, 1-22-2013)
Secs. 25-104—25-134. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - EXTENSIONS OF SERVICE

Sec. 25-135. - Planned extensions to developed areas.
The water service provider may, as part of its continuing service to residents, extend water service without petition to developed areas presently obtaining service from other sources. In such cases, a property owner must tie onto the water service provider's system if service is available within 300 feet of the premises' property line after due notice from the water service provider.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-61, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-136. - Planned extensions to developing areas.
The water service provider may, as part of its continuing service to residents, extend water service to areas planned for development or in the course of development provided that cost benefits analysis shows projected revenues or cost participation to be sufficient to warrant extension.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-62, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-137. - Incorporation of private systems.
Existing water systems in apartment and condominium developments, office complexes and similar developments including subdivision water mains may be incorporated into the water system on approval by the water service provider. System water mains and appurtenances must meet county standards for materials and design. Remedial work costs to meet standards shall be borne by developers, owners or customers using or administering the system prior to conveyance.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-63, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-138. - Requests for installation of water mains on existing city roads.
(a)
A request for the installation of a water main by city residents who live on existing city roads not serviced by the water system shall be presented to the water service provider on petition forms provided by the water service provider. The petitioner shall agree to pay the service connection charge for each residence prior to installation of the new main for use when the main is complete. This purchase will not be required if the petitioner has previously purchased a meter for the address in the petition.
(b)
A maximum of 100 linear feet of water main will be installed by the water service provider for each petitioner without charge. If additional footage is required to serve all petitioners, the petitioners shall reimburse the water service provider for any excess footage at the per-linear-foot charge of an eight-inch line based upon the actual estimated cost of construction. This sum shall be on a pro rata basis or in a specified amount for each petitioner listed on the petition with the total of the amounts specified equaling the total reimbursable cost. Pro rata costs shall be equally divided based on the total number of petitioners rather than on the length required to cover the frontage of each petitioner.
(c)
Prior to submission of the petition, the petitioner shall be provided with cost data by the water service provider for the total length of water main installation required. The petition shall be presented to the water service provider at which time a preliminary design will be prepared for the water main as submitted. If a water main larger than eight inches is required to conform with plans for future water service, cost data shall be prepared for both the eight-inch and larger mains and the water service provider shall bear the difference in cost at that time.
(d)
Before the final approval of the petition, the water service provider shall coordinate with the county board of health to ascertain whether any health hazards exist in the petition area that may be alleviated or corrected by the installation of the requested water main.
(e)
This information shall be presented for consideration for final approval by the authorizing authority together with the petition and estimate of cost for review and decision.
(f)
The provisions of this section may be waived by the authorizing authority at its discretion, particularly in those instances where the board of health has determined that a health hazard exists as a consequence of the use of private water supply systems.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-64, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-139. - Developer requests for extension or replacement of water mains on existing city roads.
Developer requests for the extension or replacement of water mains on existing city roads shall be processed as follows:
(1)
In the event the water service provider's plans for future water service call for a main to be installed larger than the size of the main required to supply the development, then the water service provider may pay the difference in cost of the materials to install the size main required by the water service provider. The comparison of material costs will be based upon the water service provider's material cost for the larger pipe. Payment by the water service provider will be made upon completion and satisfactory inspection of the work and upon receipt of a maintenance bond equal to ten percent of the cost of the construction of the water to ten percent of the cost of the construction of the water facility. The developer may provide a letter of escrow or letter of credit acceptable in lieu of the maintenance bond required in this section. An eight-inch main will be considered as the minimum size main required to supply a development of any size.
(2)
Water main design shall be accomplished by water service provider's water system engineers unless otherwise authorized by the water service provider.
(3)
When the developer completes his work in accordance with water service provider specifications and the work has been duly inspected by the water service provider, the developer shall provide "as-built" drawings in accordance with section 25-140(2) and any required easements for the water main installation.
(4)
After the work has been completed and inspected to the satisfaction of the water service provider, the developer shall provide a maintenance bond equal to ten percent of the costs of the construction of such facilities. The developer may provide a letter of escrow or letter of credit acceptable to the water service provider in lieu of the maintenance bond required in this section.
(5)
The developer shall be required to maintain the water lines for a period of 12 months. During this developer maintenance period, the water service provider shall make inspections and instruct the developer by letter as to what corrections must be made, if any.
(6)
At the end of the 12-month developer maintenance period, the water service provider shall make a final inspection and notify the developer and the bonding company, if any, of any corrections to be made. If the work is acceptable at this time, the maintenance bond, letter of escrow or letter of credit shall be released.
(7)
If required corrections are not made within 30 days of notice, the water service provider shall have the authority to make these corrections at the expense of the bonding company. In cases where funds are being held under letter of credit or letter of escrow, the cost of making these corrections shall be drawn by the water service provider from these funds, and the developer charged with any costs above the amount of such funds.
(8)
The water service provider shall have full authority to inspect, test and sterilize all water mains installed under this section.
(9)
No use shall be made of such systems nor shall the water service provider accept such systems until the developer has complied with all the requirements of this section and until satisfactory sterilization and tests have been completed.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-65, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-140. - Installation of water mains in residential subdivisions.
Water mains installed in residential subdivisions shall be installed subject to the following conditions:
(1)
Water mains shall be designed by the water service provider.
(2)
Installation shall be accomplished by a qualified contractor and shall be in accordance with latest water service provider specifications. Upon completion of the water line construction, an engineer registered in the state must provide a statement that the system, as installed, is in accordance with the approved plans and specifications.
(3)
The water service provider shall have full authority to inspect, test and require sterilization of all water mains. No use shall be made of such systems until satisfactory sterilization and test have been completed.
(4)
If it is necessary to route the proposed water main through private property of the developer for circulation or supply purposes, the developer will provide the water service provider with the required easements. Requests for water mains should be submitted to the water service provider after the development plat has been approved by the planning department. A drawing of the proposed development and a properly executed request form should be submitted in order that a layout and estimate of the cost may be prepared. All known requirements for water to satisfy the underwriters, as well as the needs of the prospective occupants, should be stated to assist in the preparation of the layout and estimate.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-66, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-141. - Installation of water mains in dedicated streets of residential, commercial, industrial developments.
(a)
Installation of water mains in dedicated streets of residential, commercial and industrial developments shall be installed under the following conditions:
(1)
Water mains to serve the development shall be designed by the water service provider.
(2)
Installation shall be accomplished by a qualified contractor approved by the water service provider and shall be in accordance with latest water service provider's specifications.
(3)
The water service provider shall have full authority to inspect, test and require sterilization of all water mains. No use shall be made of such systems until satisfactory sterilization and tests have been completed.
(b)
Installation of water mains in commercial/industrial developments in other than dedicated streets shall be in accordance with the policy concerning shopping centers and other similar developments.
(c)
Requests for water mains should be submitted to the water service provider after the development plat has been approved by the planning department. A drawing of the proposed development and properly executed request form should be submitted in order that a layout and estimate of the cost may be prepared by the water service provider. All known requirements for water to satisfy the underwriters, as well as the needs of the prospective occupants, should be stated to assist in the preparation of the layout and estimate.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-67, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-142. - Installation of water mains in shopping centers, certain apartment and condominium developments, developments not dedicating streets to city.
(a)
Shopping centers, apartment and condominium developments of R-A5 or greater density, and similar developments which do not dedicate streets to the city shall be served by a master meter. In cases where fire protection is required to be installed, an eight-inch or larger fire line main may be served through an eight-inch or larger master meter and potable water service taken from the fire line main within the development. As an alternate to this, an unmetered fire line may be installed with a separate master-metered potable water service line. Exception to the requirement for the master meter may be made when, in the opinion of the water service provider, conditions are such that the installation of individual meters within the development would prove more feasible than serving the development by a master meter.
(b)
Installation of an eight-inch or larger water main within developments shall be subject to the following conditions:
(1)
Design of all lines six inches and larger shall be approved by the water service provider, and all materials used in construction of the water main shall be in accordance with water service provider specifications.
(2)
All water main materials and labor shall be paid for by the developer, and installation shall be in accordance with water service provider specifications and by a qualified contractor.
(3)
The water service provider shall have the full authority to inspect, test and require sterilization of all water mains. No use shall be made of such water mains until satisfactory sterilization and tests have been completed.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-68, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-143. - Purchase of materials for water system construction on private property.
(a)
A water system constructed on private property will not be accepted for maintenance by the water service provider unless all water line and appurtenant materials required for the installation are inspected by the water service provider prior to construction and are found to meet the water service provider specifications.
(b)
All water system construction on private property must be inspected by the water service provider during construction before maintenance acceptance will be considered.
(c)
Any planned water system construction considered as private by the owner during the permitting and development review stage of plans review will remain private unless subsections (a) and (b) of this section are complied with.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-69, 1-22-2013)
Secs. 25-144—25-169. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - INITIATION, CONNECTION AND TERMINATION OF SERVICE

Sec. 25-170. - Application for service for all classifications.
Persons desiring water service shall file application with the water service provider and sign a standard contract form prior to receiving service. Application shall be made in person by customer or agent. A prospective customer will be assigned to the proper user classification. Separate application is required for each classification of service desired. A completed application in the form prescribed by the water service provider shall be received at least ten days prior to service connection availability. The use of water service binds a person as if such person had signed a contract.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-81, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-171. - Application for miscellaneous services.
Written application for miscellaneous services shall be made to the water service provider, which shall prescribe uniform procedures and guidelines for initiation of such services. Miscellaneous services shall be scheduled in the order of approved application except in cases of emergency or requirement for financial participation by the water service provider requiring approval of the governing authority.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-82, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-172. - New service connections.
Where a service line does not exist to premises, the water service provider shall tap the water main and install a service line, including meter, meter box and service cock. Service connection shall be made only by an authorized person. No contractor, plumber or other person shall tap any water main without written permission from the water service provider. The customer at this point shall connect the plumbing to the water system. Only one service line shall be provided per application. Service cocks shall be operated only by an authorized contractor or plumber making repairs on plumbing or waterlines, or by an authorized person.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-83, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-173. - Existing connections.
Where a service line exists, the water service provider shall determine whether this service line is to be used or requires replacement. Where service line replacement is required, the application shall be charged as though it were a new service connection. Service connection shall be made as provided for a new service connection.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-84, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-174. - Metering.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning. Where words have not been defined, but are defined in section 1-2, those words shall have the meaning as defined therein.
Apartment means one or more rooms with a private bath and kitchen facilities comprising an independent self-contained residential unit in a buildings.
Condominium is defined in the same manner as it is defined in section 27-1351.
Master meter means a utility-owned meter that measures and totalizes the volume of water flowing from the water distribution system into a multifamily dwelling unit as that term is defined in section 27-1361, building piping system.
Newly constructed apartment means any structure for which a building permit for construction of an apartment is issued after June 1, 2008.
Newly constructed single-family dwelling or condominium means any structure for which a building permit for construction of a single-family dwelling or condominium is issued after June 1, 2008.
Separate water meter means a utility-owned meter that measures and totalizes the volume of water flowing from the water distribution system into a single-family dwelling or condominium's piping system.
Single-family dwelling is defined in the same manner as it is defined in section 27-1352 but also includes dwelling units on an individual lot attached to another dwelling unit by a common party wall, commonly referred to as a townhouse or town home.
Sub-unit water meter means water meters owned and managed by the property owner with a utility-owned master meter that bills for water service based on volume of use. Sub-unit water meters shall allow for the water use in each apartment to be tracked separately.
(b)
Meters. All users except those classified as fire line users shall be metered. All meters shall be sized on the basis of expected volume of water usage. All meters, except sub-meters, are part of the service line provided by the water service provider and are the property of the water service provider.
(c)
Sub-unit water meters for newly constructed apartments. No water shall be furnished to any newly constructed apartment except through sub-unit water meters so that the water use in each apartment can be accurately tracked. Sub-unit water meters allow tenants to know how much water they use and may encourage wiser use of water. Water service however, shall be billed by the water service provider on a master meter basis and the property owner and/or landlord is responsible for paying the water service provider for all charges contained in such bills. The enactment of the ordinance from which this section is derived in no way prevents property owners and/or landlords from using sub-unit water meters to bill each tenant for actual water usage which will encourage wiser use of water by tenants in apartments.
(d)
Separate water meters for single-family dwellings and condominiums. No water shall be furnished to any newly constructed single-family dwelling or condominium except through separate water meters. Water service shall be billed by the water service provider to the property owner based on individual unit water meters and each property owner is responsible for paying the water service provider for all charges contained in such bills.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-85, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-175. - Inspection of service connections.
All plumbing or yard piping connections to a service line shall be subject to inspection by an authorized person prior to service connection. Refusal to allow inspection shall result in refusal of service until inspection is permitted. Inspection may include requirement that plumbing and piping plans be submitted where, in the director's opinion, possibility of system contamination or cross connection may result from service connection. In no case shall service connection be made until all inspection requirements are met.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-86, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-176. - Refusal of service.
Water service may be refused only for the following justifications; reapplication may be made where reasons are rectified:
(1)
Refusal to allow entry. Where admittance to property for necessary work or inspection is not allowed, the water service provider may refuse service.
(2)
Damage to system by connection. Where in the opinion of the city or water service provider that connection will seriously reduce system pressure and fire protection, the water service provider may refuse service.
(3)
Remoteness from system. Where connection requires investment in transmission mains that would not be justified by likely revenues, the water service provider may refuse service or require substantial cost sharing by the customer.
(4)
Technical infeasibility. Where connection would require special pumps or other devices to effect service, the water service provider may refuse service or require substantial cost sharing by the customer.
(5)
Health hazard. Where connection could cause contamination of the system, the water service provider may refuse service.
(6)
Unpaid water bills. New connections or reconnections shall not be made until all previous financial obligations to the system have been met or resolved. This subsection only applies to owner-occupied property.
(7)
Fraudulent misrepresentation in application. If water service has been approved for a location, and thereafter it is determined that the application for the water service contained false or misleading information or omitted material facts, or that the water is being used in or upon the premises for purposes not set forth in the application made for the water service, then the water shall be shut-off by the water service provider, and shall remain shut-off by the water service provider, until the application for water service has been corrected to the satisfaction of the water service provider or until all unauthorized use of water has ceased and any past due sums payable for the water service account have been fully paid to the water service provider.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-87, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-177. - Customer-requested termination.
A customer shall give at least ten days' notice of desire to terminate service to the water service provider, who will advise the customer of approximate date. However, the water service provider is not bound to terminate on a certain date. Service turnoff shall be done only by an authorized person.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-88, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-178. - Termination due to violations of operating and maintenance procedure.
(a)
If the water service provider determines that procedures established by the water service provider for operating and maintaining the system are being violated by a user or other person, the water service provider will give due notice as provided herein. If such violation continues, service to the responsible person shall be terminated and penal actions as provided herein may be taken.
(b)
Assessments of all penalties shall be preceded by due notice, except in case of emergency requiring termination of service. Due notice shall be given by a certified letter, return receipt requested, mailed to the person presumed to be violating a section of this article. This notice shall set forth remedial action required of that person, giving ten days' time after receipt of due notice for remedial action to be completed. If the water service provider determines after this period that the violation continues unremedied, the water service provider may recommend to the proper authorities that the presumed violator be cited for each day that the violation continues unresolved not including the ten-day period.
(c)
When due notice is given for purpose of access for surveys or inspection, acknowledgement and agreement to allow entry shall be made within the same ten days and no offense is presumed. Thereafter, the city or its authorized agents may issue citations by certified letter for each day of violation now presumed only after issuing a second due notice for violation as outlined in this section.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-89, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-179. - Termination due to improper usage.
(a)
The making of improper connections to the system endangering system integrity or possibly leading to system contamination shall be cause for immediate termination of service. Restoration of service after rectification of improper connection shall be treated as a reconnection. Improper usage not determined by the city or water service provider to be of emergency potential shall result in termination after due notice is given.
(b)
Assessments of all penalties shall be preceded by due notice, except in case of emergency requiring termination of service. Due notice shall be given by a certified letter, return receipt requested, mailed to the person presumed to be violating a section of this article. This notice shall set forth remedial action required of that person, giving ten days' time after receipt of due notice for remedial action to be completed. If the city or water service provider determines after this period that the violation continues unremedied, the city or water service provider may recommend to the proper authorities that the presumed violator be cited for each day that the violation continues unresolved not including the ten-day period.
(c)
When due notice is given for purpose of access for surveys or inspection, acknowledgement and agreement to allow entry shall be made within the same ten days and no offense is presumed. Thereafter, the city or its authorized agents may issue citations by certified letter for each day of violation now presumed only after issuing a second due notice for violation as outlined in this section.
(d)
Any person or user of the system who has been found to be in violation of mandatory water restrictions or mandatory water conservation policies shall first be issued a notice of violation. If the violation is not remedied within a specified reasonable time to be determined by the director, a summons shall be issued for the violator to appear in municipal court. If the person or user of the system continues to be in violation of mandatory water restrictions or mandatory water conservation policies thereafter, the continuing violation shall be cause for immediate termination of service. Restoration of service after rectification shall be treated as a reconnection.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-90, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-180. - Violations and penalties.
(a)
Whenever it has been determined that a violation of this article has occurred, a notice of violation shall be served upon the violator. The notice of violation shall be in writing, include a description of the property sufficient for identification of where the violation has occurred, list the provisions of this article which have been violated, and state that, if the violation is not remedied within a specified reasonable time, a summons shall be issued for the violator to appear in municipal court. The notice of violation shall set forth the potential penalty involved and the fact that each day the violation continues shall constitute a new and separate violation.
(b)
If the violation has not been remedied within the time specified in the notice of violation, a summons shall be issued to the violator to appear in municipal court. The summons shall be in writing, include a description of the property sufficient for identification of where the violation has occurred, list the provisions of this article which have been violated, set forth the penalty if the violator is convicted of the violation, and state that each day the violation continues shall constitute a new and separate violation.
(c)
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a summons may be issued to appear in municipal court or terminate connection to the water system without first issuing a notice of violation if, the violation constitutes a threat to the public health, safety, general welfare, or to the water system. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the city or its authorized agents to take any action, including emergency action to terminate connection to the water system or any other enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
(d)
Any person who shall do anything prohibited or fail to do anything required by the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a violation of this article and upon conviction in municipal court shall be subject to the maximum fine or imprisonment or both as set forth in section 1-11. Each day of violation is considered a separate offense and is subject to the maximum fine or imprisonment or both as set forth in section 1-11.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-91, 1-22-2013; Ord. No. 2019-02-08 , § 1(Attch.), 2-26-2019)
Sec. 25-181. - Authority to write summons.
The director may designate authorized personnel to write summons to appear before a court pertaining to violations of this article.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-92, 1-22-2013)
Secs. 25-182—25-200. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - RATES AND CHARGES

Sec. 25-201. - Established; revenue collection.
(a)
All water system rates and charges shall be as established by action of the water service provider and their governing authority.
(b)
Procedures for revenue collection shall be established by the water service provider.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-101, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-202. - Classification of users.
The following list of system users establishes classifications of service as a basis of charges:
(1)
Single. All dwelling, commercial and industrial customers are in this classification who use all of the water supplied through a connection for any use besides fire protection.
(2)
Fire line. A customer shall only use the connection applied for under this classification for fire protection.
(3)
Combined potable and fire line. Any shopping center and/or other development served by a combination potable and fire line located outside the public right-of-way shall be classified as a combined potable and fire line user, where either of the following exists:
a.
A fire line main is served through a master meter with potable water service taken from that fire line main within the development.
b.
Potable water is taken from the fire line through multiple meters.
(4)
Multiple. No multiple dwelling, commercial or industrial customers shall be on one meter, except in case of apartments, shopping centers and office parks, where in the judgment of the water service provider multiple meters are impractical. Approved multiple category customers shall have one meter per premises and shall be charged as single category users.
(5)
Temporary. Temporary use permits shall be granted for periods not exceeding 30 days. After permit expiration the water service provider may, at its option, renew the permit or assign the customer to a permanent classification. This service shall not be used for permanent installation.
(6)
Flat rate. Any existing flat rate customers shall be changed to single or fire line as appropriate. There shall be no unmetered or flat rate customers except as provided under temporary and fire line classifications.
(7)
Contract. Contract users shall include only counties and incorporated municipalities with separate water systems. The service is provided by agreement.
(8)
Illegal. Any user who has not made application for service and received a service connection or whose service has been terminated or who uses a connection for purposes other than as provided in the user's assigned classification is an illegal user.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-102, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-203. - Recurring charges.
The following charges are set by the water service provider and shall be billed on a recurring basis as continuing charges:
(1)
Service. All classifications of users except fire line shall be billed a base charge for service availability, whether service is used or not. This charge shall be fixed on the basis of meter size. For combined potable and fire line users who provide a specific means of determining the requirements of the development, such as by the installation of private meters by the owner, the service charge shall be based on the number and size of private meters installed.
(2)
Commodity. All classifications of users except fire line shall be billed a commodity charge in addition to a service charge on the basis of actual volume of water delivered at the single unit volume rate set by the water service provider.
(3)
Fire line. Fire line customers shall be billed for service availability on the basis of diameter of connection to system mains and number of fire hydrants on premises. If a building complex has establishments each with different owners, then the fire line charges will be prorated by the water service provider based on square footage protected. For combined potable and fire line users:
a.
Where fire hydrants are installed on private lines served through a master meter and/or where such lines serve building sprinkler systems, the owner will be billed for fire service availability on the basis of diameter of connection required to the system mains for fire protection only and on the number of hydrants. There will be no charge, however, for any hydrant which is determined by the county to be adjacent to and available to a public roadway. In addition, potable water readiness to serve charge will be based on the size line required for estimated average flow based on commodity billing as determined by the water service provider.
b.
Where an owner elects to dedicate lines and rights-of-way outside the public road right-of-way in order to utilize multiple meters and where such lines have hydrants installed or serve building sprinkler systems, the owner will be billed for fire service availability on the basis of diameter of connection required to the system mains for fire protection only and on the number of fire hydrants. There will be no charge, however, for any hydrant which is determined to be adjacent to and available to a public roadway. If a building complex has establishments each with different owners, then the fire line charges will be prorated by the water service provider based on square footage protected.
(4)
Contract. Contract service is only by agreement. Billing shall be on the basis of a service charge plus metered volume of water delivered at the unit volume rate set by the contract. Billing shall be at equal periods set by the contract and not less than semiannually.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-103, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-204. - Miscellaneous charges.
(a)
Certain noncontinuous services provided by the county water system have set charges as designated by the water service provider. Charges shall be reviewed from time to time to assure that they cover the cost of services.
(b)
A charge shall be set by the water service provider for installing a service line and meter based on the size of the meter. This charge shall apply to all classifications except fire line users.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-104, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-205. - Special assessments.
The following charges must be ascertained by the water service provider on a case-by-case basis reflecting exigencies involved:
(1)
Damage. The water service provider shall determine charges to be assessed against any person causing damage to any part of the water system.
(2)
Unauthorized activity. Such actions include any connection to or tampering with the system without prior approval of the water service provider. Charges assessed shall reflect the water service provider's assessment of costs involved in inspecting such work or in taking remedial action. Additionally, persons involved shall be assessed such charges as would apply were the work preauthorized and shall be subject to other penalties.
(3)
Replacement of improvements. Persons engaged in work affecting or connecting to the system shall bear the total cost of replacement of any improvements or for making such improvements whole again. These include, but are not limited to, grassing, embankments, pavement and base curbing to city standards. After due notice, the city may elect to proceed with restorative work and charge the damaging person on a materials and force account basis.
(4)
Service termination. A single charge shall be set for termination of service whether initiated by the customer or by the water service provider. Customers relocating within the system service area must terminate old service and make new application.
(5)
Reconnection fee. A charge shall be set for resumption of service to a customer where termination was due to failure to pay bills. New or relocated customers using an existing service line are charged under this subsection. All previous bills shall be paid before a service reconnection will be made. This subsection only applies to owner-occupied property.
(6)
Meter testing. The water service provider may periodically test all meters on its system. A customer may request a test to be made without charge.
(7)
Tap fee. A fee shall be set by the water service provider for providing a connection for a service line or water main to an existing or new water main. Fee shall be based on diameter of service line or water main to be connected to the tap.
(8)
Inspection and sterilization. The water service provider shall establish a list of charges for inspection and line sterilization which shall apply to various categories of construction, duly reflecting force and material requirements.
(9)
Temporary use. Temporary use charges shall be set by the water service provider on a case-by-case basis; such fees shall be no less than the sum of appropriate recurring charges and miscellaneous charges. Such temporary uses, whether connected to mains or fire hydrants, shall be metered. Fire hydrant connections shall also be approved by the department of fire and rescue services.
(10)
Other services. For any services not falling within these definitions, the water service provider may fix a charge on the basis of cost of labor and materials required.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-105, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 25-206. - Revenue collections.
(a)
Payment. A meter reading of all water meters and fire line checks shall be made by the water service provider on a regular basis. All bills are issued by and shall be paid to the water service provider. Payment is due within ten days of issuance and may be made by mail or in person at the address noted on the statement. Failure to receive the bill shall not relieve the customer of payment responsibility.
(b)
Delinquent payment. Notice of delinquent payment shall require payment within ten days of the date due. Service will be terminated after that period without notice. Failure to receive a bill shall not relieve a customer of payment responsibility.
(c)
Excess payments and refunds. Excess payments for all customers shall be credited to the next billing unless service is terminated or written refund request is made.
(d)
Liability of owner. When service is terminated to a rented premises, service may be restored to the premises upon request of a party, renter or owner, who is not personally liable for or who did not personally apply for water service previously and who was previously not delinquent in payment of the water bill at these premises.
(e)
Estimated bills. The water service provider may estimate bills in the case of a broken, inaccurate or inaccessible meter on the basis of previous billings, adding retroactive charges where appropriate.
(f)
Contested charges. A customer may make written notice of an error in charges. In such cases the customer shall make payment equal to that portion of charges uncontested or equal to previous billing, whichever is larger, by payment due date. The water service provider will review contested charges and adjust the next billing as appropriate. The customer may make written request for a hearing with the water service provider or the water service provider's representative if the review is unsatisfactory. Payment must be made for reviewed contested charges when due. Credit shall be made if findings are reversed by the water service provider, whose decision is final.
(g)
Discounts. No discounts shall be made for payments due or for large volume use. Discounts in the form of credits or refunds may be made for change in meter sizes or charged materials returned to the water service provider in satisfactory condition.
(h)
Application fee. Any applicant for water or sewer service shall complete an application for service, shall provide the water service provider with identification for billing purposes, and shall pay an application fee to the water service provider. Application fees shall be set by the water service provider.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-55, § 25-106, 1-22-2013)
Secs. 25-207—25-235. - Reserved.
