APPENDIX A - CATOOSA COUNTY UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE[1]
ARTICLE I. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

1.01.00 - TITLE
Appendix A of the Catoosa County Code of Ordinances shall be known as and entitled the "Catoosa County Unified Development Code" and may be referred to as the "UDC."
1.02.00 - AUTHORITY
This UDC is enacted based on the authority vested in Catoosa County by the State of Georgia, including but not limited to: the Georgia Constitution of 1983 (Article 9, Section 2, Paragraph 4) and Zoning Procedures Law (O.C.G.A. 36-66).
1.03.00 - INTENT AND PURPOSE
A.
The Catoosa County Comprehensive Plan is the official development policy and implementation guide for the county to coordinate and direct physical and economic development, related public investment, and, to provide reasonable regulations for the development of private property in the interest of public health, safety, convenience, and general welfare. This UDC is intended to implement all provisions of the Comprehensive Plan for the development and use of land.
B.
The purpose of this UDC is to:
1)
Provide for the security and stability of property owners;
2)
Maintain property values;
3)
Lessen congestion in the streets and roads;
4)
Secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers;
5)
Encourage economically sound land development;
6)
Create a comprehensive and stable pattern of land uses upon which to plan public infrastructure and facilitate economic development;
7)
Assure the provisions of required streets, utilities, and other facilities and services;
8)
Assure the adequate provisions of safe and convenient traffic access and circulation, both vehicular and pedestrian;
9)
Assure the provision of needed public open spaces and building sites through the dedication or reservation of land for recreational, educational, and other public purposes;
10)
Assure the control and disposition of surface stormwater in new developments and adjacent areas;
11)
Regulate the distribution and density of land uses relative to capacity of public infrastructure and to avoid both the undue concentration of population and the inappropriate dispersion of population;
12)
Provide for the continuing orderly growth and development of the County;
13)
Ensure that proposed development and new land uses protect natural resources and preserve the county's rural setting;
14)
Prevent blight and deterioration while conserving the value of buildings;
15)
Assure compatibility between different types of development and land uses;
16)
Encourage the most appropriate use of land, buildings and structures; and
17)
Assure that land is developed in conformity with the Catoosa County Comprehensive Plan.
1.04.00 - APPLICABILITY
1.04.01   Generally
A.
This UDC shall apply only to the unincorporated areas of Catoosa County, Georgia, as now or hereafter established.
B.
No building, structure, or land shall be used or occupied; no land shall be subdivided; and no building, structure, or part thereof shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, enlarged, or structurally altered unless in conformity with the provisions and requirements of this UDC.
C.
A change of use shall conform to the provisions and requirements of this UDC.
D.
Agricultural activities subject to Best Management Practices for Agricultural Businesses shall be regulated by the Georgia Department of Agriculture and USDA, and enforcement shall be the responsibility of said agencies.
1.04.02   Exemptions and Exceptions
The following general conditions or circumstances are exempt from the provisions and requirements of this UDC:
A.
Buildings or structures that are legally under construction on the date of adoption of this UDC;
B.
Buildings or structures for which a building permit has been issued as of the effective date of this UDC, provided that construction commences prior to the expiration of the building permit, and continues until completed;
C.
Development pursuant to an approved development plan or subdivision plat approved prior to the effective date of this UDC, provided that development commences not later than one year after the effective date of this UDC; or
D.
The proposed use of property lawfully approved as of the effective date of this UDC.
1.05.00 - ADMINISTRATION
A.
Zoning Administrator.
1)
The Catoosa County Zoning Administrator (Zoning Administrator), with exceptions as noted in this Section, is assigned to administer, interpret, implement and enforce the standards, criteria, and procedures of this UDC.
2)
The Zoning Administrator is responsible for specific tasks identified in this UDC, including the following:
a.
Receipt, processing and review of all applications for rezoning, variances, special use permits and UDC text amendments.
b.
Receipt, processing and review of site plans, preliminary subdivision plats and final subdivision plats.
c.
Undertaking all administrative activities related to the use or occupancy or land and buildings under this UDC.
d.
Filing or requesting cease and desist or work stoppage orders.
3)
Throughout this UDC, the term "Zoning Administrator" is used to indicate the responsibility for specified actions, except where specified actions are reserved or specifically delegated by law to another official. In all instances, "Zoning Administrator" shall mean the "Zoning Administrator or designee."
B.
Stormwater Director. The Catoosa County Stormwater Director is assigned to administer, interpret, implement and enforce Article III of this UDC. Responsibilities also include receipt, processing and review of applications and plans identified in Article III.
C.
Building Official. The Catoosa County Chief Building Official (Building Official) is assigned to administer and enforce the provisions of the State Minimum Standard Codes for Construction.
D.
Public Works Director. The Catoosa County Public Works Director is responsible for the administration of Article VI of this UDC.
1.06.00 - RULES OF INTERPRETATION
1.06.01   Generally
A.
In the interpretation and application of the UDC all standards, provisions, and requirements shall be liberally construed in favor of the objectives and purposes of Catoosa County and shall not be construed to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state or federal statutes.
B.
Specific provisions of this UDC shall be followed in lieu of general provisions that may be in conflict with the specific provision.
C.
The text of this UDC shall be followed in lieu of any caption, illustration, summary table, or illustrative table that may be in conflict with the text.
D.
Where provisions of the UDC conflict with other regulations of the Catoosa County Code of Ordinances or construction codes identified in Section 1.09.00 of this UDC, the more stringent restrictions shall be applied.
E.
The Article, Section and paragraph headings and enumerations used in this UDC are included solely for convenience and shall not affect the interpretation of the UDC.
1.06.02   Responsibility for Interpretations
A.
In the event that any question arises concerning the application of regulations, standards, definitions, development criteria, or any other provision of this UDC, the Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for interpretation. In the interpretation of this UDC, the Zoning Administrator shall be guided by the Catoosa County Comprehensive Plan and applicable state or federal law. The Director may also refer any issue to the County Attorney, the Catoosa County Planning Commission (Planning Commission), or to the Catoosa County Board of Commissioners (Board of Commissioners) for their determination.
B.
Responsibility for interpretation by the Zoning Administrator as set forth in this section shall be limited to standards, regulations, and requirements of the UDC, and shall not be construed to include interpretation of any technical codes adopted by reference in the UDC. Interpretation shall not be construed to override the responsibilities assigned by the Board of Commissioners, the Planning Commission, or to any commission, board, or official named in other sections or chapters of the UDC.
C.
The Building Official shall be authorized to render interpretations of the State Minimum Standard Codes for Construction, which are consistent with their intent and purpose.
D.
The Catoosa County Stormwater Director shall be authorized to render interpretations of Article III of this UDC which are consistent with its intent and purpose.
1.06.03   Zoning District Boundary Interpretations
Interpretations regarding boundaries of zoning districts described in Article II shall be made by the Zoning Administrator in accordance with the following:
A.
Boundaries shown as approximately following the centerlines of streets or highways, street lines, or highway rights-of-way lines shall be construed as following such centerlines.
B.
Boundaries shown as approximately following any platted lot, deed or tax parcel lines shall be construed as following such line.
C.
Boundaries shown as approximately parallel to the centerlines of streets, highways or railroads, or rights-of-way of same shall be construed as being parallel to such centerlines and at such distance therefrom as indicated on the zoning map. If no distance is given, such dimension shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on said zoning map.
D.
Where a district boundary line, as appearing on the zoning map divides a lot in single ownership at the time of enactment of this UDC, the district requirements for the least restricted portion of such lot shall be deemed to apply to the whole thereof, provided that such extensions shall not include any part of such a lot more than 200 feet beyond the district boundary line, so long as this use does not infringe on the buffer as otherwise provided in this UDC.
1.06.04   Permissible Land Use Interpretations
Interpretations regarding a requested use that is not identified as a permissible land use in Article II shall be made by the Zoning Administrator in accordance with Section 2.03.02 of this UDC.
1.06.05   Construction of Words and Phrases
A.
Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
B.
Words used in the singular number include the plural, and words used in the plural include the singular.
C.
The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, corporation, trust, limited liability company, and company as well as an individual.
D.
The word "lot" includes the words "plot," "tract," or "parcel."
E.
The word "building" is included in the word "structure."
F.
The words "shall," "must," "will," "is to," and "are to" are always mandatory.
G.
The conjunction "and" indicates that all the connected items, conditions, provisions, or events shall apply.
H.
The conjunction "or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or events may apply singly or in any combination.
I.
The use of "either…or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or events shall apply singly and not in combination.
J.
The words "includes" or "including" shall not limit a term to the specific example but is intended to extent its meaning to all other instances or circumstances of like kind or character.
K.
The word "day" means a calendar day.
L.
The word "month" means a calendar month.
M.
The word "week" means seven days.
N.
The word "year" means a calendar year.
O.
The word "used" or "occupied" as applied to any land or building shall be construed to include the words "intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied."
P.
The word "map," "zoning map," or "Catoosa County Zoning Map" means the "Official Zoning Map of Catoosa County, Georgia."
Q.
References in this UDC to another section hereof, shall also include references to the subsections of such section.
R.
References to a subsection shall include any portions of the section (including its other subsections) within which the subsection (being referred to) is located that are needed to construe such subsection (being referred to).
1.06.06   Computation of Time
A.
Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, If the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty.
1)
When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty.
2)
When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
B.
Whenever a number of days is specified in this UDC, or in any permit, condition of approval, or notice provided in compliance with this UDC, the number of days shall be construed as consecutive calendar days.
1.06.07   Severability
It is intended that the provisions of this UDC be severable; and should any portion be held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect any other portion of this UDC.
1.07.00 - DOCUMENTS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE
The documents identified in the following sections include any attachments, future additions, appendices, indexes, and amendments, including local amendments adopted by Catoosa County.
1.07.01   Official Zoning Map of Catoosa County
The Official Zoning Map of Catoosa County, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this UDC.
1.07.02   Catoosa County Future Development Map
The Catoosa County Future Development Map, together with all explanatory matter thereon and accompanying supporting data, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this UDC.
1.07.03   Construction Codes
Each construction code listed in Sections 1.07.03(A) through (K) is hereby adopted by reference as if set forth in its entirety. The following minimum standard codes as approved by the State of Georgia include any attachments, future editions, indexes, supplements and amendments, including local amendments adopted by Catoosa County.
A.
International Building Code
B.
International Residential Code
C.
International Fire Code
D.
International Plumbing Code
E.
International Mechanical Code
F.
International Fuel Gas Code
G.
National Electrical Code
H.
International Energy Conservation Code
I.
International Existing Building Code
J.
International Property Maintenance Code
K.
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code
L.
Rules and Regulations of the Safety Fire Commissioner Chapter 120-3-3: Rules and Regulations for the State Minimum Fire Safety Standards
1.07.04   Reserved.
Editor's note— A resolution adopted Sept. 19, 2017, repealed § 1.07.04, which pertained to major road plan of Catoosa County and derived from a resolution adopted April 7, 2015.
1.07.05   Georgia Stormwater Management Manual
The Georgia Stormwater Management Manual (latest edition), published by the Atlanta Regional Commission, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be part of this UDC.
1.07.06   Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control
The Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia (latest edition), published by the State Soil and Water Conservation Commission, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be part of this UDC.
1.07.07   Areas of Special Flood Hazard
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in its current effective Flood Insurance Study (FIS) dated September 11, 2009, with accompanying maps and other supporting data, and any revision thereto, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be part of this UDC. For those land areas acquired by a municipality through annexation, the current effective FIS dated September 11, 2009, with accompanying maps and other supporting data and any revision thereto, for Catoosa County, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be part of this UDC. The repository for public inspection of the flood insurance study (FIS), accompanying maps and other supporting data, is located: Catoosa County Stormwater Management, 184 Tiger Trail Ringgold, GA 30736.
1.07.08   Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems
The Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems (latest edition), published by the Georgia Department of Human Resources Division of Public Health, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this UDC.
1.07.09   Groundwater Recharge Area District Map
The map depicting significant recharge areas as identified by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources in Hydrologic Atlas 18 (1989 edition) is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be part of this UDC.
1.07.10   Georgia Pollution Susceptibility
The Georgia Pollution Susceptibility Map, Hydrologic Atlas 20 (1992 edition), published by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be part of this UDC.
1.07.11   Generalized Wetlands Map
The Generalized Wetlands Map, defined as the current effective U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service National Wetlands Inventory Maps for Catoosa County, Georgia together with all explanatory matter thereon and attached thereto, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this UDC.
1.07.12   Water Supply Watershed Protection District Overlay Map
The Water Supply Watershed Protection District Overlay Map of Catoosa County, together with all explanatory matter thereon and attached thereto, is hereby adopted by referenced and declared to be a part of this UDC.
1.07.13 FHWA Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices
The FHWA Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (latest edition), published by the Federal Highway Administration, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be part of this UDC.
1.07.14   American National Standards Institute Codes
American National Standards Institute (ANSI) Codes (latest edition) regulating communications towers and antenna, and any other ANSI code cited in this UDC, are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be part of this UDC.
1.07.15   Engineering Technical Standards Manual
The Catoosa County Engineering Technical Standards Manual, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this UDC.
1.08.00 - ACRONYMS AND DEFINITIONS
Except as specifically defined herein, all words used in this UDC shall have their customary dictionary definitions. The following terms are defined for the purposes of this UDC.
1.08.01   Acronyms
A-1 — Agricultural District
AASHTO — Association of State and Highway and Transportation Officials
ADT — Average Daily Traffic
ANSI — American National Standards Institute
BFE — Base Flood Elevation
BMP — Best Management Practice(s)
CBR — California Bearing Ratio
C-1 — General Business District
C-2 — Neighborhood Business District
C-3 — Office District
CCSWCD — Catoosa County Soil and Water Conservation District
CPESC — Certified Professional in Erosion and Sediment Control
C-R — Commercial-Residential District
DIP — Ductile Iron Pipe
d.u. — Dwelling Units
EPD — Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources
FHBM — Flood Hazard Boundary Map
FIRM — Flood Insurance Rate Map
GDOT — Georgia Department of Transportation
GSWCC — Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission
HSG — Hydrologic Soil Group
I-1 — Heavy Industrial District
I-2 — Light Industrial District
LIA — Local Issuing Authority
MRPA — Metropolitan River Protection Act
MS4 — Municipal (County) Separate Storm Sewer System
NAVD — North American Vertical Datum
NGVD — National Geodetic Vertical Datum
NPDES — National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
NOI — Notice of Intent
NOT — Notice of Termination
NTU — Nephelometric Turbidity Units
PCFD — Planned Commercial Farm District
PUD — Planned Unit Development
R-A — Residential-Agricultural District
RCP — Reinforced Concrete Pipe
R-1 — Single-Family Residential District (22,000 sq. ft.)
R-2 — Residential Attached District
R-3 — Single-Family Residential District (10,000 sq. ft.)
R-4 — Manufactured Home Development District
R-T/Z — Residential Townhouse/Zero Lot Line District
RV — Recreational Vehicle
UDC — Unified Development Code
USGS — United States Geological Survey
1.08.02   Definitions
A
Abandoned vehicle. A vehicle, including cars, trucks, trailers, boats, motorcycles, recreational vehicles, mobile homes, manufactured homes, or any other similar vehicle that meets one or more of the following conditions:
A.
Has been left unattended upon a highway, street, or alley or other public property outside a designated parking space for a period of 48 hours; and/or
B.
Is within public view and is inoperable, partially or wholly dismantled, wrecked, junked, discarded or similar condition, or any vehicle without a current license plate as required by law, and is located outside of an enclosed building, garage, carport, licensed junkyard or other place of business designated and lawfully used for the storage of such inoperable vehicles for a period exceeding 30 days.
Accessory structure. A structure having minimal value and used for parking, storage and other nonhabitable uses, such as garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, hay sheds and the like.
Accessory use. A use clearly incidental to, customarily found in connection with, and subordinate to the principal use or building, and located on the same lot with such principal use or building.
Addition (to an existing building). Any walled and roofed expansion to the perimeter of a building in which the addition is connected by a common load-bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is connected by a firewall or is separated by an independent perimeter load-bearing wall, shall be considered new construction.
Address program administrator. The official of the county charged with the administration of this article, including his authorized representative. The address program administrator shall be the 911 administrator of the county.
Administrative variance. See "Variance, administrative."
Adult entertainment establishment. An "adult bookstore," an "adult dancing establishment," an "adult mini-motion picture theater," an "adult motion picture arcade," an "adult motion picture theater," an "adult video store," an "erotic dance establishment," an "escort bureau or introduction service," and a "massage parlor" as these terms are defined in this UDC:
Adult bookstore. An establishment having as a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade magazines or other periodicals distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or section comprising five percent or more of its total floor space, devoted to the sale or display of such materials or five percent or more of its net sales consisting of printed materials which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Adult dancing establishment. A business that features dancers displaying or exposing specified anatomical areas.
Adult mini-motion picture theater. An enclosed building with a capacity of less than 50 persons used for commercially presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
Adult motion picture arcade. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time and where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Adult motion picture theater. An enclosed building with a capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
Adult video store. An establishment having as a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade videotapes or movies or other reproductions, whether for sale or rent, distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or section, comprising at least five percent of its total floor space, devoted to the sale or display of such material or that derives more than five percent of its net sales from videos characterized or distinguished by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Erotic dance establishment. A nightclub, theater or other establishment that features live performances by topless and/or bottomless dancers, go-go dancers, strippers or similar entertainers, where such performances are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Escort bureau or introduction service. Any business, agency or person who, for a fee, commission, hire, reward or profit, furnishes or offers to furnish names of persons, or who introduces, furnishes or arranges for persons who may accompany other persons to or about social affairs, entertainments or places of amusement, or who may consort with others about any place of public resort or within any private quarters.
Massage parlor. Any establishment to which the public is invited and wherein the business, trade or profession of a masseur or masseuse is practiced.
Agricultural operations (or use). The raising, harvesting, or storing of crops; feeding, breeding, or managing livestock; producing or storing feed for use in the production of livestock, including but not limited to cattle, calves, swine, hogs, goats, sheep and rabbits; the production of aquacultural, horticultural, dairy, livestock, and apiarian products. Includes all associated activities and structures, including pastures and grasslands for the production of livestock; and barns, sheds, silos, granaries, windmills and related uses. The term "agricultural operations" shall not include "poultry production" as defined by this UDC.
Agriculture, retail sales. Retail selling of agricultural products raised or produce on the premises.
Agriculture, wholesale sales. Wholesale selling of agricultural products raised or produce on the premises.
Airport. A place where aircraft can land and take off, usually equipped with a runway, hangars, facilities for refueling and repair, and an airport control tower.
Alley. A minor way, public or private, used for service access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting a street.
Amusement or theme park. A facility, primarily outdoors, that may include structures and buildings where there are a variety of attractions, such as mechanical rides, water rides, games, shows, theme exhibits, refreshment stands, and picnic grounds.
Animal and pet services. Establishments that provide animal and pet care services such as boarding, grooming, sitting and training. This definition does not include "veterinary services", "kennels" and "pet or pet supply stores."
Animal racetrack/event arena. Any facility which operates race tracks or events involving animals, which include, but are not limited to, horse or dog racing, rodeos, horse shows or equine activities conducted for commercial purposes and for which the property is primarily used or dedicated.
Appeal. A request for a review of a decision; or, of an interpretation of any provision of this UDC by the Zoning Administrator, Stormwater Director, Planning Commission, or authorized enforcement agency or personnel in accordance with the provisions of this UDC.
Applicant. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or developed or his legally appointed representative, including any employee, agent, consultant or contractor acting on behalf of an applicant that has submitted an application for development under this UDC.
Aquifer. Any stratum or zone of rock beneath the surface of the earth capable of containing or producing water from a well.
Area of shallow flooding. A designated AO or AH zone on a community's flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet, and/or where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident.
Area of special flood hazard. The land in the floodplain within a community subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. In the absence of official designation by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, areas of special flood hazard shall be those designated by the local community and referenced in Article III of this UDC.
Assisted-living facility. A personal care home servicing 25 residents or more that is licensed by the Georgia Department of Community Health to provide assisted living care. See also "Personal care home."
Authorized enforcement agency. The Catoosa County Planning and Zoning Office or such other agency of Catoosa County as designated by the Board of Commissioners from time to time. Authorized enforcement agency shall be deemed to include the employees or designees of the director of the county agency designated to enforce the provisions of this UDC.
Automobile parking facilities. Any public or private area designed and used for parking motor vehicles, including surface parking (open or covered); multi-storied parking structure with ramps; and underground parking structure with ramps.
Automobile repair and service. A specialized structure for auto repair and service, including service garages and other structures that have bays for automobile service.
Automobile service station. See "Gas station."
B
Banquet hall. A facility, smaller than an exhibition, convention or conference structure, that maintains an on-site catering staff and hosts events such as: trade shows, graduation parties, wedding receptions, and business or retirement luncheons.
Bar. Any commercial establishment licensed by Catoosa County to serve any alcoholic beverages on the premises for immediate consumption. These establishments may also provide limited food and entertainment (primarily music) services. These establishments are also known as bars, taverns, nightclubs, dance clubs or drinking places.
Base flood elevation (BFE). The elevation shown on the flood insurance rate map for zones AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, AR/AO, V1-V30, and VE that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that has a one percent chance of equaling or exceeding that level in any given year.
Base flood. The flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
Basement. That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all sides. See Figure 7.
Bed and breakfast inn (B&B). The renting of not more than three (3) rooms in an owner-occupied dwelling for lodging and serving of breakfast to not more than six transient roomers, provided that the renting of such rooms for such purpose is incidental and subordinate to the principal use of the dwelling and shall not be for a duration greater than one week. The term "bed and breakfast inn" is synonymous with the term "tourist home." This definition does not include hotels, motels, tourist courts, or boardinghouses.
Best management practices (BMPs). For the purposes of Section 3.02.00 of this UDC, BMPs include sound conservation and engineering practices to prevent and minimize erosion and resultant sedimentation, which are consistent with, and no less stringent than, those practices contained in the "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia" published by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted. For the purposes of Section 3.06.00, BMPs are schedules of activities, prohibitions of practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants, directly or indirectly, into stormwater, receiving waters, or stormwater conveyance systems. For the purposes of Section 3.06.00, BMPs also include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage.
Biomedical waste treatment or disposal facility. A facility that disposes of or treats pathological waste, biological waste, cultures and stocks of infectious agents or associated biologicals, chemotherapy waste, discarded medical equipment or parts, but does not include expendable supplies and materials that have been decontaminated.
Block. A piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highways or streets, other than alleys.
Boardinghouse. A dwelling, other than a hotel or motel, where meals or housing accommodations are provided and where more than four nonfamily members reside regardless of whether remuneration is paid. This term shall be synonymous with the term "roominghouse."
Board or Board of Commissioners. The Board of Commissioners of Catoosa County, Georgia.
Buffer. A landscaped area, barrier, wall or natural area intended to visually separate dissimilar land uses or properties from one another. For the purposes of Section 3.02.00 of this UDC, the term "buffer" shall be defined as the area of land immediately adjacent to the banks of state waters in its natural state of vegetation, which facilitates the protection of water quality and aquatic habitat. For the purposes of Section 3.05.00 of this UDC, the term "buffer" shall be defined as a natural or enhanced vegetated area with no or limited minor land disturbances, such as trails and picnic areas, located adjacent to reservoirs or perennial streams within a water supply watershed.
Natural buffer. A visual screen created by vegetation of such density so as to present an opaque visual separation when viewed from one side to the other throughout the year.
Structural buffer. A visual screen created through construction of a solid wooden fence, decorative masonry wall, earthen berm, or combination of fence or wall with an earthen berm, which may be supplemented with vegetation, so as to present an opaque visual separation when viewed from one side to the other throughout the year.
Buildable area. That portion of a lot bounded by the minimum required front, rear and side yards as established by the minimum building setback lines for a principal building.
Building. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls and intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals or chattels or that is intended for storage.
Building, accessory. A detached, subordinate structure designed for the use of which is clearly incidental to, customarily associated with, and related to the principal structure or use of the land, and which is located on the same lot as the principal structure or use.
Building, principal. A building in which is conducted the main use of the lot on which said building is located.
Building Inspector. The person appointed, employed, or otherwise designated as the Director of Building Inspections; the County Building Official or any of his or her assistants.
Building code. Minimum standards as set by the International Building Code, as amended.
Building line. A line beyond which no foundation wall or part of the structure of any building shall project, with the exception of the roof overhang and the subsurface projection of footings. The building line shall be determined by the required front, side and rear yards.
Bus or truck maintenance facility. A specialized structure for bus or truck repair and service, including service garages and other structures that have bays for automobile service.
Business entity or business entities. One or more persons engaging in activities for a profit, either individually or through the use of any of the following: company or corporation; general partnership; joint venture; limited liability company; limited liability partnership; limited partnership; sole proprietorship; a trust; or any other corporate or related entity similar in nature or function to any of those listed above.
C
Campground/RV Park. A site where one or more lots are used, or are intended to be used, by campers and their equipment, including tents, tent trailers, travel trailers, and recreational vehicles. These establishments may provide facilities and services, such as cabins, washrooms, food services, recreational facilities and equipment, and organized recreational activities.
Car rental. An establishment that rents or leases passenger cars without drivers.
Car wash. An establishment that engages in cleaning, washing, and/or waxing automotive vehicles, such as passenger cars, trucks, and vans, and trailers.
Catering business. An establishment that provides single event-based food services, transporting food via equipment and vehicles to events or prepare food at an off-premise site. This term shall be synonymous with "caterer."
Cemetery. Property used for the interment of the dead. A cemetery may include: a burial park for earth interments; a mausoleum for vault or crypt interments; a columbarium with niches for urns; and a chapel. Types of cemeteries include: the monument cemetery, the lawn cemetery, and the garden memorial park.
Certificate of occupancy. A document issued by the Building Inspector certifying that a building and use or reuse of a particular building or land is in conformity with applicable requirements set forth by this UDC, and that such building or land may be occupied for the purpose stated therein.
Certificate of zoning compliance. A certificate issued by the Zoning Administrator that a proposed use is either in conformity or nonconformity with existing zoning laws.
Certified personnel. A person who has successfully completed the appropriate certification course approved by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
Channel. A natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks that conducts continuously or periodically flowing water.
Charter bus terminal. Any premises for the storage or parking of motor-driven buses and the loading and unloading of passengers. The terminal may include ticket purchase facilities and restrooms.
Child day care. Establishments that are licensed or commissioned by the Georgia Department of Human Resources to care for infants and preschool children for less than 24 hours of day without transfer of legal custody. Some offer pre-kindergarten education programs or provide care services for older children. Child day care facilities are classified as follows:
Family day care home. A private residence operated as day care for up to six children.
Group day care home. Any place operated as day care for not less than seven or more than 18 children.
Child day care center. Any place operated as day care for 19 or more children.
Church. See "Place of worship."
Clean Water Act. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §1251 et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
Cluster housing. The grouping of conventional single-family detached houses on a site to allow the remaining land to be preserved as greenspace. See also "Conservation subdivision."
College. Means only such state, county, city, church or other colleges which teach the subjects commonly taught in the common colleges of this state. Includes junior colleges, colleges, universities, and professional schools. These educational institutions furnish academic or technical courses and grant degrees, certificates, or diplomas at the associate, baccalaureate, or graduate levels. The requirement for admission is at least a high school diploma or equivalent general academic training.
Commercial stable. Any place where horses are kept, housed, boarded, lodged, fed, hired, trained, sold or bred as a commercial activity. Commercial stables are also known as riding stables, riding academies, and riding schools.
Communications and information uses. Establishments that produce or distribute information. These establishments include publishing (newspapers, magazines and other periodicals, books, databases, calendars, greeting cards, maps and similar works, as well as computer software); motion pictures and sound recording (production, publishing, and distribution); telecommunications and broadcasting (excluding wireless telecommunication facilities); Internet access and service providers; library or archive services; and news syndicates.
Compatible. Congruous with, tolerant of and having no substantial adverse effects on neighboring uses. This term shall be synonymous with the term "consistent."
Compliance. As used in the context of being in compliance with this UDC or the terms thereof, this means not only the following of the literal wording and intent of this UDC, but also the following of the wording and intent of the orders, decisions and interpretations given to this UDC (or portions hereof) by the zoning entity.
Comprehensive plan. The official development policy and implementation guide for the county to coordinate and direct physical and economic development, related public investment, and, to provide reasonable regulations for the development of private property in the interest of public health, safety, convenience, and general welfare. The plan shall be adopted or amended in accordance with the Georgia Comprehensive Planning Act (O.C.G.A. § 50-8-1 et seq.) and the applicable Minimum Standards and Procedures for Local Comprehensive Planning as adopted by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs. The term "comprehensive plan" is synonymous with the term "Catoosa County Comprehensive Plan."
Condition of zoning approval. A requirement adopted by the Board of Commissioners at the time of approval of a rezoning or special use, placing greater additional requirements or restrictions on the property than provided in this UDC for the protection or benefit of neighboring properties to ameliorate the effects of a zoning change.
Conditional use. See "Special use."
Condominium. Individual ownership units in a multi-family structure combined with joint ownership of common areas of the building, grounds, in accordance with all applicable provisions of the Georgia Condominium Act of 1975 (1975 Ga. Laws, as amended).
Congregate personal care home. See "Personal care home."
Conservation easement. An agreement between a land owner and Catoosa County or another government agency or land trust that permanently protects open space or greenspace on the owner's land by limiting the amount and type of development that can take place, but continues to leave the remainder of the fee interest in private ownership.
Conservation subdivision. A form of subdivision design which allows increased residential density in areas of a site that are more suitable for development, thereby preserving environmentally sensitive areas of the site as undisturbed greenspace.
Construction activity. Activities subject to NPDES Construction Permits or the provisions of the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act. These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance. Such activities include but are not limited to clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
Construction related businesses. Establishments that either build buildings or structures, or perform additions, alterations, reconstruction, installation, and repairs. They may also provide building demolition or wrecking services. These establishments usually include onsite storage of equipment and materials and may include office space associated with the business. This definition also includes establishments engaged in blasting, test drilling, landfill, leveling, earthmoving, excavating, land drainage, and other land preparation.
Control and disposition of surface water. The plan approved by the Soil Conservation District for the control of surface water, soil erosion and sedimentation, as approved by the Planning Commission and the Director of Stormwater Management.
Convenience store. An establishment that primarily sells a limited line of goods that generally includes milk, bread, soda, snacks, newspapers and magazines, and a limited amount of freshly prepared foods for off-premises consumption.
Corridor. For the purposes of Section 3.05.00 of this UDC, the term "corridor" shall be defined as all land within the buffer areas established adjacent to reservoirs or perennial streams within a water supply watershed and within other setback areas specified in Section 3.05.00.
County road. Any road or highway located within the unincorporated areas of Catoosa County, Georgia, and which are also within the jurisdiction and control of the Board of Commissioners.
County separate storm sewer system. The storm drainage system or systems located within the boundaries of Catoosa County, Georgia.
County (the County). The County of Catoosa, State of Georgia.
Courier and messenger services. Establishments that provide air, surface, or combined courier delivery services of parcels and messages within or between metropolitan areas or urban centers. These establishments may form a network including local, and point-to-point pickup and delivery.
Critical facility. Any public or private facility, which, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the disaster or would increase the hazard to life and health. Critical facilities include:
A.
Structures or facilities that produce, use, or store highly volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic, or water-reactive materials;
B.
Hospitals and nursing homes, and housing for the elderly, which are likely to contain occupants who may not be sufficiently mobile to avoid the loss of life or injury during flood and storm events;
C.
Emergency operation centers or data storage centers which contain records or services that may become lost or inoperative during flood and storm events; and
D.
Generating plants, and other principal points of utility lines.
Crops. Fruits and products of all annual or perennial plants, trees, and shrubs and shall also include plants, trees, shrubs, and other agricultural products that are produced for sale.
Cut. A portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation; the depth below original ground surface to the excavated surface. Also known as excavation.
D
Dangerous chemical. Any chemicals that pose a significant risk of death or serious illness to human beings by exposure to their vapor, combustion, external bodily (skin) contact or touch. Such chemicals include known or suspected carcinogens via such exposure.
Daycare. See "Child day care."
Design professional. A professional licensed by the State of Georgia in the field of: engineering, architecture, landscape architecture, forestry, geology, or land surveying; or a person that is a certified professional in erosion and sediment control (CPESC) with a current certification by Certified Professional in Erosion and Sediment Control, Inc.
Detention facility. A detention basin or structure designed for the detention of stormwater runoff and gradual release of stored water at controlled rates.
Detention. The temporary storage of stormwater runoff in a stormwater management facility for the purpose of controlling the peak discharge.
Developer. A person who undertakes land development activities.
Development. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, and storage of materials or equipment; a land development or land development project.
Diagonal tie. Any tiedown designed to resist horizontal or shear forces and that deviates not less than 30 degrees from a vertical point.
Dispose. The discharge, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, placing of any solid waste or hazardous waste or dangerous chemicals into or on any land or water so that such solid waste or hazardous waste or any constituent thereof may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or be emitted into any waters, including groundwaters, or be burned, incinerated or deposited by any other means onto or into the air, land or water, including groundwater.
Domesticated animals. Those animals that are tamed, associated with a family life, and accustomed to living in or near habitations of humans.
Drainage easement. An easement appurtenant or attached to a tract or parcel of land allowing the owner of adjacent tracts or other persons to discharge stormwater runoff onto the tract or parcel of land subject to the drainage easement.
Drainage structure. A device composed of a virtually non-erodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water from one place to another by intercepting the flow and carrying it to a release point for stormwater management, drainage control, or flood control purposes.
DRASTIC. The standardized system for evaluating groundwater pollution potential using the hydrogeologic settings described in U.S. Environmental Protection Agency document EPA-600-2-87-035. (Note: The DRASTIC methodology is the most widely used technique for evaluating pollution susceptibility).
Drive-in theater. See "Theater, drive-in."
Driving range. A stand-alone golf practice facility that operates outside of a golf course, where golf balls are prevented from leaving the facility due to the use of netting. Includes the term "golf driving range."
Driveway. A private way, beginning at the property line of a lot abutting a public road, private road, easement or private right-of-way, giving access from the public road, recorded easement, recorded private road or private right-of-way, and leading to a building, on that lot.
Duplex. See under "Dwelling."
Dwelling. A building designed, arranged or used for permanent living quarters for one or more persons.
Accessory dwelling. A second dwelling unit that is added to an existing lot for use as a complete and independent facility. The dwelling unit may be established within the principal building or in a separate building on the same lot as the principal building. This definition includes carriage houses, guest houses, second units, granny flats and accessory apartments.
Two-family dwelling (duplex). A building containing two single-family dwelling units totally separated from each other by an unpierced wall extending from basement to roof.
Multi-family dwelling. A building either designed, constructed, altered, or used for more than four adjoining dwelling units, with each dwelling unit having a party wall or party floor ceiling connecting it to at least one other dwelling unit in the building. The term "multi-family dwelling" shall include the terms "multiple family dwelling" and "apartment building."
Single-family detached dwelling. A detached building containing (1) dwelling unit. See also "Manufactured home," "Mobile home," "Modular home," "Residential industrialized building," and "Site-built single-family detached dwelling."
Zero lot line dwelling. A building located on a lot in such a manner that one or more of the dwelling's sides rests on a lot line.
Dwelling unit. A building or portion thereof, providing complete living facilities (sleeping, cooking and sanitary) for one family.
E
Easement. A grant by a property owner of the use of land for a specific purpose or purposes by the general public, a corporation, or a certain person or persons.
Elevated building. A non-basement building built to have the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls, pilings, columns, piers, or shear walls adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a base flood event.
Erosion and sedimentation control plan. A plan that is designed to minimize the accelerated erosion and sediment runoff at a site during land disturbance activities.
Erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan. A plan required by the Erosion and Sedimentation Act, O.C.G.A. Chapter 12-7 that includes, as a minimum, protections at least as stringent as the state general permit, best management practices, and requirements in Section 3.02.00 of this UDC.
Erosion. The process by which land surface is worn away by the action of wind, water, ice or gravity.
Establishment. For the purposes of this Article, the term "establishment" shall be defined as an economic unit where business is conducted or services or industrial operations are performed.
Exhibition, convention, or conference structure. A facility designed to accommodate special events that require an exhibition hall, meeting rooms, an auditorium and/or kitchen and banquet facilities. Trade shows, public shows, conventions, food functions, receptions, dances, banquets, assemblies, and other activities are typically hosted in these structures.
Existing construction. For the purposes of determining flood insurance rates, structures for which the "start of construction" commenced before September 28, 1979.
Existing manufactured home park or subdivision. A manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before March 12, 1987.
Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision. The preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads.
Extended detention. The detention of stormwater runoff for an extended period, typically 24 hours or greater.
Extreme flood protection. Measures taken to prevent adverse impacts from large low-frequency storm events with a return frequency of 100 years or more.
F
Factory-built home. See "Modular home."
Family personal care home. See "Personal care home."
Family. An individual or two or more persons related by blood or marriage, including stepchildren or adopted children living together in a dwelling unit having no roomers or boarders or having not more than four persons who need not be related by blood or marriage living together in a dwelling unit (regardless of whether such roomer or boarders are paying an enumeration for said boarding). For purposes of this ordinance, "a family" may include five or fewer foster children placed in a family foster home licensed by the State of Georgia, but shall not include fraternities, sororities, roominghouses or boardinghouses, rest homes, or tourist homes.
Field verified topographical survey. Physically entering the property and verifying the elevations, drainage and accuracy of the topographical map.
Fill. A portion of land surface to which soil or other solid material has been added; the depth above the original ground surface or an excavation.
Final stabilization. All soil-disturbing activities at the site have been completed, and that for unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent structures and areas located outside the waste disposal limits of a landfill cell that has been certified by EPD for waste disposal, 100 percent of the soil surface is uniformly covered in permanent vegetation with a density of 70 percent or greater, or equivalent permanent stabilization measures (such as the use of riprap, gabions, permanent mulches or geotextiles) have been used. Permanent vegetation shall consist of: planted trees, shrubs, perennial vines; a crop of perennial vegetation appropriate for the time of year and region; or a crop of annual vegetation and a seeding of target crop perennials appropriate for the region. Final stabilization applies to each phase of construction.
Finished grade. The final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting or filling and conforming to the proposed design.
Fitness, gym or athletic club. An indoor recreational facility which provides services for fitness or recreational sports teams, clubs, or individual activities. The facility may include any of the following: sauna, spa or hot tub facilities, exercise rooms, indoor tennis, handball, racquetball, and other indoor sports and fitness activities. Does not include adult entertainment establishments.
Flea market. An indoor establishment that retails a general line of used goods. Includes thrift stores and antique stores.
Flood hazard boundary map (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by the Federal Insurance and Mitigation Administration, where the boundaries of areas of special flood hazard have been defined as zone A.
Flood insurance rate map (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by the Federal Insurance and Mitigation Administration, delineating the areas of special flood hazard and/or risk premium zones applicable to the community.
Flood insurance study. The official report by the Federal Insurance and Mitigation Administration evaluating flood hazards and containing flood profiles and water surface elevations of the base flood.
Flood or flooding. A volume of surface water that is too great to be confined within the banks or walls of a conveyance or stream channel and that overflows onto adjacent lands; A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
A.
The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
B.
The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
Floodplain. Any land area susceptible to flooding.
Floodproofing. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents.
Floodway fringe, lower. The portion of the area of special flood hazard that is located between the limit of the floodway and a line connecting all points half the distance between the floodway and the limit of the area of special flood hazard.
Floodway fringe, upper. The portion of the area of special flood hazard that is located between the lower floodway fringe and the boundary of the area of special flood hazard.
Floodway. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated height.
Freeboard. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for purposes of floodplain management. "Freeboard" tends to compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the watershed.
Funeral home. A building used for the preparation of the deceased for burial and the display of the diseased and rituals connected therewith before burial or cremation. A funeral home may contain assembly rooms; rooms for embalming, caskets, showing and other functions; cremation facilities; and sleeping quarters for employees.
G
Gas station. Structures that are specialized for selling gasoline with storage tanks, often underground or hidden. They may have bays for car washes. Does not include the term "truck stop" as defined in this Article.
Generalized wetlands map (Environment, Wetland Protection). The current U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service National Wetlands Inventory maps for Catoosa County, Georgia.
Golf course. A tract of land laid out for at least nine holes for playing the game of golf that may include a clubhouse, snack bars, pro shop, and practice facilities. A golf course may comprise dining facilities and other recreational facilities that are known as country clubs. These establishments often provide food and beverage services, equipment rental services, and golf instruction services. This definition does not include the terms "driving range" or "miniature golf" as defined in this Article.
Golf driving range. See "Driving range."
Grade school. Means only such state, county, city, church or other schools as teach the subjects commonly taught in the common schools in this state and which meet the State of Georgia requirements for education.
Grading. Altering the shape of ground surfaces to a predetermined condition; this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling and shaping or any combination thereof and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
Grandfathered use. See "Non-conforming use."
Greenhouse. See "Plant nursery."
Greenspace. Permanently protected areas of a site that are preserved in a natural state. This definition includes, but is not limited to, wetlands, river buffer zones, woodlands, wildlife corridors, pastures, meadows, and similar natural property. See also "Open space."
Grocery store. An establishment that primarily sells a general line of food products for off-premises preparation and consumption. These establishments include meat and seafood markets, delicatessen-type establishments, establishments retailing baked goods (not for immediate consumption and made off-premises); and specialty food stores.
Ground anchor. Any device at the manufactured house stand designed to secure a manufactured house to the ground.
Ground elevation. The original elevation of the ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
Group project. Two or more buildings used for multi-family residential, commercial, industrial, educational, medical, religious, or civic uses that are constructed on a plot of land in accordance with the provisions of this UDC.
Gun range, indoor. See "Shooting range, indoor."
H
Hazardous materials. Any material, including any substance, waste, or combination thereof, which, because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics, may cause, or significantly contribute to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety, property, or to the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of, or otherwise managed.
Hazardous waste. Any solid waste which has been defined as a hazardous waste in regulations promulgated by the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to the Federal Act which is now in force and effect on February 1, 1988, codified as 40 CFR section 261.3 and any designated hazardous waste.
Hazardous waste facility. Any property or facility that is intended or used for storage, treatment or disposal of hazardous waste, including but limited to: chemical manufacturing plants; fertilizer deposit areas (pile or piles covering an area in excess of one acre); a use that involves the ponding or pooling of liquid industrial use or liquid chemicals which, in their mixed or unmixed state are suspected or proven to cause danger to human health; or, a use the includes the burying of solid or liquid chemicals which, in their mixed or unmixed state, are suspected or proven to cause danger to human health. This definition does not include service stations where liquids are used as motor fuels and are stored and dispensed from fixed equipment into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles; oil change businesses which service the changing of oil on automobiles, motorcycles and other motor vehicles; automotive mechanic shops; automotive body shops; automotive garages; provided that such excepted facilities use the tract of land upon which such businesses are located exclusively for the excepted uses or uses incidental thereto (such as convenience stores, food markets, facilities for the sale and service of tires, facilities for the sale and service of batteries and accessories and the sale of gifts and other crafts).
Health and human services. Medical and non-medical establishments that provide health care and social assistance and that are bound to the regulations and oversight of local, state, and federal health and human services departments. Medical establishments provide health care services outside of a hospital, such as: ambulatory or outpatient care services; clinical offices for physicians, dentists, chiropractors, optometrists, etc.; outpatient care centers or clinics; medical and diagnostic laboratories; and, blood and organ banks. Non-medical establishments provide social assistance and associated services, such as: social assistance, welfare, and charitable services; child and youth services (non-day care), community food services, emergency and relief services, elderly and persons with disabilities services (outside of home); other family services such as hotline centers, suicide crisis centers, and self-help organizations; veterans affairs; and vocational rehabilitation. The definition of "health and human services" excludes "pain management clinics" and "drug addiction treatment centers" as defined by this Article.
Height, building. The vertical distance to the highest point of the roof for flat roofs; to the deck of mansard roofs; and to the average height between eaves and the ridge for gable, hip, and gambrel roofs, measured from the curb level if the building is not more than 10 feet from the front lot line or from the average elevation of the finished grade surrounding the structure in all cases.
Heliport. A place used exclusively for the landing and takeoff of helicopters, together with appurtenant buildings and facilities. The heliport accommodates helicopters used by individuals, corporations and helicopter air tax services. Also known as a general aviation heliport.
Highest adjacent grade. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface, prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed foundation of a building.
Historic structure. Any structure that is:
A.
Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
B.
Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
C.
Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and determined as eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
D.
Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and determined as eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either:
1)
By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior, or
2)
Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.
Home occupation. Any activity carried out for profit by the resident and conducted as an accessory use in the resident's principal dwelling unit.
Hospital authority. Shall have the same meaning as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 31-7-72, as amended.
Hospital. Any building, facility, or place in which are provided two or more beds and other facilities and services that are used for persons received for examination, diagnosis, treatment, surgery, or maternity care for periods continuing for 24 hours or longer and which is classified by the Department of Human Resources of the State of Georgia as a hospital.
Hotel. An establishment with guest rooms or suites that are directly accessed from an enclosed interior lobby and are rented to the general public for transient lodging. A hotel may or may not have kitchen facilities. These establishments include resort hotels that do not have gambling services. They may also offer food services, recreational services, convention hosting services, laundry services, etc. and may provide accessory guest facilities such as swimming pools, tennis courts, indoor athletic facilities, accessory retail uses, etc. This definition does not include motels (see "Motel.")
Hotspot. An area where the use of the land has the potential to generate highly contaminated runoff, with concentrations of pollutants in excess of those typically found in standard or normal stormwater runoff.
Hydrologic soil group (HSG). A natural resource conservation service classification system in which soils are categorized into four runoff potential groups. The groups range from Group A soils, with high permeability and little runoff produced, to Group D soils, which have low permeability rates and produce much more runoff.
I
Illegal discharge. Any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the storm drain system, except as exempted in Section 3.06.00 of this UDC.
Illicit connection. Means any one of the following:
A.
Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system, including but not limited to any conveyances which allow any non-stormwater discharge (including sewage, processed wastewater, and wash water) to enter the storm drain system and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency; or
B.
Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps, or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
Impervious cover. A surface composed of any material that significantly impedes or prevents the natural infiltration of water into soil. Impervious surfaces include, but are not limited to, rooftops, buildings, decks, patios, swimming pools, streets and roads, and any concrete or asphalt surface.
Impervious surface. See "Impervious cover."
Incinerator. All devices intended or used for the reduction or destruction of solid, liquid or gaseous waste by burning. Includes the term "garbage or trash incinerator."
Indoor games or recreation facility. An establishment that provides indoor amusement and entertainment services for a fee or admission charge, including bowling alleys, ice skating and roller skating, pool and billiard rooms as primary uses, coin-operated amusement arcades, electronic game arcades (video games, pinball, etc.) and dance halls, clubs and ballrooms.
Industrial activity. Any activity subject to NPDES Industrial Permits as defined in 40 CFR, § 122.26(b)(14).
Industrial stormwater permit. A national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit issued to an industry or group of industries which regulates the pollutant levels associated with industrial stormwater discharges or specifies on-site pollution control strategies.
Industrialized building. Any structure or component thereof which is designed, constructed and installed in compliance with the Georgia Industrialized Building Act (O.C.G.A. Title 8, Chapter 2, Article 2, Part 1) and the Rules of the Commissioner of the Georgia Department of Community Affairs for Industrialized Buildings and is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation on a building site and has been manufactured in such a manner that all parts or processes cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof. See also "Residential industrialized building."
Infiltration. The process of percolating stormwater runoff into the subsoil.
Injurious. In terms of light, noise or other attributes, an effect on the comfort or enjoyment of property such that the sufferer is subjected to a deprivation or hardship as balanced against the ability of the landowner (of the land upon which the attribute originates) to take action to confine the effects of the attribute. This term shall be synonymous to the term "annoying" and may be referred to in this UDC as an "attribute."
Inspection and maintenance agreement. A written agreement providing for the long-term inspection and maintenance of stormwater management facilities and practices on a site or with respect to a land development project which, when properly recorded in the deed records, constitutes a restriction on the title to a site or other land involved in a land development project.
Install. For the purpose of manufactured home installation, the term "install" shall be defined as follows: To construct a foundation system and to place or erect a manufactured home on such foundation system. Such term includes, without limitation, supporting, blocking, leveling, securing, or anchoring such manufactured home and connecting multiple or expandable sections of such manufactured home.
J
Junk. Wrecked or inoperative (whether repairable or not) motor vehicle(s), scrap copper, scrap brass, scrap rope, scrap glass, scrap rags, scrap metal, scrap paper, scrap batteries, scrap appliances, scrap beds and bedding, scrap rubber, scrap tires, scrap motor vehicle parts, scrap furniture, scrap wood, scrap building materials, scrap tools or other used materials that have been abandoned from their original use but may or may not be used again in their present form or in a new form.
Junkyard. Any outside use involving the storing, disposal, buying or selling of junk that can be viewed from other property, public streets or public roads.
Jurisdictional wetland determination. A delineation of jurisdictional wetland boundaries by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as required by Section 404 of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1344, as amended.
Jurisdictional wetlands. An area that meets the definitional requirements for wetlands as determined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. For the purposes of Section 3.07.00, the term "jurisdictional wetlands" shall be defined as an area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation.
K
Kennel. Any land designated or arranged for the boarding and care of more than five dogs or five cats (under eight week old pups and kittens shall be excluded from such count) that is not completely enclosed. A kennel may be either commercial or noncommercial.
L
Laboratory or specialized industrial facility. A laboratory or unique and specialized light industrial structure. Testing laboratories perform physical, chemical, and other analytical testing services, such as acoustics or vibration testing, assaying, biological testing (except medical and veterinary), calibration testing, electrical and electronic testing, geotechnical testing, mechanical testing, nondestructive testing, or thermal testing.
Land development activities. Those actions or activities which comprise, facilitate or result in land development.
Land development project. A discrete land development undertaking.
Land development. Any land change, including, but not limited to, clearing, digging, grubbing, stripping, removal of vegetation, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land, construction, paving, and any other installation of impervious cover.
Land-disturbing activity. Any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land but not including agricultural practices as described in Section 3.02.00 of this UDC.
Landfill. A disposal site employing an engineering method of disposing of solid waste in a manner that minimizes environmental hazards by spreading or applying cover materials over all exposed waste at intervals. The term "landfill" shall be synonymous with the term "sanitary landfill."
Large water supply watershed. A watershed containing 100 square miles or more of land within the drainage basin upstream of a governmentally owned public drinking water supply intake.
Larger common plan of development or sale. A contiguous area where multiple separate and distinct construction activities are occurring under one plan of development or sale. For the purposes of this paragraph, "plan" means an announcement; piece of documentation such as a sign, public notice or hearing, sales pitch, advertisement, drawing, permit application, zoning request, or computer design; or physical demarcation such as boundary signs, lot stakes, or surveyor markings, indicating that construction activities may occur on a specific plot.
Lawful use. A use which complies with all federal, state and county laws, ordinances, regulations and statutes as interpreted by the appellate courts.
Liquid product (non-water) storage. Tanks that primarily store fuel, oil, and other liquid products (except water). Also known as a tank farm.
Local issuing authority. The Catoosa County Board of Commissioners or its assigned or designated representative, which shall be responsible for administering Section 3.02.00 of this UDC and which is certified pursuant to subsection (a) O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8.
Lot. A portion or tract of land devoted to a common use, or occupied by a building or group of buildings devoted to a common use together with the customary accessories and open spaces belonging to the same that meets the minimum requirements for lot size depending upon the use as set forth in in this UDC.
Corner lot. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
Double-frontage lot ("Through lot"). A lot that fronts on two parallel streets or that fronts on two streets that do not intersect at the boundaries of the lot.
Flag lot. A lot not meeting minimum frontage requirements with access provided to the bulk of the lot by means of a narrow corridor.
Interior lot. A lot having frontage on only one street.
Reverse frontage lot. A through lot with frontage on two parallel streets with vehicular access restricted to only one of the streets.
Lot depth. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines, measured in the general direction of the side lot lines.
Lot frontage. The length of the front lot line measured at the street right-of-way line.
Lot line. The boundary dividing a given lot from the street or adjacent lots.
Front lot line. The lot line that abuts a street. A lot adjacent to more than one street will have more than one front lot line.
Rear lot line. The lot line that does not intersect with a street right-of-way line and is not a front lot line.
Side lot line. The lot line that intersects with a street right-of-way line and is not a front lot line.
Lot width. The width of the lot at the building line measured parallel to the street right-of-way or in the case of a curvilinear street parallel to the chord of the arc between the intersection of the side lot lines and the street right-of-way line.
Lot of record. A lot whose existence, location and dimension have been legally recorded or registered in a deed or on a plat.
Lowest floor. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other than a basement, is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of other provisions of this UDC.
Lumber yard. An area and structures used for the storage, distribution, and sale of finished or rough-cut lumber and lumber products.
M
Major traffic corridor. A roadway with Georgia DOT traffic counts above 2,000 per day (both directions).
Manufactured home park or subdivision. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
Manufactured home. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq. This definition excludes travel trailers, recreational vehicles and mobile homes.
Pre-owned manufactured home. Any manufactured home that has been previously used as a residential dwelling and has been titled.
Manufactured house. See "Manufactured home."
Manufacturing. Establishments engaged in the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials or substances into new products, including the assembling of component parts, the creation of products, and the blending of materials. Categories of manufacturing include the following:
Manufacturing —Food, textiles and related products. Manufacturing establishments that produce or manufacture: food products for intermediate or final consumption in a process that primarily uses raw materials from livestock or agricultural products; nonalcoholic and fermented and distilled alcoholic beverages; ice; tobacco products; textiles and apparel; and leather and leather substitute (such as rubber, plastics or textiles) products.
Manufacturing —Wood, paper and printing products. Manufacturing establishments that manufacture: wood and paper products, such as lumber, plywood, veneers, wood containers, wood flooring, wood trusses, and prefabricated wood buildings; paper, pulp or converted paper products, such as paper bags; printed materials, such as newspapers, books, periodicals, and greeting cards; and furniture and related articles, such as mattresses, windows blinds, cabinets, fixtures, furniture parts, and frames.
Manufacturing —Chemicals and adhesives. Manufacturing establishments that transform or refine chemicals, that manufacture products from chemicals, or that manufactures adhesives. These establishments manufacture: petroleum and coal products (by transforming crude petroleum and coal into usable products); chemicals, plastics, and rubber products; nonmetallic mineral products such as bricks, refractories, ceramics, glass, cement, concrete, lime, gypsum, abrasives, ceramic plumbing fixtures, statuary, cut stone products, and mineral wool. These establishments include, but are not limited to, asphalt plants, concrete plants, cement plants, and glue factories.
Manufacturing —Metals, machinery and electronics. Manufacturing establishments that transform or refine metals or that that manufacture products from metals. These establishments manufacture: basic metal products, such as ingot, billet, sheets, strips, bars, rods, wires, and castings, or finished products (by smelting/refining and transforming metal); products that apply mechanical force, such as machinery for agriculture, construction, mining, ventilation, industrial/commercial heating and cooling, and metalworking; electrical equipment, appliance, and components manufacturing, such as computers, computer peripherals, communications equipment, audio equipment, lighting equipment, batteries, motors, and other products that generate, distribute and use electrical power; and equipment for transporting people and goods, such as automobiles.
Manufacturing —Miscellaneous. Manufacturing establishments that manufacture products not classified elsewhere, such as: jewelry and silverware; dolls, toys, games and musical instruments; office supplies (excluding paper); and signs.
Marina. Docking and storage facilities for pleasure craft owners. A marina may retail fuel and marine supplies, and may repair, maintain, or rent pleasure boats in addition to operating facilities.
Mean sea level. The average height of the sea for all stages of the tide. It is used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain. For purposes of the Flood Damage Prevention section in Article III of this UDC, the term is synonymous with National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD).
Metropolitan River Protection Act (MRPA). A state law referenced as O.C.G.A. § 12-5-440 et seq. which addresses environmental and developmental matters in certain metropolitan river corridors and their drainage basins.
Miniature golf. Indoor or outdoor novelty golf game played on a miniature course. These establishments are distinct from golf courses.
Mobile home. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the travelling mode, is eight body feet or more in width, or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein and manufactured prior to June 15, 1976.
Modular home. See "Residential industrialized building."
Motel. An establishment with guest rooms or suites that are directly accessed from an exterior walkway and are rented to the general public for transient lodging. A motel may or may not have kitchen facilities. They may also offer food services, recreational services, convention hosting services, laundry services, etc. and may provide accessory guest facilities such as swimming pools, tennis courts, indoor athletic facilities, accessory retail uses, etc. This definition includes tourist courts.
Motor speedway. See "Racetrack."
Motor vehicle. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, except trackless trolleys, which are classified as streetcars.
Movie theater. See "Theater, movie."
Multi-family. See "Multi-family dwelling" under "Dwelling."
Museum or exhibition facility. Establishments that present displays of natural, historic, educational, or cultural interest such as: exhibitions and art galleries; planetariums; aquariums; and outdoor facilities without a major structure.
N
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD). As corrected in 1929 is a vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain.
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Stormwater Discharge Permit. A permit issued by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (or by a state under authority delegated pursuant to 33 U.S.C. §1342(b) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable to the activities of an individual, group, or on a general, area-wide basis.
Natural ground surface. The ground surface in its original state before any grading, excavation or filling.
Neighboring property(ies). Properties adjacent to or nearby the property which is the subject of regulation, rezoning, variance or other similar zoning action.
Nephelometric turbidity units (NTU). Numerical units of measure based upon photometric analytical techniques for measuring the light scattered by finely divided particles of a substance in suspension. This technique is used to estimate the extent of turbidity in water in which colloidally dispersed or suspended particles are present.
New construction. Means, for the purposes of determining insurance rates, structures for which the "start of construction" commenced after September 28, 1979, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management purposes, "new construction" means structures for which the "start of construction" commenced after March 12, 1987, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
New development. A land development activity on a previously undeveloped site.
New manufactured home park or subdivision. A manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after March 12, 1987.
NOI. A notice of intent form provided by EPD for coverage under the state general permit.
Nonconforming lot. A lot of record whose area, frontage, width or other dimensions, or location were lawful prior to the adoption or amendment of this UDC, and which, by reason of such adoption or amendment, no longer meets or exceeds one or more such requirements of the applicable zoning district.
Nonconforming sign. A sign that was lawfully erected and maintained prior to the adoption or amendment of this Development Code, and which by reason of such adoption or amendment fails to conform to all applicable regulations and restrictions of this UDC.
Nonconforming structure. A structure or building whose size, dimensions, location on a property or other features were lawful prior to the adoption or amendment of this UDC, but which, by reason of such adoption or amendment, no longer meets or conforms to one or more such requirements of this UDC.
Nonconforming use. A use or activity that was lawfully established prior to the adoption or amendment of this UDC, but which, by reason of such adoption or amendment, is no longer a use or activity permitted by right or no longer meets or conforms to the requirements of this UDC.
Non-point source pollution. A form of water pollution that does not originate from a discrete point such as a sewage treatment plant or industrial discharge, but involves the transport of pollutants such as sediment, fertilizers, pesticides, heavy metals, oil, grease, bacteria, organic materials and other contaminants from land to surface water and groundwater via mechanisms such as precipitation, stormwater runoff, and leaching. Non-point source pollution is a by-product of land use practices such as agricultural, silvicultural, mining, construction, subsurface disposal and urban runoff sources.
Non-stormwater discharge. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is not composed entirely of stormwater.
Nonstructural stormwater management practice or nonstructural practice. Any natural or planted vegetation or other nonstructural component of the stormwater management plan that provides for or enhances stormwater quantity and/or quality control or other stormwater management benefits, and includes, but is not limited to, riparian buffers, open and greenspace areas, overland flow filtration areas, natural depressions, and vegetated channels.
North American Vertical Datum (NAVD). As corrected in 1988 is a vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain.
NOT. A notice of termination form provided by EPD to terminate coverage under the state general permit.
Nuisance. A nuisance is defined as provided in O.C.G.A. §§ 41-1-6 and 41-1-1 as anything that causes hurt, inconvenience, or damage to another and which tends to annoy the community, or injure the health of the citizens in general, or corrupt the public morals; provided, for the purposes of this code that a nuisance shall be only that which is directly related to junk; junk cars; keeping of non-domesticated animals in a residential zone; noise that is not caused by an animal; visual clutter; illegal filling of land; a nonconforming use in a district; dilapidated structures; or discharge of stormwater or soil or sediments onto county roads or right-of-ways which constitute a potential danger to motorists.
Nursing home. Any facility that primarily provides skilled nursing care and related services to residents who require medical or nursing care; rehabilitation services to the injured, disabled, or sick; or on a regular basis, health care and services to individuals who because of their mental or physical condition require care and services (above the level of room and board) which is available to them only through these facilities, and is not primarily for the care and treatment of mental diseases. Establishments are required to be licensed by the Georgia Department of Community Health. Also known as a rest home.
O
Off-site facility. A stormwater management facility located outside the boundaries of the site.
Open space. Any parcel or area of land or water that is permanently set aside though dedication, designation or reservation to remain in a natural state or to be improved for passive or active recreation.
Common open space. Open space within a development that is designed and intended for the common use by all residents within the development.
Greenspace. Permanently protected areas of a site that are preserved in a natural state.
Operator. The party or parties that have:
A.
Operational control of construction project plans and specifications, including the ability to make modifications to those plans and specifications.
B.
Day-to-day operational control of those activities that are necessary to ensure compliance with an erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan for the site or other permit conditions, such as a person authorized to direct workers at a site to carry out activities required by the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan or to comply with other permit conditions.
Other property(ies). Property(ies) owned by persons other than the owner of the property which is the subject of the zoning use proposed.
Outdoor recreational sports facility. A facility providing various outdoor sports for fitness or recreational sports teams, clubs or individual activities, where the facilities are oriented more toward participants than spectators, such as: athletic/sports fields (baseball, football, softball, soccer, track and field, etc.); skateboard parks, swimming pools, and court sports (basketball, handball, squash, tennis, volleyball, racquetball, etc.) This definition does not include the terms "animal racetracks/event arenas" or "shooting ranges."
Outfall. The location where stormwater in a discernible, confined and discrete conveyance, leaves a facility or site or, if there is a receiving water on site, becomes a point source discharging into that receiving water.
Overbank flood protection. Measures taken to prevent an increase in the frequency and magnitude of out-of-bank flooding (i.e., flow events that exceed the capacity of the channel and enter the floodplain), and that are intended to protect downstream properties from flooding for the two-year through 25-year frequency storm events.
Owner. The legal or beneficial owner of a site, including, but not limited to, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, receiver, executor, trustee, lessee or other person, firm or corporation in control of the site; an individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, or corporation having sufficient proprietary interest to seek development of land.
P
Package store. An establishment licensed by Catoosa County to sell packaged alcoholic beverages in unbroken packages for off-premises consumption and where the sale of alcoholic beverages in unbroken packages comprises more than 50 percent of the licensee's annual gross sales and where the sale of nonalcoholic items is incidental to the business of the licensee at that location.
Pain management clinic. Shall mean either:
A.
Any entity, location, or business regardless of the name of the entity and regardless of the name displayed for the general public, which fulfills all of the following criteria:
1)
A privately owned clinic, medical practice, business, entity, or office;
2)
Which is owned by one or more persons or other business entity;
3)
The intention of which is for it to be operated for a profit;
4)
That is not affiliated with any of the following:
a.
Any facility for the treatment of the terminally ill; or,
b.
A hospital authority; or
c.
A non-profit health organization; or
d.
Any hospice; or
e.
Any hospital; and,
5)
Which employs one or more physicians who are primarily engaged in the treatment of pain by prescribing pain medicine; or,
B.
Any entity, location, or business regardless of the name of the entity and regardless of the name displayed for the general public, which fulfills all of the following criteria:
1)
Any clinic, medical practice, business, entity or office;
2)
Which dispenses schedule II, III, or IV drugs. Excluded from this definition is an entity engaged in the practice of pharmacy which derives less than 25 percent of its gross revenue from the sales of schedule II, III, or IV drugs; hospitals; physician groups owned or operated by a health care system; surgery centers; in-patient care facilities; assisted living facilities; outpatient facilities owned or operated by a hospital system; any facility owned or operated by a hospital authority; any rehabilitation center where a portion of the patients reside at the center; any nursing home where a portion of the patients reside at the nursing home, and drug addiction treatment centers.
Perennial stream. A stream that flows throughout the whole year as indicated on a USGS Quad map.
Performance theater. See "Theater, performance."
Permit. The authorization necessary to conduct a land-disturbing or land development activity under the provisions of this UDC.
Person (Roads, Obstruction or Blocking of Streets, Roads and Highways). Any individual, partnership, corporation, firm, association, joint venture, trust, estate, commission, board, institution, or any other legal entity, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
Person. Any individual, trust, firm, joint stock company, corporation, partnership, association, estate, state or municipal commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, political subdivision of the state (excluding Catoosa County), any interstate body or any other legal entity.
Personal care home. Any dwelling, whether operated for profit or not, which undertakes through its ownership or management to provide or arrange for the provision of housing, food service, and one or more personal services for two or more ambulatory adults who are not related to the owner or administrator by blood or marriage and who are not mentally ill persons posing a danger to others. Establishments are required to be licensed by the Georgia Department of Community Health.
Congregate personal care home. A home for adults which offers care to three to 25 persons.
Family personal care home. A home for adults in a residence, non-institutional in character, which offers care to up to two persons.
Personal care services. Establishments providing non-medical services involving the care of a person or his or her personal goods or apparel. These establishments include: barber and beauty shops; tailor and dressmaker shops; shoe repair; coin-operated laundromats; dry cleaning pick-up stores; massage therapy services that are licensed in accordance with the Georgia Massage Therapy Practice Act; locksmiths; clothing rental stores; and tanning salons that are registered in accordance with O.C.G.A. Title 31 Chapter 38. The term "personal care services" also includes establishments that sell health and personal care merchandise from a fixed point-of-sale location, including pharmacy or drug stores, cosmetic and beauty supply stores, and optical stores.
Pet or pet supply store. An establishment that sells pets, pet foods, and other pet supplies. Does not include the sale of animals for farming purposes.
Phase or phased. Sub-parts or segments of construction projects where the sub-part or segment is constructed and stabilized prior to completing construction activities on the entire construction site.
Place of worship. A permanent freestanding building located in an area designated for such use by the UDC where persons regularly assemble for religious worship, which shall be publicly designated as a religious facility, but does not include a residence or place of business also used for religious purposes. Includes churches, synagogues, temples, mosques or other facilities where persons regularly assemble for religious worship.
Planned unit development (PUD). A planned development without regard to the customary lot size requirements or the segregation of housing types or uses and which may include multiple zones within the same tract.
Planning Commission. The Catoosa County Planning Commission.
Plant nursery. An establishment that grows food crops of any kind under cover or grows nursery stock (including shrubbery, bulbs, fruit stock, and sod) and flowers. "Under cover" is generally defined as greenhouses, cold frames, cloth houses, and lath houses. The crops grown are removed at various stages of maturity and have annual and perennial life cycles. The nursery stock includes short rotation woody crops that have growth cycles of 10 years or less. This definition includes greenhouses.
Plat. A map, plan or layout of a county, city, town, lot, section, subdivision or development indicating the location and boundaries of properties.
Platted lot. A lot designated on a plat which has been duly recorded in the clerk of superior court's office of Catoosa County, showing the division of land into lots, streets and areas, marked upon the earth, and represented on paper.
Pollutant. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may include, but are not limited to paints; varnishes, and solvents; oil and other automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects, ordinances, and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
Pollution susceptibility. The relative vulnerability of an aquifer to being polluted from spills, discharges, leaks, impoundments, applications of chemicals, injections and other human activities in the recharge area.
Pollution susceptibility map. The relative vulnerability to pollution prepared by the department of natural resources, using the DRASTIC methodology. (Georgia Department of Natural Resources Hydrologic Atlas 20: Groundwater Pollution Susceptibility Map of Georgia.)
Post-development. Refers to the time period, or the conditions that may reasonably be expected or anticipated to exist, after completion of the land development activity on a site as the context may require.
Poultry production. Breeding, hatching or raising of poultry for meat or egg production.
Predevelopment. Refers to the time period, or the conditions that exist, on a site prior to the commencement of a land development project and at the time that plans for the land development of a site are approved by the plan approving authority. Where phased development or plan approval occurs (preliminary grading, roads and utilities, etc.), the existing conditions at the time prior to the first item being approved or permitted shall establish predevelopment conditions.
Premises. Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land, whether improved or unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
Pre-owned manufactured home. See under "Manufactured home."
Principal use. Primary purpose for which land or a building is used.
Private club. An establishment engaged in promoting the interests of its members, who are affiliated with a nationally chartered organization, either service, athletic or charitable; usually characterized by certain membership qualifications, payment of fees and dues, regular meetings, and a constitution and bylaws. Establishments may operate bars and restaurants for their members as an incidental use in accordance with the requirements of Article 6 Alcoholic Beverages of the Catoosa County Code of Ordinances.
Private road. Any one-way or two-way road for ingress and/or egress not for use by the general public that serves two or more properties.
Professional office. A building or space within a building for office-type use, such as: finance and insurance establishments (including bank, credit union, or savings institution; credit and finance establishment; investment banking, securities, and brokerage establishment; insurance-related establishment; and, fund, trust, or other financial establishment); real estate and property management services; business, professional, scientific, and technical services (including legal services; accounting, tax, bookkeeping, payroll services; architectural, engineering, and related services; graphic, industrial, and interior design services; consulting services; research and development services; advertising, media and photography services); and, administrative services (including facilities support services; employment agency; business support services; collection agency; travel arrangement and reservation services; investigation and security services). This definition does not include "Services to buildings and dwellings."
Project. A land development project; the entire proposed development project regardless of the size of the area of land to be disturbed.
Properly designed. Designed in accordance with the design requirements and specifications contained in the "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia" (manual) published by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission (GSWCC) as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted and amendments to the manual as approved by the GSWCC up until the date of NOI submittal.
Public road. Any road, street, highway, thoroughfare or other way of passage that has been irrevocably dedicated to the public or in which the public has acquired rights by prescription, without regard to whether it is open for travel.
Q
Quad-plex. A building containing four dwelling units, and each unit has two open-space exposures and shares one or two walls with adjoining unit or units.
R
Racetrack. Any facility located within the boundaries of Catoosa County, Georgia, which has as its primary purpose the conducting of motor vehicle races and practice laps, which include, but are not limited to, drag races, stock car races, dirt track races or any other race which involves a motor vehicle, as well as any practice track for motor vehicles. Includes the terms "motor speedway," "automobile race track," "motorcycle race track," "motocross track," and "supercross track."
Railroad facility. Includes railroad switching facilities and railroad sheds and other support structures.
Recharge area. Any portion of the earth's surface, where water infiltrates into the ground to replenish an aquifer.
Recorded plat. A plat recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of Catoosa County.
Recreational vehicle (RV). A vehicle, which is:
A.
Built on a single chassis;
B.
Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection;
C.
Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and
D.
Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
Recycling collection point. An incidental use that serves as a neighborhood dropoff point for temporary storage for recoverable resources. No processing of such items would be allowed. This facility would generally be located in a shopping center parking lot or in other public/quasi-public areas such as those at churches and schools.
Recycling plant. A facility that is not solely a landfill in which recoverable resources or products (such as paper, plastic, glass or metal) are recycled, compressed, reprocessed or treated to begin to return such product to a condition in which it may again be used for production
Redevelopment. A land development project on a previously developed site, but excludes ordinary maintenance activities, remodeling of existing buildings, resurfacing of paved areas, and exterior changes or improvements which do not materially increase or concentrate stormwater runoff, or cause additional non-point source pollution.
Regional stormwater management facility or regional facility. Stormwater management facilities designed to control stormwater runoff from multiple properties, where the owners or developers of the individual properties may assist in the financing of the facility, and the requirement for on-site controls is either eliminated or reduced.
Regulated activity. For the purpose of wetland protection, the term "regulated activity" shall be defined as activity which will, or which may reasonably be expected to, result in the discharge of dredged or fill material into waters of the U.S. excepting those activities exempted in Section 404 of the Federal Clean Water Act.
Reservoir boundary. The edge of a water supply reservoir defined by its normal pool level.
Residential industrialized building. An industrialized building that is a dwelling unit designed and constructed in compliance with the Georgia State Minimum Standard One and Two Family Dwelling Code which is wholly or in substantial part, made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in a manufacturing facility and cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof. Any such structure shall not contain a permanent metal chassis and shall be affixed to permanent load-bearing foundation. The term shall not include manufactured homes as defined by the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq. The term "residential industrialized building" shall be synonymous with the term "modular home."
Retail sales. Indoor establishments engaged in a sales and service use in which household or personal items are rented or sold in small quantities and not in bulk, and in stores that are designed to attract a high volume of walk-in customers. Product lines often include: apparel, books, paint, cosmetics, photographic equipment, jewelry, toys, art supplies, flowers, cellular phones, and dry goods. Items tend to be smaller than those provided by establishments selling or renting heavy consumer goods. Definition does not include adult entertainment businesses.
Retail sales - Heavy consumer goods. Establishments engaged in a sales and service use in which household or personal items tend to be larger and there are more varied product lines and services, when compared to "Retail sales" establishments. In addition, products may be sold in bulk. Establishments that provide heavy consumer goods often include department stores, warehouse clubs, superstores, electronics and appliances stores, furniture or home furnishing stores, hardware stores or home centers, heating and plumbing equipment sales, lawn and garden supply stores, and lumber yards and building material sales.
Department store, warehouse club or superstore. An establishment that offers a large variety of goods from a single location. Products may include: apparel; furniture, appliances and home furnishings, paint, hardware, toiletries, cosmetics, photographic equipment, jewelry, toys, sporting goods and groceries.
Electronics and appliances stores. An establishment that offers electronics and appliance merchandise from point-of-sale locations and may offer maintenance and repair services. Products sold at these establishments include household-type appliances, cameras, televisions, stereos, and other electronic goods. These establishments often sell computer hardware and software along with other lines of merchandise. Does not include "computer and software stores," "camera and photographic supplies stores," and "cellular telephone stores."
Furniture or home furnishing store. An establishment that offers furnishings such as: baby furniture; outdoor furniture; office furniture (except those sold in combination with office supplies and equipment); floor coverings (rugs, carpets, vinyl floor coverings, and floor tile not only ceramic or wood); and window treatments (curtains, drapes, blinds, and shades). Some of these items may be sold in combination with major appliances or home electronics, or in combination with installation and repair services.
Hardware store or home center. An establishment that offers materials and supplies for home building or repairs. They also sell other products, such as lumber, plumbing goods, electrical goods, tools, house wares, hardware, and, sometimes, lawn and garden supplies.
Heating and plumbing equipment sales. An establishment that sells heating and plumbing equipment. Does not include heating and plumbing contractors that retail and install or service equipment.
Lawn and garden supply store. An establishment that offers specialized products and services for lawn and garden. They come in two variations: a). Some sell new outdoor power equipment which may or may not be accompanied with repair services and replacement parts. b). Others sell nursery and garden products, such as trees, shrubs, plants, seeds, bulbs, and sod, that are predominantly grown elsewhere (these establishments may sell a limited amount of a product they grow themselves).
Building materials sales. An establishment that stores, distributes and sells finished or rough-cut lumber and lumber products in retail lumber yards; also sells other heavy building materials.
Reverse frontage lot. See under "Lot."
Rezoning. See "Zoning change."
Right-of-way line. The dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a contiguous road right-of-way.
Right-of-way. An area or strip of land either public or private on which a right of use has been recorded.
Road address. The combination of numbers and road names assigned by the county that identifies a particular building or lot
Roadway drainage structure. A device such as a bridge, culvert, or ditch, composed of a virtually non-erodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic, or other such material that conveys water under a roadway by intercepting the flow on one side of a traveled roadway consisting of one or more defined lanes, with or without shoulder areas, and carrying water to a release point on the other side.
Roof. The outside top covering of a building. See Figure 1.
Flat roof. A roof that is not pitched and the surface of which is generally parallel to the ground.
Gable roof. A ridged roof forming a gable at both ends of the building.
Gambrel roof. A gabled roof with two slopes on each side, the lower steeper than the other.
Hip roof. A roof with sloping ends and sides.
Mansard roof. A roof with two slopes on each of four sides, the lower steeper than the other.
Shed roof. A roof with one slope.
Roominghouse. See "Boardinghouse."
Runoff. Stormwater runoff.
S
Sailport. A site used exclusively for the landing and takeoff of a sailplane (glider); includes appurtenant buildings and facilities. A sailplane is an aircraft without an engine.
Sawmill. An establishment engaged in sawing dimension lumber, boards, beams, timbers, poles, ties, shingles, shakes, siding, and wood chips from logs or bolts. Sawmills may plane the rough lumber that they make with a planing machine to achieve smoothness and uniformity of size. Sawmills may include a woodyard.
Sediment. Solid material, both organic and inorganic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by wind, water, ice, or gravity as a product of erosion.
Sedimentation. The process by which eroded material is transported and deposited by the action of water, wind, ice or gravity.
Sensitive use structure. Shall mean a church, building owned or leased by a school (public or private), governmentally owned and operated building, library building, civic center building, park, hospital building, community club building, prison building, jail building, building owned or leased by a hospital authority, or any residence.
Services to buildings and dwellings. Establishments that primarily provide services associated with building maintenance and that may require use of a vehicle fleet. Examples of these establishments include pest control and extermination services; janitorial services for building and transportation equipment interiors, as well as windows; landscaping services; carpet and upholstery cleaning; and packing, crating and convention trade show services, which package client owned materials and organize, promote, and manage events such as business and trade shows, conventions, conferences, and meetings.
Setback. The required minimum distance between the building line and the related right-of-way or side or rear property line.
Sexually oriented business. See "Adult entertainment establishment."
Sheriff. The Sheriff of Catoosa County, Georgia.
Shooting range, indoor. A totally enclosed facility that is designed to offer a controlled indoor sport shooting environment. Includes indoor gun ranges and indoor archery ranges.
Shooting range, outdoor. An outdoor facility that offers a controlled sport shooting environment and that provides protective natural or artificial barriers preventing bullets, shells, pellets or arrows from traveling to human occupied areas. Includes outdoor gun ranges and outdoor archery ranges.
Sign. Any display of words, shapes or images designed to convey a message to the viewer, located on the exterior of any building or structure, or located anywhere on a lot upon a dedicated supporting structure or device, including poles, banners, windows and similar devices. The following terms are defined for the purposes of Section 5.05.00 of this UDC:
Animated sign. Any sign, or part of a sign, that uses any movement or change of lighting or color to depict action or create a special effect or scene. This definition includes any signs that electronically change the sign face, whether by substitution of copy or scrolling.
Awning sign. Any sign that is part of, or attached to, an awning, canopy or other fabric, plastic or structural protective cover over a door, entrance, window, or outdoor service area. Includes the term "canopy sign."
Banner. Fabric or plastic signs which are not attached to any rigid frame. Flags of governmental jurisdictions are not banners.
Billboard. A type of pole sign with a sign face exceeding 288 square feet.
Billboard, interstate. A billboard within 660 feet of nearest edge of the right-of-way of Interstate 1-75 and is visible to persons in vehicles traveling in the through lanes of Interstate 75.
Billboard, non-interstate. A billboard on a parcel having frontage on a state route that is a part of the primary highway system operated by the Georgia Department of Transportation.
Building sign. A sign that in any manner is fastened to, projects from, or is placed or painted upon the exterior wall, window, or door of a building. The term "building sign" includes but is not limited to the following: awning sign, projecting sign, wall sign, and window sign.
Changeable copy sign. Letters, numerals, or other copy that may be manually affixed to and/or removed from a sign or that may be mechanically changed. Examples of manual changeable copy include boards with changeable letters or changeable pictorial panels. Mechanical changeable copy shall mean an "electronic sign." The definition does not include "multiple message signs."
Double-faced sign. A sign which has two display areas against each other, where one face is designed to be seen from one direction and the other face from another direction.
Electronic sign. A sign whose message may be changed at intervals by computer controller, microprocessor controller or by remote control, and whose message is displayed through the use of LED, LCD, plasma or other similar type of technology.
Freestanding sign. A sign supported by any structure or support placed in or anchored in the ground and not attached to any building or structure.
Ground sign. See "Monument sign."
Illuminated sign, external. A sign illuminated by an external light source that does not change color, flash or alternate.
Illuminated sign, internal. A sign illuminated by an internal light source that does not change color, flash or alternate.
Inflatable sign. Any sign inflated or supported internally by wind, air, or pneumatic noncombustible pressure.
LCD sign. An electronic sign utilizing liquid crystal diodes to form some or all of the sign message.
LED sign. An electronic sign utilizing light-emitting diodes to form some or all of the sign message.
Official flag. Any fabric, banner, or bunting containing distinctive colors, patterns or symbols, used as a symbol of a government.
Monument sign. A freestanding sign mounted directly upon the ground and not attached to or part of or supported by a building and designed in such a manner that the base of the sign face is flush with the supporting solid base which is flush with the ground. The base shall be at least as wide as the sign.
Multiple message sign. A sign, display, or device which changes the message or copy on the sign mechanically by movement or rotation of panels or slats. An example is a tri-vision sign. The definition does not include "changeable copy signs."
Pennant. Any lightweight plastic, fabric, or material, whether or not containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire, or string, usually in series, designed to move in the wind as a means of attracting attention. Flags of governmental jurisdictions are not pennants. Includes the term "streamer."
Permanent sign. Any sign that is not temporary.
Pole or pylon sign. A freestanding sign that is mounted on one or more poles, pylons, columns, or similar supports such that the bottom of the sign face or lowest sign module is not in contact with the ground.
Portable sign. Any sign attached to a vehicle, trailer, movable structure, or attached to sign structures which are not permanently anchored in the ground, or any sign which may be transported or is designed to be transported from one place to another. Such sign that has its wheels or supports removed and that is converted or attached, temporarily or permanently, to the ground or other structure shall be defined as a portable sign. Such signs include, but are not limited to, printed banners or signs attached to vehicles and trailers.
Projecting sign. A double faced sign suspended from an awning or similar type structure; or affixed to a bracket-mount to the building or structure. Includes the term "swinging sign."
Roof line. The top of a flat roof or the ridge of a gable, hip or gambrel roof.
Roof sign. A sign erected upon or above a roof structure or that is wholly dependent upon a building for support and that projects above the top edge or roof line of a building with a flat roof, the eave line of a building with a gambrel, gable, or hip roof, or the deck line of a building with a mansard roof. A "roof sign" shall also constitute any signage placed upon sloped building fascia intended to appear as or actually be roof elements of the building.
Sign area. The area within a continuous perimeter of a sign which encloses the limits of writing, representation, emblem or any figure of similar character, together with any frame, other material, open space, or color forming an integral part of the display or used to differentiate such sign from the background against which it is placed.
Sign face. The message-carrying portion of the sign that can be used to display content, including any area that can display or does display words, pictures or other communicative elements of the sign, including the background color.
Sign structure. Includes all the elements of the sign, including its supporting structure, base, lights and every portion of the sign.
Swinging sign. See "Projecting sign."
Temporary sign. Any sign not permanently affixed to the ground or other permanent structure and designed to be displayed for a limited time.
Tri-vision sign. A sign designed with a series of triangular slats, panels or columns that mechanically rotate in sequence with one another to show three different sign messages in rotation.
Wall face. A measurement of area equal to the height of the structure from the ground to the coping or eave of the roof multiplied by the width of the wall associated with the individual business. The wall face is to be measured for each wall independently.
Wall sign. Any sign attached parallel to a wall, painted on the wall surface or erected and confined within the limits of an outside wall of any building or structure, which is supported by such wall or building and which displays only one sign surface. Includes the term "painted sign."
Window sign. Any sign that is placed inside a window or upon the window panes or glass (including glass doors), either inside or outside the building, and is visible from the exterior of the building.
Yard sale sign. A temporary sign erected by the owner of the property on which the sale is conducted.
Significant recharge areas. Those areas mapped by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources in Hydrologic Atlas 18 (1989 edition).
Similar. Of like kind or nature.
Site. The parcel of land being developed, or the portion thereof on which the land development project is located.
Site-built single-family detached dwelling. A single-family detached dwelling constructed on the building site from basic materials delivered to the site, in contrast to assembly of pre-constructed and which is constructed in accordance with all requirements of the construction codes as adopted by Catoosa County.
Skirting/underpinning. Installation of acceptable material from the exterior base of a manufactured house to the ground which may or may not provide support to the house.
Small water supply watershed. A watershed that contains less than 100 square miles of land within the drainage basin upstream of a governmentally owned public drinking water supply intake.
Solar energy farm. Property used in solar energy development; more specifically, land utilized in the construction and installation of an energy conversion system, including appurtenances, that converts solar energy to a usable form of energy to be used on-site or to transfer to the public electric grid in order to sell electricity to a public utility entity. Also known as "solar farm."
Soil and water conservation district approved plan. An erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan approved in writing by the Catoosa County Soil and Water Conservation District.
Solid waste. Means solid waste as defined by regulations promulgated by the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to the Federal Act which is now in force and effect on February 1, 1988, codified as 40 CFR, 261.1, 261.2(a)—(d), and 261.4(a).
Special event. The term "special event" or "event" shall mean any organized activity having as its purpose entertainment or recreation, such as a festival, celebration, foot race or vehicle race, horse race, barrel race, rodeo, rock concert, parade or march, rally or assembly which takes place on a public street, sidewalk or right-of-way, or occurs on private property and impacts government services on public rights-of-way or may impact the health, safety or welfare of the public generally because of the nature of the assembly or the size of the assembly. The term "special event" or "event" does not include an organized activity having as its purpose entertainment, recreation or education which occurs on county or school board property or in the county public use buildings.
Special use. A use not ordinarily allowed but which may be allowed upon the imposition of conditions related to the promotion of the public health, safety, morals or general welfare and designed to minimize the negative impact on surrounding lands. A special use is allowed upon approval of a Special Use Permit in accordance with the procedures in this UDC. See also "Zoning change."
Stabilization. The process of establishing an enduring soil cover of vegetation by the installation of temporary or permanent structures for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the erosion process and the resultant transport of sediment by wind, water, ice or gravity.
Start of construction. The date the development permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of the structure such as the pouring of slabs or footings, installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation, and includes the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. (Permanent construction does not include initial land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of buildings appurtenant to the permitted structure, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or part of the main structure. (Note: Accessory structures are not exempt from any ordinance requirements.)) For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
State general permit. The National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) general permit or permits for stormwater runoff from construction activities as is now in effect or as may be amended or reissued in the future pursuant to the state's authority to implement the same through federal delegation under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. Section 1251, et seq., and subsection (f) of O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30.
State waters. Any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of Georgia which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation.
Self-storage facility. A building or group of buildings consisting of individual, self-contained units that are directly accessed from enclosed corridors and are leased or rented on an individual basis for the temporary storage of personal property. Also known as mini-warehouses and self-storage units.
Storage, hazardous waste facility. The containment or holding of hazardous waste, either on a temporary basis or for a period of years, in such a manner as not to constitute disposal of such hazardous waste.
Storage, outdoor. An area dedicated as an exterior depository of materials or products. Outdoor storage may be enclosed by a structure that includes a roof, but no side walls, in which case the structure shall be deemed outdoor storage. Outdoor storage may involve fencing or screening without a roof in which case fencing or screening shall be deemed outdoor storage. The term "outdoor storage" shall be synonymous with the terms "storage yard" and "outside storage."
Storage yard. See "Storage, outdoor."
Storm drainage system. Any publicly-owned facilities by which stormwater is collected and/or conveyed, including but not limited to any roads with drainage systems, county streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, catch basins, piped storm drains, pumping facilities, structural stormwater controls, retention and detention basins, ditches, swales, natural and human-made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
Stormwater. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation.
Stormwater better site design. Nonstructural site design approaches and techniques that can reduce a site's impact on the watershed and can provide for nonstructural stormwater management. Stormwater better site design includes conserving and protecting natural areas and greenspace, reducing impervious cover and using natural features for stormwater management.
Stormwater management. The collection, conveyance, storage, treatment and disposal of stormwater runoff in a manner intended to prevent increased flood damage, stream bank channel erosion, habitat degradation and water quality degradation, and to enhance and promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
Stormwater management facility. Any infrastructure that controls or conveys stormwater runoff.
Stormwater management measure. Any stormwater management facility or nonstructural stormwater practice.
Stormwater management plan. A document describing how existing runoff characteristics will be affected by a land development project and containing measures for complying with the provisions of this article.
Stormwater management system. The entire set of structural and nonstructural stormwater management facilities and practices that are used to capture, convey and control the quantity and quality of the stormwater runoff from a site.
Stormwater pollution prevention plan. A document which describes the best management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
Stormwater retrofit. A stormwater management practice designed for a currently developed site that previously had either no stormwater management practice in place or a practice inadequate to meet the stormwater management requirements of the site.
Stormwater runoff. The flow of surface water resulting from precipitation.
Story, building. That portion of a building between a floor and the floor or roof next above. The first floor of a two or multi-story building shall be deemed the story that has: a) no floor immediately below it that is designed for living quarters or for human occupancy but has at least one-half (½) of its height on one side below grade (see also "Basement"). Those stories above the first floor shall be numbered consecutively.
Structural erosion, sedimentation and pollution control practices. Practices for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purpose of either changing the surface of the land or storing, regulating or disposing of runoff to prevent excessive sediment loss. Examples of structural erosion and sediment control practices are riprap, sediment basins, dikes, level spreaders, waterways or outlets, diversions, grade stabilization structures and sediment traps, etc. Such practices can be found in the publication "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia."
Structural stormwater control. A structural stormwater management facility or device that controls stormwater runoff and changes the characteristics of that runoff including, but not limited to, the quantity and quality, the period of release or the velocity of flow of such runoff.
Structure. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, a manufactured home, or a gas or liquid storage tank.
Subdivider. The person, firm or corporation having such a proprietary interest in the land to be subdivided as will authorize the maintenance of proceedings to subdivide such land under this UDC, or the authorized agent of such person, firm or corporation.
Subdivision. All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, legacy or building development, and includes all division of land involving a new street or a change in existing streets, and includes resubdivision and, where appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided. The transfer of unsubdivided land or the transfer of a lot or parcel of land established by deed or plat recorded in the office of the clerk of superior court prior to the effective date of this ordinance is not included in this definition.
Substantial damage. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
Substantial improvement. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place during a five-year period, in which the cumulative cost equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure prior to the "start of construction" of the improvement. Note: The market value of the structure should be (1) the appraised value of the structure prior to the start of the initial repair or improvement, or (2) in the case of damage, the value of the structure prior to the damage occurring. This term includes structures, which have incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the actual amount of repair work performed. For the purposes of this definition, "substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building. The term does not, however, include (1) those improvements of a structure required to comply with existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions and which have been identified by the code enforcement official, and not solely triggered by an improvement or repair project, or (2) any alteration of a "historic structure" provided that the alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic structure".
Substantially improved existing manufactured home parks or subdivisions. Where the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets, utilities and pads equals or exceeds 50 percent of the value of the streets, utilities and pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
T
Taxi and limousine service. An establishment that provides passenger transportation by automobile or van, not over regular routes or regular schedules. Taxicab owner/operators, taxicab fleet operators, and taxicab organizations are included. Also included are limousine and luxury sedan establishments, which may provide an array of specialty and luxury passenger transportation services.
Technical, trade, and other specialty schools. Schools that offer vocational and technical training in a variety of technical subjects and trades, such as: barbering, hair styling or cosmetic arts; business management; computer training; driving education; fine and performing arts education; flight training; and sports and recreation education. The training often leads to job-specific certification.
Theater, drive-in. An outdoor movie theater, where motion pictures are projected upon a screen for viewing by patrons seated in automobiles.
Theater, movie. A specialized indoor theater for showing movies or motion pictures.
Theater, performance. An indoor facility with fixed seats that are arranged on a sloped or stepped floor and are oriented toward a performance stage. This definition includes concert halls.
Timber harvesting. An operation engaged in harvesting standing timber for delivery as pulpwood, logs, poles, posts, or wood chips to a woodyard or processing plant.
Tourist court. See "Motel."
Towing and other road and ground services. Establishments that tow light or heavy motor vehicles, both local and long distance. These establishments may provide incidental services, such as storage and emergency road repair services.
Townhouse. A building that has three or more separate dwelling units divided vertically, and each unit has separate entrances to a front and rear yard. The term "townhouse" shall be synonymous with the term "townhome."
Transport. For the purposes of regulating hazardous waste, the term shall be defined as the transportation or carrying of hazardous waste or dangerous chemicals or liquids in a storage tank, drum, tanker, or other container on or in a motor vehicle (except within a tank being used to feed or supply the motor vehicle with a means of energy for locomotion at the time of transport) on roads on the county system of roads.
Travel trailer. A portable structure whether self-propelled or pulled by a power unit, designed as temporary occupancy for travel, recreation, and vacation uses, which is identified on the unit by the manufacturer as a camper or travel trailer or bus. This definition includes campers and buses.
Tri-plex. A building containing three dwelling units, and each dwelling unit has a separate entrance from the outside or through a common vestibule.
Trout streams. All streams or portions of streams within the watershed as designated by the Wildlife Resources Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources under the provisions of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20, in the rules and regulations for Water Quality Control, Chapter 391-3-6 at www.gaepd.org. Streams designated as primary trout waters are defined as water supporting a self-sustaining population of rainbow, brown or brook trout. Streams designated as secondary trout waters are those in which there is no evidence of natural trout reproduction, but are capable of supporting trout throughout the year. First order trout waters are streams into which no other streams flow except springs.
Truck. As used in Article VI of this UDC (related to the topic of "road use bonds") a truck is defined as any tractor and trailer or other truck having more than six wheels and being exempt pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 32-6-25 from the width, length and load requirements of O.C.G.A. §§ 32-6-23, 32-6-24.
Truck stop. A use primarily engaged in the maintenance, servicing, storage, parking or repair of commercial vehicles, including the sale of motor fuels or other petroleum products, and the sale of accessories or equipment for over-the-road trucks and similar commercial vehicles. A truck stop may also include overnight accommodations, showers, vehicle scales, restaurant facilities, game rooms, and/or other services and diversions intended mainly for use by truck drivers and interregional travelers. Includes the term "travel plaza."
Truck and freight transportation services. Establishments that provide over-the-road transportation of cargo using motor vehicles, such as trucks and tractor trailers. Includes truck terminals.
U
Ultralight landing strip. A place where ultralight vehicles, as defined and regulated by the Federal Aviation Administration, can land and take off.
Unified Development Code (UDC). Catoosa County Unified Development Code.
Utility substation. An assembly of equipment in an electric power system through which electrical energy is passed for transmission, distribution, interconnection, transformation, conversion, or switching.
Utility. Public or private water or sewer piping systems, water or sewer pumping stations, electric power lines, fuel pipelines, telephone lines, roads, driveways, bridges, river/lake access facilities, stormwater systems and railroads or other utilities identified by a local government.
V
Variance. A grant of relief from the requirements of this UDC, which permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this UDC.
Variance, administrative. Modification of requirements pertaining to yard, building height, parking, loading, and buffer requirements that may be granted by the Zoning Administrator in accordance with Section 8.04.00 of this UDC.
Vegetative erosion and sedimentation control measures. Measures for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by covering the soil with:
A.
Permanent seeding, sprigging or planting, producing long-term vegetative cover, or
B.
Temporary seeding, producing short-term vegetative cover; or
C.
Sodding, covering areas with a turf of perennial sod-forming grass.
Vehicle and marine craft sales. Establishments that sell new or used motor vehicles and marine craft, including: compact automobiles and light trucks (sold at car dealerships); buses, recreational vehicles (RVs), manufactured homes, and trucks not sold at car dealerships; motorcycles, motor scooters, motor bikes, mopeds, and off-road terrain vehicles (ATV's); boats, personal watercraft, outboard motors, and boat trailers. These establishments may have showrooms or open lots for selling vehicles and may provide repair and maintenance services.
Vehicle rental. An establishment that rents or leases passenger vehicles without drivers.
Veterinary services. Establishments with licensed practitioners of veterinary medicine, dentistry, or surgery for animals; also included are establishments that provide testing services for licensed veterinary practitioners.
Violation. For the purposes of floodplain management, the term shall mean the failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure or other development without the elevation certificate, or other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required by this UDC is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
W
Warehouse. Building used for the reception and temporary or permanent retention of goods.
Wastewater. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater, discharged from a facility.
Water supply reservoir. A governmentally owned impoundment of water for the primary purpose of providing water to one or more governmentally owned public drinking water systems. This excludes the multipurpose reservoirs owned by the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers.
Water supply watershed. The area of land upstream of a governmentally owned public drinking water intake.
Watercourse. Any natural or artificial watercourse, stream, river, creek, channel, ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine, or wash in which water flows either continuously or intermittently and which has a definite channel, bed and banks, and including any area adjacent thereto subject to inundation by reason of overflow or floodwater.
Wetlands. Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas. The ecological parameters for designating wetlands include hydric soils, hydrophytic vegetation, and hydrological conditions that involve a temporary or permanent source of water to cause soil saturation.
Wholesale trade establishment. An establishment that either sell s or arranges the purchase of goods to other businesses and normally operates from a warehouse or office building.
Wireless telecommunication facility. The set of equipment and network components, exclusive of the underlying wireless support structure, including antennas, transmitters, receivers, base stations, power supplies, cabling, and accessory equipment, used to provide wireless data and wireless telecommunication services. Also known as "wireless facility." The following terms and phrases are defined for the purposes of Section 5.04.00 of this UDC:
Accessory equipment. Any equipment serving or being used in conjunction with a wireless facility or wireless support structure and includes, but is not limited to, utility or transmission equipment, power supplies, generators, batteries, cables, equipment buildings, cabinets, and storage sheds, shelters, or similar structures.
Accessory facility or structure. An accessory facility or structure serving or being used in conjunction with wireless telecommunications facilities, and located on the same property or lot as the Wireless Telecommunications Facilities, including but not limited to, utility or transmission equipment storage sheds or cabinets.
Antenna. Communications equipment that transmit, receives, or transmits and receives electromagnetic radio signals used in the provision of all types of wireless communication services.
Application. A formal request submitted to the local governing authority to construct, collate collocate, or modify a wireless support structure or a wireless facility.
Camouflage (or Stealth or Stealth Technology). Disguising a wireless support structure and facility so as to make it less visually obtrusive and not recognizable to the average person as a wireless telecommunications facility.
Collocate or collocation. The placement or installation of new wireless facilities on previously approved and constructed wireless support structures, including monopoles and towers, both self-supporting and guyed, in a manner that negates the need to construct a new freestanding wireless support structure. Such term includes the placement of accessory equipment within an existing equipment compound.
Complete application. An application containing all documents, information, and fees specifically enumerated in or required by the local governing authority's regulations, ordinances, and forms pertaining to the location, construction, collocation, modification, or operation of wireless facilities.
Equipment compound. An area surrounding or adjacent to the base of a wireless support structure within which accessory equipment is located.
Modification or modify. The improvement, upgrade, expansion, or replacement of existing wireless facilities on an existing wireless support structure or within an existing equipment compound, provided such improvement, upgrade, expansion, or replacement does not increase the height of the wireless support structure or increase the dimensions of the equipment compound.
Utility. Any person, corporation, municipality, county, or other entity, or department thereof or entity related or subordinate thereto, providing retail or wholesale electric, data, cable, or telecommunications services.
Wireless support structure. A freestanding structure, such as a monopole, tower, either guyed or self-supporting, or suitable existing or alternative structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless facilities. Such term shall not include any telephone or electrical utility pole or any tower used for the distribution or transmission of electrical service.
Woodyard. A place where timber is cut and stored prior to delivery to wholesale or retail lumberyards.
X
Y
Yard. An area that lies between the principal building on a lot and the nearest lot line. See Figure 8.
Front yard. A yard extending the full width of the lot between the principal building and the right-of-way line, projected to the side lines of the lot.
Rear yard. A yard extending the full width of the lot between the principal building and the rear lot line and projected to the side lines of the lot.
Side yard. A yard extending from the front yard to the rear yard between the principal building and the side lot line. Any lot line not a rear line or a front line shall be deemed a side line.
Z
Zero lot line dwelling. See under "Dwelling."
Zoning change. An amendment to the zoning map (rezoning), approval of a special use permit, or approval of a change in the conditions of approval associated with a rezoning or a special use permit.
Zoning decision. A final legislative action by the Catoosa County Board of Commissioners which results in:
A.
The adoption of zoning requirements within this UDC;
B.
The adoption of an amendment to this UDC which changes the text of the zoning requirements;
C.
The adoption of an amendment to the official zoning map which rezones property from one zoning classification to another; or
D.
The grant of a permit relating to a special use of property.
Zoning entity. As used in Article IX, term shall mean: the Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission or governing authority.
ARTICLE II. - ZONING DISTRICTS AND LAND USES

2.01.00 - GENERALLY
No building, structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered unless it is at least in conformity with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located, as well as all other laws and regulations that may apply to the property, including construction codes.
2.02.00 - ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE OF ZONING DISTRICTS
2.02.01   Catoosa County Zoning Map
A.
Zoning districts for Catoosa County are hereby established as shown on the "Official Zoning Map of Catoosa County, Georgia" and as shown in Table 2-1.
B.
The Official Zoning Map of Catoosa County, Georgia shall be identified by the signature of the chair of the Board of Commissioners, attested by the County Clerk, and shall include the date of adoption.
C.
The Official Zoning Map of Catoosa County, Georgia may be amended according to the procedures set forth in Article IX of the UDC.
D.
Permissible uses and development standards for each zoning district are shown on Table 2-3 and Table 2-4 of this article.
Table 2-1 Zoning Districts - Catoosa County
EXPAND
Rural Districts
PCFD Planned Commercial Farm District
A-1 Agricultural District
R-A Residential-Agricultural District
Residential Districts
R-1 Single-Family Residential District (22,000 sq. ft.)
R-2 Residential Attached District
R-3 Single-Family Residential District (10,000 sq. ft.)
R-4 Manufactured Housing Development District
R-T/Z Residential Townhouse/Zero Lot Line District
Commercial Districts
C-2 Neighborhood Business District
C-3 Office District
Industrial Districts
I-1 Heavy Industrial District
I-2 Light Industrial District
Mixed Use Districts
C-R Commercial-Residential District
PUD Planned Unit Development
  2.02.02   Rural Zoning Districts
The following rural zoning districts are established:
A.
PCFD, Planned Commercial Farm District. The PCFD district is established to provide for intensive agricultural production in the areas of food crops, animal feed, poultry, livestock, dairy, and commercial timber production. Areas within this zone are not intended to be used for small-scale farming or idle pasture land that are more appropriately located in the A-1 district. The land should be in use for legitimate good-faith farming or agricultural uses worthy of protection and preservation. In order for a parcel to qualify for PCFD, it must presently be zoned A-1, meet the minimum lot size for the PCFD, and must qualify and be enrolled under House Bill 230, the Preferential Agricultural Assessment or Conservation and Current Use Taxation Plan, or House Bill 66. If after a tract is rezoned to PCFD, and that land is not actively used for intensive commercial agricultural purposes, the county may, at its discretion, initiate procedures for a zoning review and possible rezoning of the property.
B.
A-1, Agricultural District. The A-1 district is established to encourage the retention and development of suitable areas for common farm practices and various nonfarm uses, preservation of open space, the conservation and management of soil, water, air, game and other natural resources and amenities, and to discourage the creation or continuation of conditions which could detract from the function, operation, and appearance of areas to provide food supplies and to prevent or minimize conflicts between common farm practices and nonfarm uses.
C.
R-A, Residential-Agricultural District. The R-A district is established to allow limited agricultural uses on residential property. This district is intended to preserve the mixed agricultural and residential character of land while providing a transition between rural and agricultural land and suburban and urban land.
2.02.03   Residential Zoning Districts
The following residential zoning districts are established:
A.
R-1, Single-Family Residential District (22,000 sq. ft.). This district is established to provide for medium density single-family detached dwellings. This district shall be construed to allow manufactured homes.
B.
R-2, Residential Attached District (15,000 sq. ft.). This district is established to provide for medium density single-family attached dwellings (duplexes and triplexes).
C.
R-3, Residential District (10,000 sq. ft.). This district is established to provide for high-density single-family detached dwellings (not including manufactured homes) which are served by publicly owned sanitary sewer systems.
D.
R-4, Manufactured Housing Development District. This district is established to provide for housing developments consisting of no less than five detached manufactured homes within a planned residential community. The maximum density of units shall not exceed eight units per acre in areas served by public sewer. The density of units served by septic facilities shall be governed by local and state health regulations but shall not exceed three units per acre maximum.
E.
R-TZ, Residential Townhouse/Zero Lot Line District. This district is established to provide for single-family attached dwellings (townhouses, row houses) and single-family zero lot line dwellings (patio homes) served by publicly owned sanitary sewer systems. This district is intended to provide for efficient use of land and compatibility with lower-density, detached single-family uses and with surrounding development. This district shall not be construed to permit manufactured homes.
2.02.04   Commercial Zoning Districts
The following commercial zoning districts are established:
A.
C-1, General Business District. This district is established to provide for a wide variety of retail and service uses to satisfy the common and frequent needs of residents in large sections of the county.
B.
C-2, Neighborhood Business District. This district is established to provide for limited retail services, convenience goods, and personal services to satisfy the common and frequent needs of surrounding residential neighborhoods.
C.
C-3, Office District. This district is established to provide for business and professional activities, medical and dental offices, and community and institutional facilities.
2.02.05   Industrial Zoning Districts
The following industrial zoning district is established:
A.
I-1, Heavy Industrial District. This district is established to provide for manufacturing, and assembling, storage and distribution activities that are generally high intensity. The I-1 District shall not permit industries which may create injurious noise, smoke, gas fumes, odor, dust, or fire hazard or that produce, store or handle hazardous waste unless a special use permit has been granted by the Catoosa County Board of Commissioners in accordance with this UDC.
B.
I-2 Light Industrial District. This district is established to provide for light industrial uses such as assembling, wholesaling, warehousing and commercial services. The I-2 District shall not permit industries which may create injurious noise, smoke, gas fumes, odor, dust, or fire hazard or that produce, store or handle hazardous waste.
2.02.06   Mixed Use Zoning Districts
The following mixed use zoning districts are established:
A.
PUD, Planned Unit Development District. This district is established to provide for residential, commercial or industrial uses, or certain combinations thereof, that are developed as a unit and which are served by publicly owned sanitary sewer systems.
B.
C-R, Commercial-Residential District. This district is established to provide for quadraplexes and multi-family dwellings (apartments) with four or more units which are served by publicly owned sanitary sewer systems. Limited commercial uses are permissible within the principal building.
2.02.07   Zoning Districts and Future Development Map Relationship
Twenty-one character areas are reflected on the Future Development Map for Catoosa County. Zoning districts that can implement the character areas are indicated in Table 2-2.
Table 2-2 Zoning Districts that Support Character Areas
EXPAND
CHARACTER AREA PCFD A-1 R-A R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 R/TZ C-1 C-2 C-3 I-1 I-2 PUD C-R
Development Category Name
Natural Natural-Open Space n/a
Rural Rural-Open Space n/a
Rural-Neighborhood ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 1
Rural-Center ✓
Rural-Corridor ✓ ✓ ✓
Suburban Suburban-Open Space n/a
Suburban-Neighborhood ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Suburban-Center Neighborhood ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Suburban-Center Community ✓ ✓ ✓
Suburban-Corridor Mixed Use ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Suburban-Corridor Residential ✓ ✓
Urban Urban-Open Space n/a
Urban-Neighborhood ✓ ✓ ✓
Urban-Center Neighborhood ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Urban-Center Community ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Urban-Corridor Mixed Use ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Urban-Corridor Residential ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
District District-Interstate Gateway ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
District-Industrial ✓ ✓
District-Campus n/a
District-Landfill ✓
  1 As part of a Conservation Subdivision
2.03.00 - LAND USES PERMISSIBLE IN EACH ZONING DISTRICT
2.03.01   Land Use Table, Generally
Table 2-3 identifies those uses that are permissible in each zoning district subject to compliance with the requirements of this UDC. Buildings, structures, or land shall be occupied or used only in conformity with all of the regulations set forth herein for the district in which they are located. The zoning districts for Catoosa County are shown on the "Official Zoning Map of Catoosa County, Georgia."
2.03.02   How to Read the Land Use Table
A.
Land uses are organized under the following headings: Agriculture, Residential, Institutional, Commercial, Recreation, Transportation/Communication/Utilities and Industrial.
B.
Within the following table the letter "P" indicates that the land use is permissible, subject to compliance with the standards of the zoning district.
C.
The letter "S" indicates that the land use is permissible as a Special Use, subject to meeting stated conditions and a determination by the Board of Commissioners that the land use conforms to the standards contained in Article IX.
D.
The column "Additional Requirements" indicates that the additional requirements specific for the land use shall apply in addition to the provisions of subsections A and B above. The requirements shall apply to Special Uses unless specifically waived or modified as a stipulation of Special Use approval. Additional requirements for specific land uses are contained in Article IV.
E.
A blank cell indicates the land use is prohibited.
F.
Any land use that is not identified in Table 2-3 is prohibited unless it is found to be substantially similar to and compatible with an identified use in said table by the Zoning Administrator.
1)
A determination that a use qualifies as a similar and compatible use shall be made upon the Zoning Administrator's finding that:
a.
The characteristics of, and activities associated with the requested use is similar to one or more of the listed uses, and will not involve a greater intensity than the uses listed in the zoning district;
b.
The requested use will be consistent with the purpose of the applicable zoning district;
c.
The requested use will be consistent with the Comprehensive Plan and any applicable specific plan;
d.
The requested use will be compatible with the other uses allowed in the zoning district;
e.
The definition of a requested use is comparable to that of a use identified in Table 2-3, and as presented in Article I of this UDC and by the LBCS classification and code (Land Based Classification System, published by the American Planning Association) or the NAICS code (North American Industry Classification System, published by the federal government); and
f.
The requested use is not allowable in another zoning district.
2)
The administrative interpretation shall be subject to appeal, as set forth in Article IX.
Table 2-3 Land Use Table
EXPAND
P—Permissible in the zoning district
S— Permissible in the zoning district if approved
as a Special Use
Blank—Prohibited Additional
Requirements
(by Section No.) PCFD A-1 R-A R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 R-T/Z C-1 C-2 C-3 I-1 I-2 PUD C-R
Agriculture
Agricultural operations 4.09.02 P P S
Agriculture, retail sales 4.09.03 P P
Agriculture, wholesale sales P
Commercial stable 4.09.10 P
Kennel 4.09.20 S
Lumberyard 4.09.21 S
Meat processing plant P
Plant nursery, greenhouse P P
Poultry production 4.09.26 P S
Sawmill 4.09.31 S
Timber harvesting P P
Residential
Single-family detached dwelling:
Site-built or Modular home P P P P P P
Manufactured home 4.09.22 P P P P P
Zero lot line (patio home) P P
Single-family attached dwelling (townhouse) 4.09.35 P P
Two-family dwelling (duplex) P P
Triplex P P P
Quadraplex P
Multi-family dwelling (apartment) 4.09.23 P P
Assisted living facility P P
Nursing home P P
Personal care home:
Congregate personal care home P P
Family personal care home P P
Boardinghouse P
Institutional
Cemetery P P
Child day care:
Family day care home (up to 6 children) 4.09.08 P P P P P
Group day care home (7-18 children) 4.09.08 S P P P
Child day care center (19 or more children) 4.09.08 S P P P
College 4.09.09 P P P
Funeral home 4.09.13 P
Grade school 4.09.15 P P P P
Health and human services (excluding pain management clinic) P P
Hospital P P
Pain management clinic 4.09.25 S
Place of worship P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Technical, trade, and other specialty school P P P
Commercial
Adult entertainment establishments 4.09.01 S
Animal racetrack/event arena S
Animal and pet services (not including pet or pet supply store, veterinary services or kennels) P P
Automobile repair and service 4.09.05 P
Bar 4.09.06 P P P P
Bed and breakfast inn (B&B) 4.09.07 P
Car rental P
Car wash P P
Catering business P P
Convenience store (without gas station) 4.09.12 P P P
Gas station 4.09.14 P P P
Flea market (indoor) P P
Grocery store 4.09.16 P P P
Hotel P P
Motel P P
Package store 4.09.24 P P
Personal care services P P P
Pet or pet supply store P P
Professional office (including banks) P P P P
Restaurant 4.09.29 P P P P
Retail sales (excluding heavy consumer goods) 4.09.30 P P P P
Retail sales - heavy consumer goods P P
Self-storage facility (indoor, rental) 4.09.32 P P
Services to buildings and dwellings P P P
Vehicle and marine craft sales P
Veterinary services 4.09.37 P P
Recreation
Amusement or theme park S
Banquet hall P P P
Campground/RV park P P
Driving range P P
Exhibition, convention, or conference center P P
Golf course P P P
Fishing club or camp P
Fitness, gym or athletic club P P
Indoor recreation or games facility P P
Marina P
Miniature golf P P
Museum, exhibition or similar facility P P
Outdoor recreational sports facility P P
Private club 4.09.27 P P
Racetrack 4.09.28 S
Shooting range, indoor 4.09.33 S S S
Shooting range, outdoor 4.09.34 S
Sports stadium or arena P P
Theater (drive-in, movie and performance) P P
Zoos, botanical gardens, arboreta S S
Transportation/Communications/Utilities
Airport 4.09.04 S
Automobile parking facilities:
Surface parking P P
Parking structure (parking garage) P P
Bus or truck maintenance facility P P
Charter bus terminal P
Communications and information P
Courier and messenger services P
Heliport, sailport, ultralight landing strip 4.09.18 S
Railroad facility (excluding train station) P
Taxi and limousine service P P
Solar farm 4.09.38 S S S S
Towing and other road and ground services P P
Truck and freight transportation services P P
Truck stop 4.09.36 P
Utility substation, public P P
Wireless telecommunication facility 5.04.00 S S S S S S S S S S S S S S S
Industrial
Biomedical waste treatment or disposal facility S
Coal boiler or burner, use of S
Construction related businesses (onsite storage of equipment or materials) 4.09.11 P P P
Hazardous waste facility 4.09.17 S
Incinerator S
Junkyard S
Laboratory or specialized industrial facility S
Landfill S
Liquid product (non-water) storage S
Manufacturing:
Food, textiles and related products P
Wood, paper and printing products P
Chemicals and adhesives S S
Metals, machinery and electronics P
Miscellaneous P
Recycling plant S
Wholesale trade establishment (includes warehouses) P P P
  2.04.00 - DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS IN EACH ZONING DISTRICT
2.04.01   Development Standards, Generally
A.
Table 2-4 identifies the minimum development standards applicable to all development activity within Catoosa County.
B.
Subject to any exemptions or more restrictive provisions of this UDC, all lots and buildings in the zones identified in Section 2.02.00 shall comply with the requirements set forth in the Table 2-4.
2.04.02   Additional Standards
In conjunction with the development standards in Table 2-4, additional standards apply, as follows:
A.
The Board of Health may require larger minimum lot sizes when lots are served by septic systems.
B.
Uses requiring a special use permit must comply with any more stringent setback lines provided for in Article IX of this UDC.
C.
Front yard setbacks are measured from the right-of-way.
D.
The minimum front yard setback at a major street is 40 feet, with the exception of the PCFD and PUD zoning districts.
E.
The front yard setback at major traffic corridors is a minimum of 100 feet from centerline (major traffic corridors are roadways with GDOT traffic counts above 2,000 per day - both directions), with the exception of the PCFD and PUD zoning districts.
F.
The rear yard setback may be decreased to 20 feet at corner lots in R-1 and R-3 zones.
G.
In situations requiring buffers, the buffer requirements shall take precedence over any setback requirements contained in Table 2-4, to the extent the buffer requirements exceed or are greater than the setback requirements.
H.
Buildings or structures which are intended for use or used for the housing or shelter of livestock, silos, granaries, windmills, barns and similar structures which are concurrent to the operation of an agricultural enterprise shall observe a minimum setback of 50 feet from any property line and be spaced a minimum of 200 feet from any residence on an adjacent lot or parcel.
(I)
Buildings or structures intended for residential use shall have a minimum of 700 square feet of finished and conditioned space.
(Res. of 9-19-17(1))
2.04.03   How to Read the Table of Standards
A.
Within the following table a dash "—" indicates no development standard applies for the specified category.
B.
The letters "ROW" indicate "right-of-way".
C.
"Sq. ft." is an abbreviation for "square feet."
Table 2-4 Development Standards Table (see also Section 2.04.02)
EXPAND
Zoning District Lot Size Principal Building Setbacks Frontage
(minimum, feet) Principal Building
Height
(maximum) Density
(maximum) Lot Coverage
(maximum, percent) Public Sewer Required
Area
(minimum) Width
(minimum, feet) Front
(minimum, feet) Side
(minimum, feet) Rear
(minimum, feet)
PCFD 35 acres total*
10 acres per parcel or farm in PCFD 150 Based on zoning or use of adjoining property, as follows: —
50 feet —
—
No
R-1: 500 feet
R-2: 400 feet
R-A: 300 feet
C-2: 200 feet I: 200 feet
A-1 without residence: 50 feet
A-1 with residence: 150 feet from the nearest point of the building
Government building or school: 1,000 feet
A-1 3 acres 150 40 10, generally 25 50 at cul-de-sac ROW
100 at non cul-de-sac street ROW 50 feet** —
—
No
30, when yard abuts street ROW (no less than 25 when abutting a minor street, if granted a variance)
See also Section 2.04.02
RA 2 acres 100 30 10 25 —
3 stories —
—
No
R-1 22,000 sq. ft. 100 30 10 25 —
3 stories —
—
No
R-2 15,000 sq. ft. 100 30 10 25 —
3 stories —
—
No
R-3 10,000 sq. ft. 80 30 10 25 —
3 stories —
—
Yes
R-4 10 acres
(total development)
4,000 sq. ft. per space (and no less than 5 spaces are permitted) 400 average width
(total development)
40 per space
(50 per space, at the location of the center of the unit, when located on a cul-de-sac or curved street design) No home shall be located closer than 15 feet to any building or street within the park. —
Conform to the requirements of the National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards at the time of shipment 8 units per acre (public sewer)
3 units per acre (septic system) —
No
No home shall be located closer than 40 feet to any exterior street.
There shall be a minimum 15 feet side yard and 15 feet clearance between homes, including homes parked end to end.
R/TZ 1 acre
(total development) 40 per lot,
18 per townhouse unit No building shall be located less than 25 feet from any boundary of the R/TZ zone. —
3 stories or 35 feet 8 units per acre —
Yes
Side yard setback for zero lot line units shall be from zero to 1/10 of a foot or a minimum of ten feet if buildings are to be separated over 1/10 of a foot. The opposite side yard shall be at least ten feet and must be kept perpetually free of permanent obstructions (such as accessory buildings).
Townhouse buildings (a continuous row of townhouse units) shall be separated by not less 20 feet from end to end.
Rear yard setback for any detached unit shall be a minimum of 25 feet, measured from the property line and not from an access drive or alley right-of-way.
C-1 10,000 sq. ft. 100 30 10 10 —
3 stories —
—
No
C-2 10,000 sq. ft. 100 30 10 10 —
3 stories —
—
No
C-3 10,000 sq. ft. 100 30 10 10 —
3 stories —
—
No
I-1 10,000 sq. ft. 100 30 20 25 —
3 stories —
—
No
I-2 10,000 sq. ft. 100 30 20 25 —
3 stories —
—
No
PUD 10 acres Subject to rezoning and site plan approval by the Board of Commissioners Yes
C-R 10,000 sq. ft. 80 30 10 30 —
3 stories ***
30 (total ground floor area of a building) Yes
Buildings shall be spaced at least 20 feet apart. The front of one building shall not face the rear of another building on the site.
Additional Requirements:
*PCFD:  1. Total area may contain one or more contiguous parcels. 2 A tract containing not less than one acre may be conveyed by the property owner to a member of the property owner's family without changing the PCFD classification of the property.
**A-1:  The maximum building height shall not be applicable to the following buildings and/or structures: (i) buildings or structures essential to agricultural operations such as silos, granaries, windmills and barns; (ii) unoccupied and inaccessible (except for maintenance purposes) architectural features on nonresidential buildings such as church spires, belfries, cupolas and domes; (iii) monuments; (iv) government owned observation towers; (v) water towers; (vi) chimneys; (vii) flagpoles; and (viii) aerials. These exceptions shall not alter or otherwise reduce any specific height requirements which are imposed by this UDC or other county ordinances upon signs or structures containing signs.
*** C/R—Density requirement:  The first unit shall be a minimum of 10,000 square feet and each additional unit shall be a minimum of 4,000 square feet. The development shall also have 20 percent of the area designated for green space.
  (Res. of 12-19-17(1))
ARTICLE III. - NATURAL RESOURCE PROTECTION

3.01.00 - GENERALLY
The provisions set forth in Article III are intended to protect the natural features and natural resources within Catoosa County and to implement policies in the Catoosa County Comprehensive Plan. Article III addresses sediment control, groundwater recharge areas, wetlands, water supply watersheds, water resources, floodplains, greenspace and steep slopes.
3.02.00 - SOIL EROSION, SEDIMENTATION AND POLLUTION CONTROL[1]
3.02.01   Title
This Section will be known as "Catoosa County Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution Control Ordinance."
(Ord. of 11-15-16(1))
3.02.02   Definitions
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of this Section, unless otherwise specifically stated:
Best management practices (BMPs). These include sound conservation and engineering practices to prevent and minimize erosion and resultant sedimentation, which are consistent with, and no less stringent than, those practices contained in the "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia" published by the Commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted.
Board. The Board of Natural Resources.
Buffer. The area of land immediately adjacent to the banks of state waters in its natural state of vegetation, which facilitates the protection of water quality and aquatic habitat.
Certified personnel. A person who has successfully completed the appropriate certification course approved by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
Coastal marshlands. Shall have the same meaning as in O.C.G.A. § 12-5-282.
Commission. The Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission (GSWCC).
CPESC. Certified Professional in Erosion and Sediment Control with current certification by EnviroCert, Inc., which is also referred to as CPESC or CPESC, Inc.
Cut. A portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation; the depth below original ground surface to the excavated surface. Also known as excavation.
Department. The Georgia Department of Natural Resources (DNR).
Design professional. A professional licensed by the State of Georgia in the field of engineering, architecture, landscape architecture, forestry, geology, or land surveying; or a person that is a Certified Professional in Erosion and Sediment Control (CPESC) with a current certification by EnviroCert, Inc. Design professionals shall practice in a manner that complies with applicable Georgia law governing professional licensure.
Director. The Director of the Environmental Protection Division or an authorized representative.
District. The Catoosa County Soil and Water Conservation District.
Division. The Environmental Protection Division (EPD) of the Department of Natural Resources.
Drainage structure. A device composed of a virtually nonerodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water from one place to another by intercepting the flow and carrying it to a release point for stormwater management, drainage control, or flood control purposes.
Erosion. The process by which land surface is worn away by the action of wind, water, ice or gravity.
Erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan. A plan required by the Erosion and Sedimentation Act, O.C.G.A. Ch. 12-7, that includes, as a minimum protections at least as stringent as the State General Permit, best management practices, and requirements in Section 3.02.04.C.
Fill. A portion of land surface to which soil or other solid material has been added; the depth above the original ground surface or an excavation.
Final stabilization. All soil disturbing activities at the site have been completed, and that for unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent structures and areas located outside the waste disposal limits of a landfill cell that has been certified by EPD for waste disposal, 100 percent of the soil surface is uniformly covered in permanent vegetation with a density of 70 percent or greater, or landscaped according to the plan (uniformly covered with landscaping materials in planned landscape areas), or equivalent permanent stabilization measures as defined in the Manual (excluding a crop of annual vegetation and seeding of target crop perennials appropriate for the region). Final stabilization applies to each phase of construction.
Finished grade. The final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting or filling and conforming to the proposed design.
Grading. Altering the shape of ground surfaces to a predetermined condition; this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling and shaping or any combination thereof and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
Ground elevation. The original elevation of the ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
Land-disturbing activity. Any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land but not including agricultural practices as described in Section 3.02.03, Paragraph 5.
Larger common plan of development or sale. A contiguous area where multiple separate and distinct construction activities are occurring under one plan of development or sale. For the purposes of this paragraph, "plan" means an announcement; piece of documentation such as a sign, public notice or hearing, sales pitch, advertisement, drawing, permit application, zoning request, or computer design; or physical demarcation such as boundary signs, lot stakes, or surveyor markings, indicating that construction activities may occur on a specific plot.
Local issuing authority. The governing authority of any county or municipality which is certified pursuant to subsection (a) O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8.
Metropolitan River Protection Act (MRPA). A state law referenced as O.C.G.A. § 12-5-440 et seq. which addresses environmental and developmental matters in certain metropolitan river corridors and their drainage basins.
Natural ground surface. The ground surface in its original state before any grading, excavation or filling.
Nephelometric turbidity units (NTU). Numerical units of measure based upon photometric analytical techniques for measuring the light scattered by finely divided particles of a substance in suspension. This technique is used to estimate the extent of turbidity in water in which colloidally dispersed or suspended particles are present.
NOI. A Notice of Intent form provided by EPD for coverage under the State General Permit.
NOT. A Notice of Termination form provided by EPD to terminate coverage under the State General Permit.
Operator. The party or parties that have: (A) operational control of construction project plans and specifications, including the ability to make modifications to those plans and specifications; or (B) day-to-day operational control of those activities that are necessary to ensure compliance with an erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan for the site or other permit conditions, such as a person authorized to direct workers at a site to carry out activities required by the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan or to comply with other permit conditions.
Outfall. The location where stormwater in a discernible, confined and discrete conveyance, leaves a facility or site or, if there is a receiving water on site, becomes a point source discharging into that receiving water.
Permit. The authorization necessary to conduct a land-disturbing activity under the provisions of this Section.
Person. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, state agency, municipality or other political subdivision of the State of Georgia, any interstate body or any other legal entity.
Phase or phased. Sub-parts or segments of construction projects where the sub-part or segment is constructed and stabilized prior to completing construction activities on the entire construction site.
Project. The entire proposed development project regardless of the size of the area of land to be disturbed.
Properly designed. Designed in accordance with the design requirements and specifications contained in the "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia" (Manual) published by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted and amendments to the Manual as approved by the Commission up until the date of NOI submittal.
Roadway drainage structure. A device such as a bridge, culvert, or ditch, composed of a virtually nonerodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic, or other such material that conveys water under a roadway by intercepting the flow on one side of a traveled roadway consisting of one or more defined lanes, with or without shoulder areas, and carrying water to a release point on the other side.
Sediment. Solid material, both organic and inorganic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by wind, water, ice, or gravity as a product of erosion.
Sedimentation. The process by which eroded material is transported and deposited by the action of water, wind, ice or gravity.
Soil and Water Conservation District approved plan. An erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan approved in writing by the Catoosa County Soil and Water Conservation District.
Stabilization. The process of establishing an enduring soil cover of vegetation by the installation of temporary or permanent structures for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the erosion process and the resultant transport of sediment by wind, water, ice or gravity.
State General Permit. The National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) general permit or permits for stormwater runoff from construction activities as is now in effect or as may be amended or reissued in the future pursuant to the state's authority to implement the same through federal delegation under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. Section 1251 et seq. and subsection (f) of Code Section 12-5-30.
State waters. Any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of Georgia which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation.
Structural erosion, sedimentation and pollution control practices. Practices for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purpose of either changing the surface of the land or storing, regulating or disposing of runoff to prevent excessive sediment loss. Examples of structural erosion and sediment control practices are riprap, sediment basins, dikes, level spreaders, waterways or outlets, diversions, grade stabilization structures and sediment traps, etc. Such practices can be found in the publication "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia."
Trout streams. All streams or portions of streams within the watershed as designated by the Wildlife Resources Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources under the provisions of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20, in the rules and regulations for Water Quality Control, Chapter 391-3-6 at www.epd.georgia.gov. Streams designated as primary trout waters are defined as water supporting a self-sustaining population of rainbow, brown or brook trout. Streams designated as secondary trout waters are those in which there is no evidence of natural trout reproduction, but are capable of supporting trout throughout the year. First order trout waters are streams into which no other streams flow except springs.
Vegetative erosion and sedimentation control measures. Measures for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by covering the soil with:
A.
Permanent seeding, sprigging or planting, producing long-term vegetative cover, or
B.
Temporary seeding, producing short-term vegetative cover; or
C.
Sodding, covering areas with a turf of perennial sod-forming grass.
Such measures can be found in the publication "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia."
Watercourse. Any natural or artificial watercourse, stream, river, creek, channel, ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine, or wash in which water flows either continuously or intermittently and which has a definite channel, bed and banks, and including any area adjacent thereto subject to inundation by reason of overflow or floodwater.
Wetlands. Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
(Ord. of 11-15-16(1))
3.02.03   Exemptions
This Section shall apply to any land-disturbing activity undertaken by any person on any land except for the following:
1)
Surface mining, as the same is defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-4-72, "The Georgia Surface Mining Act of 1968".
2)
Granite quarrying and land clearing for such quarrying;
3)
Such minor land-disturbing activities as home gardens and individual home landscaping, repairs, maintenance work, fences, and other related activities which result in minor soil erosion;
4)
The construction of single-family residences, when such construction disturbs less than one acre and is not a part of a larger common plan of development or sale with a planned disturbance of equal to or greater than one acre and not otherwise exempted under this paragraph; provided, however, that construction of any such residence shall conform to the minimum requirements as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6 and this paragraph. For single-family residence construction covered by the provisions of this paragraph, there shall be a buffer zone between the residence and any state waters classified as trout streams pursuant to Article 2 of Chapter 5 of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act. In any such buffer zone, no land-disturbing activity shall be constructed between the residence and the point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action from the banks of the trout waters. For primary trout waters, the buffer zone shall be at least 50 horizontal feet, and no variance to a smaller buffer shall be granted. For secondary trout waters, the buffer zone shall be at least 50 horizontal feet, but the Director may grant variances to no less than 25 feet. Regardless of whether a trout stream is primary or secondary, for first order trout waters, which are streams into which no other streams flow except for springs, the buffer shall be at least 25 horizontal feet, and no variance to a smaller buffer shall be granted. The minimum requirements of subsection (b) of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6 and the buffer zones provided by this paragraph shall be enforced by the Local Issuing Authority;
5)
Agricultural operations as defined in O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3, "definitions", to include raising, harvesting or storing of products of the field or orchard; feeding, breeding or managing livestock or poultry; producing or storing feed for use in the production of livestock, including, but not limited to, cattle, calves, swine, hogs, goats, sheep, and rabbits or for use in the production of poultry, including, but not limited, to chickens, hens and turkeys; producing plants, trees, fowl, or animals; the production of aqua culture, horticultural, dairy, livestock, poultry, eggs and apiarian products; farm buildings and farm ponds;
6)
Forestry land management practices, including harvesting; provided, however, that when such exempt forestry practices cause or result in land-disturbing or other activities otherwise prohibited in a buffer, as established in paragraphs (15) and (16) of Section 3.02.04.C. of this Section, no other land-disturbing activities, except for normal forest management practices, shall be allowed on the entire property upon which the forestry practices were conducted for a period of three years after completion of such forestry practices;
7)
Any project carried out under the technical supervision of the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) of the United States Department of Agriculture;
8)
Any project involving less than one acre of disturbed area; provided, however, that this exemption shall not apply to any land-disturbing activity within a larger common plan of development or sale with a planned disturbance of equal to or greater than one acre or within 200 feet of the bank of any state waters, and for purposes of this paragraph, "State Waters" excludes channels and drainage ways which have water in them only during and immediately after rainfall events and intermittent streams which do not have water in them year-round; provided, however, that any person responsible for a project which involves less than one acre, which involves land-disturbing activity, and which is within 200 feet of any such excluded channel or drainage way, must prevent sediment from moving beyond the boundaries of the property on which such project is located and provided, further, that nothing contained herein shall prevent the Local Issuing Authority from regulating any such project which is not specifically exempted by paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (9) or (10) of this Section;
9)
Construction or maintenance projects, or both, undertaken or financed in whole or in part, or both, by the Department of Transportation, the Georgia Highway Authority, or the State Road and Tollway Authority; or any road construction or maintenance project, or both, undertaken by any county or municipality; provided, however, that construction or maintenance projects of the Department of Transportation or the State Road and Tollway Authority which disturb one or more contiguous acres of land shall be subject to provisions of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-7.1; except where the Department of Transportation, the Georgia Highway Authority, or the State Road and Tollway Authority is a secondary permittee for a project located within a larger common plan of development or sale under the state general permit, in which case a copy of a notice of intent under the state general permit shall be submitted to the Local Issuing Authority, the Local Issuing Authority shall enforce compliance with the minimum requirements set forth in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6 as if a permit had been issued, and violations shall be subject to the same penalties as violations by permit holders;
10)
Any land-disturbing activities conducted by any electric membership corporation or municipal electrical system or any public utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission, any utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, any cable television system as defined in O.C.G.A. § 36-18-1, or any agency or instrumentality of the United States engaged in the generation, transmission, or distribution of power; except where an electric membership corporation or municipal electrical system or any public utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission, any utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, any cable television system as defined in O.C.G.A. § 36-18-1, or any agency or instrumentality of the United States engaged in the generation, transmission, or distribution of power is a secondary permittee for a project located within a larger common plan of development or sale under the state general permit, in which case the Local Issuing Authority shall enforce compliance with the minimum requirements set forth in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6 as if a permit had been issued, and violations shall be subject to the same penalties as violations by permit holders; and
11)
Any public water system reservoir.
(Ord. of 11-15-16(1))
3.02.04   Minimum Requirements for Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution Control Using Best Management Practices
A.
General Provisions. Excessive soil erosion and resulting sedimentation can take place during land-disturbing activities if requirements of the ordinance and the NPDES General Permit are not met. Therefore, plans for those land-disturbing activities which are not exempted by this Section shall contain provisions for application of soil erosion, sedimentation and pollution control measures and practices. The provisions shall be incorporated into the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plans. Soil erosion, sedimentation and pollution control measures and practices shall conform to the minimum requirements of Section 3.02.04.B. and C. of this Section. The application of measures and practices shall apply to all features of the site, including street and utility installations, drainage facilities and other temporary and permanent improvements. Measures shall be installed to prevent or control erosion, sedimentation and pollution during all stages of any land-disturbing activity in accordance with requirements of this Section and the NPDES General Permit.
B.
Minimum Requirements/BMPs.
1)
Best management practices as set forth in Section 3.02.04.B. and C. of this Section shall be required for all land-disturbing activities. Proper design, installation, and maintenance of best management practices shall constitute a complete defense to any action by the Director or to any other allegation of noncompliance with paragraph (2) of this subsection or any substantially similar terms contained in a permit for the discharge of stormwater issued pursuant to subsection (f) of O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30, the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act". As used in this subsection the terms "proper design" and "properly designed" mean designed in accordance with the hydraulic design specifications contained in the "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia" specified in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6 subsection (b).
2)
A discharge of stormwater runoff from disturbed areas where best management practices have not been properly designed, installed, and maintained shall constitute a separate violation of any land-disturbing permit issued by a local Issuing Authority or of any state general permit issued by the Division pursuant to subsection (f) of O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30, the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act", for each day on which such discharge results in the turbidity of receiving waters being increased by more than 25 nephelometric turbidity units for waters supporting warm water fisheries or by more than ten nephelometric turbidity units for waters classified as trout waters. The turbidity of the receiving waters shall be measured in accordance with guidelines to be issued by the Director. This paragraph shall not apply to any land disturbance associated with the construction of single-family homes which are not part of a larger common plan of development or sale unless the planned disturbance for such construction is equal to or greater than five acres.
3)
Failure to properly design, install, or maintain best management practices shall constitute a violation of any land-disturbing permit issued by a Local Issuing Authority or of any state general permit issued by the Division pursuant to subsection (f) of O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30, the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act", for each day on which such failure occurs.
4)
The Director may require, in accordance with regulations adopted by the Board, reasonable and prudent monitoring of the turbidity level of receiving waters into which discharges from land-disturbing activities occur.
5)
The LIA may set more stringent buffer requirements than stated in Section 3.02.04.C(15), (16) and (17), in light of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6(c).
C.
The rules and regulations, ordinances, or resolutions adopted pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq. for the purpose of governing land-disturbing activities shall require, as a minimum, protections at least as stringent as the state general permit; and best management practices, including sound conservation and engineering practices to prevent and minimize erosion and resultant sedimentation, which are consistent with, and no less stringent than, those practices contained in the "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia" published by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted, as well as the following:
1)
Stripping of vegetation, regrading and other development activities shall be conducted in a manner so as to minimize erosion;
2)
Cut-fill operations must be kept to a minimum;
3)
Development plans must conform to topography and soil type so as to create the lowest practicable erosion potential;
4)
Whenever feasible, natural vegetation shall be retained, protected and supplemented;
5)
The disturbed area and the duration of exposure to erosive elements shall be kept to a practicable minimum;
6)
Disturbed soil shall be stabilized as quickly as practicable;
7)
Temporary vegetation or mulching shall be employed to protect exposed critical areas during development;
8)
Permanent vegetation and structural erosion control practices shall be installed as soon as practicable;
9)
To the extent necessary, sediment in run-off water must be trapped by the use of debris basins, sediment basins, silt traps, or similar measures until the disturbed area is stabilized. As used in this paragraph, a disturbed area is stabilized when it is brought to a condition of continuous compliance with the requirements of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq.;
10)
Adequate provisions must be provided to minimize damage from surface water to the cut face of excavations or the sloping of fills;
11)
Cuts and fills may not endanger adjoining property;
12)
Fills may not encroach upon natural watercourses or constructed channels in a manner so as to adversely affect other property owners;
13)
Grading equipment must cross flowing streams by means of bridges or culverts except when such methods are not feasible, provided, in any case, that such crossings are kept to a minimum;
14)
Land-disturbing activity plans for erosion, sedimentation and pollution control shall include provisions for treatment or control of any source of sediments and adequate sedimentation control facilities to retain sediments on-site or preclude sedimentation of adjacent waters beyond the levels specified in Section 3.02.04.B(2);
15)
Except as provided in paragraph (16) and (17) of this subsection, there is established a 25-foot buffer along the banks of all state waters, as measured horizontally from the point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action, except where the Director determines to allow a variance that is at least as protective of natural resources and the environment, where otherwise allowed by the Director pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-2-8, where a drainage structure or a roadway drainage structure must be constructed, provided that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated in the project plans and specifications, and are implemented; or where bulkheads and sea walls are installed to prevent shoreline erosion on Lake Oconee and Lake Sinclair; or along any ephemeral stream. As used in this provision, the term "ephemeral stream" means a stream: that under normal circumstances has water flowing only during and for a short duration after precipitation events; that has the channel located above the ground-water table year round; for which ground water is not a source of water; and for which runoff from precipitation is the primary source of water flow. Unless exempted as along an ephemeral stream, the buffers of at least 25 feet established pursuant to Part 6 of Article 5, Chapter 5 of Title 12, the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, shall remain in force unless a variance is granted by the Director as provided in this paragraph. The following requirements shall apply to any such buffer:
a.
No land-disturbing activities shall be conducted within a buffer and a buffer shall remain in its natural, undisturbed state of vegetation until all land-disturbing activities on the construction site are completed. Once the final stabilization of the site is achieved, a buffer may be thinned or trimmed of vegetation as long as a protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the stream bed; provided, however, that any person constructing a single-family residence, when such residence is constructed by or under contract with the owner for his or her own occupancy, may thin or trim vegetation in a buffer at any time as long as protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the stream bed; and
b.
The buffer shall not apply to the following land-disturbing activities, provided that they occur at an angle, as measured from the point of crossing, within 25 degrees of perpendicular to the stream; cause a width of disturbance of not more than 50 feet within the buffer; and adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and are implemented: (i) stream crossings for water lines; or (ii) stream crossings for sewer lines; and
16)
There is established a 50-foot buffer as measured horizontally from the point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action, along the banks of any state waters classified as "trout streams" pursuant to Article 2 of Chapter 5 of Title 12, the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, except where a roadway drainage structure must be constructed; provided, however, that small springs and streams classified as trout streams which discharge an average annual flow of 25 gallons per minute or less shall have a 25-foot buffer or they may be piped, at the discretion of the landowner, pursuant to the terms of a rule providing for a general variance promulgated by the Board, so long as any such pipe stops short of the downstream landowner's property and the landowner complies with the buffer requirement for any adjacent trout streams. The Director may grant a variance from such buffer to allow land-disturbing activity, provided that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated in the project plans and specifications and are implemented. The following requirements shall apply to such buffer:
a.
No land-disturbing activities shall be conducted within a buffer and a buffer shall remain in its natural, undisturbed, state of vegetation until all land-disturbing activities on the construction site are completed. Once the final stabilization of the site is achieved, a buffer may be thinned or trimmed of vegetation as long as a protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the stream bed; provided, however, that any person constructing a single-family residence, when such residence is constructed by or under contract with the owner for his or her own occupancy, may thin or trim vegetation in a buffer at any time as long as protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the stream bed; and
b.
The buffer shall not apply to the following land-disturbing activities, provided that they occur at an angle, as measured from the point of crossing, within 25 degrees of perpendicular to the stream; cause a width of disturbance of not more than 50 feet within the buffer; and adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and are implemented: (i) stream crossings for water lines; or (ii) stream crossings for sewer lines; and
17)
There is established a 25-foot buffer along coastal marshlands, as measured horizontally from the coastal marshland-upland interface, as determined in accordance with Chapter 5 of Title 12 of this title, the Coastal Marshlands Protection Act of 1970, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, except where the director determines to allow a variance that is at least as protective of natural resources and the environment, where otherwise allowed by the director pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-2-8, where an alteration within the buffer area has been authorized pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-286, for maintenance of any currently serviceable structure, landscaping, or hardscaping, including bridges, roads, parking lots, golf courses, golf cart paths, retaining walls, bulkheads, and patios; provided, however, that if such maintenance requires any land-disturbing activity, adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented, where a drainage structure or roadway drainage structure is constructed or maintained; provided, however, that if such maintenance requires any land-disturbing activity, adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented, on the landward side of any currently serviceable shoreline stabilization structure, or for the maintenance of any manmade stormwater detention basin, golf course pond, or impoundment that is located entirely within the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation; provided, however, that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented. For the purposes of this paragraph maintenance shall be defined as actions necessary or appropriate for retaining or restoring a currently serviceable improvement to the specified operable condition to achieve its maximum useful life. Maintenance includes emergency reconstruction of recently damaged parts of a currently serviceable structure so long as it occurs within a reasonable period of time after damage occurs. Maintenance does not include any modification that changes the character, scope or size of the original design and serviceable shall be defined as usable in its current state or with minor maintenance but not so degraded as to essentially require reconstruction.
a.
No land-disturbing activities shall be conducted within a buffer and a buffer shall remain in its natural, undisturbed, state of vegetation until all land-disturbing activities on the construction site are completed. Once the final stabilization of the site is achieved, a buffer may be thinned or trimmed of vegetation as long as a protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat; provided, however, that any person constructing a single-family residence, when such residence is constructed by or under contract with the owner for his or her own occupancy, may thin or trim vegetation in a buffer at any time as long as protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat; and
b.
The buffer shall not apply to crossings for utility lines that cause a width of disturbance of not more than 50 feet within the buffer, provided, however, that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented.
c.
The buffer shall not apply to any land-disturbing activity conducted pursuant to and in compliance with a valid and effective land-disturbing permit issued subsequent to April 22, 2014, and prior to December 31, 2015; provided, however, that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented or any lot for which the preliminary plat has been approved prior to December 31, 2015, if roadways, bridges, or water and sewer lines have been extended to such lot prior to the effective date of this Act and if the requirement to maintain a 25-foot buffer would consume at least 18 percent of the high ground of the platted lot otherwise available for development; provided, however, that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented.
d.
Activities where the area within the buffer is not more than 500 square feet or that have a "Minor Buffer Impact" as defined in 391-3-7-.01(r), provided that the total area of buffer impacts is less than 5,000 square feet are deemed to have an approved buffer variance by rule. Bank stabilization structures are not eligible for coverage under the variance by rule and notification shall be made to the Division at least 14 days prior to the commencement of land-disturbing activities.
D.
Nothing contained in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq. shall prevent any Local Issuing Authority from adopting rules and regulations, ordinances, or resolutions which contain stream buffer requirements that exceed the minimum requirements in Section 3.02.04.B. and C.
E.
The fact that land-disturbing activity for which a permit has been issued results in injury to the property of another shall neither constitute proof of nor create a presumption of a violation of the standards provided for in this Section or the terms of the permit.
(Ord. of 11-15-16(1))
3.02.05   Application/Permit Process
A.
General. The property owner, developer and designated planners and engineers shall design and review before submittal the general development plans. The Local Issuing Authority shall review the tract to be developed and the area surrounding it. They shall consult the zoning ordinance, stormwater management ordinance, subdivision ordinance, flood damage prevention ordinance, this Section, and any other ordinances, rules, regulations or permits, which regulate the development of land within the jurisdictional boundaries of the Local Issuing Authority. However, the owner and/or operator are the only parties who may obtain a permit.
B.
Application Requirements.
1)
No person shall conduct any land-disturbing activity within the jurisdictional boundaries of Catoosa County without first obtaining a permit from the Stormwater Management Office to perform such activity and providing a copy of Notice of Intent submitted to EPD if applicable.
2)
The application for a permit shall be submitted to the Stormwater Management Office and must include the applicant's erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan with supporting data, as necessary. Said plans shall include, as a minimum, the data specified in Section 3.02.05.C. Erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plans, together with supporting data, must demonstrate affirmatively that the land-disturbing activity proposed will be carried out in such a manner that the provisions of Section 3.02.04.B. and C. will be met. Applications for a permit will not be accepted unless accompanied by five copies of the applicant's erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plans. All applications shall contain a certification stating that the plan preparer or the designee thereof visited the site prior to creation of the plan in accordance with EPD Rule 391-3-7-.10.
3)
In addition to the local permitting fees, fees will also be assessed pursuant to paragraph (5) subsection (a) of O.C.G.A. § 12-5-23, provided that such fees shall not exceed $80.00 per acre of land-disturbing activity, and these fees shall be calculated and paid by the primary permittee as defined in the state general permit for each acre of land-disturbing activity included in the planned development or each phase of development. All applicable fees shall be paid prior to issuance of the land disturbance permit. In a jurisdiction that is certified pursuant to subsection (a) of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8 half of such fees levied shall be submitted to the Division; except that any and all fees due from an entity which is required to give notice pursuant to paragraph (9) or (10) of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-17 shall be submitted in full to the Division, regardless of the existence of a Local Issuing Authority in the jurisdiction.
4)
Immediately upon receipt of an application and plan for a permit, the Local Issuing Authority shall refer the application and plan to the District for its review and approval or disapproval concerning the adequacy of the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan. The District shall approve or disapprove a plan within 35 days of receipt. Failure of the District to act within 35 days shall be considered an approval of the pending plan. The results of the District review shall be forwarded to the Local Issuing Authority. No permit will be issued unless the plan has been approved by the District, and any variances required by Section 3.02.04.C(15), (16) and (17) have been obtained, all fees have been paid, and bonding, if required as per Section 3.02.05.B(6), have been obtained. Such review will not be required if the Local Issuing Authority and the District have entered into an agreement which allows the Local Issuing Authority to conduct such review and approval of the plan without referring the application and plan to the District. The Local Issuing Authority with plan review authority shall approve or disapprove a revised Plan submittal within 35 days of receipt. Failure of the Local Issuing Authority with plan review authority to act within 35 days shall be considered an approval of the revised Plan submittal.
5)
If a permit applicant has had two or more violations of previous permits, this Section, or the Erosion and Sedimentation Act, as amended, within three years prior to the date of filing the application under consideration, the Local Issuing Authority may deny the permit application.
6)
The Local Issuing Authority may require the permit applicant to post a bond in the form of government security, cash, irrevocable letter of credit, or any combination thereof up to, but not exceeding, $3,000.00 per acre or fraction thereof of the proposed land-disturbing activity, prior to issuing the permit. If the applicant does not comply with this Section or with the conditions of the permit after issuance, the Local Issuing Authority may call the bond or any part thereof to be forfeited and may use the proceeds to hire a contractor to stabilize the site of the land-disturbing activity and bring it into compliance. These provisions shall not apply unless there is in effect an ordinance or statute specifically providing for hearing and judicial review of any determination or order of the Local Issuing Authority with respect to alleged permit violations.
C.
Plan Requirements.
1)
Plans must be prepared to meet the minimum requirements as contained in Section 3.02.04.B. and C., or through the use of more stringent, alternate design criteria which conform to sound conservation and engineering practices. The "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia" is hereby incorporated by reference into this Section. The plan for the land-disturbing activity shall consider the interrelationship of the soil types, geological and hydrological characteristics, topography, watershed, vegetation, proposed permanent structures including roadways, constructed waterways, sediment control and stormwater management facilities, local ordinances and state laws. Maps, drawings and supportive computations shall bear the signature and seal of the certified design professional. Persons involved in land development design, review, permitting, construction, monitoring, or inspections or any land-disturbing activity shall meet the education and training certification requirements, dependent on his or her level of involvement with the process, as developed by the Commission and in consultation with the Division and the Stakeholder Advisory Board created pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-20.
2)
Data required for site plan shall include all the information required from the appropriate Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution Control Plan Review Checklist established by the Commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted.
D.
Permits.
1)
Permits shall be issued or denied as soon as practicable but in any event not later than 45 days after receipt by the Local Issuing Authority of a completed application, providing variances and bonding are obtained, where necessary and all applicable fees have been paid prior to permit issuance. The permit shall include conditions under which the activity may be undertaken.
2)
No permit shall be issued by the Local Issuing Authority unless the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan has been approved by the District and the Local Issuing Authority has affirmatively determined that the plan is in compliance with this Section, any variances required by Section 3.02.04.C(15), (16) and (17) are obtained, bonding requirements, if necessary, as per Section 3.02.05.B(6) are met and all ordinances and rules and regulations in effect within the jurisdictional boundaries of the Local Issuing Authority are met. If the permit is denied, the reason for denial shall be furnished to the applicant.
3)
Any land-disturbing activities by a local issuing authority shall be subject to the same requirements of this Section, and any other ordinances relating to land development, as are applied to private persons and the division shall enforce such requirements upon the local issuing authority.
4)
If the tract is to be developed in phases, then a separate permit shall be required for each phase.
5)
The permit may be suspended, revoked, or modified by the Local Issuing Authority, as to all or any portion of the land affected by the plan, upon finding that the holder or his successor in the title is not in compliance with the approved erosion and sedimentation control plan or that the holder or his successor in title is in violation of this Section. A holder of a permit shall notify any successor in title to him as to all or any portion of the land affected by the approved plan of the conditions contained in the permit.
6)
The LIA may reject a permit application if the applicant has had two or more violations of previous permits or the Erosion and Sedimentation Act permit requirements within three years prior to the date of the application, in light of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-7(f)(1).
(Ord. of 11-15-16(1))
3.02.06   Inspection and Enforcement
A.
The Stormwater Department will periodically inspect the sites of land-disturbing activities for which permits have been issued to determine if the activities are being conducted in accordance with the plan and if the measures required in the plan are effective in controlling erosion and sedimentation. Also, the Local Issuing Authority shall regulate primary, secondary and tertiary permittees as such terms are defined in the state general permit. Primary permittees shall be responsible for installation and maintenance of best management practices where the primary permittee is conducting land-disturbing activities. Secondary permittees shall be responsible for installation and maintenance of best management practices where the secondary permittee is conducting land-disturbing activities. Tertiary permittees shall be responsible for installation and maintenance where the tertiary permittee is conducting land-disturbing activities. If, through inspection, it is deemed that a person engaged in land-disturbing activities as defined herein has failed to comply with the approved plan, with permit conditions, or with the provisions of this Section, a written notice to comply shall be served upon that person. The notice shall set forth the measures necessary to achieve compliance and shall state the time within which such measures must be completed. If the person engaged in the land-disturbing activity fails to comply within the time specified, he shall be deemed in violation of this Section.
B.
The Local Issuing Authority must amend its ordinances to the extent appropriate within 12 months of any amendments to the Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975.
C.
The Stormwater Office shall have the power to conduct such investigations as it may reasonably deem necessary to carry out duties as prescribed in this Section, and for this purpose to enter at reasonable times upon any property, public or private, for the purpose of investigation and inspecting the sites of land-disturbing activities.
D.
No person shall refuse entry or access to any authorized representative or agent of the Local Issuing Authority, the Commission, the District, or Division who requests entry for the purposes of inspection, and who presents appropriate credentials, nor shall any person obstruct, hamper or interfere with any such representative while in the process of carrying out his official duties.
E.
The District or the Commission or both shall semi-annually review the actions of counties and municipalities which have been certified as Local Issuing Authorities pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a). The District or the Commission or both may provide technical assistance to any county or municipality for the purpose of improving the effectiveness of the county's or municipality's erosion, sedimentation and pollution control program. The District or the Commission shall notify the Division and request investigation by the Division if any deficient or ineffective local program is found.
F.
The Division may periodically review the actions of counties and municipalities which have been certified as Local Issuing Authorities pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a). Such review may include, but shall not be limited to, review of the administration and enforcement of a governing authority's ordinance and review of conformance with an agreement, if any, between the district and the governing authority. If such review indicates that the governing authority of any county or municipality certified pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a) has not administered or enforced its ordinances or has not conducted the program in accordance with any agreement entered into pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-7(e), the Division shall notify the governing authority of the county or municipality in writing. The governing authority of any county or municipality so notified shall have 90 days within which to take the necessary corrective action to retain certification as a Local Issuing Authority. If the county or municipality does not take necessary corrective action within 90 days after notification by the division, the division shall revoke the certification of the county or municipality as a Local Issuing Authority.
(Ord. of 11-15-16(1))
3.02.07   Penalties and Incentives
A.
Failure to Obtain a Permit for Land-Disturbing Activity. If any person commences any land-disturbing activity requiring a land-disturbing permit as prescribed in this Section without first obtaining said permit, the person shall be subject to revocation of his business license, work permit or other authorization for the conduct of a business and associated work activities within the jurisdictional boundaries of the Local Issuing Authority.
B.
Stop-Work Orders.
1)
For the first and second violations of the provisions of this Section, the Director or the Local Issuing Authority shall issue a written warning to the violator. The violator shall have five days to correct the violation. If the violation is not corrected within five days, the Director or the Local Issuing Authority shall issue a stop-work order requiring that land-disturbing activities be stopped until necessary corrective action or mitigation has occurred; provided, however, that, if the violation presents an imminent threat to public health or waters of the state or if the land-disturbing activities are conducted without obtaining the necessary permit, the Director or the Local Issuing Authority shall issue an immediate stop-work order in lieu of a warning;
2)
For a third and each subsequent violation, the Director or the Local Issuing Authority shall issue an immediate stop-work order; and
3)
All stop-work orders shall be effective immediately upon issuance and shall be in effect until the necessary corrective action or mitigation has occurred.
4)
When a violation in the form of taking action without a permit, failure to maintain a stream buffer, or significant amounts of sediment, as determined by the Local Issuing Authority or by the Director or his or her designee, have been or are being discharged into state waters and where best management practices have not been properly designed, installed, and maintained, a stop work order shall be issued by the Local Issuing Authority or by the Director or his or her designee. All such stop work orders shall be effective immediately upon issuance and shall be in effect until the necessary corrective action or mitigation has occurred. Such stop work orders shall apply to all land-disturbing activity on the site with the exception of the installation and maintenance of temporary or permanent erosion and sediment controls.
C.
Bond Forfeiture. If, through inspection, it is determined that a person engaged in land-disturbing activities has failed to comply with the approved plan, a written notice to comply shall be served upon that person. The notice shall set forth the measures necessary to achieve compliance with the plan and shall state the time within which such measures must be completed. If the person engaged in the land-disturbing activity fails to comply within the time specified, he shall be deemed in violation of this Section and, in addition to other penalties, shall be deemed to have forfeited his performance bond, if required to post one under the provisions of Section 3.02.05.B(6) The Local Issuing Authority may call the bond or any part thereof to be forfeited and may use the proceeds to hire a contractor to stabilize the site of the land-disturbing activity and bring it into compliance.
D.
Monetary Penalties.
1)
Any person who violates any provisions of this Section, or any permit condition or limitation established pursuant to this Section, or who negligently or intentionally fails or refuses to comply with any final or emergency order of the Director issued as provided in this Section shall be liable for a civil penalty not to exceed $2,500.00 per day. For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Section, notwithstanding any provisions in any City charter to the contrary, municipal courts shall be authorized to impose penalty not to exceed $2,500.00 for each violation. Notwithstanding any limitation of law as to penalties which can be assessed for violations of county ordinances, any magistrate court or any other court of competent jurisdiction trying cases brought as violations of this Section under county ordinances approved under this Section shall be authorized to impose penalties for such violations not to exceed $2,500.00 for each violation. Each day during which violation or failure or refusal to comply continues shall be a separate violation.
(Ord. of 11-15-16(1))
3.02.08   Education and Certification
A.
Persons involved in land development design, review, permitting, construction, monitoring, or inspection or any land-disturbing activity shall meet the education and training certification requirements, dependent on their level of involvement with the process, as developed by the commission in consultation with the division and the stakeholder advisory board created pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-20.
B.
For each site on which land-disturbing activity occurs, each entity or person acting as either a primary, secondary, or tertiary permittee, as defined in the state general permit, shall have as a minimum one person who is in responsible charge of erosion and sedimentation control activities on behalf of said entity or person and meets the applicable education or training certification requirements developed by the Commission present on-site whenever land-disturbing activities are conducted on that site. A project site shall herein be defined as any land-disturbance site or multiple sites within a larger common plan of development or sale permitted by an owner or operator for compliance with the state general permit.
C.
Persons or entities involved in projects not requiring a state general permit but otherwise requiring certified personnel on site may contract with certified persons to meet the requirements of this Section.
D.
If a state general permittee who has operational control of land-disturbing activities for a site has met the certification requirements of paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-19, then any person or entity involved in land-disturbing activity at that site and operating in a subcontractor capacity for such permittee shall meet those educational requirements specified in paragraph (4) of subsection (b) of O.C.G.A § 12-7-19 and shall not be required to meet any educational requirements that exceed those specified in said paragraph.
(Ord. of 11-15-16(1))
3.02.09   Administrative Appeal Judicial Review
A.
Administrative Remedies. The suspension, revocation, modification or grant with condition of a permit by the Local Issuing Authority upon finding that the holder is not in compliance with the approved erosion, sediment and pollution control plan; or that the holder is in violation of permit conditions; or that the holder is in violation of any ordinance; shall entitle the person submitting the plan or holding the permit to a hearing before the Board of Commissioners within 60 days after receipt by the Local Issuing Authority of written notice of appeal.
B.
Judicial Review. Any person, aggrieved by a decision or order of the Local Issuing Authority, after exhausting his administrative remedies, shall have the right to appeal denovo to the Superior Court of Catoosa County.
(Ord. of 11-15-16(1))
3.02.10   Effectivity, Validity and Liability
A.
Effectivity. The ordinance from which this Section derives shall become effective on the 15th day of November 2016.
B.
Validity. If any section, paragraph, clause, phrase, or provision of this Section shall be adjudged invalid or held unconstitutional, such decisions shall not affect the remaining portions of this Section.
C.
Liability.
1)
Neither the approval of a plan under the provisions of this Section, nor the compliance with provisions of this Section shall relieve any person from the responsibility for damage to any person or property otherwise imposed by law nor impose any liability upon the Local Issuing Authority or District for damage to any person or property.
2)
The fact that a land-disturbing activity for which a permit has been issued results in injury to the property of another shall neither constitute proof of nor create a presumption of a violation of the standards provided for in this Section or the terms of the permit.
3)
No provision of this Section shall permit any persons to violate the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975, the Georgia Water Quality Control Act or the rules and regulations promulgated and approved thereunder or pollute any Waters of the State as defined thereby.
(Ord. of 11-15-16(1))
3.03.00 - GROUNDWATER RECHARGE AREAS
3.03.01   Purpose
A.
In order to provide for the health, safety, and welfare of the public and a healthy economic climate within the county and surrounding communities, it is essential that the quality of public drinking water be ensured. For this reason, it is necessary to protect the subsurface water resources that the county and surrounding communities rely on as sources of public water.
B.
Groundwater resources are contained within underground reservoirs known as aquifers. These aquifers are zones of rock beneath the earth's surface capable of containing or producing water from a well. They occupy vast regions of the subsurface and are replenished by infiltration of surface water runoff in zones of the surface known as groundwater recharge areas. Groundwater is susceptible to contamination when unrestricted development occurs within significant groundwater recharge areas. It is, therefore, necessary to manage land use within groundwater recharge areas in order to ensure that pollution threats are minimized.
3.03.02   Applicability
This Section shall apply to all lands within the Catoosa County that are mapped as significant recharge areas as defined by this UDC. These mapped areas shall also be referred to as the Catoosa County Groundwater Recharge Area Protection District.
3.03.03   Exemptions
Any lot of record approved prior to the adoption of this UDC is exempt from the minimum lot size requirements contained in Sections 3.03.04.B. and C. of this UDC.
3.03.04   Protection Criteria
A.
No construction may proceed on a building or mobile home to be served by a septic tank unless the county first approves the proposed septic tank installations as meeting the requirements of the Georgia Department of Human Resource for On-Site Sewage Management (hereinafter DHR Manual), and subsections B. and C. below.
B.
New homes served by a septic tank/drain field system shall be on lots having minimum size limitations as follows, based on application of Table MT-1 of the DHR Manual (hereinafter DHR Table MT-1). The minimums set forth in Table MT-1 may be increased further based on consideration of other factors (set forth in sections A—F) of the DHR Manual.
1)
150 percent of the subdivision minimum lot size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a high pollution susceptibility area;
2)
125 percent of the subdivision minimum lot size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a medium pollution susceptibility area;
3)
110 percent of the subdivision minimum lot size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a low pollution susceptibility area.
C.
New mobile home parks served by septic tank/drainfield systems shall have lots or spaces having minimum size limitations as follows, based on application of Table MT-2 of the DHR Manual (hereinafter DHR Table MT-2). The minimums set forth in Table MT-2 may be increased further based on consideration of other factors (set forth in sections A—F) of the DHR Manual.
1)
150 percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-2 if they are within a high pollution susceptibility area;
2)
125 percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-2 if they are within a medium pollution susceptibility area;
3)
110 percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-2 if they are within a low pollution susceptibility area.
D.
New agricultural waste impoundment sites shall be lined if they are within a high pollution susceptibility area; a medium pollution susceptibility area and exceed 15 acre-feet; or a low pollution susceptibility area and exceed 50 acre-feet. As a minimum, the liner shall be constructed of compacted clay having a thickness of one-foot and a vertical hydraulic conductivity of less than 5 × 10 -7 cm/sec or other criteria established by the Natural Resource and Conservation Service.
E.
New above-ground chemical or petroleum storage tanks, having a minimum volume of 660 gallons, shall have secondary containment for 110 percent of the volume of such tanks or 110 percent of the volume of the largest tank in a cluster of tanks. Such tanks used for agricultural purposes are exempt, provided they comply with all federal requirements.
F.
New facilities that handle hazardous materials of the types listed in Section 312 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (excluding underground storage tanks) and in amounts of 10,000 pounds or more on any one day, shall perform their operations on impervious surfaces and in conformance with any applicable federal spill prevention requirements and local fire code requirements.
G.
Permanent stormwater infiltration basins shall not be constructed in areas having high pollution susceptibility.
3.03.05   Administration and Enforcement Procedures
A.
Site Plans. Application for a local development permit within the Catoosa County Groundwater Recharge Area Protection District shall include a site plan, drawn at a scale of 1 inch = 50 feet, with the following information:
1)
A map of all planned excavation and fill, including calculations of the volume of cut and fill involved, cross-sectional drawings showing existing and proposed grades. Elevations, horizontal scale and vertical scale must be shown on the cross-sectional drawings.
2)
A map of any wetland boundaries occurring within the site must be provided. This boundary may be included on other maps provided by the applicant.
3)
Location, dimensions and area of all impervious surfaces, both existing and proposed, on the site and adjacent to the site for a distance of 200 feet.
4)
The orientation and distance from the boundaries of the proposed site to the nearest bank of an affected perennial stream or water body.
5)
Elevations of the site and adjacent lands within 200 feet of the site at contour intervals of no greater than two feet; and no greater than one foot for slopes less than or equal to two percent.
6)
Location and detailed design of any spill and leak collection systems designed for the purpose of containing accidentally released hazardous or toxic materials.
7)
All proposed temporary disruptions or diversions of local hydrology.
B.
Activities to Comply with Site Plan.
1)
All development activities or site work conducted after approval of the site plan shall conform with the specifications of said site plan.
2)
Significant changes to the site plan that would alter the amount and velocity of stormwater runoff from the site, increase the amount of impervious surface within the development, alter the overall density of development, result in a considerable increase in the amount of excavation, fill or removal of the overall appearance of the development as proposed, can be amended only with the approval of the Stormwater Management Director.
3)
Minor changes, such as the realignment of streets or minor alterations to drainage structures and other infrastructure to meet unexpected conditions are exempted from this requirement.
C.
Exemptions to Site Plan Requirements. The following activities and developments are exempt from the requirement for detailed site plans.
1)
Single family detached homes constructed within a subdivision of fewer than five parcels.
2)
Repairs to a facility that is part of a previously approved and permitted development.
3)
Construction of minor structures, such as sheds or additions to single family residences.
D.
Review Procedures.
1)
The application shall be made to the Stormwater Management Director and will be reviewed within 15 days.
2)
At the time of the application, the applicant shall pay a filing fee as specified by the county. Filing fees up to the larger of $500.00 or $100.00 per acre may be required to evaluate the application. This fee may be used to retain expert consultants who will provide services pertaining to functional assessment, mitigation, and wetland boundary determinations, as deemed necessary by the Stormwater Management Director.
3)
The review period shall include the preparation of findings (approval, approval with conditions, or disapproval) by the Stormwater Management Director. The applicant will receive written notification of the findings of the Stormwater Management Director. Decisions of the Stormwater Management Director may be appealed to the Catoosa County Public Works Authority.
E.
Duration of Permit Validity.
1)
If construction described in the development permit has not commenced within 12 months from the date of issuance, the permit shall expire.
2)
If construction described in the development permit is suspended or abandoned after work has commenced, the permit shall expire 12 months after the date that work ceased.
3)
Written notice of pending expiration of the development permit shall be issued by the Stormwater Management Director.
F.
Penalties.
1)
When a building or other structure has been constructed in violation of this Section, the violator may be required to remove the structure at the discretion of the Stormwater Management Director. When removal of vegetative cover, excavation, or fill has taken place in violation of this Section, the violator may be required to restore the affected land to its original contours and to restore vegetation, as far as practicable, at the discretion of the Stormwater Management Director.
2)
If the Stormwater Management Director discovers a violation of this Section that also constitutes a violation of any provision of the Clean Water Act as amended, the county shall issue written notification of the violation to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the landowner.
G.
Suspension, Revocation.
1)
The Stormwater Management Director may suspend or revoke a permit if he finds that the applicant has not complied with the conditions or limitations set forth in the permit or has exceeded the scope of the work set forth in the permit.
2)
The Stormwater Management Director shall cause notice of denial, issuance, conditional issuance, revocation or suspension of a permit to be published in a daily newspaper having a broad circulation in the area where the groundwater recharge area is located.
H.
Judicial Review.
1)
Jurisdiction. All final decisions of the county concerning denial, approval or conditional approval of a permit shall be reviewable in the county.
2)
Alternative Actions. Based on these proceedings and the decision of the county, the county commissioners or its designee may, within the time specified by the Magistrate Court of Catoosa County, elect to:
a.
Institute negotiated purchase or condemnation proceedings to acquire an easement or fee interest in the applicant's land;
b.
Approve the permit application with lesser restrictions or conditions (i.e., grant a variance); or
c.
Institute other appropriate actions ordered by the court that fall within the jurisdiction of the county.
I.
Amendments. This Section and the Groundwater Recharge Area District Map may from time to time be amended in accordance with procedures and requirements in the general statutes and as new information becomes available.
J.
Relief Assessment. Assessors and boards of assessors shall consider requirements of these regulations in determining the fair market value of land.
3.04.00 - WETLAND PROTECTION
3.04.01   Purpose
A.
The wetlands in the county are indispensable and fragile natural resources with significant development constraints due to flooding, erosion, and soils limitations. In their natural state, wetlands serve man and nature. They provide habitat areas for fish, wildlife and vegetation; water quality maintenance and pollution control; flood control; erosion control; natural resource education; scientific study; and open space and recreational opportunities. In addition, the wise management of forested wetlands is essential to the economic well-being of many communities within the state.
B.
Nationally, a considerable number of these important natural resources have been lost or impaired by draining, dredging, filling, excavating, building, pollution and other acts. Piecemeal or cumulative losses will, over time, destroy additional wetlands. Damaging or destroying wetlands threatens public safety and the general welfare.
C.
The purpose of this Section is to promote wetlands protection, while taking into account varying ecological, economic development, recreational and aesthetic values. Activities that may damage wetlands should be located on upland sites to the greatest degree practicable as determined through a permitting process.
3.04.02   Establishment of the Wetlands Protection District
A.
The Wetlands Protection District is hereby established which shall correspond to all lands within the jurisdiction of the county that are mapped as wetland areas by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service National Wetlands Inventory Maps.
B.
The generalized wetlands map does not represent the boundaries of jurisdictional wetlands within the county and cannot serve as a substitute for a delineation of wetland boundaries by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as required by Section 404 of the Clean Water Act, as amended. Any local government action under this Section does not relieve the landowner from federal or state permitting requirements.
3.04.03   Protection Criteria
No regulated activity will be permitted within the Wetlands Protection District without written permission or a permit from the county.
A.
If the area proposed for development is located within 50 feet of a wetlands protection district boundary, as determined by the Stormwater Management Director using the Generalized Wetlands Map, a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers ("Corps") determination shall be required.
B.
If the Corps determines that wetlands are present on the proposed development site, the local permit or permission will not be granted until a Section 404 Permit or letter of permission is issued.
3.04.04   Permitted Uses
A.
The following uses shall be allowed as of right within the Wetlands Protection District to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance or law, including laws of trespass, and provided they do not require structures, grading, fill, draining, or dredging except as provided herein.
1)
Conservation or preservation of soil, water, vegetation, fish and other wildlife, provided it does not affect waters of Georgia or of the Unites States in such a way that would require an individual 404 Permit.
2)
Outdoor passive recreational activities, including fishing, bird watching, hiking, boating, horseback riding, and canoeing.
3)
Forestry practices applied in accordance with best management practices approved by the Georgia Forestry Commission and as specified in Section 404 of the Clean Water Act.
4)
The cultivation of agricultural crops. Agricultural activities shall be subject to best management practices approved by the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
5)
The pasturing of livestock, provided that riparian wetlands are protected, that soil profiles are not disturbed and that approved agricultural best management practices are followed.
6)
Education, scientific research, and nature trails.
B.
The activities listed under Section 3.04.03.A of this UDC are exempted from Section 404 of the Clean Water Act provided they do not have impacts on a navigable waterway that would necessitate acquisition of an individual 404 permit. However, under Section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act, a permit may be required in some circumstances.
3.04.05   Prohibited Uses
The following uses are not permitted within the Wetlands Protection District.
A.
Receiving areas for toxic or hazardous waste or other contaminants.
B.
Hazardous or sanitary waste landfills.
3.04.06   Administration and Enforcement Procedures
A.
Site Plans. Application for a local development permit within the county wetlands protection district shall include a site plan, drawn at a scale of 1" = 50', with the following information:
1)
A map of all planned excavation and fill, including calculations of the volume of cut and fill involved, cross-sectional drawings showing existing and proposed grades. Elevations, horizontal scale and vertical scale must be shown on the cross-sectional drawings.
2)
A map of any wetland boundaries occurring within the site must be provided. This boundary may be included on other maps provided by the applicant.
3)
Location, dimensions and area of all impervious surfaces, both existing and proposed, on the site and adjacent to the site for a distance of 200 feet.
4)
The orientation and distance from the boundaries of the proposed site to the nearest bank of an affected perennial stream or water body.
5)
Elevations of the site and adjacent lands within 200 feet of the site at contour intervals of no greater than two feet; and no greater than one foot for slopes less than or equal to two percent.
6)
Location and detailed design of any spill and leak collection systems designed for the purpose of containing accidentally released hazardous or toxic materials.
7)
All proposed temporary disruptions or diversions of local hydrology.
B.
Activities to Comply with Site Plan.
1)
All development activities or site work conducted after approval of the site plan shall conform with the specifications of said site plan.
2)
Significant changes to the site plan that would alter the amount and velocity of stormwater runoff from the site, increase the amount of impervious surface within the development, alter the overall density of development, result in a considerable increase in the amount of excavation, fill or removal of the overall appearance of the development as proposed, can be amended only with the approval of the Stormwater Management Director.
3)
Minor changes, such as the realignment of streets or minor alterations to drainage structures and other infrastructure to meet unexpected conditions are exempted from this requirement.
C.
Exemptions to Site Plan Requirements. The following activities and developments are exempt from the requirement for detailed site plans:
1)
Single family detached homes constructed within a subdivision of fewer than five parcels.
2)
Repairs to a facility that is part of a previously approved and permitted development.
3)
Construction of minor structures, such as sheds or additions to single family residences.
D.
Review Procedures.
1)
The application shall be made to the Stormwater Management Director and will be reviewed within 15 days.
2)
At the time of the application, the applicant shall pay a filing fee as specified by the county. Filing fees up to the larger of $500.00 or $100.00 per acre may be required to evaluate the application. This fee may be used to retain expert consultants who will provide services pertaining to functional assessment, mitigation, and wetland boundary determinations, as deemed necessary by the Stormwater Management Director.
3)
The review period shall include the preparation of findings (approval, approval with conditions, or disapproval) by the Stormwater Management Director. The applicant will receive written notification of the findings of the Stormwater Management Director. Decisions of the Stormwater Management Director may be appealed to the Catoosa County Public Works Authority.
E.
Duration of Permit Validity.
1)
If construction described in the development permit has not commenced within 12 months from the date of issuance, the permit shall expire.
2)
If construction described in the development permit is suspended or abandoned after work has commenced, the permit shall expire 12 months after the date that work ceased.
3)
Written notice of pending expiration of the development permit shall be issued by the Stormwater Management Director.
F.
Penalties.
1)
When a building or other structure has been constructed in violation of this Section, the violator may be required to remove the structure at the discretion of the Stormwater Management Director.
2)
When removal of vegetative cover, excavation, or fill has taken place in violation of this Section, the violator may be required to restore the affected land to its original contours and to restore vegetation, as far as practicable, at the discretion of the Stormwater Management Director.
3)
If the Stormwater Management Director discovers a violation of this Section that also constitutes a violation of any provision of the Clean Water Act as amended, the Board of Commissioners shall issue written notification of the violation to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the landowner.
G.
Suspension, Revocation.
1)
The Stormwater Management Director may suspend or revoke a permit if he finds that the applicant has not complied with the conditions or limitations set forth in the permit or has exceeded the scope of the work set forth in the permit.
2)
The Stormwater Management Director shall cause notice of denial, issuance, conditional issuance, revocation or suspension of a permit to be published in a daily newspaper having a broad circulation in the area where the wetland is located.
H.
Judicial Review.
1)
Jurisdiction. All final decisions of the Stormwater Management Director concerning denial, approval or conditional approval of a permit shall be reviewable in the Magistrate Court of Catoosa County.
2)
Alternative Actions. Based on these proceedings and the decision of the Magistrate Court of Catoosa County, the Board of Commissioners or its designee may, within the time specified by the Magistrate Court of Catoosa County, elect to:
a.
Institute negotiated purchase or condemnation proceedings to acquire an easement or fee interest in the applicant's land;
b.
Approve the permit application with lesser restrictions or conditions (i.e., grant a variance); or
c.
Institute other appropriate actions ordered by the court that fall within the jurisdiction of the Board of Commissioners.
I.
Amendments. These regulations and the Generalized Wetlands Map may from time to time be amended in accordance with procedures and requirements in the general statutes and as new information becomes available.
J.
Relief Assessment. Assessors and boards of assessors shall consider requirements of these regulations in determining the fair market value of land.
3.05.00 - WATERSHED PROTECTION
3.05.01   Purpose
A.
In order to provide for the health, safety, and welfare of the public and a healthy economic climate within the county and surrounding communities, it is essential that the quality of public drinking water be assured. The ability of natural systems to filter stormwater runoff can be threatened by unrestricted development. Land-disturbing activities associated with development can increase erosion and sedimentation that threatens the storage capacity of reservoirs. In addition, stormwater runoff, particularly from impervious surfaces, can introduce toxins, nutrients and sediment into drinking water supplies, making water treatment more complicated and expensive and rendering waters resources unusable for recreation. Industrial land uses that involve the manufacture, use, transport, and storage of hazardous or toxic waste materials result in the potential risk of contamination of nearby public drinking water supplies.
B.
The purpose of this Section is to establish measures to protect the quality and quantity of the present and future water supply of the county; to minimize the transport of pollutants and sediment to the water supply; and to maintain the yield of the water supply watershed. This Section shall apply to all existing and proposed water supply watersheds within the county.
3.05.02   Establishment of a Water Supply Watershed District
A.
The City of Ringgold Water Supply Watershed District is hereby designated and shall comprise the land that drains to the City of Ringgold water supply intake. The boundaries of these overlays are defined by the ridgelines of the respective watersheds and the boundary of a radius of seven miles upstream of the City of Ringgold water supply intake. These overlays shall be further delineated and defined on the Water Supply Watershed Protection District Overlay Map of Catoosa County.
B.
The following water supply watershed districts and reservoirs are hereby defined and the boundaries shall be identified on the Water Supply Watershed Protection District Overlay Map.
1)
The City of Ringgold water supply intake is a small water supply watershed. An intake of the City of Ringgold is located on Chickamauga Creek.
2)
The City of Ringgold water supply watershed does not contain a reservoir.
3.05.03   Protection Criteria
The following regulations shall apply to the City of Ringgold Water Supply Watershed identified on the Water Supply Watershed Protection District Overlay Map as a small water supply watershed.
A.
The corridors of all perennial streams within a seven mile radius upstream of a governmentally owned public drinking water supply intake or water supply reservoir must be protected by the following criteria:
1)
A buffer shall be maintained for a distance of 100-feet on both sides of the stream as measured from the stream banks.
2)
No impervious surface shall be constructed within a 150-foot setback area on both sides of the stream as measured from the stream banks.
3)
Septic tanks and septic tank drainfields are prohibited in the 150-foot setback area as described in Section 3.05.03.A.(2).
B.
The corridors of all perennial streams outside a seven mile radius upstream of a governmentally owned public drinking water supply intake or water supply reservoir must be protected by the following criteria:
1)
A buffer shall be maintained for a distance of 50-feet on both sides of the stream as measured from the stream banks.
2)
No impervious surface shall be constructed within a 75-foot setback area on both sides of the stream as measured from the stream banks.
3)
Septic tanks and septic tank drainfields are prohibited in the 75-foot setback area as described in Section 3.05.03.A.(2).
C.
The impervious surface area, including all public and private structures, utilities, or facilities, of the entire water supply watershed shall be limited to 25 percent, or existing use, whichever is greater.
D.
New facilities which handle hazardous materials of the types listed in Section 312 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (excluding underground storage tanks) and amounts of 10,000 pounds or more on any one day, shall perform their operations on impervious surfaces and in conformance with any applicable federal spill prevention requirements or the requirements of the standard fire prevention code.
3.05.04   Exemptions
The following uses shall be exempted:
A.
Land uses existing prior to the adoption of this UDC.
B.
Mining activities permitted by the department of natural resources under the surface mining act.
C.
Utilities from the stream corridor buffer and setback area provisions in accordance with the following conditions if the utilities to be located in the buffer or setback areas cannot feasibly be located outside these areas:
1)
The utilities shall be located as far from the stream bank as reasonably possible.
2)
The installation and maintenance of the utilities shall be such to protect the integrity of the buffer and setback areas as best as reasonably possible.
3)
The utilities shall not impair the quality of the drinking water stream.
D.
Specific forestry and agricultural activities in the stream corridor buffer and setback areas in accordance with the following conditions.
1)
The activity shall be consistent with best management practices established by the Georgia Forestry Commission or the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
2)
The activity shall not impair the quality of the drinking water stream.
3.05.05   Administration and Enforcement Procedures
A.
Site plans. Application for a local development permit within the City of Ringgold Water Supply Watershed District shall include a site plan, drawn at a scale of 1 inch = 50 feet, with the following information:
1)
A map of all planned excavation and fill, including calculations of the volume of cut and fill involved, cross-sectional drawings showing existing and proposed grades. Elevations, horizontal scale and vertical scale must be shown on the cross-sectional drawings.
2)
A map of any wetland boundaries occurring within the site must be provided. This boundary may be included on other maps provided by the applicant.
3)
Location, dimensions and area of all impervious surfaces, both existing and proposed, on the site and adjacent to the site for a distance of 200 feet.
4)
The orientation and distance from the boundaries of the proposed site to the nearest bank of an affected perennial stream or water body.
5)
Elevations of the site and adjacent lands within 200 feet of the site at contour intervals of no greater than 2 feet; and no greater than 1 foot for slopes less than or equal to 2 percent.
6)
Location and detailed design of any spill and leak collection systems designed for the purpose of containing accidentally released hazardous or toxic materials.
7)
All proposed temporary disruptions or diversions of local hydrology.
B.
Activities to Comply with Site Plan.
1)
All development activities or site work conducted after approval of the site plan shall conform with the specifications of said site plan.
2)
Significant changes to the site plan that would alter the amount and velocity of stormwater runoff from the site, increase the amount of impervious surface within the development, alter the overall density of development, result in a considerable increase in the amount of excavation, fill or removal of the overall appearance of the development as proposed, can be amended only with the approval of the Stormwater Management Director.
3)
Minor changes, such as the realignment of streets or minor alterations to drainage structures and other infrastructure to meet unexpected conditions are exempted from this requirement.
C.
Exemptions to site plan requirements. The following activities and developments are exempt from the requirement for detailed site plans:
1)
Single family detached homes constructed within a subdivision of fewer than five parcels.
2)
Repairs to a facility that is part of a previously approved and permitted development.
3)
Construction of minor structures, such as sheds or additions to single family residences.
D.
Review Procedures.
1)
The application shall be made to Stormwater Management Director and will be reviewed within 15 days.
2)
At the time of the application, the applicant shall pay a filing fee as specified by the Board of Commissioners. Filing fees up to the larger of $500.00 or $100.00 per acre may be required to evaluate the application. This fee may be used to retain expert consultants who will provide services pertaining to functional assessment, mitigation, and wetland boundary determinations, as deemed necessary by the director of stormwater management.
3)
The review period shall include the preparation of findings (approval, approval with conditions, or disapproval) by the Stormwater Management Director. The applicant will receive written notification of the findings of the Stormwater Management Director. Decisions of the Stormwater Management Director may be appealed to the Catoosa County Public Works Authority.
E.
Duration of Permit Validity.
1)
If construction described in the development permit has not commenced within 12 months from the date of issuance, the permit shall expire.
2)
If construction described in the development permit is suspended or abandoned after work has commenced, the permit shall expire 12 months after the date that work ceased.
3)
Written notice of pending expiration of the development permit shall be issued by the Stormwater Management Director.
F.
Penalties.
1)
When a building or other structure has been constructed in violation of this Section, the violator may be required to remove the structure at the discretion of the Stormwater Management Director.
2)
When removal of vegetative cover, excavation, or fill has taken place in violation of this Section, the violator may be required to restore the affected land to its original contours and to restore vegetation, as far as practicable, at the discretion of the Stormwater Management Director.
3)
If the Stormwater Management Director discovers a violation of this Section that also constitutes a violation of any provision of the Clean Water Act as amended, the Board of Commissioners shall issue written notification of the violation to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the landowner.
G.
Suspension, Revocation.
1)
The Stormwater Management Director may suspend or revoke a permit if he finds that the applicant has not complied with the conditions or limitations set forth in the permit or has exceeded the scope of the work set forth in the permit.
2)
The Stormwater Management Director shall cause notice of denial, issuance, conditional issuance, revocation or suspension of a permit to be published in a daily newspaper having a broad circulation in the area where the water supply watershed is located.
H.
Judicial Review.
1)
Jurisdiction. All final decisions of the Stormwater Management Director concerning denial, approval or conditional approval of a permit shall be reviewable in Catoosa County Magistrate Court.
2)
Alternative Actions. Based on these proceedings and the decision of the Catoosa County Magistrate Court, the Board of Commissioners or its designee may, within the time specified by the Catoosa County Magistrate Court, elect to:
a.
Institute negotiated purchase or condemnation proceedings to acquire an easement or fee interest in the applicant's land;
b.
Approve the permit application with lesser restrictions or conditions (i.e., grant a variance); or
c.
Institute other appropriate actions ordered by the court that fall within the jurisdiction of the Board of Commissioners.
I.
Amendments. These regulations and the Water Supply Watershed Protection District Overlay Map may from time to time be amended in accordance with procedures and requirements in the general statutes and as new information becomes available.
J.
Relief Assessment. Assessors and boards of assessors shall consider requirements of these regulations in determining the fair market value of land.
3.06.00 - ILLICIT DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION
3.06.01   Purpose/Intent
A.
The purpose of this Section is to provide for the health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of Catoosa County, Georgia, through the regulation of non-stormwater discharges into the storm drainage system, to the maximum extent practicable, as required by federal and state law.
B.
This Section establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the county separate storm sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit process. The objectives of this Section are to:
1)
Regulate the contribution of pollutants to the county separate storm sewer system (MS4) by any person or user;
2)
Prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the county separate storm sewer system;
3)
Prevent non-stormwater discharges, generated as a result of spills, inappropriate dumping or disposal, to the county separate storm sewer system; and
4)
Establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this Section.
3.06.02   Applicability
This Section shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system generated on any developed and undeveloped lands, unless explicitly exempted by an authorized enforcement agency.
3.06.03   Responsibility for Administration
The authorized enforcement agency shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this Section. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the authorized enforcement agency may be delegated in writing by the director of the authorized enforcement agency to persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in the employ of the agency.
3.06.04   Ultimate Responsibility
The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this Section are minimum standards; therefore this Section does not intend nor imply that compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination, pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
3.06.05   Discharge Prohibitions
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the county storm drain system or watercourses any materials (other than stormwater), including but not limited to pollutants or waters containing any pollutants, that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality standards.
A.
Permitted Exceptions. The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge to the storm drain system is prohibited except the following discharges which are exempt from the discharge prohibitions established by this Section:
1)
Flushing of water lines or other potable water sources; landscape irrigation or lawn watering; diverted stream flows; rising groundwater; groundwater infiltration to storm drains; uncontaminated, pumped groundwater; foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater de-watering systems); crawl space pumps; air conditioning condensation; springs; noncommercial washing of vehicles; natural riparian habitat or wet-land flows; swimming pools (if de-chlorinated with typically less than one PPM chlorine); firefighting activities; and any other water source not containing pollutants.
2)
Discharges specified in writing by the authorized enforcement agency as being necessary to protect public health and safety.
3)
Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal notification to the authorized enforcement agency prior to the time of the test.
4)
The prohibition shall not apply to any non-stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order, issued to the discharger, and administered under the authority of the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any discharge to the storm drain system.
B.
Prohibition of Illicit Connections.
1)
The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
2)
The prohibitions under this subsection expressly include, without limitation, illicit connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of connection.
3)
A person is considered to be in violation of this Section if the person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection to continue.
4)
Improper connections in violation of this Section must be disconnected and redirected, if necessary, to an approved on-site wastewater management system or to the appropriate sanitary sewer system upon approval of the department or agency responsible for handling and treating sanitary sewer within the geographic area of the improper connection.
5)
Any drain or conveyance which has not been documented in plans, maps or equivalent, and which may be connected to the storm drainage system, shall be located by the owner or occupant of that property upon receipt of written notice of violation from the authorized enforcement agency requiring that such locating be completed. Such notice will specify a reasonable time period within which the location of the drain or conveyance is to be completed, that the drain or conveyance be identified as storm sewer, sanitary sewer or other, and that the outfall location or point of connection to the storm drainage system, sanitary sewer system or other discharge point be identified. Results of these investigations are to be documented and provided to the authorized enforcement agency.
3.06.06   Suspension of MS4 Access
A.
Suspension Due to Illicit Discharges in Emergency Situations.
1)
The authorized enforcement agency may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of the United States.
2)
If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
B.
Suspension Due to the Detection of Illicit Discharge.
1)
Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this Section may have their MS4 access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit discharge.
2)
The authorized enforcement agency will notify a violator of the proposed termination of its MS4 access.
3)
The violator may petition the authorized enforcement agency for a reconsideration and hearing.
4)
A person commits an offense in violation of this Section if the person reinstates MS4 access to premises terminated pursuant to this subsection, without the prior approval of the authorized enforcement agency.
3.06.07   Industrial or Construction Activity Discharges
A.
Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit.
B.
Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the authorized enforcement agency prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
3.06.08   Monitoring of Discharges
A.
Applicability. This subsection applies to all facilities which produce stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity, including construction activity.
B.
Access to Facilities.
1)
The authorized enforcement agency shall be permitted to enter and inspect facilities subject to regulation under this Section as often as may be necessary to determine compliance with this Section. If a discharger has security measures in force which require proper identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the discharger shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access to representatives of the authorized enforcement agency.
2)
Facility operators shall allow the authorized enforcement agency ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater, and the performance of any additional duties as defined by state and federal law.
3)
The authorized enforcement agency shall have the right to set up on any permitted facility such devices as are necessary, in the opinion of the authorized enforcement agency, to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the facility's stormwater discharge.
4)
The authorized enforcement agency has the right to require the discharger to install monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
5)
Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the operator at the written or oral request of the authorized enforcement agency and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the operator.
6)
Unreasonable delays in allowing the authorized enforcement agency access to a permitted facility is a violation of a stormwater discharge permit and of this Section. A person who is the operator of a facility with a NPDES permit to discharge stormwater associated with industrial activity commits an offense in violation of this Section if the person denies the authorized enforcement agency reasonable access to the permitted facility for the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by this Section.
7)
If the authorized enforcement agency has been refused access to any part of the premises from which stormwater is discharged, and an agent of the authorized enforcement agency is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this Section, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this Section or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety, and welfare of the community, then the authorized enforcement agency may seek issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
3.06.09   Requirement to Prevent, Control, and Reduce Stormwater Pollutants by the Use of Best Management Practices
A.
The authorized enforcement agency shall adopt and publish requirements and regulations identifying best management practices (BMPs) for any activity, operation, or facility which may cause or contribute to pollution or contamination of stormwater, the storm drain system, or waters of the U.S.
B.
The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial establishment shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses through the use of these structural and non-structural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a property or premise, which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at said person's expense, additional structural and non-structural BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the municipal separate storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance with the provisions of this Section. These BMPs shall be part of a stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements of the NPDES permit.
3.06.10   Watercourse Protection
A.
Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water through the watercourse.
B.
In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse so that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical integrity of the watercourse.
3.06.11   Notification of Spills
A.
Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants discharging into stormwater, the storm drain system, or water of the U.S., said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release.
B.
In the event of such a release of hazardous materials, said person shall immediately notify emergency response agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services.
C.
In the event of a release of non-hazardous materials, said person shall notify the authorized enforcement agency in person or by phone or facsimile no later than the next business day after said release/discharge occurs. Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to the authorized enforcement agency within three business days of the phone notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three years from the date of the release/discharge.
3.06.12   Enforcement
A.
Notice of Violation. Whenever the authorized enforcement agency finds that a person has violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this Section, the authorized enforcement agency may order compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible person. Such notice may require, without limitation:
1)
The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
2)
The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
3)
That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and desist;
4)
The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property; and/or
5)
Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs; and/or
6)
The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
B.
If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a contractor and the expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
3.06.13   Appeal of Notice of Violation
A.
Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of the authorized enforcement agency to the Board of Commissioners or its designee.
B.
The notice of appeal must be received within 10 days from the date of the notice of violation.
C.
Hearing on the appeal before the appropriate authority or its designee shall take place within 15 days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal.
D.
The decision of the Catoosa County Board of Commissioners or their designee shall be final.
3.06.14   Enforcement Measures after Appeal
A.
If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within 30 days of the decision of the appropriate authority upholding the decision of the authorized enforcement agency, then representatives of the authorized enforcement agency shall enter upon the subject private property and are authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property.
B.
It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the government agency or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth above.
3.06.15   Cost of Abatement of the Violation
A.
Within 10 days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative costs.
1)
The property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of the assessment within 10 days of the day of receipt of said notice.
2)
If the amount due is not paid within a timely manner as determined by the decision of the Board of Commissioners, or their designee, or by the expiration of the time in which to file an appeal (whichever shall first occur), the charges shall become a special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the assessment.
B.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall become liable to the county by reason of such violation. The amounts assessed pursuant to this Section shall be paid in not more than 12 equal monthly installments beginning on the first day of the month following the date upon which the assessment becomes final. Interest shall accrue on any unpaid assessments at the rate of ten percent per annum beginning on the tenth day following the date upon which said assessment becomes final.
3.06.16   Injunctive Relief
A.
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this Section.
B.
If a person has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this Section, the authorized enforcement agency may petition a court of competent jurisdiction for a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the person from activities which would create further violations or compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
3.06.17   Compensatory Action
In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by this Section, the authorized enforcement agency may impose upon a violator alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at compliance workshops, creek cleanup, etc.
3.06.18   Violations Deemed a Public Nuisance
In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided herein, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Section is deemed to be a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored, at the violator's expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
3.06.19   Criminal Prosecution
A.
Any person who has violated or continues to violate this Section shall be subject to criminal prosecution to the fullest extent permitted by law, which shall include but not necessarily be limited to being subject to the maximum criminal penalty/fine, per violation, per day which is permitted by law and/or being subject to imprisonment for the maximum term permitted by law for violations of county ordinances.
B.
The authorized enforcement agency may recover all attorney's fees, court costs, and other expenses incurred and/or associated with enforcement of this Section, including sampling and monitoring expenses.
3.06.20   Remedies Not Exclusive
The remedies listed in this Section are not exclusive, but are in addition to any other remedies available under any applicable federal, state or local law, and it is within the discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative remedies.
3.07.00 - POST-DEVELOPMENT STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
3.07.01   General Provisions
A.
Purpose and Intent. The purpose of this Section is to protect, maintain and enhance the public health, safety, environment and general welfare by establishing minimum requirements and procedures to control the adverse effects of increased post-development stormwater runoff and non-point source pollution associated with new development and redevelopment. It has been determined that proper management of post-development stormwater runoff will minimize damage to public and private property and infrastructure, safeguard the public health, safety, environment and general welfare of the public, and protect water and aquatic resources. This Section seeks to meet that purpose through the following objectives:
1)
Establishing decision-making processes surrounding land development activities that protect the integrity of the watershed and preserve the health of water resources;
2)
Requiring that new development and re-development maintain the predevelopment hydrologic response in their post-development state as nearly as practicable in order to reduce flooding, stream bank erosion, non-point source pollution and increases in stream temperature, and maintain the integrity of stream channels and aquatic habitats;
3)
Establish minimum post-development stormwater management standards and design criteria for the regulation and control of stormwater runoff quantity and quality;
4)
Establishing design and application criteria for the construction and use of structural stormwater control facilities that can be used to meet the minimum post-development stormwater management standards;
5)
Encouraging the use of non-structural stormwater management and better stormwater site design practices, such as the preservation of greenspace and other conservation areas, to the maximum extent practicable;
6)
Coordinating site design plans, which include greenspace, with the county's greenspace protection plan;
7)
Establishing provisions for the long-term responsibility for and maintenance of structural stormwater control facilities and nonstructural stormwater management practices to ensure that they continue to function as designed, are maintained, and pose no threat to public safety; and
8)
Establishing administrative procedures for the submission, review, approval and disapproval of stormwater management plans, and for the inspection of approved active projects, and long-term follow up.
3.07.02   Applicability
A.
[Applicable to All Land Development.] This Section shall be applicable to all land development, including, but not limited to, site plan applications, subdivision applications, and grading applications, unless exempt pursuant to Section 3.07.02.C. below.
B.
[Applicable Sites.] These standards apply to any new development or re-development site that meets one or more of the following criteria:
1)
New development that involves the creation of 5,000 square feet or more of impervious cover, or that involves other land development activities of one acre or more;
2)
Re-development that includes the creation, addition or replacement of 5,000 square feet or more of impervious cover, or that involves other land development activity of one acre or more;
3)
Any new development or redevelopment, regardless of size, that is defined by the Stormwater Management Director to be a hotspot land use; or
4)
Land development activities that are smaller than the minimum applicability criteria set forth in items 1) and 2) above, if such activities are part of a larger common plan of development, even though multiple, separate and distinct land development activities may take place at different times on different schedules.
C.
[Exempt activities.] The following activities are exempt from this Section:
1)
Individual single-family or duplex residential lots that are not part of a subdivision or phased development project;
2)
Additions or modifications to existing single-family or duplex residential structures;
3)
Agricultural or silvicultural land management activities within areas zoned for these activities; and
4)
Repairs to any stormwater management facility or practice deemed necessary by the Stormwater Management Director.
D.
Designation of Section Administrator. The Stormwater Management Director, or such other individual designated by the Catoosa County Board of Commissioners from time to time is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions of this Section.
E.
Compatibility with Other Regulations.
1)
This Section is not intended to modify or repeal any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law.
2)
The requirements of this Section are in addition to the requirements of any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law, and where any provision of this Section imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law, whichever provision is more restrictive or imposes higher protective standards for human health or the environment shall control.
F.
Stormwater Design Manual. Catoosa County shall utilize the policy, criteria and information, including technical specifications and standards, in the latest edition of the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual and any relevant local addenda, for the proper implementation of the requirements of this Section. The manual may be updated and expanded periodically, based on improvements in science, engineering, monitoring and local maintenance experience.
3.07.03   Permit Procedures and Requirements
A.
Permit Application Requirements.
1)
No owner or developer shall perform any land development activities without first meeting the requirements of this Section prior to commencing the proposed activity.
2)
Unless specifically exempted by this Section, any owner or developer proposing a land development activity shall submit to the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department a permit application on a form provided by the Stormwater Management Director for that purpose.
3)
Unless otherwise exempted by this Section, a permit application shall be accompanied by the following items in order to be considered:
a.
Stormwater concept plan and consultation meeting certification in accordance with Section 3.07.03.B;
b.
Stormwater management plan in accordance with Section 3.07.03.C;
c.
Inspection and maintenance agreement in accordance with Section 3.07.03.D, if applicable;
d.
Performance bond in accordance with Section 3.07.03.E, if applicable; and
e.
Permit application and plan review fees in accordance with Section 3.07.03.F.
B.
Stormwater Concept Plan and Consultation Meeting.
1)
Before any stormwater management permit application is submitted, the Stormwater Management Director may require the land owner or developer to meet with the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department for a consultation meeting on a concept plan for the post-development stormwater management system to be utilized in the proposed land development project.
a.
If required, this consultation meeting shall take place at the time of the preliminary plan of subdivision or other early step in the development process.
b.
The purpose of this meeting is to discuss the post-development stormwater management measures necessary for the proposed project, as well as to discuss and assess constraints, opportunities and potential ideas for stormwater management designs before the formal site design engineering is commenced.
2)
To accomplish the goals set forth in this Section, the following information shall be included in the concept plan which shall be submitted in advance of any required meeting:
a.
Existing Conditions/Proposed Site Plans. Existing conditions and proposed site layout sketch plans, which illustrate at a minimum:
i.
Existing and proposed topography;
ii.
Perennial and intermittent streams;
iii.
Mapping of predominant soils from soil surveys (when available);
iv.
Boundaries of existing predominant vegetation and proposed limits of clearing and grading; and
v.
Location of existing and proposed roads, buildings, parking areas and other impervious surfaces.
b.
Natural Resources Inventory. A written or graphic inventory of the natural resources at the site and surrounding area as it exists prior to the commencement of the project. This description should include a discussion of:
i.
Soil conditions;
ii.
Forest cover;
iii.
Topography;
iv.
Wetlands;
v.
Native vegetative areas on the site; and
vi.
Location and boundaries of other natural feature protection and conservation areas such as lakes, ponds, floodplains, stream buffers and other setbacks (e.g., drinking water well setbacks, septic setbacks, etc.).
vii.
Particular attention should be paid to environmentally sensitive features that provide particular opportunities or constraints for development.
c.
Stormwater Management System Concept Plan. A written or graphic concept plan of the proposed post-development stormwater management system including:
i.
Preliminary selection and location of proposed structural stormwater controls;
ii.
Location of existing and proposed conveyance systems such as grass channels, swales, and storm drains;
iii.
Flow paths;
iv.
Location of floodplain/floodway limits;
v.
Relationship of site to upstream and downstream properties and drainages; and
vi.
Preliminary location of proposed stream channel modifications, such as bridge or culvert crossings.
3)
Local watershed plans and any relevant resource protection plans will be consulted in the discussion of the concept plan.
C.
Stormwater Management Plan Requirements.
1)
[Plan Detail for Stormwater Runoff.] The stormwater management plan shall detail how post-development stormwater runoff will be controlled or managed and how the proposed project will meet the requirements of this Section, including the performance criteria set forth in Section 3.07.04.
2)
[Plan Approved by Professional Engineer.] The stormwater management plan shall be in accordance with the criteria established in this Section and must be submitted with the stamp and signature of a professional engineer (PE) licensed in the State of Georgia, who must verify that the design of all stormwater management facilities and practices meet the submittal requirements outlined in the submittal checklist(s) found in the Stormwater Design Manual.
3)
[Plan Compliance with Requirements.] The stormwater management plan must ensure that the requirements and criteria in this Section are being complied with and that opportunities are being taken to minimize adverse post-development stormwater runoff impacts from the development. The plan shall consist of maps, narrative, and supporting design calculations (hydrologic and hydraulic) for the proposed stormwater management system. The plan shall include all of the information required in the stormwater management site plan checklist found in the stormwater design manual. This includes the following:
a.
Common address and legal description of site.
b.
Vicinity map.
c.
Existing conditions hydrologic analysis. The existing condition hydrologic analysis for stormwater runoff rates, volumes, and velocities, which shall include:
i.
A topographic map of existing site conditions with the drainage basin boundaries indicated;
ii.
Acreage, soil types and land cover of areas for each sub-basin affected by the project;
iii.
All perennial and intermittent streams and other surface water features;
iv.
All existing stormwater conveyances and structural control facilities;
v.
Direction of flow and exits from the site;
vi.
Analysis of runoff provided by off-site areas upstream of the project site; and
vii.
Methodologies, assumptions, site parameters and supporting design calculations used in analyzing the existing conditions site hydrology. For re-development sites, pre-development conditions shall be modeled using the established guidelines for the portion of the site undergoing land development activities.
4)
Post-development Hydrologic Analysis. The post-development hydrologic analysis for stormwater runoff rates, volumes, and velocities, which shall include:
a.
A topographic map of developed site conditions with the post-development drainage basin boundaries indicated;
b.
Total area of post-development impervious surfaces and other land cover areas for each sub-basin affected by the project;
c.
Calculations for determining the runoff volumes that need to be addressed for each sub-basin for the development project to meet the post-development stormwater management performance criteria in Section 3.07.04;
d.
Location and boundaries of proposed natural feature protection and conservation areas;
e.
Documentation and calculations for any applicable site design credits that are being utilized; and
f.
Methodologies, assumptions, site parameters and supporting design calculations used in analyzing the existing conditions site hydrology. If the land development activity on a re-development site constitutes more than 50 percent of the site area for the entire site, then the performance criteria in Section 3.07.04 must be met for the stormwater runoff from the entire site.
5)
Stormwater Management System. The description, scaled drawings and design calculations for the proposed post-development stormwater management system, which shall include:
a.
A map and/or drawing or sketch of the stormwater management facilities, including the location of nonstructural site design features and the placement of existing and proposed structural stormwater controls, including design water surface elevations, storage volumes available from zero to maximum head, location of inlet and outlets, location of bypass and discharge systems, and all orifice/restrictor sizes;
b.
A narrative describing how the selected structural stormwater controls will be appropriate and effective;
c.
Cross-Section and profile drawings and design details for each of the structural stormwater controls in the system, including supporting calculations to show that the facility is designed according to the applicable design criteria;
d.
A hydrologic and hydraulic analysis of the stormwater management system for all applicable design storms (including stage-storage or outlet rating curves, and inflow and outflow hydrographs);
e.
Documentation and supporting calculations to show that the stormwater management system adequately meets the post-development stormwater management performance criteria in Section 3.07.04;
f.
Drawings, design calculations, elevations and hydraulic grade lines for all existing and proposed stormwater conveyance elements including stormwater drains, pipes, culverts, catch basins, channels, swales and areas of overland flow; and
g.
Where applicable, a narrative describing how the stormwater management system corresponds with any watershed protection plans and/or local greenspace protection plan.
6)
Post-development Downstream Analysis. A downstream peak flow analysis which includes the assumptions, results and supporting calculations to show safe passage of post-development design flows downstream.
a.
The analysis of downstream conditions in the report shall address each and every point or area along the project site's boundaries at which runoff will exit the property.
b.
The analysis shall focus on the portion of the drainage channel or watercourse immediately downstream from the project. This area shall extend downstream from the project to a point in the drainage basin where the project area is 10 percent of the total basin area.
c.
In calculating runoff volumes and discharge rates, consideration may need to be given to any planned future upstream land use changes.
d.
The analysis shall be in accordance with the stormwater design manual.
7)
Construction-Phase Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan. An erosion and sedimentation control plan in accordance with the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act or NPDES Permit for Construction Activities. The plan shall also include information on the sequence/phasing of construction and temporary stabilization measures and temporary structures that will be converted into permanent stormwater controls.
8)
Landscaping and Open Space Plan. A detailed landscaping and vegetation plan describing the woody and herbacious vegetation that will be used within and adjacent to stormwater management facilities and practices. The landscaping plan must also include:
a.
The arrangement of planted areas, natural and greenspace areas and other landscaped features on the site plan;
b.
Information necessary to construct the landscaping elements shown on the plan drawings;
c.
Descriptions and standards for the methods, materials and vegetation that are to be used in the construction;
d.
Density of plantings;
e.
Descriptions of the stabilization and management techniques used to establish vegetation; and
f.
A description of who will be responsible for ongoing maintenance of vegetation for the stormwater management facility and what practices will be employed to ensure that adequate vegetative cover is preserved.
9)
Operations and Maintenance Plan. Detailed description of ongoing operations and maintenance procedures for stormwater management facilities and practices to ensure their continued function as designed and constructed or preserved.
a.
These plans will identify the parts or components of a stormwater management facility or practice that need to be regularly or periodically inspected and maintained, and the equipment and skills or training necessary.
b.
The plan shall include an inspection and maintenance schedule, maintenance tasks, responsible parties for maintenance, funding, access and safety issues.
c.
Provisions for the periodic review and evaluation of the effectiveness of the maintenance program and the need for revisions or additional maintenance procedures shall be included in the plan.
10)
Maintenance Access Easements. The applicant must ensure access from public right-of-way to stormwater management facilities and practices requiring regular maintenance at the site for the purpose of inspection and repair by securing all the maintenance access easements needed on a permanent basis.
a.
Such access shall be sufficient for all necessary equipment for maintenance activities.
b.
Upon final inspection and approval, a plat or document indicating that such easements exist shall be recorded and shall remain in effect even with the transfer of title of the property.
11)
Inspection and Maintenance Agreements. Unless an on-site stormwater management facility or practice is dedicated to and accepted by Catoosa County as provided in Section 3.07.03.D, the applicant must execute an easement and an inspection and maintenance agreement binding on all subsequent owners of land served by an on-site stormwater management facility or practice in accordance with Section 3.07.03.D.
12)
Evidence of Acquisition of Applicable Local, and Non-Local Permits. The applicant shall certify and provide documentation to the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department that all other applicable environmental permits have been acquired for the site prior to approval of the stormwater management plan.
D.
Stormwater Management Inspection and Maintenance Agreements.
1)
Prior to the issuance of any permit for a land development activity requiring a stormwater management facility or practice hereunder and for which Catoosa County requires ongoing maintenance, the applicant or owner of the site must, unless an on-site stormwater management facility or practice is dedicated to and accepted by the Catoosa County, execute an inspection and maintenance agreement, and/or a conservation easement, if applicable, that shall be binding on all subsequent owners of the site.
2)
The inspection and maintenance agreement, if applicable, must be approved by the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department prior to plan approval, and recorded in the deed records upon final plat approval.
3)
The inspection and maintenance agreement shall identify by name or official title the person(s) responsible for carrying out the inspection and maintenance.
a.
Responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the stormwater management facility or practice, unless assumed by a governmental agency, shall remain with the property owner and shall pass to any successor owner.
b.
If portions of the land are sold or otherwise transferred, legally binding arrangements shall be made to pass the inspection and maintenance responsibility to the appropriate successors in title. These arrangements shall designate for each portion of the site, the person to be permanently responsible for its inspection and maintenance.
4)
As part of the inspection and maintenance agreement, a schedule shall be developed for when and how often routine inspection and maintenance will occur to ensure proper function of the stormwater management facility or practice. The agreement shall also include plans for annual inspections to ensure proper performance of the facility between scheduled maintenance and shall also include remedies for the default thereof.
5)
In addition to enforcing the terms of the inspection and maintenance agreement, the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department may also enforce all of the provisions for ongoing inspection and maintenance in Section 3.07.06.
6)
Catoosa County, in lieu of an inspection and maintenance agreement, may accept dedication of any existing or future stormwater management facility for maintenance, provided such facility meets all the requirements of this Section and includes adequate and perpetual access and sufficient area, by easement or otherwise, for inspection and regular maintenance. However, Catoosa County shall not accept any detention or retention ponds or facilities and said facilities shall be subject to the maintenance requirements of this Section.
E.
Performance and Maintenance Bonds.
1)
The Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department may, in its discretion, require the submittal of a performance security or surety bond prior to the issuance of a permit hereunder in order to ensure that the stormwater structures and practices are installed by the permit holder as required by the approved stormwater management plan.
a.
The amount of said security or bond shall be the total estimated construction cost of the stormwater management structure or practices approved under the permit, plus 25 percent.
b.
The performance security or bond shall contain forfeiture provisions for failure to complete work specified in the stormwater management plan.
2)
The installation performance security or bond shall be released only upon submission of "as built plans" and written certification by a registered professional engineer that the stormwater practices and structures have been installed in accordance with the approved plan and other applicable provisions of this Section.
a.
The Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department shall make a final inspection of the stormwater practices and structures to ensure that they are in compliance with the approved plan and the provisions of this Section.
b.
Provisions for a partial pro-rata release of the performance security or bond based upon the completion of various developmental stages may be done at the discretion of the Director of the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department.
F.
Application procedure.
1)
Applications for land development permits shall be filed with the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department.
2)
Permit applications shall include the items set forth in Section 3.07.03.A. and shall include two copies of the stormwater management plan and the inspection maintenance agreement, if applicable.
3)
The Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department shall inform the applicant whether the application, stormwater management plan and inspection and maintenance agreement are approved or disapproved.
4)
If either the permit application, stormwater management plan or inspection and maintenance agreement are disapproved, the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department shall notify the applicant of such fact in writing. The applicant may then revise any item not meeting the requirements hereof and re-submit the same, in which event Section 3.07.03.C and this paragraph shall apply to such re-submittal.
5)
Upon a finding by the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department that the permit application, stormwater management plan and inspection and maintenance agreement, if applicable, meet the requirements of this Section, the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department may issue a permit for the land development project, provided all other legal requirements for the issuance of such permit have been met.
6)
Notwithstanding the issuance of the permit, in conducting the land development project, the applicant or other responsible person shall be subject to the following requirements:
a.
The applicant shall comply with all applicable requirements of the approved plan and this Section and shall certify that all land clearing, construction, land development and drainage will be done according to the approved plan;
b.
The land development project shall be conducted only within the area specified in the approved plan;
c.
The Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department shall be allowed to conduct periodic inspections of the project;
d.
No changes may be made to an approved plan without review and written approval by the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department; and
e.
Upon completion of the project, the applicant or other responsible person shall submit the engineer's report and certificate and as-built plans required by Section 3.07.05.B.
G.
Application Review Fees. The fee for review of any stormwater management application shall be based on the fee structure established by the Board of Commissioners from time to time and shall be made prior to the issuance of any building permit for the development.
H.
Modifications for Off-Site Facilities.
1)
The stormwater management plan for each land development project shall provide for stormwater management measures located on the site of the project, unless provisions are made to manage stormwater by an off-site or regional facility.
a.
The off-site or regional facility must be located on property legally dedicated for the purpose, must be designed and adequately sized to provide a level of stormwater quantity and quality control that is equal to or greater than that which would be afforded by on-site practices and there must be a legally-obligated entity responsible for long-term operation and maintenance of the off-site or regional stormwater facility.
b.
In addition, on-site measures shall be implemented, where necessary, to protect upstream and downstream properties and drainage channels from the site to the off-site facility.
2)
A stormwater management plan must be submitted to the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department which shows the adequacy of the off-site or regional facility.
3)
To be eligible for a modification, the applicant must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department that the use of an off-site or regional facility will not result in the following impacts to upstream or downstream areas:
a.
Increased threat of flood damage to public health, life, and property;
b.
Deterioration of existing culverts, bridges, dams, and other structures;
c.
Accelerated stream bank or streambed erosion or siltation;
d.
Degradation of in-stream biological functions or habitat; or
e.
Water quality impairment in violation of state water quality standards, and/or violation of any state or federal regulations.
3.07.04   Post-Development Stormwater Management Performance Criteria
The following performance criteria shall be applicable to all stormwater management plans, unless otherwise provided for in this Section:
A.
Water Quality. All stormwater runoff generated from a site shall be adequately treated before discharge. It will be presumed that a stormwater management system complies with this requirement if:
1)
It is sized to treat the prescribed water quality treatment volume from the site, as defined in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual;
2)
Appropriate structural stormwater controls or nonstructural practices are selected, designed, constructed or preserved, and maintained according to the specific criteria in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual; and
3)
Runoff from hotspot land uses and activities identified by the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department are adequately treated and addressed through the use of appropriate structural stormwater controls, nonstructural practices and pollution prevention practices.
B.
Stream Channel Protection. Protection of stream channels from bank and bed erosion and degradation shall be provided by using all of the following three approaches:
1)
Preservation, restoration and/or reforestation (with native vegetation) of the applicable stream buffer;
2)
Twenty-four-hour extended detention storage of the 1-year, 24-hour return frequency storm event;
3)
Erosion prevention measures such as energy dissipation and velocity control.
C.
Overbank Flooding Protection.
1)
Downstream overbank flood and property protection shall be provided by controlling (attenuating) the post-development peak discharge rate to the pre-development rate for the 25-year, 24-hour return frequency storm event.
2)
If control of the one-year, 24-hour storm under subsection (2) is exempted, then peak discharge rate attenuation of the 2-year through the 25-year return frequency storm event must be provided.
D.
Extreme Flooding Protection. Extreme flood and public safety protection shall be provided by controlling and safely conveying the 100-year, 24-hour return frequency storm event such that flooding is not exacerbated.
E.
Structural Stormwater Controls.
1)
All structural stormwater management facilities shall be selected and designed using the appropriate criteria from the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual.
a.
All structural stormwater controls must be designed appropriately to meet their intended function.
b.
For other structural stormwater controls not included in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual, or for which pollutant removal rates have not been provided, the effectiveness and pollutant removal of the structural control must be documented through prior studies, literature reviews, or other means and receive approval from Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department before being included in the design of a stormwater management system. In addition, if hydrologic or topographic conditions, or land use activities warrant greater control than that provided by the minimum control requirements, the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department may impose additional requirements deemed necessary to protect upstream and downstream properties and aquatic resources from damage due to increased volume, frequency, and rate of stormwater runoff or increased non-point source pollution loads created on the site in question.
2)
Applicants shall consult the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual for guidance on the factors that determine site design feasibility when selecting and locating a structural stormwater control.
F.
Stormwater Credits for Nonstructural Measures. The use of one or more site design measures by the applicant may allow for a reduction in the water quality treatment volume required under Section 3.07.04.A. The applicant may, if approved by the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department, take credit for the use of stormwater better site design practices and reduce the water quality volume requirement.
1)
For each potential credit, there is a minimum set of criteria and requirements which identify the conditions or circumstances under which the credit may be applied.
2)
The site design practices that qualify for this credit and the criteria and procedures for applying and calculating the credits are included in the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual.
G.
Drainage System Guidelines.
1)
Stormwater conveyance facilities, which may include but are not limited to culverts, stormwater drainage pipes, catch basins, drop inlets, junction boxes, headwalls, gutter, swales, channels, ditches, and energy dissipaters shall be provided when necessary for the protection of public right-of-way and private properties adjoining project sites and/or public right-of-ways.
2)
Stormwater conveyance facilities that are designed to carry runoff from more than one parcel, existing or proposed, shall meet the following requirements:
a.
Methods to calculate stormwater flows shall be in accordance with the Stormwater Design Manual;
b.
All culverts, pipe systems and open channel flow systems shall be sized in accordance with the stormwater management plan using the methods-included in the Stormwater Design Manual; and
c.
Design and construction of stormwater conveyance facilities shall be in accordance with the criteria and specifications found in the Stormwater Design Manual.
H.
Dam Design Guidelines. Any land-disturbing activity that involves a site which proposes a dam shall comply with the Georgia Safe Dams Act and Rules for Dam Safety as applicable.
3.07.05   Construction Inspections of Post-Development Stormwater Management System
A.
Inspections to Ensure Plan Compliance During Construction.
1)
Periodic inspections of the stormwater management system construction shall be conducted by the staff of the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department or conducted and certified by a professional engineer who has been approved by the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department.
2)
Construction inspections shall utilize the approved stormwater management plan for establishing compliance.
3)
All inspections shall be documented with written reports that contain the following information:
a.
The date and location of the inspection;
b.
Whether construction is in compliance with the approved stormwater management plan;
c.
Variations from the approved construction specifications; and
d.
Any other variations or violations of the conditions of the approved stormwater management plan.
4)
If any violations are found, the applicant shall be notified in writing of the nature of the violation and the required corrective actions.
B.
Final Inspection and As-Built Plans.
1)
Upon completion of a project, and before a certificate of occupancy shall be granted, the applicant is responsible for certifying that the completed project is in accordance with the approved stormwater management plan.
2)
All applicants are required to submit actual "as-built" plans for any stormwater management facilities or practices after final construction is completed. The plan must show the final design specifications for all stormwater management facilities and practices and must be certified by a professional engineer.
3)
A final inspection by the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department is required before the release of any performance securities can occur.
3.07.06   Ongoing Inspection and Maintenance of Stormwater Facilities and Practices
A.
Long-Term Maintenance Inspection of Stormwater Facilities and Practices.
1)
Stormwater management facilities and practices included in a stormwater management plan which are subject to an inspection and maintenance agreement must undergo ongoing inspections to document maintenance and repair needs and ensure compliance with the requirements of the agreement, the plan and this Section.
2)
A stormwater management facility or practice shall be inspected on a periodic basis by the responsible person in accordance with the approved inspection and maintenance agreement.
a.
In the event that the stormwater management facility has not been maintained and/or becomes a danger to public safety or public health, the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department shall notify the person responsible for carrying out the maintenance plan by registered or certified mail to the person specified in the inspection and maintenance agreement. The notice shall specify the measures needed to comply with the agreement and the plan and shall specify the time within which such measures shall be completed.
b.
If the responsible person fails or refuses to meet the requirements of the inspection and maintenance agreement, the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department may correct the violation as provided in Section 3.07.06.D.
3)
Inspection programs by the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department may be established on any reasonable basis, including but not limited to:
a.
Routine inspections;
b.
Random inspections;
c.
Inspections based upon complaints or other notice of possible violations; and
d.
Joint inspections with other agencies inspecting under environmental or safety laws.
4)
Inspections may include, but are not limited to:
a.
Reviewing maintenance and repair records;
b.
Sampling discharges, surface water, groundwater, and material or water in stormwater management facilities; and
c.
Evaluating the condition of stormwater management facilities, and practices.
B.
Right-of-Entry for Inspection. The terms of the inspection and maintenance agreement shall provide for the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department to enter the property at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner for the purpose of inspection. This includes the right to enter a property when it has a reasonable basis to believe that a violation of this Section is occurring or has occurred and to enter when necessary for abatement of a public nuisance or correction of a violation of this Section.
C.
Records of Maintenance Activities. Parties responsible for the operation and maintenance of a stormwater management facility shall provide records of all maintenance and repairs to the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department.
D.
Failure to Maintain.
1)
If a responsible person fails or refuses to meet the requirements of the inspection and maintenance agreement, the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department, after 30 days written notice (except, that in the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, 24 hours' notice shall be sufficient), may correct a violation of the design standards or maintenance requirements by performing the necessary work to place the facility or practice in proper working condition.
2)
The Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department may assess the owner(s) of the facility for the cost of repair work which shall be a lien on the property, and may be placed on the ad valorem tax bill for such property and collected in the ordinary manner for such taxes.
3.07.07   Violations, Enforcement and Penalties
Any action or inaction which violates the provisions of this Section or the requirements of an approved stormwater management plan or permit, may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in this Section. Any such action or inaction which is continuous with respect to time is deemed to be a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of any of the penalties described below shall not prevent such equitable relief.
A.
Notice of Violation.
1)
If the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department determines that an applicant or other responsible person has failed to comply with the terms and conditions of a permit, an approved stormwater management plan or the provisions of this Section, it shall issue a written notice of violation to such applicant or other responsible person. Where a person is engaged in activity covered by this Section without having first secured a permit therefor, the notice of violation shall be served on the owner or the responsible person in charge of the activity being conducted on the site.
2)
The notice of violation shall contain:
a.
The name and address of the owner or the applicant or the responsible person;
b.
The address or other description of the site upon which the violation is occurring;
c.
A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
d.
A description of the remedial measures necessary to bring the action or inaction into compliance with the permit, the stormwater management plan or this Section and the date for the completion of such remedial action;
e.
A statement of the penalty or penalties that may be assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed; and
f.
A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed to the Planning Commission by filing a written notice of appeal within 30 days after the notice of violation (except, that in the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, 24 hours' notice shall be sufficient).
B.
Penalties.
1)
In the event the remedial measures described in the notice of violation have not been completed by the date set forth for such completion in the notice of violation, any one or more of the following actions or penalties may be taken or assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation was directed.
2)
Before taking any of the following actions or imposing any of the following penalties, the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department shall first notify the applicant or other responsible person in writing of its intended action, and shall provide a reasonable opportunity, of not less than ten days (except, that in the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, 24 hours' notice shall be sufficient) to cure such violation.
3)
In the event the applicant or other responsible person fails to cure such violation after such notice and cure period, the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department may take any one or more of the following actions or impose any one or more of the following penalties:
a.
Stop Work Order
i.
The Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department may issue a stop work order which shall be served on the applicant or other responsible person.
ii.
The stop work order shall remain in effect until the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violation or violations described therein, provided the stop work order may be withdrawn or modified to enable the applicant or other responsible person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such violation or violations.
b.
Withhold Certificate of Occupancy. The Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department may refuse to issue a certificate of occupancy for the building or other improvements constructed or being constructed on the site until the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein.
c.
Suspension, Revocation or Modification of Permit
i.
The Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department may suspend, revoke or modify the permit authorizing the land development project.
ii.
A suspended, revoked or modified permit may be re-instated after the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein, provided such permit may be re-instated, upon such conditions as the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department may deem necessary, to enable the applicant or other responsible person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such violations.
d.
Civil Penalties. In the event the applicant or other responsible person fails to take the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or otherwise fails to cure the violations described therein within ten days, or such greater period as the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department shall deem appropriate (except, that in the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, 24 hours' notice shall be sufficient) after the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department has taken one or more of the actions described above, the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department may impose a penalty not to exceed $1,000.00 (depending on the severity of the violation) for each day the violation remains unremedied after receipt of the notice of violation.
e.
Criminal Penalties
i.
For intentional and flagrant violations of this Section, the Catoosa County Stormwater Management Department may issue a citation to the applicant or other responsible person, requiring such person to appear in the Catoosa County Magistrate Court to answer charges for such violation.
ii.
Upon conviction, such person shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or imprisonment for 60 days or both. Each act of violation and each day upon which any violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense.
3.08.00 - FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION[2]
3.08.01   Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Objectives
A.
Authorization. Article IX, Section II of the Constitution of the State of Georgia and O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(a) have delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the Board of Commissioners, of Catoosa County Georgia, does ordain as follows:
B.
Findings of Fact.
1)
The flood hazard areas of Catoosa County, Georgia are subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood relief and protection, and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
2)
These flood losses are caused by the occupancy in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods, which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise unprotected from flood damages, and by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities.
C.
Statement of Purpose. It is the purpose of this Section to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
1)
Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction;
2)
Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which increase flood heights, velocities, or erosion;
3)
Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may increase flood damage or erosion; and
4)
Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other lands;
5)
Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of floodwaters.
D.
Objectives. The objectives of this Section are:
1)
To protect human life and health;
2)
To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in floodplains;
3)
To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight areas;
4)
To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
5)
To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
6)
To minimize prolonged business interruptions; and
7)
To ensure that potential homebuyers are notified that property is in a flood area.
(Ord. of 9-19-17(2))
3.08.02   General Provisions
A.
Lands to Which This Section Applies. This Section shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of Catoosa County, Georgia.
B.
Basis for Area of Special Flood Hazard. The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in its Flood Insurance Study (FIS), dated September 11, 2009, with accompanying maps and other supporting data and any revision thereto, are adopted by reference and declared a part of this Section.
For those land areas acquired by a municipality through annexation, the current effective FIS dated September 11, 2009, with accompanying maps and other supporting data and any revision thereto, for Catoosa County are hereby adopted by reference.
Areas of special flood hazard may also include those areas known to have flooded historically or defined through standard engineering analysis by governmental agencies or private parties but not yet incorporated in a FIS for Catoosa County.
The repository for public inspection of the flood insurance study (FIS), accompanying maps and other supporting data is located: Catoosa County Stormwater Management 184 Tiger Trail Ringgold, GA 30736.
C.
Establishment of Development Permit. A development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of this Section prior to the commencement of any development activities.
D.
Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this Section and other applicable regulations.
E.
Abrogation and Greater Restrictions. This Section is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing ordinance, easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this Section and another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
F.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this Section all provisions shall be:
1)
Considered as minimum requirements;
2)
Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
3)
Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state statutes.
G.
Warning and Disclaimer of Liability. The degree of flood protection required by this Section is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and will occur; flood heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This Section does not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This Section shall not create liability on the part of Catoosa County or by any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this Section or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
H.
Penalties for Violation. Failure to comply with the provisions of this Section or with any of its requirements, including conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions shall constitute a violation. Any person who violates this Section or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $1,000.00 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Catoosa County Government from taking such other lawful actions as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. of 9-19-17(2))
3.08.03   Administration
A.
Designation of Ordinance Administrator. The Catoosa County Stormwater Director is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions of this Section.
B.
Permit Procedures. Application for a development permit shall be made to the Stormwater Director on forms furnished by the community prior to any development activities, and may include, but not be limited to the following: plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the elevations of the area in question and the nature, location, dimensions, of existing or proposed structures, earthen fill placement, storage of materials or equipment, and drainage facilities.
Specifically, the following information is required:
1)
Application Stage.
a.
Elevation in relation to mean sea level (or highest adjacent grade in an A zone without elevations) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all proposed structures;
b.
Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential structure will be flood-proofed;
c.
Design certification from a registered professional engineer or architect that any proposed nonresidential flood-proofed structure will meet the flood-proofing criteria of Section 3.08.04.B(2);
d.
Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of a proposed development; and
2)
Construction Stage. For all new construction and substantial improvements, the permit holder shall provide to the Administrator an as-built certification of the regulatory floor elevation or flood-proofing level immediately after the lowest floor or flood-proofing is completed. Any lowest floor certification made relative to mean sea level shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor. When flood-proofing is utilized for nonresidential structures, said certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same.
Any work undertaken prior to submission of these certifications shall be at the permit holder's risk.
The Stormwater Director shall review the above referenced certification data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further progressive work being allowed to proceed. Failure to submit certification or failure to make said corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
C.
Duties and Responsibilities of the Administrator. Duties of the Stormwater Director shall include, but shall not be limited to:
1)
Review proposed development to assure that the permit requirements of this Section have been satisfied.
2)
Review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been received from governmental agencies from which approval is required by federal or state law, including section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334. Require that copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file.
3)
Review all permit applications to determine whether proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding.
4)
When Base Flood Elevation data or floodway data have not been provided in accordance with Section 3.08.02.B, then the Director shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state or other sources in order to administer the provisions of Section 3.08.04.
5)
Review and record the actual elevation in relation to mean sea level (or highest adjacent grade) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new or substantially improved structures in accordance with Section 3.08.03.B(2).
6)
Review and record the actual elevation, in relation to mean sea level to which any new or substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed, in accordance with Section 3.08.03.B(2).
7)
When flood-proofing is utilized for a structure, the Director shall obtain certification of design criteria from a registered professional engineer or architect in accordance with Section 3.08.03.B(1)c. and Section 3.08.04.B(2) or D(2).
8)
Make substantial damage determinations following a flood event or any other event that causes damage to structures in flood hazard areas.
9)
Notify adjacent communities and the Georgia Department of Natural Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
10)
For any altered or relocated watercourse, submit engineering data/analysis within six months to the FEMA to ensure accuracy of community flood maps through the letter of map revision process. Assure flood-carrying capacity of any altered or relocated watercourse is maintained.
11)
Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions) the Director shall make the necessary interpretation. Any person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in this Section.
12)
All records pertaining to the provisions of this Section shall be maintained in the office of the Director and shall be open for public inspection.
(Ord. of 9-19-17(2))
3.08.04   Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
A.
General Standards. In all areas of special flood hazard the following provisions are required:
1)
New construction and substantial improvements of existing structures shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
2)
New construction and substantial improvements of existing structures shall be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
3)
New construction or substantial improvements of existing structures shall be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
4)
Elevated Buildings. All new construction or substantial improvements of existing structures that include any fully enclosed area located below the lowest floor formed by foundation and other exterior walls shall be designed so as to be an unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure. The enclosure shall be designed to equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the automatic entry and exit of floodwater.
a.
Designs for complying with this requirement must either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum criteria:
i.
Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
ii.
The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above grade; and
iii.
Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwater in both direction.
b.
So as not to violate the "lowest floor" criteria of this Section, the unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure shall only be used for parking of vehicles, limited storage of maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises, or entry to the elevated area; and
c.
The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
5)
All heating and air conditioning equipment and components (including ductwork), all electrical, ventilation, plumbing, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding;
6)
Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting wind forces;
7)
New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
8)
New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters;
9)
On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding; and
10)
Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a structure, which is not compliant with the provisions of this Section, shall be undertaken only if the non-conformity is not furthered, extended or replaced.
B.
Specific Standards. In all areas of special flood hazard the following provisions are required:
1)
New Construction and/or Substantial Improvements. Where base flood elevation data are available, new construction and/or substantial improvement of any structure or manufactured home shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated no lower than two and seven-tenths feet above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate equalization of flood hydrostatic forces on both sides of exterior walls shall be provided in accordance with standards of Section 3.08.04.A(4), "Elevated Buildings".
a.
All heating and air conditioning equipment and components (including ductwork), all electrical, ventilation, plumbing, and other service facilities shall be elevated at or above two and seven-tenths feet above the base flood elevation.
2)
Non-Residential Construction. New construction and/or the substantial improvement of any structure located in A1-30, AE, or AH zones, may be flood-proofed in lieu of elevation. The structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, must be designed to be water tight to two feet above the base flood elevation, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, and structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice for meeting the provisions above, and shall provide such certification to the official as set forth above and in Section 3.08.03.C(6).
3)
Standards for Manufactured Homes and Recreational Vehicles. Where base flood elevation data are available:
a.
All manufactured homes placed and/or substantially improved on:
i.
Individual lots or parcels,
ii.
In new and/or substantially improved manufactured home parks or subdivisions,
iii.
In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or subdivisions, or
iv.
On a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision where a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as the result of a flood, must have the lowest floor including basement, elevated no lower than two and seven-tenths feet above the base flood elevation.
b.
Manufactured homes placed and/or substantially improved in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision may be elevated so that either:
i.
The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower than two and seven-tenths feet above the level of the base flood elevation, or
ii.
The manufactured home chassis is elevated and supported by reinforced piers (or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength) of no less than 36 inches in height above grade.
c.
All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement. (Refer to Section 3.08.04.A(6))
d.
All recreational vehicles placed on sites must either:
i.
Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; or
ii.
Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is licensed, on its wheels or jacking system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached structures or additions), or
iii.
The recreational vehicle must meet all the requirements for "new construction", including the anchoring and elevation requirements of Section 3.08.04.B(3)a. and (3)c., above.
4)
Floodway. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in Section 3.08.02.B, are areas designated as floodway. A floodway may be an extremely hazardous area due to velocity floodwaters, debris or erosion potential. In addition, the area must remain free of encroachment in order to allow for the discharge of the base flood without increased flood heights. Therefore, the following provisions shall apply:
a.
Encroachments are prohibited, including earthen fill, new construction, substantial improvements or other development within the regulatory floodway. Development may be permitted however, provided it is demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the encroachment shall not result in any increase in flood levels or floodway widths during a base flood discharge. A registered professional engineer must provide supporting technical data and certification thereof.
b.
Only if Section 3.08.04.B(4)a. above is satisfied, then any new construction or substantial improvement shall comply with all other applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of Section 3.08.04.
c.
Removal of trees and other vegetation may not be a consideration in calculating the effect of proposed encroachment on flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
5)
Floodway Fringe, Lower. Within the lower floodway fringe is the area between the floodway and the upper floodway fringe that is lower than one-half the distance between the floodway and the boundary of the area of special flood hazard. The lower floodway fringe is a transitional area that is hazardous due to its proximity to the floodway and encroachment by fill or development within this area could have serious impact on the entire floodplain. The following provisions shall apply with the lower floodway fringe:
a.
Encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements and other developments shall be prohibited unless certification by a registered professional engineer, with supporting technical data, is provided to the director demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during occurrence of base flood discharge;
b.
If Section 3.08.04.A(4)a. is satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of Section 3.08.04.
c.
The placement of manufactured homes, except in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision, shall be prohibited. A replacement manufactured home may be placed on a lot in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision provided the anchoring standards of Section 3.08.04.A(6), and the elevation standard of Section 3.08.04.B(1), and the encroachment standards of Section 3.08.04.B(4)a. are met.
d.
Removal of trees and other vegetation may not be a consideration in effects of proposed encroachment on flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
6)
Large Tracts. If a tract contains over one acre located within the area of special flood hazard, then development or land disturbance on that portion of the tract located within the special flood hazard area shall comply with the standards for lower floodway fringe set forth in subsection B(5).
7)
Other Area Unsuitable for Development. Land subject to flooding that is not located within a mapped area of special flood hazard may, at the discretion of the Director of Floodplain Management, be required to comply with any or all standards set forth in this chapter.
8)
Grading in the Area of the Special Flood Hazard. Grading (including excavating, filing, or any culmination thereof) shall be prohibited in the area of the special flood hazard except for the following:
a.
Minimum land-disturbing activities such as home gardens and individual home landscaping, repairs, maintenance work and other related activities.
b.
Agricultural practices involving the establishment, cultivation or harvesting or products of the field or orchard, preparing and planting of pasture land, forestry land management practices including harvesting (where stumps are not removed), farm ponds, dairy operations, livestock and poultry management practices and the construction of farm buildings;
c.
Projects permitted by or carried out under the technical supervision of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, or any other agency of the U.S. Government;
d.
Cemetery graves;
e.
Excavation for wells or tunnels or utilities;
f.
Approved mining, quarrying, stockpiling of rock, sand, gravel aggregates or clay where established and provided by law;
g.
Exploratory excavations under the direction of soil engineering geologist;
h.
Where consistent with other provisions of this chapter, minimum grading for land development or construction which does not result in topographic changes greater than two feet at any location and which is not for the sole purpose of elevating structures pursuant to Section 3.08.04.B(1) and Section 3.08.04.B(2) of this chapter. In no case, shall fill be transported into the area of Special Flood Hazard.
i.
Construction activities at existing industrial sites which were developed before the effective date of the first Floodplain Management Ordinance adopted by Catoosa County, GA as a basis for Catoosa County's participation in the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), such as dikes, ditches and ponds.
j.
Grading (including excavating, filling, or any culmination thereof) shall be permitted in the Upper Fringe.
9)
As-Built Drawings and Certification. Within the area of the special flood hazard, as-built drawings and certifications shall be provided by a registered professional engineer and/or a registered land surveyor pursuant to Section 3.08.03.B(2) and Section 3.08.04.B(2) of this Section and also when required by the site plan regulations or the subdivision regulations. As-built drawings and other certifications may be required in other situations at the discretion of the Director of Floodplain Management.
C.
Building Standards for Streams Without Established Base Flood Elevations and/or Floodway (A-Zones). Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in Section 3.08.02.B, where streams exist but no base flood data have been provided (A-Zones), or where base flood data have been provided but a floodway has not been delineated, the following provisions apply:
1)
When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been provided in accordance with Section 3.08.02.B, then the Director shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any scientific or historic base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of Section 3.08.04. only if data are not available from these sources, then the following provisions (2) and (3) shall apply:
2)
No encroachments, including structures or fill material, shall be located within an area equal to three times the width of the stream or 50 feet, whichever is greater, measured from the top of the stream bank, unless certification by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachment shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge. However, if detail studies show that the minimum standards of the encroachment could be detrimental to the natural floodplain, the Catoosa County Stormwater Director would make the final determination.
3)
In special flood hazard areas without base flood elevation data, new construction and substantial improvements of existing structures shall have the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement) elevated no less than three feet above the highest adjacent grade at the building site. (Note: Require the lowest floor to be elevated two and seven-tenths feet above the estimated base flood elevation in A-Zone areas where a limited detail study has been completed). Openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with standards of Section 3.08.04.A(4) "Elevated Buildings".
a.
All heating and air conditioning equipment and components (including ductwork), all electrical, ventilation, plumbing, and other service facilities shall be elevated no less than three feet above the highest adjacent grade at the building site.
The Director shall certify the lowest floor elevation level and the record shall become a permanent part of the permit file.
D.
Standards for Areas of Shallow Flooding (AO-Zones). Areas of special flood hazard established in Section 3.08.02.B, may include designated "AO" shallow flooding areas. These areas have base flood depths of one to three feet above ground, with no clearly defined channel. The following provisions apply:
1)
All new construction and substantial improvements of residential and nonresidential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the flood depth number specified on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM), above the highest adjacent grade. If no flood depth number is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be elevated at least three feet above the highest adjacent grade. Openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of flood waters shall be provided in accordance with standards of Section 3.08.04.A(4), "Elevated Buildings".
The Director shall certify the lowest floor elevation level and the record shall become a permanent part of the permit file.
2)
New construction or the substantial improvement of a nonresidential structure may be flood-proofed in lieu of elevation. The structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, must be designed to be water tight to the specified FIRM flood level plus two foot, above highest adjacent grade, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, and structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice for meeting the provisions above, and shall provide such certification to the official as set forth above and as required in Section 3.08.03.B(1)c. and Section 3.08.03.B(2).
3)
Drainage paths shall be provided to guide floodwater around and away from any proposed structure.
E.
Standards for Subdivisions.
1)
All subdivision and/or development proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage;
2)
All subdivision and/or development proposals shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage;
3)
All subdivision and/or development proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards; and
4)
For subdivisions and/or developments greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is less, base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision and all other proposed development, including manufactured home parks and subdivisions. Any changes or revisions to the flood data adopted herein and shown on the FIRM shall be submitted to FEMA for review as a conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) or conditional letter of map amendment (CLOMA), whichever is applicable. Upon completion of the project, the developer is responsible for submitting the "as-built" data to FEMA in order to obtain the final LOMR.
5)
If the planned subdivision shows the floodplain is contained entirely within an open space lot, it may not be necessary to conduct a detailed engineering analysis to develop BFE data. Also, it may not be necessary to develop detailed BFE data in "large-lot" subdivisions or single lot subdivisions that are within the thresholds under subparagraph 60.3(b)(3) of the NFIP regulations when the actual building sites are clearly outside the Zone A area.
F.
Standards for Critical Facilities.
1)
Critical facilities shall not be located in the 100-year floodplain or the 500-year floodplain.
2)
All ingress and egress from any critical facility must be protected to the 500-year flood elevation.
(Ord. of 9-19-17(2))
3.08.05   Variance Procedures
A.
The Board of Commissioners as established by Catoosa County shall hear and decide requests for appeals or variance from the requirements of this Section.
B.
The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in any requirement, decision, or determination is made by the Stormwater Director in the enforcement or administration of this Section.
C.
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Commissioners may appeal such decision to the Superior Court of Catoosa County, as provided in O.C.G.A. § 5-4-1.
D.
Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
E.
Variances may be issued for development necessary for the conduct of a functionally dependent use, provided the criteria of this Section are met, no reasonable alternative exists, and the development is protected by methods that minimize flood damage during the base flood and create no additional threats to public safety.
F.
Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
G.
In reviewing such requests, the Board of Commissioners shall consider all technical evaluations, relevant factors, and all standards specified in this and other sections of this Section.
H.
Conditions for variances:
1)
A variance shall be issued only when there is:
i.
A finding of good and sufficient cause;
ii.
A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship; and
iii.
A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
2)
Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief; and, in the instance of an historic structure, a determination that the variance is the minimum necessary so as not to destroy the historic character and design of the building.
3)
Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the elevation of the proposed lowest floor and stating that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk to life and property resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation.
4)
The Stormwater Director shall maintain the records of all appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency upon request.
I.
Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of this Section, the Board of Commissioners may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this Section.
(Ord. of 9-19-17(2))
3.08.06   Definitions
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this Section shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give this Section its most reasonable application.
Accessory Structure means a structure having minimal value and used for parking, storage and other non-habitable uses, such as garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, hay sheds and the like.
Addition (to an existing building) means any walled and roofed expansion to the perimeter of a building in which the addition is connected by a common load-bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is connected by a firewall or is separated by an independent perimeter load-bearing wall, shall be considered "new construction".
Appeal means a request for a review of the Stormwater Director's interpretation of any provision of this Section.
Area of shallow flooding means a designated AO or AH Zone on a community's flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet, and/or where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident.
Area of special flood hazard is the land in the floodplain within a community subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. In the absence of official designation by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, areas of special flood hazard shall be those designated by the local community and referenced in Section 3.08.02.B.
Base flood, means the flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
Base flood elevation (BFE) is the elevation shown on the flood insurance rate map for Zones AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, AR/AO, V1-V30, and VE that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that has a one percent chance of equaling or exceeding that level in any given year.
Basement means that portion of a building having its floor sub grade (below ground level) on all sides.
Building means any structure built for support, shelter, or enclosure for any occupancy or storage.
Critical facility means any public or private facility, which, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the disaster or would increase the hazard to life and health. Critical facilities include:
1)
Structures or facilities that produce, use, or store highly volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic, or water-reactive materials;
2)
Hospitals and nursing homes, and housing for the elderly, which are likely to contain occupants who may not be sufficiently mobile to avoid the loss of life or injury during flood and storm events;
3)
Emergency operation centers or data storage centers which contain records or services that may become lost or inoperative during flood and storm events; and
4)
Generating plants, and other principal points of utility lines.
Development means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, and storage of materials or equipment.
Elevated building means a non-basement building built to have the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls, pilings, columns, piers, or shear walls adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a base flood event.
Existing construction means for the purposes of determining rates, structures for which the "start of construction" commenced before September 28, 1979.
Existing manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before March 12, 1987.
Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision means the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads.
Flood or flooding means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
1)
The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
2)
The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
Flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) means an official map of a community, issued by the Federal Insurance Administration, where the boundaries of areas of special flood hazard have been defined as Zone A.
Flood insurance rate map (FIRM) means an official map of a community, issued by the Federal Insurance Administration, delineating the areas of special flood hazard and/or risk premium zones applicable to the community.
Flood insurance study the official report by the Federal Insurance Administration evaluating flood hazards and containing flood profiles and water surface elevations of the base flood.
Floodplain means any land area susceptible to flooding.
Flood-proofing, means any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents.
Floodway means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated height.
Floodway fringe, lower. The portion of the area of special flood hazard that is located between the limit of the floodway and a line connecting all points half the distance between the floodway and the limit of the area of special flood hazard.
Floodway fringe, upper. The portion of the area of special flood hazard that is located between the lower floodway fringe and the boundary of the area of special flood hazard.
Freeboard means a factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for purposes of floodplain management. "Freeboard" tends to compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the watershed.
Highest adjacent grade means the highest natural elevation of the ground surface, prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed foundation of a building.
Historic structure means any structure that is;
1)
Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National Register:
2)
Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district:
3)
Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and determined as eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
4)
Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and determined as eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either:
a.
By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior, or
b.
Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.
Lowest floor means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including basement. An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, used solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other than a basement, is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of other provisions of this code.
Manufactured home means a building, transportable in one or more sections, built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar transportable structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to be improved property.
Manufactured home park or subdivision means a parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
Mean sea level means the average height of the sea for all stages of the tide. It is used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain. For purposes of this Section, the term is synonymous with National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD).
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) as corrected in 1929 is a vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain.
New construction means, for the purposes of determining insurance rates, structures for which the "start of construction" commenced after September 28, 1979, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management purposes, "new construction" means structures for which the "start of construction" commenced after March 12, 1987, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
New manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after March 12, 1987.
North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) as corrected in 1988 is a vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain.
Recreational vehicle means a vehicle, which is:
1)
Built on a single chassis;
2)
400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection;
3)
Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and
4)
Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
Start of construction means the date the development permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of the structure such as the pouring of slabs or footings, installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation, and includes the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include initial land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of buildings appurtenant to the permitted structure, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or part of the main structure. (Note: accessory structures are not exempt from any ordinance requirements.) For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
Structure means a walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, a manufactured home, a gas or liquid storage tank.
Subdivision is the division of a single lot into two or more lots for the purpose of sale or development.
Substantial damage means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
Substantial improvement means any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place during a five-year period, in which the cumulative cost equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure prior to the "start of construction" of the improvement. Note: The market value of the structure should be (1) the appraised value of the structure prior to the start of the initial repair or improvement, or (2) in the case of damage, the value of the structure prior to the damage occurring. This term includes structures, which have incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the actual amount of repair work performed.
For the purposes of this definition, "substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building. The term does not, however, include (1) those improvements of a structure required to comply with existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions and which have been identified by the Code Enforcement Official, and not solely triggered by an improvement or repair project, or (2) any alteration of a "historic structure" provided that the alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic structure".
Substantially improved existing manufactured home parks or subdivisions is where the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets, utilities and pads equals or exceeds 50 percent of the value of the streets, utilities and pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
Variance is a grant of relief from the requirements of this Section, which permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this Section.
Violation means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure or other development without the elevation certificate, or other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required by this Section is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
(Ord. of 9-19-17(2))
3.09.00 - CONSERVATION SUBDIVISIONS[3]
3.09.01   Purpose
It is the purpose and intent of Catoosa County in enacting these regulations to provide for increased greenspace in Catoosa County, and to preserve open land in perpetuity for future generations, while not increasing the overall development levels of the county, improve the value of adjacent property, and generally serve to enhance the public health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Catoosa County.
3.09.02   Applicable Districts
A conservation subdivision shall be permissible in the following zoning districts: R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, RTZ, A-1, PUD.
3.09.03   Design Standards
The following standards shall apply to all conservation subdivisions:
A.
Lots.
1)
If sewer is available, minimum lot size is reduced by 50 percent from the existing minimum residential lot size under the zoning classification. If sewer is not to be used for waste disposal, the minimum lot size shall be 50 percent of the existing minimum lot size for non-sewered property, or the minimum lot size required by the Catoosa County Health Department, whichever is greater. Despite the foregoing, no lot for a single-family detached dwelling in a conservation subdivision shall contain less than 7,500 square feet.
2)
The overall density of lots shall not exceed that number which would be permissible under the normal development standards. The gross density of the overall subdivision shall not be increased above that which is permitted under normal development standards.
3)
In applicable districts, front setbacks are reduced to 15 feet, and rear setbacks are reduced to 20 feet. The minimum width at the building line is reduced to 75 feet.
4)
The applicant shall adhere to all other applicable requirements of this UDC.
B.
Greenspace Areas.
1)
Greenspace areas shall:
a.
Include, but not be limited to: wetlands, river buffer zones, woodlands, wildlife corridors, pastures, meadows, and similar natural property;
b.
Be contiguous to the parcel on which the subdivision is located;
c.
Be contiguous to other greenspace parcels, county parks, Corps of Engineers property, national parks, national forests and similar preserved land where possible;
d.
Be undisturbed and undeveloped;
e.
Be accessible by a county or state road, or by easement;
f.
Not be used for hunting or by motorized recreational vehicles, and any deed of conveyance of greenspace to the county or land trust shall contain a deed restriction to that effect.
2)
Alternative Greenspace.
a.
The applicant may propose alternatives for the standard greenspace requirement.
b.
The applicant may propose purchasing an equivalent amount of greenspace adjacent and contiguous to existing county greenspace elsewhere in the county;
c.
The applicant may propose donating an equivalent amount of greenspace to an approved land trust; or
d.
The applicant may propose submitting funds to purchase an equivalent amount of greenspace, to be paid into the county greenspace bank for future purchase of greenspace, at the county's discretion.
i.
The dollar amount to be contributed and the fair market value of the proposed equivalent greenspace shall be based on appraisals approved by the Planning Commission and shall be considered at pre-development values.
ii.
Payment or contribution of land shall occur prior to approval of the final plat.
e.
Any arrangement under this subsection must also be approved by the Board of Commissioners.
f.
Alternative greenspace arrangements require the voluntary cooperation of the applicant. Otherwise, the standard greenspace requirements established by this Section shall apply.
3.09.04   Application Requirements
A conservation subdivision allows increased residential density in conjunction with the fee simple grant of undeveloped and undisturbed greenspace to the county or to such land trust as the county may designate. The following procedure shall apply to conservation subdivision applications:
A.
The applicant seeking to develop a conservation subdivision must meet with the Zoning Administrator and provide a survey of the entire tract, prior to placement of lots and roads.
B.
The county and the applicant shall then agree upon the tract to be donated.
C.
Where possible, the tract to be donated should connect with other greenspace tracts or trails.
D.
A minimum of one-half of the total acreage of the parcel must be donated to qualify for a conservation subdivision.
E.
Alternative greenspace arrangements are also available as provided herein.
3.09.05   Approval
A.
Approval of a conservation subdivision shall be granted or denied by the Catoosa County Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall consider the following factors:
1)
Whether the applicant has designated and offered to dedicate appropriate amounts and locations of greenspace.
2)
Whether the conservation subdivision would be detrimental to the uses surrounding the property on which the subdivision is located.
3)
Whether the terrain or location of the property is not suitable for a conservation subdivision, or is not desirable as greenspace.
4)
Whether the area remaining after dedication of the greenspace is suitable for development at the proposed density.
B.
Upon approval of the conservation subdivision by the Planning Commission, the following requirements shall apply:
1)
The applicant shall cause a survey and legal description to be prepared of the greenspace.
2)
Greenspace shall be clearly identified on all preliminary plans and all development plans.
3)
Greenspace shall be dedicated to the county (or to such land trust as the county may designate) prior to approval of the final plat, by fee simple deed, to be preserved in perpetuity as greenspace.
4)
If an appeal is initiated, the applicant may withhold dedication until the appeal is completed.
3.09.06   Appeal
Appeal of the Planning Commission's decision to approve or deny a conservation subdivision can be taken by the applicant or any aggrieved citizen by filing a notice of appeal.
A.
The notice of appeal shall be written and shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator within 30 days of the decision of the Planning Commission.
B.
The Zoning Administrator shall forward the appeal directly to the Board of Commissioners.
C.
The Board of Commissioners shall hear the appeal within 45 days of the date it is forwarded to them from the Zoning Administrator.
3.10.00 - RIDGELINES AND STEEP SLOPES
3.10.01   Purpose and Intent
A.
The provisions of this Section are intended to prevent developments that will erode hillsides, result in sedimentation of lower slopes, cause damage from landslides or create potential for damage from landslides, flood downhill properties, result in the severe cutting of trees or the scarring of the landscape, or that cannot be served or accessed by public infrastructure, utilities or emergency services.
B.
It is the intent of these development standards to encourage a sensitive form of development that protects the natural and topographic character of ridgelines and hillsides, ensures the public health, safety and welfare, and allows for a reasonable use that complements the natural and visual character of the community.
3.10.02   General Provisions
A.
No land to which this Section applies shall hereafter be subdivided, cleared, developed or uses, and no building or structure shall be constructed, placed, extended, converted or structurally altered, except in full compliance with this Section.
B.
This Section provides both regulations and guidelines. Regulations are identified by use of the term "shall" and compliance is mandatory. Guidelines are identified by use of the term "should" and compliance is not mandatory but is strongly recommended. Substantial inconsistencies with one or more guidelines in a manner that is clearly counter to the purposes of this Section may provide the basis for denial of a development by the Zoning Administrator.
3.10.03   Land Unsuitable for Development
A.
Infrastructure and utilities are either unavailable or have limited availability for building envelopes on ridgelines in the unincorporated areas of Catoosa County in the following locations and elevations:
1)
Building envelopes on ridgeline locations with elevations greater than 1,100 feet located on the west side of Taylor's Ridge and White Oak Mountain; and
2)
Building envelopes on ridgeline locations with elevations greater than 1,200 feet located on the east side of Taylor's Ridge and White Oak Mountain.
B.
Based upon the foregoing, building and development is prohibited on building envelopes at the aforementioned locations. For the purposes of this subsection, a building envelope is defined as that portion of a tract or parcel of land upon which a building is constructed or located or upon which development occurs.
3.10.04   Development Guidelines
The following provisions shall apply to the development of property with a natural slope of 35 percent or more, or the development of property located on Taylor's Ridge or White Oak Mountain ridgelines having elevations equal to or less than those specified in Section 3.10.03.A even though such ridgelines may have a natural slope of less than 35 percent.
A.
General Development Guidelines.
1)
All grading, retaining wall design (retaining walls over 30 inches require engineering), drainage and erosion control plans for development subject to this Section shall be designed by a civil engineer. In cases where geologically hazardous areas exist, such plans shall be prepared by a qualified professional.
2)
Development on the site should be located, designed and oriented so that grading and other site preparation are kept to the minimum needed to serve the intended building or use.
3)
Projects involving more than one use or phase should be phased into workable units in a way that minimizes the amount of soil disturbance at any given point in time.
4)
When grading must occur, it should blend with the natural landform as much as possible. Grading to form level pads and building sites is strongly discouraged and when required such grading should be minimized.
5)
Existing deep-rooted vegetation, including trees, bushes, and groundcover, should be removed only in cases where necessary for building, roads, driveways, parking and minimal yards. View corridors from the proposed development to surrounding areas may be provided, but the thinning of limbs of individual trees is preferred over tree removal as a means to provide a view corridor.
B.
Roads.
1)
Roads should be designed to create the minimum feasible amounts of land coverage and the minimum feasible disturbance of the soil.
2)
Road alignments should follow the natural terrain unless the project engineer can justify additional cuts or fills. Roads, walkways and parking areas should be designed to parallel the natural contours of the site.
3)
Variations in road design and road construction standards specified in this UDC shall be permitted, as may be approved by the Director of Public Works, to prevent the dedication of unnecessarily large amounts of land.
C.
Fire Protection.
Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - SITE DESIGN STANDARDS

4.01.00 - GENERALLY
The purpose of Article IV is to provide design standards applicable to all development activity within unincorporated Catoosa County. This Article expands upon the standards in Article II for each zoning district by addressing additional details of site planning and project design, including parking, tree planting, lighting, and buffers. This Article also provides standards applicable in specific situations, such uses that require additional standards to address potential impacts on surrounding areas and provisions for "family ties" land division.
4.02.00 - DESIGN STANDARDS FOR LOTS AND BLOCKS
4.02.01   Lot Design Criteria
A.
Each lot shall meet lot width and area requirements stated in Section 2.04.00 of this UDC.
B.
Required dimensional standards for building height and location (setbacks) by zoning district are included in Section 2.04.00.
C.
Any lot which will be served by a septic tank shall be approved by the Catoosa County Health Department.
D.
All corner lots shall make allowance for setback lines.
E.
Only one principal building and its allowable accessory buildings shall hereafter be erected on any one lot, parcel, or tract of land, with the exception that two or more principal buildings may be allowed on a lot in accordance with the requirements for a "group project" as delineated herein.
F.
A group project (multi-family residential, commercial, industrial, educational, medical, religious, or civic uses) of two or more buildings to be constructed on a plot of land of at least two acres not subdivided into customary streets and lots, and which will not be so subdivided, may be constructed provided:
1)
Such uses are limited to those permitted within the district in which the project is located;
2)
The overall density of land use is no higher, and the standard of open space is no lower than that permitted on the district in which the is located;
3)
The distance of every building from the nearest property line shall meet the front yard setback and side yard requirements of the district in which the project is located;
4)
The building heights do not exceed the height limits permitted in the district in which the project is located.
5)
Such residential uses only include multi-family residential (apartments), assisted living facilities and nursing homes.
G.
In cases of sick or aged relatives or of extreme physical hardship, the Planning Commission may grant a temporary variance as long as the health department regulations can be met and a letter of necessity is provided by a medical doctor.
4.02.02   Block Lengths and Widths
A.
Blocks shall be not greater than 1,800 feet nor less than 600 feet in length, except in unusual circumstances.
B.
Blocks shall be wide enough to provide two tiers of lots of minimum depth except where abutting upon major streets, limited-access highway, or railroads or where other situations make this requirement impracticable.
4.02.03   Lot Lines
All lot lines shall be perpendicular or radial to street lines, unless not practicable because of topographic or other features.
4.02.04   Lots Abutting Public Streets
Each lot shall abut upon a dedicated public street, except as noted in Article VI.
4.02.05   Double-Frontage and Reverse-Frontage Lots
A.
Double-frontage and reverse-frontage lots should be avoided except where essential to provide separation of residential development from traffic arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation.
B.
On lots having frontage on more than one street in residential districts, the minimum front yard shall be provided for each street in accordance with the provisions of this UDC.
4.02.06   Corner Lots
On lots having frontage on more than one street in residential districts, the minimum front yard shall be provided for each street in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance. Provided however, that if the side street is a minor street, that setback shall be no less than 25 feet.
4.02.07   Flag Lots
No more than two adjacent flag lots shall be permitted to front on any county road. In addition, each flag lot shall contain a minimum of 25 feet of road frontage if the acreage of said lot is five acres or less. Each flag lot shall contain a minimum of 50 feet of road frontage if the acreage of said lot is greater than five acres. Lots created in accordance with the Family Ties Land division process (see Section 4.03.00) may be exempt from the flag lot requirements.
4.02.08   Yard Setbacks for All Structures
The setback requirements of Section 2.04.00 for structures shall not apply to any lot where the average existing building setback line on lots located wholly or in part within 100 feet on each side of such lot, within the same block and zoning district, and fronting on the same side of the street as such lot, is less than the minimum setback required. In such cases, the setback on such lots may be less than the required setback, but not less than the average of the existing setbacks on the aforementioned lots; and in no case shall the front setback be less than 25 feet from the street right-of-way.
4.02.09   Yard Service to One Building
No part of a yard, or other open space, or off-street parking or loading space required about, or in connection with, any building for the purpose of complying with this UDC shall be included as part of a yard, open space, or off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any other building.
4.03.00 - DESIGN STANDARDS FOR FAMILY TIES LAND DIVISION
4.03.01   Applicability
The provisions of this Section apply to Family Ties Land Divisions in the A-1 and R-A zoning districts.
4.03.02   Exemptions from Platting Requirements
Lots created as a result of the Family Ties Land Division are exempt from the platting requirements set forth in Article IX, provided that the lots are conveyed to a grandparent, parent, stepparent, adopted parent, sibling, child, stepchild, adopted child, or grandchild of the owner of the parcel to be divided (parent parcel).
4.03.03   Application Requirements
A.
Applications to create lots under the Family Ties Land Division process shall be submitted by the owner of parcel to be divided.
B.
The following materials are required to be submitted to the Zoning Administrator, who shall process the application:
1)
An affidavit to indicate the family relationship, as described in Section 4.03.02, between the owner of the parcel to be divided and the lots to be conveyed.
2)
All lots created under the Family Ties Land Division process shall have a recorded survey prior to the issuance of any building permit.
4.03.04   Design Standards for Lots to be Conveyed
A.
All lots created under the Family Ties Land Division process shall comply with all development standards for the zoning district in which the lots are located, as shown in Table 2-4 in Article II, except as specifically provided in this Section.
B.
The minimum lot area of each conveyed lot shall be one acre.
C.
The parent parcel may be divided to create up to five lots for conveyance to family members if the condition of Subsection D. below is met.
D.
The remainder of the parent parcel, after creation of lots under the Family Ties Land Division process, shall meet the minimum development standards of the zoning district in which the parent parcel is located, as shown in Table 2-4 in Article II. These standards include, but not are limited to, lot size requirements.
E.
All lots created under the Family Ties Land Division process shall meet one of the following requirements for access:
1)
Have a minimum of 50 feet of frontage on a paved public right-of-way and meet the lot width requirements set forth in Table 2-4 in Article II; or
2)
Provide one access driveway as follows:
a.
The access driveway easement shall be a minimum of 25 feet wide and shall be recorded as an all-purpose easement; and
b.
The access driveway shall be an all-weather, non-dirt road having a minimum width of 12 feet with a minimum clearance of 20 feet in width and 12 feet in height;
c.
The access driveway shall have a concrete or asphalt paved area at the point of connection with a paved public right-of-way and said area shall be a minimum width of 12 feet and a minimum length of 5 feet and of sufficient depth to support conventional vehicle traffic.
4.04.00 - DESIGN STANDARDS FOR CONSERVATION SUBDIVISIONS
See Article III of this UDC.
4.05.00 - PARKING STANDARDS
4.05.01   Off-Street Parking
A.
Off-street automobile parking or storage space shall be provided on every lot on which any of the following uses are hereafter established.
B.
Such automobile parking or storage space shall be provided with vehicular access to a street or alley and shall be equal in area to at least the minimum requirements for the specific use as set forth in Table 4-1.
C.
For any use not listed in Table 4-1, the standards for the most similar use shall be applied. The Zoning Administrator and Building Official shall determine the proper required maximum number of spaces by classifying the use among the uses specified.
D.
Each off-street parking space shall be at least 9 feet wide and 18 feet deep from the edge of the drive.
E.
If the required automobile parking or storage space cannot be provided on the same lot on which the principal use is located, the Planning Commission may approve such space to be provided on other off-street property, provided such space is within 500 feet of such principal use. Such space shall be associated with the allowed use and shall not thereafter be reduced or encroached upon in any manner.
F.
All off-street automobile parking and storage space in residential districts shall be so arranged that vehicles will not be required to back onto a street, road, or highway when leaving the premises.
G.
Any decrease in the number of required parking spaces must be approved by the Catoosa County Planning Commission under the variance procedures set forth in this UDC, with the exception that a request to reduce the number by no more than 20 percent shall be subject to the administrative variance procedures set forth in this UDC.
H.
The number, design and location of parking spaces provided to ensure handicapped access shall comply with the Americans with Disability Act (ADA) standards for accessible design.
I.
Outdoor lighting of off-street parking areas shall be directed away and shielded from abutting residential districts, dwellings and all rights-of-way.
J.
Landscape strips/islands, if installed in a parking area, shall be pervious. In addition, if curbed, there shall be openings to allow stormwater to enter.
Table 4-1 Parking Space Requirements
EXPAND
Use Classifications
Minimum Requirements
Single-family residential structures 2 spaces for each dwelling unit
Two-family and multi-family residential structures including R-C uses 2 spaces for each dwelling unit
Rooming houses and boardinghouses; residential structures 1 space for each rental unit
Churches, synagogues or other places of worship 1 space for each 4 seats in the main assembly room
Tourist homes, tourist courts, or motels 1 space for each accommodation
Hospitals, nursing homes, similar institutions 1 space for each 2 beds intended for patients plus 1 space for each [employee at] maximum employment on a single shift
Retail business 1 space for each 200 square feet of sales floor area
Offices, including banks 1 space for each 250 square feet of total floor area
Service stations 3 spaces for each grease rack or similar facility plus 1 space for each 250 square feet of total floor area
Mortuary or funeral parlor 1 space for each 4 seats [in] the chapel, 1 additional space for each 2 employees, 1 additional space for each resident family, and 1 additional space for each funeral vehicle
Restaurant or similar eating establishment 1 space for each 2 seats provided for patron use and 1 additional space for each 2 employees
Wholesaling 1 space for each employee
Industrial 1 space for each employee at maximum employment on a single shift
Schools 1 space for each 6 seats in the main assembly room plus 1 space for each employee
  4.05.02   Loading Spaces
A.
Every building or structure used for business, trade, or industry shall provide space as indicated herein for the loading and unloading of vehicles off the right-of-way of the street or public alley.
1)
Such space shall have access to an alley or, if there is no alley, to a street.
2)
Such space shall have at least 14 feet of vertical clearance.
3)
Such space shall be so arranged that no vehicle is required to back onto a public street, road, or highway in order to leave the premises.
B.
Retail business loading space requirements: One space, 10 feet by 25 feet, for each 3,000 square feet of floor area or any part thereof.
C.
Wholesale and industry loading space requirements: One space, 10 feet by 50 feet, for each 10,000 square feet of floor area or any part thereof.
D.
Bus and truck terminals loading space requirements: Sufficient space to accommodate the maximum number of buses or trucks to be stored or to be loading or unloading at the terminal at any one time.
4.06.00 - STREET TREE STANDARDS
4.06.01   Street Tree Planting Requirements, General
A.
Any subdivision containing 12 or more lots shall be required to plant street trees which conform to the requirements of this Section of the UDC.
B.
Street trees shall be planted behind the sidewalks except in subdivisions which contain a designated planting strip, at least 6 feet in width, between the street curb and the sidewalk. In such subdivisions, the street trees may be planted in the designated planting strip.
4.06.02   Street Tree Selection
Street trees shall be native species that are appropriate for the Plant Hardiness Zone(s) for Catoosa County as defined by the Cooperative Extension, University of Georgia College of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences.
4.06.03   Street Tree Spacing, Placement and Pruning
A.
Unless otherwise approved by the Planning Commission due to special site conditions or safety concerns, the following requirements shall govern the spacing, placement and pruning of street trees:
1)
Street trees shall be at least 2½ inches caliper measured and 6½ feet (American National Standard for Nursery Stock) above the finished grade of the ground.
2)
Residential street trees shall be planted at the rate of one tree for every 50 linear feet of road frontage. Driveway widths may be subtracted when calculating the linear foot requirement of this subsection.
3)
In commercial developments which do not contain street yard plantings, the developer shall either retain existing trees or plant new trees (or some combination of the two) along any frontage which is adjacent to public rights-of-way, such that there is an average within the development of at least one tree for every 30 feet of street frontage. The location of the trees may be varied, however, spacing of trees shall be no less than a minimum of one tree for each 100 feet of street frontage. Driveway widths may be subtracted calculating the linear foot requirement of this subsection.
4)
Trees shall not be planted closer than 25 feet from the curb line of intersections of streets or alleys, and not closer than 10 feet from private driveways (measured at the back edge of the sidewalk), fire hydrants or utility poles.
5)
Street trees shall not be planted closer than 20 feet from light standards. Except in situations required to protect public safety, no new light standard shall be positioned closer than 10 feet to any existing street tree and it shall be preferable that new light standards be positioned at least 20 feet from any existing street tree.
6)
Except in situations meeting the requirements for a designated planting strip, trees shall not be planted closer than 13 feet from the face of the curb.
7)
Trees shall not be planted within 3 feet of any permanent hard surface paving or walkway. Any concrete cuts in sidewalks for trees shall be at least 10 square feet in area. However, larger cuts are encouraged in order to promote the overall health of trees planted. Spaces between planted trees and the adjacent hard surface may be covered with permeable, nonpermanent hard surfaces such as grates, bricks on sand or paver blocks.
8)
As planted trees grow, they shall be pruned to provide at least eight feet of clearance above sidewalks and 12 feet of clearance above road surfaces.
9)
Existing trees within a development may be used as street trees if there has been no damage to the tree from the development which would kill or otherwise weaken the tree. Subject to the approval of the planning commission, sidewalks of varying widths and elevations from the standard width and elevation requirements may be utilized in order to save existing trees.
10)
All street tree pruning requirements imposed by this Section shall at all times be the responsibility of either the property owner upon whose property the tree is located, the developer of the subdivision or a homeowners' association and shall not be the responsibility of Catoosa County.
4.06.04   Street Tree Replacement
A.
Existing street trees removed by development activity shall be replaced by the developer.
B.
The replacement trees shall be of size and species similar to those removed or shall be of a native species that are appropriate for the Plant Hardiness Zone(s) for Catoosa County as defined by the Cooperative Extension, University of Georgia College of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences
C.
Existing street trees which die shall be replaced with street trees which meet the requirements of this ordinance.
D.
All street tree replacement requirements imposed by this Section shall at all times be the responsibility of either the property owner upon whose property the tree is located, the developer of the subdivision or a homeowners' association and shall not be the responsibility of Catoosa County.
4.07.00 - LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS, BUILDINGS
A.
Application. The provisions of this Section shall apply only to commercial buildings and other buildings or facilities constructed or erected in C-1 (General Commercial), C-2 (Neighborhood Commercial), C-3 (Office), C-R (Commercial-Residential), I-1 (Heavy Industrial), and I-2 (Light Industrial) districts.
B.
Requirements. The exterior lighting of all buildings and other structures to which the provisions of this Section are applicable shall, to the greatest extent possible, be installed such that the lighting source is shrouded, recessed or otherwise indirect such that the lighting source is not visible from the public right-of-way of any public road or street. The lighting shall also contain the minimum wattage necessary to service the property and shall utilize all reasonable methods (e.g. location, glare reduction, etc.) necessary to carry out and otherwise meet the requirements of this subsection.
C.
Exceptions. In the event the requirements of subsection (B) hereof cannot be met with respect to any particular building or structure, the exterior lighting of said building or structure may be installed in a manner approved by the Zoning Administrator, in his discretion, provided said installation protects, to the greatest extent possible, the safety of motorists utilizing the public roads and streets and adjoining property owners. In determining whether a particular building or structure meets the requirements of this subsection, the Zoning Administrator shall review such factors as the location of lighting, the type of lighting utilized (including lamp wattage), the amount of lighting utilized and the amount of glare projected onto neighboring properties and/or public streets. After reviewing the factors set forth herein and the plan for the building and/or structure, the Zoning Administrator shall have the discretion to accept, reject or modify the lighting plan for the building and/or structure to ensure that the safety and other concerns set forth herein are met. Any final decision of the Zoning Administrator shall be appealable pursuant to the terms of this UDC.
4.08.00 - BUFFERS
4.08.01   Buffers, Generally
A.
Buffers shall separate different use districts and/or uses on one property from uses on another property of the same use district of a different use district.
B.
Buffers, including natural plantings and/or structural treatments, shall be located on the site to best achieve the screening required, in accordance with the County approved site plan.
C.
The buffer area shall supersede the setback line distance but may be included in the distance to determine a setback.
D.
A buffer area may be used for vehicular access and utility easements and for drainage improvements required by the County.
4.08.02   Buffers, Where Required
A.
An adequate buffer strip of at least 50 feet in width shall be required and maintained between single-family conventional residential property in any zone and any area zoned other than R-1, R-2, R-A, A-1, or PCFD. Such buffer shall be constructed and/or maintained by the owner of the land zoned other than R-1, R-2, R-A or A-1, unless the conditions described in subsection E. below are present.
B.
An adequate buffer strip at least 50 feet in width shall be required and maintained between any manufactured home and any single-family, two-family, tri-plex, quadplex or multi-family residential housing or zoning district. Evergreen or opaque screening will usually be required between any manufactured home and any non-manufactured home dwellings or zoning districts. Sufficient screening may be provided by natural vegetation that provides a substantially opaque natural screen, or the topography or other conditions existing at the site may provide a substantially opaque screen.
C.
A buffer strip of at least 50 feet in width shall be required and maintained between any area zoned commercial, (C-1, C-2 or C-3), and any residential property in any zone. Such buffer shall be constructed and/or maintained by the owner of the land zoned as commercial, unless the conditions described in subsection E. below are present.
D.
A buffer strip of at least 100 feet in width shall be required and maintained between any area zoned industrial (I-1 or I-2), and any other zone. Such buffer shall be constructed and/or maintained by the owner of the land zoned as industrial, unless the conditions described in subsection E. below are present.
E.
When a proposed development adjoins an existing development of a higher intensity, but the full width of the required buffer does not exist on the existing development, the new development shall provide a buffer of adequate width to meet the full width requirements as presented in this Section when considered in combination with any existing buffer on the property of the adjoining existing development.
4.08.03   Buffers, Minimum Screening
A.
A buffer shall be provided that creates a barrier between dissimilar land uses or properties. Said buffer shall substantially block such attributes as sight lines, noise transmission, dust, and the transfer of artificial light and reflected light between dissimilar land uses or properties.
B.
Unless otherwise specified in this UDC, a required buffer can take the form of blinders, opaque walls, opaque fences, opaque blocking, fence slats, trees or shrubs (including evergreen trees and shrubs that can provide an opaque visual screen during all seasons of the year), or dirt or rock embankments to block the attribute, or specific devices used to muffle, control, modify, or reduce the level of such attribute.
C.
A required buffer shall also incorporate optimal placement of the foregoing components on the property and in relationship to the adjoining property, so as to provide the most effective barrier described above. This shall include particular consideration to the vertical relationship, lines of sight and resulting view angles between differing land uses and adjoining properties and may involve the grading design, building heights, architectural styles, and placement of design elements on the property being developed.
D.
Vegetation and/or topography or other conditions existing at the site that contribute to or create an effective barrier may be used to meet buffer requirements.
4.08.04   Natural Buffers
Natural buffers may contain deciduous or perennial vegetation, but shall contain evergreen shrubs and trees suitable to local growing conditions that will provide an opaque visual screen during all seasons of the year. An example of a natural buffer is shown below:
4.08.05   Structural Buffers
Fences used in buffers shall:
A.
Be located no closer to the property line than 2 feet;
B.
Present a finished and decorative appearance to the abutting property; and
C.
Be made of rot-resistant material or protected from deterioration with waterproofing materials.
Examples of structural buffers are shown below:
4.08.06   Buffers, Maintenance
A.
Screening shall be deemed to be a continuing requirement.
B.
The screens required shall be maintained by the landowner, and the zoning entity may require replacement, replanting or such other screening maintenance that will ensure that the screen or barrier continues to serve the purpose for which it was intended.
C.
Every buffer required under this Article shall be maintained so as to provide an opaque visual screen of a minimum height of 8 feet on a continuous, year-round basis unless otherwise specified in this UDC.
4.08.07   Buffers, Special Uses
In addition to all other provisions of Section 4.08.00, a proposed use requiring a Special Use Permit (see also Article IX) may be required to have additional barriers and screens (that is, of the additional type, additional size, additional depth, additional height, additional arrangement and other specific additional characteristics).
A.
The criteria for determining whether such screens or barriers shall be required shall be made upon a balancing of the property owners' need for the proposed use (without the use of such screens or barriers) as weighed against any depreciating effects to neighboring properties and to persons occupying such neighboring properties that could be remedied by screening or barriers. In balancing such factors, the Board of Commissioners shall consider the following:
1)
The aesthetic effect of the attribute (of the use causing the need for any screening or barriers) upon the neighboring properties;
2)
The extent to which such attribute interferes with the enjoyment and use of neighboring properties;
3)
The practical effect that any screening or barriers would have on the level of any interference with the enjoyment and use of neighboring properties; and
4)
The time of day or night that the attribute typically interferes with neighboring properties or to persons occupying such neighboring properties.
B.
Where the depreciating effects outweigh the property owner's need for the proposed use (without the use of screens or barriers), then screening or barriers shall be required as set forth as follows:
1)
In determining the size, location, depth, height, arrangement, distance and type of screens or barriers to be required, the Board of Commissioners shall only impose such requirements as will be expected to protect other properties (provided however that such buffers shall not exceed the depth or dimensions of those needed to provide protection from injurious effects on other properties, or of the largest buffer depth and dimensions otherwise provided for in this UDC, whichever is less).
2)
Unless natural barriers such as trees, dirt banks, etc., are in existence on the buffer area that exceed 15 feet in height, such screens or barriers shall not be required to measure in excess of 15 feet in height when erected (however, blinders or other devices may be required to hang or be placed at levels higher than 30 feet from the ground level).
3)
The following requirements shall apply to such screens and barriers:
a.
They shall not be required to be of a depth in excess of the buffer zone depth required elsewhere in this UDC;
b.
They shall not be in such location as would not block the view of or noise from such attribute to other property, to a public street or to a public road;
c.
They shall not be of such arrangement as would require the complete destruction or loss of use of a complete building or buildings;
d.
They shall not be of such distance as would extend beyond the boundary lines of the subject property; and
e.
They shall not be of such type as would cost sums disproportionate to other less expensive alternatives that are available and proposed by the landowner which would accomplish a similar result in terms of alleviating the attribute causing interference.
4)
The Board of Commissioners shall consider and review any less expensive alternative modifications to operations, alternative barriers or screens, or other muffling devices proposed in writing by the landowner and the extent to which that may be anticipated to accomplish such similar result.
4.08.08   Buffers, Prohibited Uses or Activities
A.
A buffer area may not be used for the erection of any permanent structure thereon except for fencing or sign installed in accordance with applicable provisions of this UDC.
B.
A buffer area may not be used for any parking.
C.
A buffer area may be used for the construction of drainage improvements, field lines, septic tanks, sewer lines or other underground piping improvements that cannot be viewed from aboveground.
D.
Except as provided herein, the natural topography of the land shall be preserved and natural growth shall not be disturbed beyond that which is necessary to prevent a nuisance, or to thin such natural growth where too dense for normal growth, or to remove diseased, misshapen, or dangerous and decayed timbers. However, a slope easement may be cleared and graded where required to prevent soil erosion upon approval of the Stormwater Director. Furthermore, selective cutting of timbers or trees may be allowed upon the approval by the Zoning Administrator of a written plan providing for replacement planting or screening that is no less opaque than were the original timbers or trees.
4.09.00 - ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIFIC USES
4.09.01   Adult Entertainment Establishments
A.
Adult entertainment establishments must meet the location requirements of Chapter 10, Article II, Section 10-37. Location of the Catoosa County Code of Ordinances.
4.09.02   Agricultural Operations
Agricultural operations must meet the following minimum requirements if located in the R-A zoning district:
A.
The raising of a minimum number of horses, beef cattle, sheep, or goats such that no more than one animal per acre is maintained on such property; provided that the buffer between any barn or stable or other animal housing facility for such animal(s) shall have a minimum of 200 feet of buffer between the subject property's boundary line and the nearest building line of such animal housing facility;
B.
Due to the introduction of new breeds of animals and trends in animal ownership, other nondomesticated animals may be allowed upon approval of a Special Use Permit in accordance with Article IX of this UDC so long as such animals do not include chickens or other poultry, pigs or other swine, or wild nondomesticated animals known to attack humans without provocation.
1)
In determining whether to allow the raising of other nondomesticated animals not listed in this subsection, the Board of Commissioners shall balance the benefits of raising the proposed type of animal with any possible detrimental effects that the raising of such animal may have on other properties;
2)
In conducting such balancing, the Board of Commissioners shall consider any objections made by other property owners, the approximate degree of emission of odors from this type of animal(s) or from its actions, the tendency of such animal(s) to escape fenced or other types of confinement, the noise typically emitted by this type of animal(s), any particular health aspects of such animal(s) and the approximate life span of such animal(s).
4.09.03   Agriculture, Retail Sales
Retail selling of agricultural products raised or produce on the premises shall require the space necessary for the parking of customers' vehicles off the public rights-of-way.
4.09.04   Airport
An airport is subject to the following additional minimum requirements:
A.
Approval of a Special Use Permit as provided in Article IX of this UDC.
B.
Such use shall be located on a minimum of 200 acres of land and shall be located a minimum distance of 2,000 feet from any residential dwelling.
4.09.05   Automobile Repair and Service
A.
All structures and buildings, except principal use signs, and including storage tanks, shall be placed not less than 25 feet from any side or rear property line except where such side or rear property lines abut a street, in which case the setback shall be that required for such streets measured from the right-of-way.
B.
All buildings or structures, including gas pumps and storage tanks, except principal use signs, shall comply with the setback requirements of any abutting street.
C.
Ingress and egress shall be arranged and designed so as to minimize the interference with the flow of traffic either vehicular or pedestrian.
4.09.06   Bar
The location requirements of Chapter 6, Article II, Division 2, Subdivision 1, Section 6-214. Grounds for Denial of License of the Catoosa County Code of Ordinances must be met.
4.09.07   Bed and Breakfast Inn (B&B)
A.
The owner of the bed and breakfast must reside in and continue to reside in the dwelling as his/her/their principal residence.
B.
No more than three rooms may be rented and not more than six transient roomers may occupy the dwelling at one time; said roomers may rent a room for a duration not to exceed one week.
C.
Breakfast may be provided subject to applicable local codes and Environmental Health Department regulations.
4.09.08   Child Day Care
Prior to making application to operate a child day care facility (including a child day care center, a family day care home and a group day care home) in Catoosa County, the applicant shall show proof of registration and licensing as required by the Georgia Department of Human Resources.
4.09.09   College
College buildings must be served by a public sewer system.
4.09.10   Commercial Stable
A.
Commercial stables shall be located on lands of 10 acres or more.
B.
When the property on which a commercial stable is located adjoins a residential area, the stable must have a minimum of 200 feet of buffer between the residential property line and the nearest stable area.
4.09.11   Construction Related Businesses
Storage yards shall be screened from view by a solid wall, planted screen or similar opaque partition at least 6 feet in height.
4.09.12   Convenience Store (without Gas Station)
The location requirements of Chapter 6, Article II, Division 2, Subdivision 1, Section 6-214. Grounds for Denial of License of the Catoosa County Code of Ordinances must be met, if alcohol is to be sold.
4.09.13   Funeral Home
A funeral home must be located on a major street.
4.09.14   Gas Station
The requirements of Section 4.09.05 Automobile Repair and Service must be met.
4.09.15   Grade School
Grade school buildings must be served by a public sewer system.
4.09.16   Grocery Store
When located in the C-2 District, a grocery store must be less than 5,000 square feet.
4.09.17   Hazardous Waste Facility
A hazardous waste facility is subject to the following additional minimum requirements:
A.
Approval of a Special Use Permit as provided in Article IX of this UDC.
B.
The location requirements of Chapter 66, Article IV, Section 66-121. Conditions on Hazardous Waste Facility of the Catoosa County Code of Ordinances.
C.
Such use shall not occur within a two-mile radius of the most significant groundwater recharge areas shown on the Georgia Department of Natural Resources Groundwater Recharge Area District Map.
4.09.18   Heliport, Sailport and Ultralight Landing Strip
A heliport, sailport or ultra-light landing strip is sub subject to the following additional minimum requirements:
A.
Approval of a Special Use Permit as provided in Article IX of this UDC.
B.
Such use shall be located on a minimum of 50 acres of land and shall be located a minimum distance of 1,000 feet from any residential dwelling.
4.09.19   Junkyard
A junkyard is subject to the following additional minimum requirements:
A.
Approval of a Special Use Permit as provided in Article IX of this UDC.
B.
Such use shall be completely screened from view (along a leveled altitude) from adjoining properties by a solid opaque wall or existing natural screen at least 8 feet in height, and the tract containing the junkyard shall have a setback buffer of at least 500 feet between location of junk on the property and the adjoining property lines.
C.
The junkyard shall not adjoin a residential area.
4.09.20   Kennel
A kennel is subject to the following additional minimal requirements:
A.
Approval of a Special Use Permit as provided in Article IX of this UDC.
B.
The kennel shall have a minimum of 1,000 feet of buffer between any adjoining residential property line and the nearest kennel area.
C.
Animal noise shall carry no more than 100 feet from the use.
4.09.21   Lumberyard
Storage yards shall be screened from view by a solid wall, planted screen or similar opaque partition at least 6 feet in height.
4.09.22   Manufactured Homes
A.
Size. All manufactured homes shall be greater than 16 feet in width, with the following exceptions:
1)
A manufactured home existing at the time of adoption of this UDC that is 16 feet or less in width may be replaced with a similar sized manufactured home.
2)
Manufactured homes in the R-4 Zoning District may be 16 feet or less in width.
B.
General Standards. The following standards shall apply to all manufactured homes:
1)
All new and pre-owned manufactured homes placed in the County shall require a State moving permit and a County manufactured home moving permit prior to placing or relocating the home into the County. To obtain a County manufactured home permit, the applicant shall provide the following to the Building Inspector:
a.
An affidavit signed by the applicant that the manufactured home, if pre-owned, meets health and safety standards required by the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq.
b.
Upon receipt of a permit, applicants shall arrange for an inspection prior to placement of the manufactured home.
c.
Once the manufactured home is placed on site, the applicant shall arrange for required inspections.
d.
A Certificate of Occupancy shall be issued to that applicant at such time that the building inspector certifies that the requirements of this ordinance have been met.
e.
Occupancy of the home is not allowed prior to receiving a Certificate of Occupancy.
f.
A permit and inspection fee shall be charged to the applicant to cover the cost to the County to process the permit application and inspect the pre-owned manufactured home. Such fee shall cover the initial inspections and the applicant will be charged a re-inspection fee that may be necessary. Fees will be based on the fee structure as may be established by the Board of Commissioners from time to time.
g.
A Georgia Licensed Mobile Home Installer is required to move any manufactured home. The name of the installer shall be provided to the County.
2)
All manufactured homes placed in the County shall be constructed in conformity with the requirements of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and shall comply with the following standards:
a.
Any manufactured home shall be required to be skirted/underpinned at the time of installation. The underpinning shall consist of one of the following: masonry, stucco, brick, concrete (permanent faced). Vinyl skirting or aluminum siding/panels or such other material are only allowed in approved manufactured home parks. The following types of materials are not permitted to be used, including but not limited to, tin, wood (unless of natural decay-resistant types such as cedar), plastic sheeting or gypsum board (black board). The underpinning must be adequately secured to the manufactured house and, where necessary for stability, secured to the ground.
b.
Two access doors are required to be installed in a manner which will provide adequate access for inspections and maintenance. Provisions must be made for adequate ventilation for the crawl space underneath the manufactured home.
c.
All tongues, wheels, axles, transporting lights, and other towing apparatus shall be removed from the home and placed out of sight prior to occupancy.
d.
All manufactured homes placed in the County shall be installed so as to comply with Chapter 120-3-7 Rules and Regulations for Manufactured Homes of the Rules of Comptroller General Safety Fire Commissioner, as authorized by O.C.G.A. § 8-2-160 et seq. The installation of tiedowns and ground anchors may vary from model to model and may comply with manufacturer's specifications where said specifications exist.
e.
Any porch or deck located 30 inches or greater above the ground shall be provided with guardrails and handrails as indicated in the International Residential Code for One and Two Family Dwellings. Steps higher than three risers shall be provided with handrails.
f.
Electric service equipment (meter base and outside service disconnect switch) may be permanently attached to a manufactured home only when installed in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications.
g.
Each owner of a manufactured home located in the County shall obtain, at the time of purchase and each year thereafter that said home is located in the County, between January 1 and April 1, a County location decal (County tax sticker). Said decal shall be purchased from the tax commissioner of the County. No person shall be entitled to purchase a decal until he/she presents to the tax commissioner a certificate of title or other proof of his/her ownership. Failure to obtain a decal each year shall constitute a violation of this Section.
h.
Any manufactured home, which is damaged beyond repair, as determined by the building inspector and/or fire inspector of the County, by fire, natural disaster, or man-made disaster, shall be removed and disposed of by the owner within 60 days after said damage occurred.
i.
No manufactured home permit shall be issued until the applicant provides certification from the City of Ringgold or the City of Fort Oglethorpe that the parcel is served by public sewer or, if a private septic tank system is proposed, whether existing or new, said system has been approved by the Board of Health and the applicant receives from said board a septic system permit.
j.
No manufactured home shall be used for any purpose other than as a dwelling unit, except in commercial applications when the unit has been specifically manufactured for that commercial purpose (i.e., office trailer on construction site).
C.
Pre-Owned Manufactured Homes. In addition to meeting the requirements of subsection A. above, pre-owned manufactured homes shall require a safety inspection permit prior to placing or relocating the home in Catoosa County.
1)
All pre-owned manufactured homes shall require a manufactured home moving permit. Should the owner of a pre-owned manufactured home request to relocate the home from its current location in Catoosa County to another location in the County, the following information shall be provided to the Building Inspector in order to apply for a manufactured home moving permit:
a.
Proof that the manufactured home is located in the County, in the form of documentation from the office of the Tax Commissioner of the County that all taxes were paid during each year as the said taxes become due. If the owner is not able to establish that taxes have been paid on a yearly basis, then that manufactured home shall not be allowed to be relocated and a manufactured home moving permit shall not be issued.
b.
A certificate of ownership (title) which corresponds with the manufacturer's serial number stamped into the frame of the manufactured home.
c.
A copy of the Board of Health septic permit or certification of sewer service by the City of Ringgold or the City of Fort Oglethorpe.
d.
A completed County manufactured home moving permit application form.
e.
The permit and inspection fees required by the County.
f.
Name of the Georgia Licensed Mobile Home Installer that will move the manufactured home.
2)
A pre-owned manufactured home shall be issued a manufactured home moving permit after it is found by the Building Inspector to be in compliance with: the electrical wiring standards as set forth in the National Electric Code; the standards set forth in Chapter 120-3-7 Rules and regulation for Manufactured Homes of the Rules of Comptroller General Safety Fire Commissioner, as authorized by O.C.G.A. § 8-2-160 et seq.; and, the following minimum health and safety standards:
a.
The home shall comply with HUD requirements and shall not have been altered in such way that the home no longer meets the HUD requirements.
b.
Every floor, interior wall, and ceiling shall be in sound condition. Doors and windows shall be operable, watertight and in good working condition. The floor system shall be in sound condition and free of warping, holes, water damage, or deterioration.
c.
The exterior of a home shall be free of loose or rotting boards or timbers and other conditions that might admit rain or moisture to siding shall be free of rot and rust. Roofs shall be structurally sound and have no obvious defects that might admit rain or cause moisture to collect on the interior portion of the home.
d.
Every plumbing fixture, water, and waste pipe shall be in a sanitary working condition when properly connected, and shall be free from leaks and obstructions. Each home shall contain a kitchen sink. Each bathroom shall contain a lavatory and water closet. At least one bathroom shall contain a tub and/or shower facilities. Each of these fixtures shall be checked upon being connected to ensure they are in good working condition.
e.
Heating shall be safe and in working condition. Un-vented heaters shall be prohibited.
f.
Electrical systems, including but not limited to switches, receptacles, and fixtures, shall be properly installed and wired shall be working condition. Distribution panels shall be in compliance with the approved listing, complete with required breakers, with all unused openings covered with solid covers approved and listed for that purpose. All branch circuit conductors shall be copper. The home shall be subject to an electrical continuity test to assure that all metallic parts are properly bonded.
g.
Each home shall contain a water heater in safe and working order.
h.
Each bedroom shall have at least one operable window of sufficient size to allow egress if necessary.
i.
The kitchen shall have at least one operating window or other ventilating device.
j.
Each home shall contain one operable battery-powered smoke detector in each bedroom and outside each separate sleeping are in the immediate vicinity of the bedrooms. The detectors shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations.
D.
Design Standards. In addition to meeting the requirements of subsections B. and C. above, manufactured homes that are greater than 16 feet in width shall include the following:
1)
A pitched roof with a minimum rise of 1 foot for each 5 feet of horizontal run.
2)
A continuous permanent masonry foundation connected by mortar mix, unpierced except for required ventilation and access spaces.
E.
Manufactured Home Park. In addition to the requirements above for manufactured homes, the following requirements shall apply to any manufactured housing development (manufactured home park).
1)
Development of a manufactured home park shall require a site plan to accompany the application for rezoning to R-4 or for expansion of an existing park. The site plan shall include: existing conditions and proposed site development as required in this Section, including preliminary plans of all buildings, improvements and facilities constructed or to be constructed within said park; this plan shall be shown on a topographic map with 5-foot contour intervals.
2)
The location and description of the boundaries of the property proposed for the manufactured home park.
3)
A buffer strip at least 25 feet wide shall be located adjacent to each exterior property line of the manufactured home park and shall not be included within any individual manufactured home lot.
a.
This buffer strip shall be increased to a minimum width of 50 feet when located adjacent to single family conventional residences. A minimum 50 feet buffer strip shall also be required adjacent to any other residential zoning district or to any residential dwelling in any zoning district when the manufactured home park includes commercial establishments as allowed herein.
b.
The buffer strip, regardless of required width, shall be densely planted with fast-growing evergreen shrubs and/or trees; such exemption may only be given if the natural topography or such other conditions would provide the substantial equivalent of such opaque screening as would be provided by such dense planting.
c.
Additionally, any required buffer strip shall be a continuing requirement notwithstanding any change of land uses adjacent to the manufactured home park.
4)
A minimum of 10 percent of the total usable area of any manufactured home park shall be set aside, designated and maintained for recreational purposes. If a swimming pool is provided, it may be counted as part of the area allotted for recreational use; and such pool must be constructed in accordance with the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code.
5)
The manufactured home park shall be located on a well-drained and properly graded site. Necessary site drainage improvements as may be required by the Planning Commission and the governing authority shall be provided.
6)
Wherever there is not a public fire hydrant within 1,000 feet to each manufactured home space, as measured along the roadways, the manufactured home park shall provide hydrants or water service connections within 20 feet of each manufactured home space, equipped for use with standard garden hose.
7)
No manufactured home having less than 500 square feet floor space and/or one not containing a built-in bathroom with water closet, lavatory and shower or tub (which are in working condition), shall be allowed in a manufactured home park.
8)
All interior drives and walkways within the park shall be lighted at night with electric lamps (minimum 175 watt mercury vapor or equivalent) spaced at intervals of no more than 200 feet.
9)
Requirements for streets, driveways, parking and walkways are as follows:
a.
Streets: All manufactured home spaces shall abut upon an interior paved street of no less than 20 feet in width, which shall have unobstructed access to a public street or highway in accordance with regulations of the county. Streets are required to be constructed according to minimum requirements of Article VI of this UDC (except curbing and dedication of streets legally accepted by the county).
b.
Driveways/Parking: Each manufactured home site shall be provided with drives connecting with the interior drive and sufficient to provide at least two off-street parking spaces that are adequately marked.
c.
Off-Street Parking: In addition to providing at least two off-street parking spaces for each manufactured home site, the developer shall provide one additional off-street parking space, dust free and adequately marked, for each three manufactured home spaces in the park.
d.
Walkways: Hard-surface walkways no less than three feet wide shall be provided from manufactured home spaces to service buildings. All interior driveways and walkways within the park shall be adequately maintained by the park owner.
10)
Requirements for signs are as follows:
a.
One park entrance sign not to exceed 32 square feet in area shall be allowed.
b.
One sign not exceeding 1 square foot in area shall be allowed for each home.
c.
Signs shall be non-flashing, non-animated and non-electronic.
d.
Signs shall not be located so as to impair motor vehicle visibility at any intersection of streets or driveways with street lines.
11)
If garbage pickup service is provided, individual watertight covered refuse containers of not less than 10 gallons nor more than 30 gallons capacity shall be provided at each occupied manufactured home space; and stands must be provided to hold the refuse containers upright or buried. Collection service at least twice weekly shall be provided and disposal shall be required.
12)
If refuse collection stations are provided, one refuse collection station shall be provided for each 20 families or fraction thereof. It shall be conveniently located for collection not more than 200 feet from any manufactured home served. The collection station(s) must be fitted with lids to close all openings which must be kept closed at all times.
13)
Convenience establishments of commercial nature, including stores, pickup laundry and dry cleaning agencies, and beauty shops and barbershops may be permitted in manufactured home parks provided that such establishments and the parking areas primarily related to their operation are adequate to serve their customers and approved by the Zoning Administrator as within the requirements of this UDC and:
a.
Occupy not more than 10 percent of the areas of the park;
b.
Be subordinated to the residential use and character of the park; and
c.
Be located, designed and intended to serve frequent trade or service needs of persons residing in the park only.
14)
Every manufactured home park shall be provided with a service building containing emergency sanitary facilities consisting of at least one lavatory with hot and cold water and one flush toilet for each sex per 50 manufactured home spaces or fraction thereof. These sanitary facilities may be provided in connection with laundry and other service facilities.
15)
Any manufactured housing development validly existing prior to the adoption date of this UDC shall not be expanded or enlarged in regards to the number of lots or pads for the purpose of accommodating additional manufactured homes unless in conformity with this UDC. Manufactured homes located in a nonconforming manufactured home park space shall not be replaced when space is vacated unless that space is brought up to conformity with this UDC.
16)
No permanent addition of any kind shall be built into or become a part of any manufactured home with the exception of awnings and porches as long as yard requirements are met.
17)
The owner of a manufactured home shall provide a treated wood deck or concrete patio at least 4 inches thick at each entrance. The deck or patio shall be a minimum of 8 feet in width and a minimum of 20 feet in length. A landing not more than 6 inches beneath the bottom of the door shall be required at each entrance. The minimum size landing shall be not less than 5 feet long and 5 feet wide. Steps shall lead from the landing to ground level shall be maintained at all times. All steps shall be equipped with handrails, as well as the landing. Handrails shall be maintained at all times. The use of unsecured cinder blocks stacked on one another for the purpose of steps, a deck, a landing, or treading upon, is prohibited.
4.09.23   Multi-Family Dwellings
The following are general design parameters for the construction of multi-family developments:
A.
All units shall be constructed to the fire safety and fire separation standards as defined in the current construction codes approved by the State of Georgia, including local amendments adopted by Catoosa County.
B.
Each multi-family development must abut directly on a collector street or be within 250 feet (measured along the street) of an existing major street. Street designations are those of the Comprehensive Plan for Catoosa County.
C.
There shall be two paved parking spaces (off-street) for each dwelling unit.
D.
Building line setbacks shall be as defined elsewhere in this ordinance.
E.
Provisions for public water supply shall be made. A copy of the Board of Health septic permit or certification of sewer service by the City of Ringgold or the City of Fort Oglethorpe must be received and lot sizes made according to the Board of Health regulations, where applicable.
F.
Each development shall have eight percent of the site devoted to outdoor recreation, developed and maintained by the owner. Parking area and driveways are not counted toward the eight percent area. Yard spaces for the individual units may count for not more than 50 percent of the required space.
G.
Areas of entry, such as exterior walks, courtyards or interior corridors that are used by more than one dwelling unit shall be lighted by the owner to a 5-foot candle exterior or 15-foot candle interior level. Walks serving only one dwelling may be lighted by a light assigned to and controlled by the individual dwelling unit.
H.
The installation of plumbing, electrical and heating systems will be governed by the International Plumbing Code, National Electric [Electrical] Code, and International Fuel Gas Codes, respectively.
I.
The owner shall be responsible for maintaining health and sanitary places of abode both inside the unit and upon the grounds.
J.
The owner/developer shall submit a site plan showing by metes and bounds, the locations of all proposed buildings, mobile homes, modular homes or other structures to be located on the site. This location plan may not be varied from without planning commission approval, but shall not be required for multiple dwellings lived in by relatives of one another.
K.
In order to provide for safe access for fire, police and ambulance equipment, on-street parking will not be allowed on any street, public or private. It shall be the responsibility of the owner to monitor parking and prevent on-street parking by his tenants.
4.09.24   Package Store
The location requirements of Chapter 6, Article II, Division 2, Subdivision 1, Section 6-214. Grounds for Denial of License of the Catoosa County Code of Ordinances must be met.
4.09.25   Pain Management Clinic
The location requirements of Chapter 19, Article IV, Section 19-55. Prohibited Acts of the Catoosa County Code of Ordinances must be met.
4.09.26   Poultry Production
Any poultry house must be located at least 500 feet from adjoining property lines; provided further that if the adjoining property is residential property, then and in that event, said poultry house or houses shall be located no less than 700 feet from the closest point to any dwelling, school or governmental owned building on the adjoining property.
4.09.27   Private Club
The location requirements of Chapter 6, Article II, Division 2, Subdivision 1, Section 6-214. Grounds for Denial of License of the Catoosa County Code of Ordinances must be met, if alcohol for on-site consumption is proposed to be sold.
4.09.28   Racetrack
In addition to meeting the requirements to obtain a Special Use Permit under this UDC, any racetrack must meet the requirements of Chapter 74, Article II, Division 3. Racetracks of the Catoosa County Code of Ordinances.
4.09.29   Restaurant
The location requirements of Chapter 6, Article II, Division 2, Subdivision 1, Section 6-214. Grounds for Denial of License of the Catoosa County Code of Ordinances must be met, if alcohol for on-site consumption is proposed to be sold.
4.09.30   Retail Sales
When located in the C-2 District or C-3 District, retail establishments shall be less than 5,000 square feet of cumulative space (includes total square footage of all businesses or buildings).
4.09.31   Sawmill
In addition to meeting the requirements to obtain a Special Use Permit under this UDC, any sawmill must be located a minimum distance of 500 feet from the property line of any adjoining property and must be located a minimum of 1,000 feet from the closest point of any dwelling as measured from the location of said sawmill.
4.09.32   Self-Storage Facility (Indoor, Rental)
A.
The storage of hazardous items, perishable goods, and animals is prohibited.
B.
Uses not related to the temporary storage of personal property are prohibited, including use as a residence, office, workshop (including vehicle, appliance or equipment repair), studio, band rehearsal area or place of business.
C.
No commercial transactions shall be permitted (including auctions; commercial, retail or wholesale sales; or miscellaneous or garage sales) other than the rental of the storage units.
D.
The operation of power tools, spray-painting equipment, table saws, lathes, compressors, welding equipment, kilns, or similar equipment is prohibited.
E.
In addition to meeting the requirements above, a storage facility that is located in the C-1 District must not exceed 15,000 square feet in cumulative space.
4.09.33   Shooting Range, Indoor
In addition to meeting the requirements to obtain a Special Use Permit under this UDC, any indoor shooting range or area where firing activity takes place must be located a minimum distance of 200 feet from the property boundaries of the property upon which said shooting range is located or upon which said shooting activity takes place.
4.09.34   Shooting Range, Outdoor
In addition to meeting the requirements to obtain a Special Use Permit under this UDC, any outdoor shooting range or area where firing activity takes place shall be located on lands comprising lands comprising 10 acres or more and making use of land in its predominantly natural state; be located a minimum distance of 200 feet from the property boundaries of the property upon which said shooting range is located or upon which said shooting activity takes place; and provide protective natural or artificial barriers preventing bullets, shells or pellets from traveling to human occupied areas.
4.09.35   Single-Family Attached Dwelling (Townhouse)
A.
All property lines abutting R-1 zoned property must have a grass covered berm (height to be determined based on terrain conditions) with sight-obscuring landscaping subject to review and approval of a site specific landscape plan. Existing foliage and natural terrain may be considered in lieu of berm and landscaping if intent of this Section is met.
B.
Townhouse development which fronts on exterior public streets must have front yards which are at least 65 percent grass/landscaping with any driveway and/or sidewalk to be composed of concrete or pavers. Landscaping along all property lines fronting exterior streets must be provided subject to review and approval of a site specific landscape plan. The term "exterior street" refers to any public, dedicated and accepted street existing prior to the R-T/Z development, as compared to an interior street, which is any street built as part of the R-T/Z development, both sides of which are zoned R-T/Z.
C.
A site sketch plan shall be submitted with the rezoning applications and shall show the following:
1)
Zoning of adjacent properties.
2)
Number, location and size of lot.
3)
Open space/recreation areas if provided.
4)
Off-street parking.
5)
Site access and preliminary street layout.
6)
All buffer, landscape and screen areas including site specific landscape plan.
7)
Acreage.
8)
Approximate range of unit size.
D.
Off-street parking shall be provided on the same lot or on a lot adjacent to the structure it serves at a rate of two spaces per dwelling unit. Units with four bedrooms or more shall be required to have three parking spaces.
E.
Sidewalks, if provided, are to be built according to jurisdictional standards.
F.
Provisions for Special Access and Utility Easements
1)
Due to the special nature of these housing types, the Planning Commission or governing authority may insist on special access easements and other arrangements to provide for adequate servicing and maintenance of the structures even though such easements and provisions might not normally be specified in this UDC. These easements and special covenants are to be shown on the subdivision plat at the time of its recording.
2)
In addition, deed restrictions or other provisions may be required to assure that any remodeling or reconstruction of destroyed units will be accomplished in a fashion which will be compatible with the remaining units.
4.09.36   Truck Stop
The requirements of Section 4.09.05 Automobile Repair and Service shall apply.
4.09.37   Veterinary Services
No part of any building, structure, pen or enclosure shall be located closer than 50 feet to any property line.
4.09.38   Solar Farm
In addition to meeting the requirements to obtain a Special Use Permit under this UDC, any solar farm shall meet the following requirements:
A.
A solar farm installation shall be constructed on five or more acres in agricultural zoning districts.
B.
A solar farm connected to the utility grid shall provide a "proof of concept letter" from the local utility company acknowledging the solar farm will be interconnected to the utility grid in order to sale electricity to the public utility entity.
C.
The design of the solar farm shall adhere to existing structural height requirements. If the solar farm requires a roof mounting on buildings on the property, the roof mounted installation may not exceed the maximum principal building height or accessory building height specified for the building type in the underlying zoning district.
D.
The design of the solar farm shall adhere to the setback requirements of the underlying zoning district. If the solar farm will be constructed by the utilization of ground mounting, then a ground mounting plan and process must be submitted during the county application process. The ground mounting plan may consist of standard solar manufacturer installation plans and processes for ground mounting.
E.
The operation of the solar farm shall comply with the following:
1)
Equipment shall be screened and fenced from adjacent property to restrict unauthorized access. Screening shall consists of a minimum 8 foot opaque fence with the addition of shrubbery, trees or an earthen berm as may be required to comply with the view shed/glare requirements.
2)
Solar equipment shall not be located within the minimum front yard or setback of the underlying zoning district.
3)
Solar panels shall not be placed in the vicinity of any airport in a manner that would interfere with airport flight patterns. Acknowledgement from the Federal Aviation Administration may be necessary.
4)
All power transmission lines from a ground mounted solar farm shall be located underground after connection from the solar panel combiners to the interconnection point.
5)
A solar energy system shall not be used to display signage, streamers, pennants, spinners, reflectors, ribbons, tinsel, balloons, flags, banners or similar materials, with the exception that the manufacturers' or installers' identification and appropriate warning signage shall be posted at the site in a clearly visible manner.
6)
The local utility provider shall be contacted to determine grid interconnection and net metering policies.
7)
Viewshed/glare—The applicant shall demonstrate that the proposal will not have an adverse effect on neighboring properties by providing aerials of the site, graphic renderings of the project, and/or pictures from the site of surrounding parcels demonstrating sight lines. Appropriate vegetated buffers and/or plantings may also be required to help limit the visual impact of the site and possible glare issues.
F.
The following requirements shall be met for building/development permit applications:
1)
A descriptive plot plan including setbacks, panel sizes, locations of property lines, building, and road rights-of-way.
2)
Any other relevant studies, reports, certificates and approvals as may be reasonably requested by the Planning and Zoning Office.
3)
A stormwater management study shall be provided to ensure compliance with local BMPs.
G.
The following requirements shall be met for decommissioning:
1)
Solar energy farms which have not been in active and continuous service for a period of one year shall be removed at the owners or operators expense.
2)
The site shall be restored to as natural condition as possible within six months of the removal.
ARTICLE V. - ACCESSORY AND TEMPORARY USES

5.01.00 - GENERALLY
The provisions of Article V apply to accessory uses, accessory structures, and temporary uses. Home occupations are considered accessory uses to residential development and are addressed in this article. Standards for signs, which may be either accessory structures or the principal use on a parcel, are provided in this article. In addition, standards are included for wireless communication facilities, which may be located on a lot or parcel with a principal use, or which may be principal use. The standards in this Article do not exempt uses from meeting all other applicable requirements of this UDC, unless noted herein.
5.02.00 - ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES
5.02.01   Generally
The uses identified in this section are considered to be a customary accessory use, and as such may be situated on the same lot with the principal use to which it serves as an accessory provided that all setback, yard requirements, and provisions of this section are met.
A.
All Zoning Districts.
1)
Accessory uses shall be a minimum of ten feet from any side and rear property line unless otherwise specified in this UDC.
2)
Any accessory use of a type requiring a special use permit if it were the principal use shall be prohibited unless the landowner obtains a special use permit.
B.
Agricultural Districts. Accessory buildings and structures which are not used or intended for use as housing for livestock or poultry and are ancillary to the residential use shall maintain the same front and side yards as the main structure but shall not project beyond the established building line.
C.
Residential Districts.
1)
Accessory uses shall be permitted only in a rear yard.
2)
The following uses are considered to be a customary accessory use to a dwelling located in residential zoned districts:
a.
Family garden.
b.
Private swimming pool.
c.
Home occupation in accordance with the requirements of Section 5.02.02;
d.
A garage used for the parking of automobiles and not for the purpose of repairing, painting or working on vehicles.
e.
Shed or toolroom.
f.
Children's playhouse and play equipment.
g.
Quarters for the keeping of pets owned by occupants for noncommercial purposes provided that such use does not generate a nuisance to adjoining properties.
h.
Structure designed and used for purposes of shelter in the event of manmade or natural catastrophes.
i.
Accessory dwelling units in accordance with Section 5.02.03.
D.
Commercial Districts. The following uses are considered to be a customary accessory use to a principal use located in commercially zoned districts:
1)
Private swimming pool where the principal use is a hotel.
2)
Coffee shop where the principal use is a hotel.
3)
Car wash and storage of petroleum products where the principal use is a garage or gas station.
5.02.02   Home Occupations
A.
Generally.
1)
A home occupation is permissible in a lawfully established dwelling unit in any zoning district where residential uses are permissible. All home occupations shall meet the standards set forth in Section 5.02.02(C).
2)
The following and similar uses shall be considered home occupations:
a.
Office for professionals, such as attorneys, drafters, realtors, insurance agents, engineers, architects, appraisal services, and other similar professions for consultations;
b.
Instruction or teaching, such as, but not limited to, academic tutoring, performing arts, fine arts, or culinary arts provided that no more than two students are instructed at any one time;
c.
Administrative or clerical support services, such as transcription, court reporters, stenographers, notary public, or addressing services;
d.
Personal services, such as beauty or barber shop, nail technician, dress-making or tailoring, provided that the service is limited to one station;
e.
Pet grooming provided that services are performed inside the dwelling unit;
f.
Family day care for six or fewer children;
g.
Manufacturers' or sales' representative office;
h.
Studios for artists, photographers, or artisans; and
i.
Outdoor instructional services for swimming.
3)
An interpretation by the Zoning Administrator that a use not listed in Section 5.02.02(A)(2) is similar shall be based on the tasks and activities normally associated with the proposed use and the similarity of those tasks and activities with the tasks and activities normally associated with a listed use.
4)
Under no event shall the permitted uses under this section be deemed to circumvent any of the regulations of the State of Georgia, nor be deemed to allow a use by any individual who has not first been approved by the appropriate department having authority over the same for the State of Georgia.
5)
In no event shall the uses as permitted under this section require Catoosa County, its departments or employees to be responsible for enforcement of any requirements placed on an individual by the State of Georgia, or to have any responsibility to anyone, where someone is maintaining a facility as would otherwise be allowed under this section without first meeting all State of Georgia requirements and regulations.
B.
Prohibited Uses.
1)
The following uses shall not be considered home occupations and are prohibited:
a.
Towing truck business/wrecker service;
b.
Auto detailing;
c.
Private clubs;
d.
Auto repair (with or without a garage);
e.
Veterinarian;
f.
Flea markets;
g.
Junkyards;
h.
Kennels (indoor and outdoor);
i.
Sawmills;
j.
Tree service (includes log-splitting, cutting of wood on the property).
C.
Standards for all Home Occupations.
1)
Location. Except for permissible outdoor instructional services the use shall be carried on wholly within the principal building. The attachment of an accessory building by breezeway, roof, or similar structure shall not be deemed as sufficient for the accessory building to be considered as a portion of the primary building.
2)
Size. Not more than 30 percent of the floor area of the principal building shall be used for the conduct of the home occupation.
3)
Displays. No merchandise or articles shall be displayed for advertising purpose, nor be displayed in such a way as to be visible from outside the dwelling.
4)
Commercial Vehicles. One commercial vehicle is allowed and shall be parked in the driveway, garage or carport.
5)
Residential Character Maintained. There shall be no alteration of the residential character of the building or premises, and the conduct of the home occupation shall not increase the normal flow of traffic or on-street or off-street parking.
6)
Employees. The home occupation shall be conducted by the homeowner and family members living on the premises, with the exception that not more than two additional full-time or part-time employees may be present during the home occupation's hours of operation.
7)
Parking. One off-street paved parking space shall be provided in addition to the required parking for residential use of the building.
8)
Nuisance Factors. The home occupation shall not constitute a nuisance to the surrounding neighborhood. The use of machinery or equipment that produces noise, smoke, odor, vibration, or electrical interference, the instruction or teaching of performing arts such as voice or music, or any other objectionable condition beyond the property line of the lot on which the home occupation is located shall be prohibited.
9)
Signage. A nonilluminated professional or business name plate, not exceeding 2 square feet in area, and which otherwise complies with this UDC, is allowed, not less than 20 feet from any property line, and not less than 10 feet from any right-of-way. Neon is prohibited.
10)
Business License Required. All home occupations shall have a business license from Catoosa County.
11)
Outside Storage. Outside storage of materials used in connection with a home occupation is prohibited; however, storage of materials in an enclosed accessory building that is subordinate in size to the principal dwelling is allowed.
5.02.03   Accessory Dwellings
A.
Generally.
1)
Accessory dwellings are limited to guesthouses, tenant dwellings and dwelling units within principal dwellings as described in this Section.
2)
Accessory dwellings shall not include tents, boats, manufactured storage buildings and mobile structures including RV's and travel trailers, with the exception that RV's and travel trailers may be allowed for occupancy in a campground or recreational vehicle park as permitted in this UDC.
B.
Location.
1)
One freestanding guesthouse per lot on which an existing principal dwelling is located shall be allowed in the A-1 District subject to the requirements of Section 5.02.1.B.
2)
Freestanding tenant dwellings (single-family and two-family) are allowed in the A-1 District subject to the requirements of Section 5.02.1.B and the following:
a.
Land on which the dwelling is place shall be used for bona fide agricultural purposes;
b.
Dwellings shall house only those persons and their immediate family employed in carrying out such bona fide agricultural use; and
c.
One tenant dwelling per five acres of land is allowed.
3)
Freestanding tenant dwellings (single-family) are allowed in the PCFD District to provide housing for employees or caretakers, subject to the requirements of Section 5.02.1.B and the following:
a.
One dwelling per five acres of land is allowed; and
b.
At least one of the occupants must be employed on the premises, or their presence must be necessary or essential for the normal operation of the farm.
4)
Freestanding accessory dwellings, excluding tenant dwellings, are allowed in single-family detached residential zoning districts in accordance with the following requirements:
a.
There shall be no more than one accessory dwelling per lot on any residentially zoned property;
b.
The accessory dwelling may be located in a second floor over a detached garage or may be a separate structure that is not a manufactured home;
c.
The accessory dwelling shall have no more than two bedrooms;
d.
The size of the accessory dwelling shall be no more than 40 percent of the habitable floor area of the principal dwelling and shall not exceed the height of the principal dwelling.
e.
The accessory dwelling shall be located only within the rear yard;
f.
The lot shall comply with the minimum lot size standards set forth in Article II of this UDC;
g.
One additional off-street parking space shall be provided to serve the accessory dwelling;
h.
The accessory dwelling may be placed on a property only when the principal dwelling has been completed for at least three years;
i.
The owner of the property must occupy one of the dwellings as the owners' permanent and principal residence, and will provide a statement attesting to the owners occupancy;
5.02.04   Outdoor Storage and Display
A.
Automobiles.
1)
The display or placement of more than one automobile for sale on a residential premises is prohibited.
2)
No Unlicensed Motor Vehicles. It shall be unlawful to own, possess, store or display a motor vehicle anywhere in Catoosa County, Georgia, without a valid, current Georgia license plate or allow another to do so, with the following exceptions:
a.
None in an I-1 zone.
b.
Up to five operative motor vehicles in an A-1 zone.
c.
Any number of operative motor vehicles in a C-1 zone.
d.
Up to four operative motor vehicles in a C-2 zone.
e.
Up to one operative motor vehicle in an R-1 zone.
f.
Up to one operative motor vehicle in an R-2 zone.
g.
Any number in any zone as long as stored inside a completely enclosed building.
h.
None in any other zone not specifically designated in this Section.
i.
Used Car Dealers: A person holding a valid used car dealer license provided by the office of the Secretary of State of Georgia, may own, possess or store a motor vehicle which does not have a current license plate.
3)
Penalty. The penalty for each violation of this Section 5.02.04.A(2) shall be a minimum fine of $100.00 per day per motor vehicle. The court shall apply this fine in all cases and shall not have discretion to depart from the minimum fine, except as provided in this section; however, the court may assess a greater fine if circumstances make it just.
4)
Doubled Fine for Noncompliance After Warning. If a warning or additional time period for compliance has been given to a violator and the violator still has not complied with Section 5.02.04.A(2) at the end of the period given by the Zoning Administrator, the minimum fine shall be doubled by the court and shall begin to be assessed upon the first date of the warning or notice to comply.
5)
Disposal of Motor Vehicles. In the event a violator has failed to comply with Section 5.02.04.A(2) and has not appealed the action of the zoning administrator as provided by law, or the appeals of the violator have been exhausted, the zoning administrator shall cause the unlicensed motor vehicles to be removed from the premises and such vehicles shall be disposed of or sold with the proceeds delivered to Catoosa County as provided by law.
B.
[Storage yards.] Storage yards shall only be permitted on property zoned for industrial uses and shall meet the following standards:
1)
Storage yards shall be screened from view by a solid wall, planted screen or similar opaque partition at least six feet in height;
2)
Materials shall not be stored within any required buffer area, stormwater management area, or easement.
C.
[Storage in Residential Zoning Districts.] No trailer, semi-trailer, truck bed, truck trailer, travel trailer, recreational vehicle, mobile home, manufactured home or parts of any of the foregoing, regardless of whether movable or immovable, shall be used as a storage building in residential zoning districts.
D.
[Mobile and manufactured homes.] Mobile and manufactured homes, not including travel trailers, shall be stored only in approved home parks, manufactured home retail sales lots, or within the confines of a building (warehouse).
5.03.00 - TEMPORARY USES
5.03.01   Special Events
The standards of Chapter 10, Article IV Special Events of the Catoosa County Code of Ordinances shall apply.
5.03.02   Temporary Placement of a Manufactured Home
A.
Placement during Residential Construction.
1)
The owner of a lot upon which a residential dwelling is being constructed may, upon first obtaining a temporary permit from the Zoning Administrator, temporarily place a manufactured house (subject to underpinning and tiedown provisions of this UDC) or travel trailer on said lot for use as a temporary dwelling for a period of six months or until construction of the dwelling is completed whichever shall first occur.
2)
The temporary permit may be renewed for one additional six-month period subject to underpinning and tiedown requirements of this UDC unless an extension is granted by the planning commission for good cause shown.
3)
The application for a temporary permit shall have attached thereto a separate statement of the applicant that he acknowledges and agrees that the permit, if granted, is valid only for the time specified and that upon completion of the dwelling or the expiration of the permit, as the case may be, he shall cause the removal of said manufactured house; and his failure to do so grants to Catoosa County the right to remove the same from the lot at applicant's expense.
B.
Placement to Accommodate Caregiver.
1)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this UDC, a manufactured house may be temporarily placed in any zone established by this UDC (subject to underpinning and tiedown requirements of this UDC) upon the following conditions:
a.
An application for a temporary permit is accompanied by an affidavit from a health care official unrelated to the applicant certifying that an exemption and temporary permit is needed.
b.
That the temporary permit is needed for the health care of a member of the applicant's immediate family.
c.
That the application for the temporary permit have attached thereto, a separate statement of the applicant that he acknowledges and agrees that the permit is valid only so long as the conditions of the permit are met, that upon the termination of any of the conditions, the applicant shall cause the removal of the manufactured house at his own expense and his failure to do so grants to Catoosa County the right to remove the same from the premises at the applicant's expense.
2)
The temporary permit shall be valid so long as all of the conditions above referred to continue to be met; provided however, that the applicant shall renew the same annually by certifying to the Zoning Administrator that each of the conditions continue to exist.
5.03.03   Yard Sales
A.
Yard sales shall be limited to residential and agricultural zoning districts.
B.
A yard sale shall be limited to one weekend (Friday, Saturday and/or Sunday) duration.
C.
No more than one such sale shall be held at the same address within any three months.
D.
Outdoor display of items intended for sale shall be permissible only during the duration of the yard sale.
E.
Yard sales shall not include the selling of inventory purchased, received on consignment, or by donation with the intent to resell.
F.
Yard sales shall not be allowed as a home occupation.
G.
On-street parking shall not block or interfere with any vehicular circulation.
H.
Signs shall be installed in accordance with Section 5.05.00.
5.04.00 - WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES (WIRELESS FACILITIES)
5.04.01   Purpose and Intent
The Telecommunications Act of 1996 affirmed the authority of Catoosa County concerning the placement, construction and modification of wireless telecommunications facilities. Pursuant to Section 704(a) of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, it is not the intent of this Section to prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the provision of personal wireless services in Catoosa County. It is the intent of this section to balance the interests of the county's residents, telecommunications providers and telecommunications customers in the siting of wireless telecommunications facilities within Catoosa County so as to protect the health, safety, and welfare of county citizens and the character and integrity of the built and natural environment.
5.04.02   Overall Policy and Goals
In order to ensure that the placement, construction, and modification of wireless telecommunication facilities is consistent with the purpose and intent of this section, Catoosa County adopts an overall policy with respect to requiring permits for wireless telecommunications facilities for the express purpose of achieving the following goals:
A.
Requiring a special use permit to place, construct or make significant modifications to a wireless facility.
B.
Requiring review by the Zoning Administrator and application for an electrical permit and building permit in accordance with requirements of this Section, rather than requiring a special use permit, for any new collocation or minor modification of an existing wireless telecommunications facility.
C.
Requiring, wherever possible, the placement, height and quantity of wireless telecommunications facilities in such a manner, including but not limited to the use of stealth technology, to minimize adverse aesthetic and visual impacts on the land, property, buildings, and other facilities adjacent to, surrounding, and in generally the same area as the requested location of such wireless telecommunications facilities, which shall mean using the least visually and physically intrusive facility that is not technologically or commercial impracticable under the facts and circumstances.
D.
Requiring, wherever possible, the collocation of wireless facilities.
5.04.03   Collocation Required
A.
All service providers shall be required to collocate prior to being considered for a stand-alone site, or demonstrate co-location is impossible or impractical.
B.
No service provider shall prohibit collocation nor charge an unreasonable fee to another service provider.
5.04.04   Special Use Permit Required
The following actions shall require a special use permit in accordance with the requirements of this Section and Article IX of this UDC:
A.
The placement or construction of any new wireless support structure.
B.
The collocation or modification to a previously approved wireless facility that proposes:
1)
An increase the overall height or width of the wireless support structure to which the wireless facilities are to be attached;
2)
An increase in the dimensions of the equipment compound initially approved by Catoosa County;
3)
To exceed the applicable weight limits for the wireless support structure, as demonstrated by a letter from a structural engineer licensed to practice in this state.
5.04.05   Exceptions from a Special Use Permit
A.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this section, wireless facilities that existed on or before the effective date of this UDC shall be allowed to continue as they presently exist, provided however, that any modification of an existing wireless telecommunications facility that meets the criteria of Section 5.04.04.D.(2) will require the complete facility to comply with this section.
B.
Any repair and maintenance of a wireless facility does not require an application for a special use permit. However, no additional construction or site modification will be permitted.
C.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5.0.04, the collocation on previously approved wireless facilities shall be subject only to review by the Zoning Administrator and application for an electrical permit and building permit.
5.04.06   Height Limitations on Telecommunications Towers by District
A.
[Free-standing or guyed towers.] Free-standing or guyed towers may be placed in the following districts subject to the following height limitations:
1)
Residential District. Towers may not exceed 100 feet.
2)
Commercial District. Towers may not exceed 180 feet.
3)
Industrial District. Towers may not exceed 220 feet.
4)
Development—Agricultural. Towers may not exceed 260 feet.
B.
Permitted Height Above Structures. In all districts, towers, antenna, and all related facilities mounted on buildings, water tanks, or other structures other than telecommunications communications towers shall not extend more than 30 feet above the highest part of the structure.
C.
Exceptions.
Tower height may not exceed the maximum allowable heights identified in Sections 5.02.05.F.(2) and (3) unless it can be proven that such height would prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the provision of service in the intended service area.
5.04.07   Minimum Setbacks
Any tower or structure permitted under this section shall be located a minimum distance equal to 100 percent of the height of said tower or structure from the property line of any property designated as historic or architecturally significant, and must be set back from all lot lines distances equal to the district setback requirements (as established according to the area, yard and height requirements of this ordinance) or 100 percent of the height of the tower or structure, whichever is greater.
5.04.08   Application Requirements
The applicant for permit(s) required for construction of any wireless facility or collocation must file with the Zoning Administrator on an application accompanied by the following documents, if applicable. If any of these materials represents proprietary information, the applicant must so designate those materials. Proprietary information will not be disclosed.
A.
Specifications. One copy of typical specifications for proposed structures and antenna, including description of design characteristics and material.
B.
Site Plan. A site plan drawn to scale showing property boundaries, tower location, tower height, guy wires and anchors, existing structures, photographs of elevation drawings depicting typical design of proposed structures, parking, fences, landscape plan, and existing land uses on adjacent property.
C.
Tower Location Map. A current map, or update for an existing map on file, showing locations of applicant's antenna, facilities, existing towers, and proposed towers which are reflected in public records, serving any property within the County.
D.
Antenna Capacity/Wind Load. A report from a structural engineer registered in Georgia showing the tower antenna capacity by type and number, and a certification that the tower is designed to withstand winds in accordance with ANSI/EIA/TIA 222 (latest revision) standards.
E.
Antenna Owners. Identification of the owners of all antenna and equipment to be located at the site as of the date of the application.
F.
Owner Authorization. Written authorization from the site owner for the applications.
G.
FCC License. Copy of valid FCC license for the proposed activity, or proof that the applicant is the winning bidder for an FCC license at auction and that the final issuance of the FCC license purchased at auction is pending.
H.
Visual Impact Analysis. Pictures of any potential visual and aesthetic impacts on adjacent residential districts.
I.
Removal Agreement. A written agreement to remove the tower and/or antenna within 180 days of cessation of use.
J.
Reduction of Visual Impact. The applicant has taken reasonable measures to assure that the proposed communications tower, antenna or accessory structure will be placed in a reasonably available location which will minimize the visual impact of the surrounding area (i.e., adjacent public rights-of-way) in accordance with minimum standards of applicable federal and other regulations.
K.
Need for Location. Applicant must show that the proposed antenna and equipment could not be placed on a preexisting facility under control of the applicant and function under applicable regulatory and design requirements without unreasonable modification.
L.
Necessity for Residential Location. An applicant for a permit for a location in a residential area must show that the proposed area cannot be adequately served by a facility placed in a nonresidential area. In addition to the foregoing, no tower or structure permitted under this UDC may be located within 1,000 feet of any existing residence.
M.
Design for Multiple Use. Applicant must show that a new tower is designed to accommodate the applicant's potential future needs, to the extent that those future needs may be determined at the time of application.
N.
Safety Codes. Applicant must show that all applicable health, nuisance, fire and safety codes are met.
O.
Paint and Illumination. A tower must be finished in a standard galvanized metal finish or painted in a color so as to minimize the visual obtrusiveness and must not be illuminated unless otherwise provided in state or federal regulations.
P.
Distance from Existing Tower. A permit for a proposed tower within 1,000 feet of an existing tower will not be granted unless the applicant certifies that the existing tower does not meet the applicant's structural specifications or technical requirements, or that a co-location agreement could not be obtained at commercially reasonable terms and conditions, including price.
Q.
Radio Frequency Engineer Certification. Applicant shall provide a letter from a radio frequency engineer certifying the proposed wireless facilities will not interfere with public safety emergency communications.
R.
Applicability of Other Regulations. Other regulations in this UDC that relate to ground structure, fencing, etc., with the exception of setback and height, shall apply to this use.
5.04.09   Action on Applications
Catoosa County shall act on any request for authorization to place, construct, or modify personal wireless service facilities within a reasonable period of time after the request is duly filed with the county, taking into account the nature and scope of such request.
A.
Application for Collocation or Modification of Wireless Facilities (does not require Special Use Permit). An application for a proposed collocation or modification that does not meet the criteria of Section 5.04.00 shall be reviewed by the Zoning Administrator within the following timeframe:
1)
Within 90 calendar days of the date an application for modification or collocation of wireless facilities is filed with the Planning and Zoning Office, unless another date is specified in a written agreement between the Zoning Administrator and the applicant, the Zoning Administrator authority shall:
a.
Make his or her final decision to approve or disapprove the application; and
b.
Advise the applicant in writing of his or her final decision.
2)
Within 30 calendar days of the date an application for modification or collocation is filed with the Planning and Zoning Office, the Zoning Administrator shall determine if it is a complete application and, if he or she determines the application is not a complete application, notify the applicant in writing of any information required to complete such application.
3)
To the extent additional information is required to complete the application, the time required by the applicant to provide such information shall not be counted toward the 90 calendar day review period set forth in subsection 1) of this Code section.
B.
Application for a New Wireless Facility (requires Special Use Permit). A proposed new wireless facility, or an application for a proposed collocation or modification that meets the criteria of Section 5.04.00 shall be reviewed by the Board of Commissioners within the following timeframe:
1)
Within 150 calendar days of the date an application for a new wireless support structure is filed with the Planning and Zoning Office, unless another date is specified in a written agreement between Catoosa County and the applicant, the Board of Commissioners shall:
a.
Make its final decision to approve or disapprove the application in accordance with the special use permit procedures in Article IX of this UDC; and
b.
Advise the applicant in writing of its final decision.
2)
Within 30 calendar days of the date an application for a new wireless support structure is filed with the Planning and Zoning Office, the Zoning Administrator shall determine if it is a complete application and, if he or she determines the application is not a complete application, notify the applicant in writing of any information required to complete such application.
3)
To the extent additional information is required to complete the application, the time required by the applicant to provide such information shall not be counted toward the calendar day review period set forth in subsection 1) of this Code section.
C.
Written Decision. Any decision by Catoosa County to deny a request to place, construct, or modify personal wireless service facilities shall be in writing and supported by substantial evidence, contained in a written record, or reasons therefor reduced to writing in the form of minutes or a resolution.
5.05.00 - SIGNS
5.05.01   Findings and Purpose
A.
The Board of Commissioners finds that signs provide an important medium through which individuals, businesses, and government may convey a variety of messages. Left unregulated, however, signs can become a threat to the public health and safety as a traffic hazard and a detriment to property values and the overall economic growth of Catoosa County as an aesthetic nuisance.
B.
Numerous professional studies have been prepared that examine and establish the effect of signs on traffic safety, aesthetics and economic prosperity, including "The Public Purpose of Roswell's Sign Ordinance and the Implications of Doing Without It: A Position Paper" (December 7, 1999) by Jerry Weitz, Ph.D., AICP and "Safety Impacts of the Emerging Digital Display Technologies for Outdoor Advertising Signs" (April 2009) by Jerry Wachtel for AASHTO and the Standing Committee on Research of the National Cooperative Highway Research Program (NCHRP). In particular, based on the cited materials and the studies referenced therein as well as other related studies, the County finds that unregulated signs:
1)
Can be a safety hazard to drivers and pedestrians;
2)
Can distract drivers;
3)
Can create unsafe, cluttered and aesthetically blighted thoroughfares throughout the County;
4)
Can hamper economic growth;
5)
Can lower property values;
6)
Can adversely impact public investments;
7)
Can degrade the utility of public safety signs; and
8)
Can adversely impact the aesthetic quality of the community and surrounding environment.
C.
It is the purpose of these sign regulations, through a comprehensive system of content-neutral and nondiscriminatory standards, to:
1)
Balance the right of individuals to convey their messages through signs and the right of the public to be protected against the unrestricted proliferation of signs;
2)
Further the objectives of the Catoosa County Comprehensive Plan;
3)
Reduce traffic and pedestrian hazards;
4)
Maintain the historical heritage and natural landscapes of the County;
5)
Protect property values by minimizing the possible adverse effects and visual blight caused by signs;
6)
Avoid the harmful aspects of the unrestricted proliferation of signs;
7)
Promote economic development and tourism;
8)
Protect private property values; and
9)
Ensure the fair and consistent enforcement of sign regulations.
5.05.02   General Provisions
A.
No sign shall be placed or maintained within the county except in conformity with this Section. Violations of this Section may be punished in the same manner as other violations of this UDC. The County reserves the right to take legal action to remove signs erected in violation of this Section, or to otherwise enforce the provisions of this Section.
B.
Notwithstanding any other restrictions in this Section, any sign allowed under this section may contain any commercial or non-commercial message, or any political or non-political message; except that such messages cannot depict obscenity, as defined by O.C.G.A. § 16-12-80, nor can they depict sexual conduct or sexually explicit nudity, as defined by this UDC and O.C.G.A. § 36-60-3, nor advertise any activity illegal under the laws of Georgia or the United States.
5.05.03   Permits and Inspections
A.
Sign Permit Required.
1)
Except as otherwise provided herein, it shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct, enlarge, relocate, or alter a sign in the County or cause the same to be done without first obtaining a sign permit from the Planning and Development Office.
2)
The replacement of an existing sign face with an electronic sign shall require a sign permit.
B.
Exceptions.
1)
A sign permit will not be required for legally existing signs under the following conditions:
a.
Replacing or altering the words, letters, figures, symbols, logos, fixtures, colors, or other design elements that compose a sign's message, in whole or in part, shall not require a sign permit unless a structural or size change is made or unless a change in size materials is made.
b.
Painting, repairing, cleaning, or maintaining a sign shall not require a sign permit unless a structural change is made.
2)
A sign permit will not be required for the following listed signs:
a.
Window signs which are less than or equal to 30 percent of the aggregate window and door glass area. Window signs shall be allowed in commercial and industrial zoning districts as shown in Table 5-1.
b.
Freestanding signs in residential and agricultural zoning districts, as allowed in Table 5-1, that have a maximum sign area of 4 square feet and a maximum height of 5 feet.
c.
Permanent freestanding miscellaneous signs (defined as non-illuminated signs having a maximum sign area of 4 square feet and a maximum height of 3 feet) in commercial and industrial zoning districts.
d.
Permanent signs at restaurant drive-throughs that are no greater than 32 square feet in sign area and no greater than 8 feet in height (see also Table 5-1).
e.
Temporary yard sale signs.
f.
Home occupation signs (see also Section 5.02.02).
C.
Other Approvals.
1)
Building Permits
a.
Signs using electrical wiring and connections and/or requiring footings may require a building permit, and the Catoosa County Building Official should be contacted regarding such signs.
b.
All signs for which a building permit is required shall be constructed and maintained in conformance with all Building Code and Electrical Code requirements.
c.
Signs that do not require a building permit include painted wall signs that are not illuminated and projecting signs that are 2.5 square feet in size or less.
2)
Other Permits or Approvals. A party seeking to erect a sign on a state road or adjacent to Interstate 75 should consult with the Georgia Department of Transportation, in addition to the Catoosa County Planning and Zoning Office.
D.
Sign Permit Application, Permanent Signs.
1)
In order to obtain a sign permit under the provisions of this Section, an applicant shall submit to the Planning and Zoning Office a sign permit application (and accompanying building or electrical permit application, if required) which shall provide the following information, as well as any additional information required by the Zoning Administrator or Building Official:
a.
The name and address of the property owner and sign owner, if different;
b.
The location by street address of the proposed sign;
c.
The zoning district of the property containing the sign;
d.
Site plan showing the location of the sign on the lot, including indicating setbacks and distances to property lines and rights-of-way;
e.
Elevation drawing showing the height and dimensions of sign face, and height of sign structure;
f.
Square foot area per sign face and the aggregate square foot area if there is more than one sign face; and
g.
The sign permit must be signed by either the property owner or sign owner.
2)
Required Certifications
a.
Wind Load Resistance. Applications for sign structures greater than 10 feet in height are required to include a certification by a professional engineer licensed in the state of Georgia that the sign structure will withstand the county's adopted wind speeds.
b.
Illumination Compliance. Applications for signs that are internally laminated, including electronic signs, are required to include certification by a certified electrical contractor affirming that the illumination complies with county codes.
E.
Sign Permit Application, Temporary Signs. The application for a sign permit for a temporary sign shall include the following information, as well as any additional information required by the Zoning Administrator:
1)
A list of the temporary signs to be placed on the property.
2)
A description of the temporary signs to be placed on the property, including sign dimensions.
F.
Issuance of Permit if Application in Order. It shall be the responsibility of the Zoning Administrator, upon receipt of a completed application for a sign permit and any required fees, to examine such plans and specifications and other data and, if the proposed structure is in compliance with the requirements of this section and all other applicable provisions of this UDC to issue a sign permit evidencing the applicant's compliance therewith, within the following timeframe:
1)
Thirty working days from date of filing for a sign permit for a permanent sign; and
2)
Ten working days from date of filing for a sign permit for a temporary sign.
G.
[Permits Issued in the Name of the Property.] Sign permits shall be issued in the name of the property owner upon which the sign is to be located.
H.
[Permit Obtained Based on False Information.] Issuance of the permit shall in no way prevent the Zoning Administrator from later declaring said sign to be nonconforming if the permit is obtained based on false information submitted by the applicant.
I.
Permit Duration. A sign permit shall become null and void if the construction of the sign for which the permit was issued has not begun within a period of six months after the date of issuance and completed within 12 months after date of issuance.
J.
Inspection.
1)
All signs for which a permit is required by this section are subject to inspection by the Zoning Administrator and the Building Official.
2)
Required inspections include:
a.
For freestanding signs and billboards, a footing inspection is required before any concrete is poured.
b.
For any sign using illumination, an electrical inspection is required.
5.05.04   Location and Setback Requirements
A.
The property owner must give permission for all sign structures erected on the owner's property.
B.
Sign structures shall be placed outside of the public right-of-way.
C.
No portion of a sign or sign structure erected on private property shall encroach on or overhang the public right-of-way or any other person's property.
D.
No freestanding sign or sign structure greater than 3 feet in height may be located within 30 feet of the intersection of street right-of-way lines extended parallel or at a location that would cause an obstruction to vision of vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
E.
No sign shall interfere with governmental utilities, such as water lines, mains and hydrants, electricity, and communications equipment or lines, nor interfere with natural or manmade stormwater drainage facilities, if any. All signs shall be located in such a way that they maintain horizontal and vertical clearance from all overhead utilities in accordance with National Electrical Code specification.
F.
Distances are measured from the closest portion of the sign (whether that be the base, sign face, or the sign structure) to the right-of-way, curb, pavement, adjacent property or utility.
5.05.05   Sign and Structure Maintenance
A.
The sign and sign structure shall be maintained in good repair, structurally sound, with proper anchorage capable of supporting the imposed loads, so as not to pose a threat to the public health, safety or welfare. All structural members shall be maintained free from deterioration, and shall be capable of safely supporting the imposed dead and live loads.
B.
When a sign or sign structure is found to be in need of maintenance, the Zoning Administrator shall issue a notice of violation to the property owner, which shall describe the maintenance issue, and provide a reasonable amount of time to repair the violation.
C.
If, after receiving the notice of violation, the property owner fails to remedy the maintenance issue within the time provided, it shall be a violation of this UDC, subject to citation.
5.05.06   Prohibited Signs
Except as otherwise provided by this UDC, the following types of signs are prohibited:
A.
Signs imitating warning signals; signs displaying lights resembling the flashing lights customarily used in traffic signals or in police, fire, ambulance or rescue vehicles; signs using words, slogans, dimensional shapes or size, or colors of governmental traffic signs.
B.
Any sign or lighting device, whether on the exterior of the building, freestanding, or on the inside of a window which is visible beyond the boundaries of the lot or parcel, with animated illumination or intermittent, flashing, rotating, scintillating, blinking, strobe, or moving lights. Includes animated signs as defined in this UDC.
C.
Search lights or beacons.
D.
Signs attached to any utility pole, or structure, street light, tree, rock, natural object, fence, fire hydrant, bridge, curb, sidewalk, park bench, or other location on public property.
E.
Signs, other than those placed by a local, state or federal government, located within the public street right-of-way or within 10 feet of the curb of closest edge of pavement of any public street.
F.
Signs which obstruct any fire escape, any means of egress or ventilation, or prevent free passage from one part of a roof to any other part thereof; signs attached in any manner to any fire escape.
G.
Smoke or sound emitting signs.
H.
Balloons, streamers, pennants, inflatable signs, banners and other similar signs, other than as permitted by this UDC.
I.
Roof signs.
J.
Portable signs.
K.
Pole or pylon signs are prohibited as freestanding signs.
L.
Signs displaying nudity, as defined under O.C.G.A. § 36-60-3.
M.
Obscene signs, as defined under O.C.G.A. § 16-12-80.
N.
Signs that are dilapidated or in such condition as to create a hazard, nuisance or to be unsafe or fail to comply with any provision of building codes, electrical codes or this UDC.
O.
Abandoned signs.
P.
Multiple message signs, including tri-vision signs.
Q.
Electronic signs, including LED and LCD signs and similar type technologies (except as permitted by this Section).
R.
Window signs which exceed 30 percent of the aggregate window and door glass area.
5.05.07   Illuminated Signs
A.
Illumination devices shall be so placed and so located that light from the sign itself will not directly cast into any residential sleeping rooms in any district or into the eyes of an automobile or vehicular driver legally operating on public or private roads.
B.
Electronic signs are prohibited, with the exception that up to 50 percent of the allowable sign area for permanent ground signs or pole signs in commercial and industrial districts may be an electronic sign upon meeting the following requirements:
1)
The messages displayed must be complete in themselves, without continuation in content to the next image or message or to any other sign.
2)
Display of message must be static. When the display changes, it must change with no phasing, rolling, scrolling, flashing, twirling, blending, or in any manner which imitates movement.
3)
Sign copy shall change no more than one time per 10 seconds.
4)
Text messages shall be composed of one color with the background composed of one color.
5)
Pictures, logos, images, graphics, and symbols may be displayed from one color to full color.
6)
Signs shall be equipped with both a dimmer control and a photocell that automatically adjusts the display's intensity according to natural ambient light conditions.
7)
Prior to issuance of a sign permit for an electric sign, the applicant shall provide written certification from the sign manufacturer that the light intensity has been factory pre-set not to exceed three-tenths of one foot candle above existing ambient light level.
8)
No sign shall display light of such intensity or brilliance to cause glare or otherwise impair the vision of the driver or result in a nuisance to the driver.
9)
No sign shall be of such intensity or brilliance that it interferes with the effectiveness of an official traffic sign, device, or signal.
5.05.08   Measurement of Sign Area and Height
Computation of Sign Area. In order to determine compliance with the maximum allowable sign areas allowed under this Section, the following shall establish how sign areas are measured.
A.
Sign Area.
1)
The area of a sign is calculated by determining the area of the smallest square or rectangle which encloses the sign face and the structure surrounding the sign face. For example, the pole or base would not be included, but any frame holding the sign face in place would be counted.
2)
Where there is no structure surrounding the sign face (e.g. individual channelized or painted letters), the sign area shall be measured as the entire area within a continuous perimeter enclosing the limits of the writing, representation, emblem, or any figure or similar character.
B.
Sign Height. Sign height is measured from centerline of street grade upon which the sign fronts to the highest portion of the sign structure.
5.05.09   Regulated Signs by Zoning District
Table 5-1 presents the maximum number, size, height, and other restrictions relating to specific permanent signage that are permitted by right in each zoning district category.
Table 5-1 Sign Requirements by Zoning District
EXPAND
Zoning
District
Allowed
Sign Type
Total # of
Signs
Allowed
per Parcel
Maximum Sign Area
(square feet unless otherwise noted)
Maximum
Height
(feet)
Agricultural and Residential Districts Freestanding sign 1 double-sided 4 sq. ft. per sign face 5
Project entrance sign (allowed for residential subdivisions and institutional uses in residential or agricultural zoning districts) 2 single-sided, or 1 double-sided per subdivision development 32 sq. ft. per sign face 6
Commercial and Industrial Freestanding sign 1 double-sided Ground sign or pole sign: 2 sq. ft. per linear foot of building frontage (front façade) or 1 sq. ft. per linear foot of street frontage on ROW, whichever is larger, up to a maximum of 100 sq. ft. per sign face 25
Up to 50 percent of the allowable sign area for the ground sign or pole sign may be changeable copy (manual or electronic) in accordance with this Section
Billboard Interstate Billboard: Sign face shall not exceed 14-foot height and 48-foot length 100
Non-Interstate Billboard: Sign face shall not exceed 12-foot height and 24-foot length 40
Window sign Total signage may not exceed 30% of the aggregate area of windows and glass doors facing road frontage.
Wall sign 2 sq. ft. per linear foot of any building wall having ROW frontage or 1 sq. ft. per linear foot of street frontage on ROW, whichever is larger, up to a maximum of 100 sq. ft. per sign face. For multiple-tenant dwellings, the square footage requirement applies to storefront width.
Other allowed signs: Permanent miscellaneous freestanding signs (defined as non-illuminated signs having a maximum sign area of 4 square feet and a maximum height of 3 feet); and one permanent sign at a restaurant drive-through (no greater than 32 square feet in sign area and no greater than 8 feet in height).
  5.05.10   Additional Standards for Interstate Billboards
In addition to the provisions of Table 5-1, the following requirements shall apply to interstate billboards:
A.
The outside measurements of interstate billboards shall be 14 feet in height and 48 feet in length, with or without trim.
B.
All illuminated interstate billboard shall use only base-mounted lights which shall be activated by photo-electric cells. Additional lighting, including, but not limited to, neon, animation and running lights, is prohibited. Metalized or plastic faceted or disc material sometimes referred to as "Solaray" or other material which may appear to provide the effect of motion is also prohibited.
C.
Interstate billboards shall not have changeable copy (electronic or manual) nor shall they be manual message signs as defined in this UDC. This requirement prohibits all electronic signs and digital displays (including LED, LCD and similar technology).
D.
Interstate billboard signs shall be a minimum of 10 feet in height above the adjacent interstate pavement measuring from the lower portion of the sign face. These signs shall not exceed 100 feet in height above the level of the surface of the pavement of the nearest lane of the main traveled way or 100 feet in height from the ground at the base of the sign to the tallest part of the structure, including the display or face and trim, whichever is greater.
E.
Extrusions beyond the face of the sign, excluding aprons, are prohibited.
F.
Only one interstate billboard shall be allowed to face in the same direction per location. This allows single-face, back-to-back, or "V" formation signs, but prohibits two (side-by-side) signs facing the same direction.
G.
Interstate billboard signs shall be located not less than 500 feet apart measuring from the two closest points on the same side of the road.
H.
Sign structures shall be no less than 10 feet from any property line or right-of-way lines. In addition, the interstate billboard signs shall be no less than] 100 percent of the height of the sign from any structure.
I.
Not more than three interstate billboard signs shall be placed per quadrant of any interstate interchange adjacent to the interstate highway. For the purposes of this Section, the term "quadrant" refers to the area between the entrance and exit ramps of the interstate interchanges in Catoosa County. (Interchanges in Catoosa County are presently exit numbers 345, 350, and 353.) These signs shall be erected on property which is zoned commercial or industrial and shall only be erected in an area 1,600 feet in length beginning 500 feet from the point where the pavement widens on the main traveled way to accommodate the longest entrance or exit ramp of any interchange.
J.
Signs within 500 feet of any officially designated historical site or monument are prohibited.
K.
Any legally erected sign which will become nonconforming as a result of this UDC shall be allowed to remain or be replaced until purchased by GDOT or the County, provided that the sign owner meets all requirements of state laws and rules and regulations governing such signs. However, in the event an existing sign is replaced pursuant to this UDC, the replacement sign must be the same height and have the same size and dimensions as the sign which was removed.
L.
Interstate billboard signs that are not regulated or permitted by the Georgia Department of Transportation (GDOT) are prohibited.
5.05.11   Additional Standards for Non-Interstate Billboards
In addition to the provisions of Table 5-1, the following requirements shall apply to non-interstate billboards:
A.
The outside measurements of all such signs shall not exceed 12 feet in height and 24 feet in length, with or without trim.
B.
All illuminated signs shall use only base-mounted lights which shall be activated by photo-electric cells. Additional lighting, including, but not limited to, neon, animation and running lights, is prohibited. Metalized or plastic faceted or disc material sometimes referred to as "Solaray" or other material which may appear to provide the effect of motion is also prohibited.
C.
Non-interstate billboards shall not have changeable copy (electronic or manual) nor shall they be manual message signs as defined in this UDC. This requirement prohibits all electronic signs and digital displays (including LED, LCD and similar technology).
D.
All signs shall be a minimum of 10 feet above adjacent pavement measuring from the lower portion of the sign face. Signs shall not exceed 40 feet in height. Two signs in the same location (back-to-back) or "V" formation shall be the same height above the road's surface.
E.
Extrusions beyond the face of the sign, excluding aprons, are prohibited.
F.
Only one sign shall be allowed to face the same direction per location. This allows single-face, back-to-back or "V" formation signs but prohibits two signs (side-by-side or attached) facing the same direction.
G.
Sign shall have a 1,000-foot radial spacing from the closest points.
H.
Sign structures shall be no less than 10 feet from any property line or right-of-way lines. In addition, signs shall be no less than 100 percent of the height of the sign from any structure.
I.
No sign shall be placed in or obstruct the view of a marshland area or area of designated historic interest.
J.
Any legally erected sign which will become nonconforming as a result of this UDC shall be allowed to remain or be replaced until purchased by GDOT or the county, provided that the sign owner meets all requirements of state laws and rules and regulations governing such signs. However, in the event an existing sign is replaced pursuant to this UDC, the replacement sign must be the same height and have the same size and dimensions as the sign which was removed.
K.
Non-interstate billboards that are not regulated or permitted by the Georgia Department of Transportation (GDOT) are prohibited.
5.05.12   Temporary Signs
A.
Banners may be exhibited upon approval of a temporary sign permit and in accordance with the following requirements:
1)
Banners may be exhibited up to six times each calendar year for a period of not more than 14 consecutive days during each period.
2)
Banners shall be maintained in good repair, and shall be maintained free of defects such as holes, tears, fading, cracks, breaks or missing portions.
3)
Banners are limited to:
a.
48 square feet in sign area;
b.
One banner per property or road frontage; and
c.
Placement only in commercial and industrial zoning districts.
4)
Banners must be mounted or attached to a building or attached to a pole, mast, arm or other structure.
B.
Yard sale signs may be exhibited without a temporary sign permit; however the following requirements must be met:
1)
There shall be no more than one sign per parcel of property.
2)
The sign shall require permission of the property owner on whose property they are erected and shall meet the standards of this UDC with respect to maintenance and location.
3)
The maximum area of the sign shall be 2 square feet.
4)
Signs may be posted from 3:00 p.m. on the Thursday before the event to 7:00 a.m. on the Monday following the event.
5)
No sign shall be illuminated.
ARTICLE VI. - INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS

6.01.00 - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
6.01.01   General Design Requirements
A.
All residential subdivisions and nonresidential development hereafter established in Catoosa County shall be developed in accordance with the design standards and requirements set forth in this Article. All roads and streets not intended to be dedicated to, and accepted by, Catoosa County for maintenance shall not be subject to the design standards and requirements of this Article and shall be considered "private" and shall comply with Sections 6.03.08, 6.03.09 and 6.03.13 of this Article.
B.
Land subject to flooding, improper drainage or erosion, or which has topographical, geological or other constraints on its development, shall not be subject to development for any uses which may continue such conditions or increase the danger to health, safety, life or property, unless such constraints can be legally eliminated or abated.
C.
All subdivisions shall be identified by name. Subdivision names may not be duplicated unless they are a logical extension of and are contiguous to an existing subdivision.
D.
The requirements of these regulations may be modified in the case of a large-scale community or neighborhood unit, such as a housing project, shopping center, or large-scale industrial development which is not subdivided into customary lots, blocks and streets, if the development is approved by the planning commission and if it is in conformity with the purpose and intent of these regulations.
E.
All residential subdivisions and nonresidential developments to be constructed in stages shall have a pavement section designed to withstand construction traffic of future stages, or have a secondary ingress and egress road dedicated to construction traffic of the future stages. Construction traffic shall not be allowed to use the finished stage as ingress and egress point of future stages.
F.
See the Catoosa County Engineering Technical Standards Manual for referenced or other Standard Details.
6.01.02   Conformance with Other Plans and Regulations
A.
All proposed subdivisions shall conform to all applicable zoning regulations and development policies of Catoosa County in effect at the time of submission of the construction plans or any variance that has been granted.
B.
Whenever there is a discrepancy between the minimum standards or dimensions required in this Article and those contained in this UDC, or other official codes, regulations or resolutions, the most restrictive shall apply.
C.
All streets, thoroughfares and other features of the Catoosa County Comprehensive Plan shall be taken into consideration by the subdivider.
6.01.03   Monuments
All property line corners shall be marked with a metallic pin, at least ½-inch in diameter and 24 inches in length. The top level of such pin shall be approximately level with the finished grade. If the ground cannot be penetrated the required 24 inches, another type of permanent monument shall be installed.
6.02.00 - CONSTRUCTION TESTING
6.02.01   Quality Assurance
Quality assurance during construction will be required.
A.
All quality control testing which is a part of roadway construction will be performed by a reputable professional geo-technical and testing engineering company that will be employed by the developer and all associated costs will be paid by the developer.
B.
The developer shall select a Geotechnical Engineering firm from the current Georgia Department of Transportation (GDOT) list of qualified professionals, or a firm acceptable to Catoosa County, and notify the Public Works Department of that selection. The following requirements shall apply:
1)
The geotechnical firm shall contract directly with the developer to provide quality assurance on the project.
2)
The developer shall be responsible for scheduling the geotechnical firm.
3)
Minimum testing requirements are described in this Article.
4)
Location and scheduling of testing shall be coordinated with the County's representative for assurance of reasonable conformance with the requirements described in this Article prior to performing tests to avoid the expense of retesting.
5)
Testing milestones shall be established during the Preconstruction Conference required in Article IX.
6)
A final report shall be required in accordance with Section 6.02.02C of this UDC.
6.02.02   Submittal and Procedural Requirements
A.
The developer shall submit a pavement design prepared by a Georgia licensed professional engineer for approval of the Director of Public Works. For subdivisions that will be constructed in stages, the pavement design shall be based on the number of lots from all stages and on a field evaluation of the subgrade soils conducted by a geotechnical engineer.
B.
The Geotechnical Engineer shall complete a field evaluation of the roadway before any roadway construction begins.
1)
The Geotechnical Engineer shall conduct a field exploration of the soils along the roadway alignment at a spacing of no greater than 500 feet and obtain samples of the subgrade soils for laboratory evaluation.
2)
A composite soil sample of each soil type shall be obtained and tested for plasticity (Atterberg limits, ASTM D4318) and standard Proctor moisture-density relationship (ASTM D698).
3)
California Bearing Ratio (ASTM D1883) tests shall be conducted on a composite sample representative of the soil conditions, as determined by the Geotechnical Engineer.
4)
The California Bearing Ratio (CBR) test shall be conducted on soaked samples.
5)
CBRs less than 6 require base, and pavement thickness to be determined by Geotechnical Engineer evaluation.
C.
A final report by the geotechnical engineer that the quality assurance tests and inspections have been performed and the construction has been completed in substantial compliance with Catoosa County design and construction standards, specifications, and applicable portions of subdivision regulations will be required before the plat is recorded.
1)
The final report shall be compiled in accordance with all applicable ASTM standards for geotechnical reporting.
2)
One copy of the final report shall be given to Catoosa County.
D.
Preliminary or final plat approval by the Planning Commission does not constitute permission to begin any street or utility construction.
1)
Street and utility construction plans may be approved as a whole or in part.
2)
Construction of approved portions of the work shall not precede issuance of applicable Land Disturbing Activity Permits.
E.
Public streets to be accepted by the County will be at the discretion of the Board of Commissioners. Acceptance will be considered only upon separate written request by the developer, subdivider, or any person or persons who own all fee simple interest in the subject street.
F.
See Article IX for final plat approval requirements.
G.
See Section 6.02.04 for requirements pertaining to official acceptance of improvements.
6.02.03   Maintenance
The developer shall be responsible for maintenance of any road constructed for either (a) a period of two years from the date of the recording of the final plat of the subdivision in the office of the clerk of the Superior Court; or (b) until such time as construction is completed on at least 85 percent of the lots which are subdivided, platted or otherwise available for construction within the subdivision, whichever last occurs.
6.02.04   Dedication of Streets and Public Lands
A.
Upon completion of public improvement construction, the subdivider or land developer shall notify the Zoning Administrator and request an inspection. The Zoning Administrator shall inspect all public improvements and shall notify the subdivider or land developer by mail of non-acceptance or preliminary acceptance. If the public improvements are not acceptable, the reasons for non-acceptance shall be stated and corrective measures shall be outlined in a letter of notification. Upon notification, the subdivider or land developer shall correct all deficiencies identified in the non-acceptance letter within the time limit established by the Zoning Administrator. Once deficiencies are corrected, the subdivider or land developer shall again request inspection in writing. Acceptance of public improvements required by this ordinance to be approved by the local governing body shall be forwarded to the Governing Body by the Zoning Administrator following approval.
B.
Subdivision streets and right-of-ways and other lands to be dedicated to the public shall be accepted and dedicated by the County only upon the delivery to the Board of Commissioners of the general warranty deed conveying fee simple title of such right-of-ways and lands. The warranty deed shall accompanied by an attorney's certificate of title and a tax transfer form addressed to the County Board of Commissioners certifying that the grantor in such deed is vested with marketable fee simple title to the property conveyed thereby, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances, and further that the individual executing such deed has full authority to do so. Acceptance of such dedication shall be accomplished by Resolution of the Board of Commissioners.
6.03.00 - STREETS
6.03.01   Street Design Requirements, Generally
A.
The minimum right-of-way as required by this UDC must be shown on the final plat and dedicated to Catoosa County if the proposed development fronts on an existing county road. All building setback requirements shall be measured from this established right-of-way line.
B.
Traffic studies shall be required for all residential subdivisions containing more than 250 lots or at the discretion of the Director of Public Works. Such studies will at a minimum address the level of traffic generated by the proposed development and its distribution on the existing road network; and the need for traffic signals, deceleration lanes, left turn lanes, other additional lanes and other traffic control devices on all existing and proposed roadways.
C.
All streets with curb and gutter shall be constructed with a minimum 13-foot shoulder behind both curbs. See Standard Detail 201 "Residential Streets" and Standard Detail 202 "Nonresidential Streets." Residential and Nonresidential Streets may be designed using either curb and gutter or extruded curbs.
D.
All streets shall have a minimum centerline grade of at least 1.0 percent including culs-de-sac and intersections.
E.
Super-elevated curves shall be provided as per GDOT design guidelines for arterial streets.
F.
Where a deflection angle of more than 10 degrees occurs, a horizontal curve of reasonably long radius shall be introduced.
G.
The minimum length of crest vertical curves shall be 100 feet. Longer lengths may be required based on required stopping sight distance. The sight distance for crest vertical curves shall be measured along the roadway from 3½ feet above the pavement to an object 6 inches high, as discussed in the current AASHTO policy on design.
H.
Vertical curves may be designed to extend past the end of a cul-de-sac provided stopping sight distance is met. See Standard Detail 203 "Minimum Stopping Sight Distance."
I.
The minimum length of sag vertical curves shall be 100 feet. For Residential 3 and Nonresidential 1 class streets, minimum sag vertical curve length shall be 10 times the algebraic difference in grades, but in no case shall be less than 100 feet. Vertical curves may be designed to extend passed the end of a cul-de-sac provided stopping sight distance is met.
J.
Sight distances at intersections shall be determined by the posted speed limit of the street (existing county road or state highway) onto which a vehicle must turn. Such distances shall be measured beginning from a point established 15 feet from the edge of the travel way on the centerline of the egress lane at a height of 3½ feet above the finish grade elevation. The line of sight is then extended the minimum required distance on either side to the centerline of the road terminating at a point 2 feet above the finish grade elevation (See Standard Detail 204 "Intersection Sight Distance for Driveways and Side Streets.")
K.
If a subdivision street accesses a county road, the design consultant shall verify the intersection stopping distance and shall determine if hidden dips occur on the county road which will impact the proposed access point.
L.
Roads may be constructed across an existing or proposed dam. The appropriate state approved professional shall provide a report certifying that the existing or proposed dam is structurally capable of supporting the road. Any road across a dam shall be a private street. Ingress and egress easements, not right-of-way, shall be granted. A second point of access to the subdivision across a public or private street must be provided. The section of road across the dam, and the dam itself, shall be maintained by the subdivision property owners or a mandatory homeowners' association.
6.03.02   Residential Street Design Requirements
A.
Residential streets shall be classified into a street hierarchy system for design and construction purposes. Street design standards in residential subdivisions shall be based on road function and the number of dwelling units (d.u.) served by the street. Rural residential streets may be used only in residential subdivisions where lot sizes are five acres or larger. Residential street classifications and their corresponding dwelling unit thresholds are:
Table 6-1 Residential Street Classifications and Dwelling Unit Thresholds
EXPAND
Street Classification
Dwelling Unit Threshold
Rural Residential N/A
Residential 1 0-200 d.u.
Residential 2 201-400 d.u.
Residential 3 401-1000 d.u.
  B.
Apartment, condominium, and mobile home park streets shall be designed and constructed to the same standards as other residential streets.
C.
Jogs in the centerline, pavement, or right-of-way shall not be permitted for residential streets.
D.
The following residential street design standards shall apply to all public streets in residential subdivisions. See Standard Detail 201 "Residential Streets." Design requirements for arterial and collector Streets in residential subdivisions shall be based on AASHTO and GDOT standards, and approved by the Public Works Director.
E.
Depth Requirements
1)
Depth checks on base material and asphalt cores shall be taken at random locations as specified in Section 6.03.04 along each road and at a minimum of three per street.
2)
Any area found deficient shall be brought up to the required thickness prior to placing any additional layer of material.
3)
All asphalt core holes shall be filled with hot mix asphalt of similar grade prior to approval of the final plat.
Table 6-2 Residential Street Design Requirements
EXPAND
Standard
Residential Street 3 Residential Street 2 Residential Street 1 Rural Residential Street
Dwelling units served 401-1000 201-400 0-201 N/A
Minimum right-of-way, in feet 60 7 60 2,7,9 50 7
60 2,7,8 60
Minimum pavement width, in feet 1 24 24 6
20 20 18
Minimum lane width, in feet 12 12 10 9
Maximum grade 14% 14% 2 14% 2 14%
Minimum stopping sight distance, in feet 250 160 160 160
Design speed, in MPH 35 25 25 25
Minimum radius of centerline curvature, in feet 440 100 100 100
Minimum length of tangent between reverse curves, in feet 100 0 0 0
Minimum sight distance at intersections (each way), in feet 325 200 200 200
Minimum length sag vertical curves, in feet 100 3 100 100 100
Minimum length crest vertical curve, in feet 100 4 100 4 100 4 100 4
Internal subdivision street curb or edge of pavement radius, in feet 35 35 35 35
Entrance to subdivision radius in feet 40 40 40 40
  1   Minimum pavement width does not include curb and gutter.
2   Streets constructed without curb and gutter and where storm water management does not allow ditches to be within the 50-foot right-of-way.
3   For Residential 3 Streets, sag length will be calculated as 10 times the algebraic difference in grades, with a minimum allowable sag length of 100 feet.
4   For Residential 1, 2, and 3 Streets, greater crest lengths may be required based on the minimum stopping sight distance requirements. See Standard Detail 203 "Minimum Stopping Sight Distance."
5   See also the paving requirements contained in Section 6.03.04.
6   Pavement width for main parkways.
7   Private streets shall contain access and utility easements in lieu of right-of-way.
8   For all residential streets constructed with curb and gutter. Residential subdivision curb and gutter may be either vertical faced or roll-over.
9   The applicant shall demonstrate to the Director of Public Works that the distribution of traffic to the proposed residential street system shall not exceed the dwelling unit thresholds for any of the proposed street classifications. Submitted construction plans must indicate the number of lots being served by each street for subdivisions that contain 201 lots or more.
6.03.03   Nonresidential Street Design Requirements
A.
Nonresidential streets shall be classified into a street hierarchy for design and construction purposes.
1)
Street design standards in nonresidential subdivisions shall be based on road function and the average daily traffic (ADT) the street will accommodate, as determined in the current edition of ITE's Trip Generation manual.
2)
Nonresidential street classes and their corresponding ADT thresholds are:
Nonresidential: 1-10,000 ADT.
B.
Pavement depth shall be based upon projected traffic loads designed by a professional engineer currently registered in the State of Georgia but in no event shall it be less than 6 inch/2 inch/1½ inch.
C.
Arterial or collector streets shall be required when ADT generated by the development will exceed 10,000 daily trips. Street design requirements for arterial and collector streets shall be based on AASHTO and Georgia DOT standards, and approved by the Director of Public Works.
D.
Jogs in the centerline, pavement or right-of-way shall not be permitted.
E.
The applicant shall demonstrate to the Director of Public Works that the distribution of traffic to the proposed street system shall not exceed the ADT thresholds for any of the proposed street classifications.
F.
All nonresidential streets shall be constructed with either curb and gutter or extruded curbs. Nonresidential subdivision curb and gutter may be either vertical faced or rollover.
G.
The following nonresidential street design standards shown in Table 6-3 shall apply to all public and private streets constructed in nonresidential subdivisions. See Standard Detail 202, "Nonresidential Streets." The minimum standard for nonresidential subdivision street design and construction shall be a Nonresidential 1 street.
H.
Grading and embankment specifications are the same as Section 6.03.04A and Section 6.03.04D Pavement depth for any use other than automobiles shall be based on projected traffic loads and design by a professional engineer currently registered in the State of Georgia.
I.
For subdivisions in commercial and industrial zones, pavement design shall be based on projected traffic loads.
Table 6-3 Nonresidential 1 Street Design Requirements
EXPAND
Standard
Requirement
Minimum right-of-way width, in feet 60
Minimum pavement width, in feet 1 24
Minimum lane width, in feet 12
Maximum grade 14%
Minimum stopping sight distance, in feet 250
Design speed, in mph 35
Minimum radius of centerline curvature, in feet 440
Minimum length of tangent between reverse curves, in feet 100
Minimum sight distance at intersections (each way), in feet 325
Minimum length sag vertical curves, in feet 100 2
Minimum length crest vertical curve, in feet 100 3
Internal subdivision street curb radius, in feet 40
  1   Minimum pavement width does not include curb and gutter.
2   Sag length will be calculated as 10 times the algebraic difference in grades, with a minimum allowable sag length of 100 feet.
3   Greater crest lengths may be required based on the minimum stopping sight distance requirements. See Standard Detail 203 "Minimum Stopping Sight Distance."
6.03.04   Street Construction Standards
A.
Grading.
1)
Before grading is started, the construction areas shall be cleared of all trees, stumps, roots, weeds, logs, heavy vegetation, and other objectionable matter, and shall be grubbed to a depth below the proposed grade in cuts and the natural ground in fills so as to expose suitable subgrade. The objectionable matter shall be removed from within the right-of-way limits and disposed of in such a manner that it will not become incorporated within the fills, nor in any manner hinder proper operation of the storm drainage system.
2)
Suitable material may be used in the construction of embankments or at any other place needed. If rock is encountered, it shall be removed as determined by the geotechnical engineer. Where boulders are encountered, they should be removed 6 inches below the proposed grade. Onsite materials may be used, provided they are used according to the recommendations of the Geotechnical Engineer. If imported fill is used to construct road embankments, the materials shall meet the following requirements:
a.
Standard Proctor Maximum Dry Density greater than 100 pounds per cubic foot within the top 2 feet of finished subgrade elevation; or 95 pounds per cubic foot below the top 2 feet.
b.
Liquid Limit less than 60.
c.
Plasticity Index less than 35.
B.
Utility Construction.
1)
Prior to any base material being placed, all underground work that is to be within the right-of-way or the right-of-way subgrade shall be completed and backfilled with stone, if necessary. This includes all drainage, sewerage, water, telephone, electrical, gas, cable television, and other utilities to the end that the completed roadway will not be disturbed for the installation of any utility main or service connection for any utility.
2)
Sanitary sewer shall be constructed in accordance with either the City of Ringgold or Fort Oglethorpe Design and Construction Standards depending on jurisdiction, and the Georgia Environmental Protection Division. The developer shall contact a representative from the city having jurisdiction for testing and design requirements.
3)
Storm sewers shall be constructed in accordance with The Georgia Storm Water Management Manual (Blue Book).
4)
All underground utility conduits and piping shall be installed prior to proof rolling and placement of base material. Installation and backfill shall be observed by the Geotechnical Engineer. In the event all utility construction is not complete due to circumstances beyond the control of the developer and/or contractor, proof rolling and placement of base material may begin subject to completion of all underground conduits and piping beneath the road and 2 feet beyond the edge the proposed base material. Sanitary sewer tests shall be coordinated with the respective city representative having jurisdiction prior to base installation.
5)
Utility trenches within the road bed shall be backfilled with either crushed rock, soil, or flowable fill according to the following requirements:
a.
Bedding
i.
All utility trenches shall be bedded with a 6-inch layer of either open-graded crushed rock or sand.
ii.
Bedding shall be placed and compacted using a vibratory compactor.
iii.
Where necessary, bell holes shall be cut into the bedding at pipe joints locations.
b.
Initial Fill
i.
After the utility line has been placed, the utility trench shall be backfilled with open graded crushed rock or sand to at least 12 inches over the top of the utility.
ii.
The backfill shall be compacted using a vibratory compactor.
c.
Secondary Fill
i.
From 12 inches over the top of the utility to 18 inches below the subgrade elevation, the utility trench may be backfilled with open-graded crushed rock (½-inch diameter or less), sand, or soil fill.
ii.
Sand or soil backfill shall be placed in maximum one-foot layers and compacted.
iii.
Sand or soil backfill shall be compacted to achieve at least 95 percent of the standard Proctor maximum dry density.
iv.
Density tests shall be conducted for every one-foot layer of backfill at a frequency of one test per 100 feet for utilities running along the longitudinal axis of the road, or one test for utilities crossing the road.
v.
Open-graded crushed rock backfill does not require compaction in lifts, but must be consolidated using vibratory compaction equipment.
vi.
The placement and consolidation must be observed by the Geotechnical Engineer.
d.
Final Backfill
i.
The final 18 inches of the utility trench backfill shall be backfilled with dense-graded crushed rock.
ii.
The backfill shall be compacted to achieve at least 98 percent of the standard Proctor maximum dry density.
iii.
Density tests shall be conducted at a frequency of one test per 50 feet for utilities running along the longitudinal axis of the road, or two tests for utilities crossing the road.
e.
Flowable Fill
i.
Flowable fill may be used as backfill for utility trenches.
ii.
The material shall be designed to achieve a compressive strength of 150 to 500 psi.
iii.
The material shall meet the requirements of ACI 229R-99, Standard Specifications for Controlled Low Strength Cementitious Materials.
iv.
Flowable fill may be used instead of the secondary fill and the final backfill.
v.
The material supplier shall submit a mix design verified by an independent testing laboratory within the past 6 months.
6)
Open cut pavement repair shall be made in accordance with Standard Detail 211 "Open Cut Pavement Repair."
C.
Subgrade.
1)
All contractors must contact the Geotechnical Engineer prior to beginning subgrade work. This is imperative or the work may not be accepted.
2)
The subgrade shall be prepared to the lines and grades as designed and staked by the developers' surveyor. All grades shall be verified by the Design Professional for final approval by Catoosa County.
3)
After the subgrade has been graded and shaped, it shall be scarified to a depth of 8 inches, then re-compacted to achieve a density of at least 98 percent of the standard Proctor (ASTM D698) maximum dry density.
a.
The moisture content shall be within 3 percent of the optimum moisture content.
b.
The Geotechnical Engineer will conduct field density tests at a spacing of not more than 100 feet, staggered right and left of the centerline, with a minimum of three tests.
c.
Any areas that do not meet compaction requirements shall be re-compacted and retested.
4)
If an existing subgrade passes both the proof rolling and density tests, then scarifying and re-compacting will not be required.
a.
Proof rolling shall be performed using a fully-loaded, dual-tandem dump truck.
b.
The subgrade shall be trafficked by parallel passes of the truck starting at one side of the roadway. Each pass shall overlap the preceding pass to ensure complete coverage.
c.
Two complete proof rolling coverages are required.
D.
Fill and Embankments.
1)
Any roadway embankment steeper than a 3 to 1 slope shall be specially designed by a geotechnical engineer and then built to design specifications.
2)
The embankment shall be protected from erosion using stormwater Best Management Practices.
3)
Areas requiring 2 feet or more of fill shall be observed and tested by the Geotechnical Engineer.
a.
Fill shall be placed in level lifts, thickness of loose lifts shall not exceed 8 inches, and compacted to at least 95 percent of the standard proctor maximum dry density, with the final 12 inches compacted to 98 percent of a standard proctor maximum dry density.
b.
The moisture content shall be within 3 percent of the optimum moisture content.
c.
The Geotechnical Engineer shall conduct field density tests for each one-foot layer of fill placed.
i.
Testing frequency shall be at least one test per 10,000 square feet, or one test every 200 feet along the roadway centerline, staggered left and right of the centerline.
ii.
A minimum of three tests is required for each one foot layer.
iii.
Any areas that do not meet compaction requirements shall be re-compacted and retested.
E.
Base.
1)
All contractors must contact the Geotechnical Engineer prior to beginning the base operation. This is imperative or the work may not be accepted.
2)
Before placing base material, the subgrade shall be proof-rolled in the presence of the Geotechnical Engineer.
a.
Proof-rolling shall be performed using a fully-loaded, dual-tandem dump truck.
b.
The subgrade shall be trafficked by parallel passes of the truck starting at one side of the roadway. Each pass shall overlap the preceding pass to ensure complete coverage of the roadway cross-section.
c.
Two complete proof-rolling coverages are required.
d.
Any areas that deflect or yield, in the opinion of the Geotechnical Engineer, shall be corrected before base material is placed.
3)
Base material shall be a dense-graded mineral aggregate base meeting the requirements of the Georgia Department of Transportation Section 815 of the "Standard Specifications Construction of Transportation Systems" for graded aggregate base.
a.
The contractor shall provide a letter of certification from the base material supplier that the materials meet these requirements.
b.
Other types of base material may be used, if included in a design by a professional engineer and approved by the Geotechnical Engineer and the Director of Public Works.
c.
The base material shall be compacted to at least 98 percent of the standard Proctor maximum dry density.
4)
The base will be tested for thickness and compaction by the Geotechnical Engineer. Tests will be conducted at a maximum spacing of 200 feet, staggered right and left of the centerline.
5)
Tolerances for Base Thickness
a.
The minimum base design thickness shall be 6 inches.
b.
The average of all measurements shall be greater than or equal to the design thickness.
c.
Any test that is less than the design thickness, but no more than 0.5 inches less than the design thickness, may be evaluated by the Geotechnical Engineer for acceptance or for corrective actions.
d.
Any test that is more than 0.5 inches below the design thickness will require corrective actions.
F.
Prime.
1)
After the base course has been thoroughly compacted and worked to the lines and grades as shown on the typical cross section, it shall be dampened if necessary.
2)
GDOT approved Asphalt Emulsion primers may be used according to section 412 of the Georgia Department of Transportation's "Standard Specifications Construction of Transportation Systems" (latest edition). Application shall be in accordance with manufacturers recommendations.
3)
The type and grade of prime material shall depend on the condition of the base course and shall be approved by the Geotechnical Engineer and the Director of Public Works. The prime coat may be eliminated if approved by the Geotechnical Engineer and the Director of Public Works.
G.
Binder.
1)
Contractors must contact the Geotechnical Engineer prior to beginning the binder course installation. This is imperative or the work may not be accepted.
2)
The binder asphalt shall be placed over the prime coat.
a.
The Geotechnical Engineer will test the thickness and compaction by obtaining cores every 500 feet, or a minimum of three cores.
b.
If any area does not meet the minimum thickness or compaction requirements, additional cores will be taken at 100-foot intervals until two consecutive cores meet the requirements. Areas that do not meet the requirements shall be removed and replaced. As an option, at the developer's discretion, the Geotechnical Engineer can be present during construction to check the laydown thickness and temperature of the asphalt and to conduct nuclear density tests after compaction. In this case, coring will be reduced to three cores or one every 2,000 feet. In any case, a minimum of three cores will be required.
3)
The binder asphalt shall meet the requirements of sections 400, 402, and 828 of the Georgia Department of Transportation "Standard Specifications Construction of Transportation Systems" (latest edition). The minimum binder design thickness shall be 2 inches.
4)
Binder Thickness Tolerances
a.
The average thickness of the binder shall be greater than or equal to the design thickness, with no individual test more than ¼ inch less than the design thickness.
b.
Areas deficient in thickness shall be evaluated by additional coring at 100 foot intervals to determine the area of deficient thickness. The deficiency may be corrected by increasing the thickness of the surface asphalt.
H.
Backfill Curbs.
1)
Backfill behind curbs shall be completed promptly after the curbs are installed.
2)
Until the backfill behind curbs is completed, measures should be taken to minimize infiltration of water to the pavement sub grade.
3)
Careful attention must be given to slope of backfill to prevent water penetration behind curbs.
I.
Tack Coat.
1)
A tack coat shall be applied over the binder before placing the surface asphalt.
2)
The tack coat shall comply with section 413 of the Georgia Department of Transportation "Standard Specifications Construction of Transportation Systems" (latest edition), and applied at a rate of 0.05 gallons per square yard of residual bituminous material.
3)
Other tack materials may be used or the tack coat may be eliminated, if approved by the Geotechnical Engineer and the Director of Public Works.
J.
Surface.
1)
The surface asphalt shall be placed over the binder asphalt as soon as possible, but no more than ten days after placing the binder, to avoid rainwater infiltration and to prevent damage from truck traffic. The time may be extended at the Director of Public Works' discretion to deal with unusual circumstances, so long as the road continues to meet the structural requirements of this regulation.
a.
The Geotechnical Engineer will test the thickness and compaction by obtaining cores every 500 feet, or a minimum of three cores.
b.
Areas that do not meet the requirements shall be removed and replaced. As an option, at the developer's discretion, the Geotechnical Engineer can be present during construction to check the laydown thickness and temperature of the asphalt and to conduct nuclear density tests after compaction. In this case, coring will be reduced to three cores or one every 2000 feet. In any case, a minimum of three cores will be required.
2)
The surface asphalt shall meet the requirements of sections 400, 402, and 828 of the Georgia Department of Transportation "Standard Specifications Construction of Transportation Systems" (latest edition). The minimum design thickness of the surface asphalt shall be 1½ inches.
3)
Asphalt Thickness Tolerances
a.
The average thickness of the asphalt (binder plus surface) shall be greater than or equal to the design thickness, with no individual test more than 1/8 inch less than the design thickness.
b.
Areas deficient in thickness shall be evaluated by additional coring at 100 foot intervals to determine the area of deficient thickness.
c.
Deficient areas shall be corrected.
K.
Seasonal Limitations of Asphalt. The outside temperature away from artificial heat and in the shade shall be 40° and rising for plant mix.
L.
Geotextiles.
1)
Geotextiles may be incorporated into pavement designs if necessary for subgrade soil conditions.
2)
Geotextiles shall meet the requirements of AASHTO M288-96 (or more recent editions).
3)
Geotextiles shall meet MARV strength values for Class 2 if the subgrade CBR is greater than 3 and Class 1 for CBR is less than or equal to 3.
M.
Optional Rigid Pavements. The developer may choose to construct (concrete) rigid pavements instead of flexible (asphalt) pavements. Rigid pavement shall be designed and constructed to meet the following requirements:
1)
Grading.
a.
The grading requirements shall be the same as Section 6.03.04, subsection A, except the requirements for liquid limit and plastic index are not applicable.
b.
The soils shall have a minimum CBR of 3.
2)
Subgrade. The subgrade requirements shall be the same as Section 6.03.04, subsection C.
3)
Base.
a.
The base requirements shall be the same as Section 6.03.04, subsection E.
b.
The base thickness shall be a minimum of 4 inches.
4)
Concrete Mix.
a.
The concrete mix shall be designed to provide a 28-day compressive strength of 4,000 pounds per square inch with a 4-inch (+1) slump and maximum water cement ration of 0.45.
b.
An air entraining agent shall be added to achieve a 5 percent air content.
c.
The concrete mix shall have a nominal maximum aggregate size of 1½ inches.
5)
Concrete Design. The concrete thickness shall be 6 inches. Reinforcing is not required. Control joints shall be spaced regularly in a square pattern as per the PCA recommendations. A longitudinal joint shall be constructed along the centerline. Lateral joints shall be spaced the same as the lane width. Joints shall be sealed using an approved joint sealer. The joint sealer shall be submitted to the Geotechnical Engineer for approval before installation.
6)
Concrete Placement. Concrete placement shall be according to American Concrete Institute (ACI) 304 Recommended Practice for Measuring, Mixing, Transporting, and Placing Concrete. Concrete shall be placed directly on the base. The ambient temperature at the time of placement shall be at least 40 degrees F, and the forecast temperature in the first 24 hours after placement shall be at least 32 degrees. No standing water or frozen base shall be present at the time of placement. The concrete mix is expected to arrive at the site at the correct slump. If trucks arrive with a slump more than 1 inch below the specified slump, then a maximum of 20 gallons of water may be added, with the approval of the concrete supplier, to adjust the concrete slump. No water may be added after placement begins. If trucks arrive with a slump more than 1 inch above the specified slump, the truckload shall be rejected. Concrete shall be placed within 90 minutes of the batch time.
7)
Concrete Protection and Curing.
a.
Protect freshly placed concrete from premature drying and excessive cold or hot temperatures. Comply with ACI 306.1 for cold-weather protection and with ACI 305R for hot-weather protection.
b.
Curing shall be accomplished in strict compliance with ACI 308.
8)
Finish. The concrete finish shall provide a durable, smooth surface, free of irregularities, but skid-resistant (such as burlap drag or broom finish).
N.
Quality Assurance. An American Concrete Institute (ACI) certified representative of the geotechnical engineer shall be present to monitor concrete placement and conduct quality assurance testing. The representative shall keep a record of each truck load of concrete delivered to the site, including the information provided on the batch ticket and the amount of water added at the site. The first load of concrete shall be checked for slump, air content, and unit weight to determine acceptance. Compressive strength samples shall be taken randomly from the first 30 cubic yards, and every 50 cubic yards after that. Compressive strength samples shall include a set of 6 cylinders. Two cylinders shall be tested at seven days and two at 28 days and two for reserve. The remaining cylinder shall be kept in reserve. Slump and air content tests shall be conducted for each set of compressive strength samples taken, or if visual indications of changes in the slump or other concrete properties are observed.
6.03.05   Curb and Gutter
A.
Concrete curb and gutter may be used for public paved streets but it is not required. If concrete curb and gutter is not used, extruded concrete curbs must be used on public paved streets and extruded concrete curbs shall meet the design standards imposed by this UDC and the Public Works Director.
B.
Residential subdivision curb and gutter may be either vertical faced or rollover.
1)
Residential subdivision vertical faced curbing shall have a typical minimum section of 6 inch × 24 inch × 12 inch.
2)
Residential subdivision rollover curbing shall have a typical minimum section of 6 inch × 24 inch × 9 inch.
3)
The concrete shall have a minimum compressive strength of 3,000 PSI at 28 days.
4)
Vertical faced curb and gutter shall be used at all subdivision entrances, deceleration lanes and downhill culs-de-sac. See Standard Detail 207 "Curb and Gutter Cross Sections."
C.
Nonresidential subdivision curb and gutter may be either vertical faced or rollover.
1)
Nonresidential subdivision vertical faced curbing shall have a typical minimum section of 6 inch × 24 inch × 12 inch.
2)
Nonresidential subdivision rollover curbing shall have a typical minimum section of 6 inch × 24 inch × 9 inch.
3)
The concrete shall have a minimum strength of 3,000 PSI at 28 days. See Standard Detail 207 "Curb and Gutter Cross Sections."
D.
Parallel curb lines shall be at the same elevation on each side of the street at the same station except for intersections and approved super-elevated sections.
E.
One-half (½) inch expansion joints or pre-molded bituminous expansion joint material shall be provided at all structures and radius points and at intervals not to exceed 500 feet in the remainder of the curb and gutter. Provide construction joints at intervals not to exceed 20 feet.
F.
Cracks in the concrete are permissible provided that there is no vertical displacement, or that any horizontal displacement shall not exceed one-eighth ( 1/8 ) of an inch.
G.
Graded aggregate base shall be placed under the curb and gutter or the area where curb and gutter is to be placed must pass a proof roll inspection for all roadways that are to be County accepted.
6.03.06   Intersections
A.
Street intersections shall be as nearly at right angles as possible, but in no case shall a street intersection be at an angle of less than 70 degrees. The 110 degree angle of the intersection should be directed towards the approach with the highest volume of traffic.
B.
Interior street jogs or intersections shall have centerline offsets of a minimum of 125 feet. Exterior street jogs or intersections shall have centerline offsets of a minimum of 250 feet.
C.
Islands at intersections shall meet sight distance requirements established by AASHTO and GDOT and the developer shall submit a maintenance agreement satisfactory to meet the County Attorney's approval. Anything extending more than 3 feet above the top of the curb within the right-of-way of the intersecting streets shall require approval by the Director of Public Works.
D.
A utility easement shall be provided at all street intersections. This easement shall form a triangle with two, twenty-foot legs of the triangle leading away from the street right-of-way intersection. This easement miter shall be graded a minimum of 13 feet back from the intersecting right-of-way lines to provide for utility line placement (25 feet for overhead utilities).
6.03.07   Culs-de-Sac
A.
All permanent dead-end streets shall be constructed as culs-de-sac with a turn-around provided at the closed end. Culs-de-sac shall be constructed according to their street level classification.
B.
Residential culs-de-sac shall have a right-of-way radius of at least 50 feet, and a pavement radius of at least 40 feet, as measured to the back of the curb. See Standard Detail 205 "Cul-de-sac Details."
C.
Nonresidential culs-de-sac shall have a right-of-way radius of at least 75 feet, and a pavement radius of at least 60 feet, as measured to the back of the curb. See Standard Detail 205 "Cul-de-sac Details."
D.
Islands at intersections shall meet sight distance requirements established by AASHTO and GDOT, and the developer shall submit a maintenance agreement satisfactory to meet the County Attorney's approval. Anything extending more than 3 feet above the top of the curb within the right-of-way of the intersecting streets shall require approval by Director of Public Works.
6.03.08   Private Substandard Roads
A.
Private substandard roads, or developments, shall not be considered part of the County maintenance system and will not be subject to the design standards and requirements of this Article, with the exception that private substandard roads or developments shall be subject to the requirements of this Section.
B.
All lots shall be located so as to gain access over a public street, and unless specifically approved by the Planning Commission, each lot shall abut directly on the public street.
C.
The Planning Commission may allow access to subdivided property by means of a private road which does not otherwise meet the requirements of this UDC provided the following conditions are met:
1)
The tracts to be accessed from the private road shall each be a minimum of five acres in size.
2)
No more than four tracts may be accessed from a private road.
3)
Subdivided property may only be accessed by one private sub-standard road. No more than one private sub-standard road may be constructed to access subdivided property. If a private sub-standard road is constructed across property with divided tracts, the property owners are not required to construct a cul-de-sac on said road provided the road is less than 750 feet in length and provided that all lots which are accessed by said road otherwise meet all lot size requirements of this UDC.
4)
The plat and all deeds and land transfer documents concerning property to be accessed by the private sub-standard road shall contain the following statement:
"Name of Road shown on this plat does not meet the standards of Catoosa County for acceptance for a public road as of the date of this instrument. The name of the road cannot be changed without the approval of Catoosa County. Pursuant to Section 6.03.08 of the Unified Development Code of Catoosa County, development of this subdivision is being allowed with the clear understanding that said Name of Road will remain a private road and is not now and will not in the future be eligible for maintenance by Catoosa County, unless and until the road is built in accordance with the requirements of the Land Subdivision Ordinance of Catoosa County and is formally accepted by the governing authority of Catoosa County. In the absence of such acceptance, it is hereby expressly understood and agreed that Name of Road is and will remain private."
D.
No new subdivision (of five lots or more) involving the construction of new streets will be allowed on any existing road whose pavement width is less than that required for the subdivision under this UDC. A developer (who wishes to develop in this situation) with the concurrence (after a balancing of the benefits and detriments to the area and public good) of the Planning Commission, may apply to the governing authority for permission to upgrade the existing road or roads. The governing authority may (based upon a balancing of any interest in and need for the development, the benefits and detriments to be derived for the area, and the general effect upon the public good) grant permission for said developer to provide (without cost to Catoosa County) such additional rights-of-way as may be necessary and for the developer to pay the costs of additional paving so as to qualify the existing road to serve the proposed subdivision and its roads.
6.03.09   Private Streets
A.
General Requirements.
1)
All lots that do not meet the requirements of Section 6.03.08 (Private Substandard Roads) must be located on a public street or road, with the exception that private streets may be used in the case of developments that wish to utilize entry gates, mixed forms of property ownership, or other non-traditional public road design requirements.
2)
Private streets shall be owned and maintained by a mandatory Homeowners Association and not by Catoosa County. Neither private nor public streets are necessary in a development that does not have separate lots, but only units, such as an apartment or condominium development. Internal driveways and parking lot aisles shall meet the requirements of the Parking and Loading Requirements Article of this development Code.
B.
Allowed Locations. Private streets may only be constructed in the following zoning districts: A1, RA, R-1, R-2, R-3, C-R and PUD.
C.
Design Requirements.
1)
Private streets (other than Private Substandard Roads), if approved by the County, shall meet all minimum geometric design requirements per International Fire Codes and all AASHTO design standards for that road's posted speed, but in no case shall the design speed be less than 15 miles per hour.
2)
Private streets (other than Private Substandard Roads), if approved by the County, are encouraged to meet all construction requirements and standards that apply to public streets, but not required.
3)
Private streets shall be located within a separate parcel of land, no less than 50 feet wide, that is owned by the Homeowners Association for the development. The width shall include the private street, any drainage structures, sidewalks, or utilities, and must provide the same minimum width required for right-of-way for a similar public street.
4)
Private streets may not be located in an easement over multiple lots.
5)
Private streets shall not be located within an easement coincident with the parcel required under the above subsection (4). The easement must be recorded with each lot's deed and grant the right of vehicular access to every other lot served by the street, as well as the right to place public and private utilities therein.
D.
Road Maintenance.
1)
The County shall not maintain roadways, signs or drainage improvements on private streets. All developments utilizing private streets are required to have mandatory Homeowners Association. The HOA shall comply with all provisions of the Subdivisions and Planned Development Article of this Development Code.
2)
As part of the mandatory Homeowners Association, covenants are required for any lots on a private street. Provisions for maintenance shall be included in the Homeowners Association covenants. The covenants shall set out the distribution of expenses, remedies for non-compliance with the terms of the agreement, right of use easements and other considerations. The covenants shall include the following items:
a.
The covenants shall establish minimum annual assessments in an amount adequate to defray costs of ordinary maintenance and procedures for approval of additional needed assessments.
b.
The covenants shall include a periodic maintenance schedule.
c.
The covenants for maintenance shall be enforceable by any property owner served by the road or by the Homeowners Association established by the covenants.
d.
The covenants shall establish a formula for assessing maintenance and repair cost equitably to property owners served by the private road.
e.
The covenants shall run with the land.
f.
The covenants shall not be dissolved or be modified in any way so as to conflict with these regulations.
g.
Maintenance shall include, but not limited to, road surfacing, shoulders, signs, storm drainage facilities and vegetation control.
h.
A notice that no public funds of Catoosa County are to be used to build, repair or maintain the private road.
E.
Owners Release.
1)
At the time of purchasing property that is served by the private street, upon any sale or resale of a property, the purchaser shall acknowledge by execution of a release that the street is private and not maintained by the County, and that maintenance of the street is the responsibility of the Homeowners Association. The release is to be prepared using a form acceptable to the County Attorney and shall be recorded with the Clerk of Superior Court along with any warranty deeds.
2)
The final subdivision plat shall provide notification that all properties served by the private street are perpetually subject to the provisions of this Development Code regarding the owner's release upon any sale or resale of the property.
3)
Failure to execute such a release shall not relieve the purchaser of maintenance responsibility for the private street.
F.
Lot Dimensional Requirements. For a property served by a private street the following requirements shall apply:
1)
The building setback, lot width and other dimensional requirements of the zoning district in which the property is located shall be measured from the private street parcel.
2)
Land located within the private street parcel shall not be included in the area of the lot for the purpose of meeting the minimum lot area required by the zoning district in which the property is located.
3)
The County may require additional easements for any utilities not located on the private street. All easements shall meet the minimum sizes required by the County.
G.
Other Standards.
1)
Where private streets intersect public streets, private streets shall meet the requirements of public streets including intersection offset requirements, deceleration and acceleration lanes, intersection gradients, and other applicable design and construction requirements of this Development Code.
2)
The HOA shall provide all maintenance activities and related actions to ensure compliance with Catoosa County's NPDES permit for stormwater discharges.
3)
A private street subdivision shall meet all other requirements and standards that apply to public subdivisions, such as stormwater runoff and detention requirements, the provisions of utilities, sidewalks, and traffic and street name signs.
4)
Private streets shall be denoted as such on the street name signs for each such street. Proposed streets, which are extensions of, or in alignment with, existing or other proposed streets shall have the same name. Street names shall not duplicate or be phonetically similar to existing street names. The County requires a different standard for a public street name sign indicating that the street is "private" or "not maintained by the County".
5)
The developer is to obtain the street signs from the County and install to County specifications at the developer's expense.
6)
Any gate placed across a private street that limits access to a subdivision or development shall provide for unimpeded access by emergency vehicles, government vehicles on official business, and delivery services including the U.S. Postal Service. Such gate shall be a breakaway or other construction acceptable to Catoosa County. Accessibility to such gated communities shall comply with all standards and requirements of the County Fire Chief for access activation, including the following:
a.
Programmable key pad with an emergency override code as assigned by the Fire Chief;
b.
Once the override code is used to open the gate, the gate will remain open until emergency personnel release the gate for normal use;
c.
Automatic opening of the gates in the event of power failure; and
d.
Reassignment of an emergency override code without the approval of the Fire Chief is not allowed.
H.
Final Plat Requirements.
1)
Developments containing private streets shall meet all requirements of the Procedures and Permits Article of this Development Code relating to final plats, except that bonds or deposits shall not be submitted in lieu of the design professionals certified report for the private streets. A copy of the design professionals certified report shall be maintained with the Homeowners Association Board of Directors.
2)
All private streets shall be designated as such on the final plat.
3)
A notice in at least 12 point bold font shall be placed on the final plat that reads:
"The streets designated as "private streets" on this plat are owned and maintained by the Homeowner are Association of this development and are not owned or maintained by Catoosa County. No public funds of Catoosa County are to be used to build, repair, or maintain these private streets. The owner, purchaser, lender, heirs, assigns or other parties taking title to or otherwise procuring an interest in any portion of this property are hereby notified of this fact."
6.03.10   Development Entrance, Residential
A.
Access to every subdivision shall be provided over a public street. Existing subdivisions with private streets can be continued without additional access to a public street, subject to subsection B. below.
B.
All subdivisions resulting in the creation of 150 or more lots shall be provided with a minimum of two entrances. Where the property configuration prohibits or makes impractical the installation of two public access entrances, an alternative access may be approved or this provision may be waived by the Director of Public Works for existing zoned property only. All property applying for rezoning that have less than the required number of entrances must receive approval from the Board of Commissioners.
C.
In the event an alternative second entrance is required, said entrance must be at least 20 feet wide with a 20-foot wide access easement and be constructed of all-weather surface. All alternative secondary access entrances and construction materials must be pre-approved by the Director of Public Works and the Building Official.
D.
All proposed subdivision developments (residential, nonresidential, and nonresidential single lot developments) where a new entrance is provided from an existing county road, shall construct deceleration lanes subject to the following requirements, and Standard Detail 206 "Subdivision Entrance Intersection."
E.
Any residential subdivision accessed by a county road shall conform to Standard Detail 206 "Subdivision Entrance Intersection."
F.
All nonresidential subdivisions will install a full deceleration lane, offset radii and tapers.
G.
Access onto a state road shall meet existing GDOT requirements. Before the plans can be approved, a copy of the GDOT permit or GDOT Letter of Intent shall be submitted to the Director of Public Works stating that a curb cut will be granted as long as the applicant meets all GDOT standards. The submitted construction plans must indicate by a note on the preliminary plat that the plans have been approved subject to all modifications or requirements placed upon the development by the GDOT.
H.
Deceleration lane and taper length shall be based on the main roadway posted speed limit as follows. The Director of Public Works may require residential subdivisions exceeding 200 or at his discretion below 200 lots to install longer deceleration lanes and/or a center turn lane. If the Director of Public Works determines that the entrance onto a county roadway could result in a safety problem then the County may require the Developer to present a traffic study to address any safety concerns.
Table 6-4 Deceleration Lane and Taper Width
EXPAND
Main Road Speed Limit Deceleration Lane Length (feet) Transition Taper Length (feet)
55 mph 200 50
50 mph 150 40
45 mph 110 35
40 mph 90 30
35 mph or less 50 25
  I.
The minimum pavement width of a deceleration lane shall be 12 feet, and the minimum turning radius shall conform with Standard Detail 206. The minimum pavement design for the proposed street shall be 6 inches/2 inches/1½ inches or match the existing pavement specification, whichever is greater.
J.
Additional street right-of-way necessary for deceleration lanes shall be dedicated as needed, and as illustrated in Standard Detail 206 "Subdivision Entrance Intersection."
K.
The cross slope of any deceleration lane shall follow the crown or super elevation of the existing street.
L.
In cases involving rock cuts, deep fills or cuts, proximity to a floodplain, or other constraints to construction, the requirements for pavement widening for a full deceleration lane may be waived by the Director of Public Works.
M.
Vertical faced curb and gutter or concrete extruded curbs are required through the radius, excluding the tapers.
N.
The developer shall be responsible for the costs of any utility relocation or catch basins that must be constructed. See also Section 6.03.17.
6.03.11   Development Entrance, Nonresidential
All driveways providing access to the street shall be designed as illustrated in Standard Detail 209 "Nonresidential Driveway on Existing Street Landing Requirements" and Standard Detail 210 "Nonresidential Driveway Landing Requirements on Existing Streets."
6.03.12   Temporary Turn-Around
A.
Stub-out streets shall not be allowed, except at unit lines. A temporary turn-around is required when the street length exceeds the minimum width of one lot permitted under the applicable zoning district.
B.
A temporary turn-around shall be maintained for a period not to exceed 24 months. All such turn-arounds shall, at a minimum, be constructed with 6 inches of graded aggregate base, and have a minimum driving radius of 30 feet.
C.
Where temporary turn-arounds are permitted, the Director of Public Works may require a performance guarantee for completion of a cul-de-sac. The Zoning Administrator or Director of Public Works may also require that the final plat record sufficient right-of-way to construct a permanent cul-de-sac. Such right-of-way will revert to typical street right-of-way when the street is extended.
6.03.13   Street Names, Addresses
A.
Purpose and Intent. The purpose and intent of this section is to provide a uniform system of road naming and assigning of addresses for all properties and buildings throughout the county in order to facilitate provision of adequate public safety and emergency response service and to minimize difficulty in locating properties and buildings for public service agencies and the general public.
B.
Administration.
1)
Administrator's Duties.
a.
The Address Program Administrator with the concurrence of the Board of Commissioners will be responsible for the interpretation and administration of this section, including:
i.
Assigning all numbers for properties and buildings.
ii.
Compiling a database of addresses of each property and building.
iii.
Recommending change of existing addresses when necessary to facilitate sequential house numbers along a road.
iv.
Designating individual unit addresses within multiple-housing units in conformity with this section.
2)
Concurrence.
a.
The Board of Commissioners shall have the right to disapprove any action of the Address Program Administrator by affirmative action of a majority of commissioners acting.
b.
If the Board of Commissioners fails to act within two regular meetings after the action of the Address Program Administrator, the Board of Commissioners shall be deemed to have concurred.
C.
Street Names.
1)
Generally.
a.
Street names shall require the prior approval of the Address Program Administrator.
b.
Streets that are obviously in alignment with streets already existing and named shall be given the name of the existing street.
c.
Names of new streets shall not duplicate or closely approximate those of existing streets.
d.
Approved street name markers shall be placed at the intersection of all involved streets.
e.
The developer shall furnish and install signs as required by Section 6.03.14.
2)
Existing Roads.
a.
The names of roads listed on the official county road map sheet as developed by 911 that are located within the unincorporated areas of the county, whether public or private, shall not be changed by any methods except those set forth in this section.
b.
A copy of this section and a list of road names shall be forwarded to the Department of Transportation. The official county 911 road registry shall cross reference the old road names.
3)
New Roads.
a.
No new public roads outside of the regulatory jurisdiction of the municipalities in the county shall be named without approval of the Address Program Administrator with the concurrence of the Board of Commissioners.
b.
No new private road names shall be recognized by this section or added to the county's list of road names without prior approval of the Address Program Administrator with the concurrence of the Board of Commissioners.
c.
The name of any new road, public or private, shall not duplicate or be similar to any other road name already named by this section or any subsequent ordinances or amendments thereto. This subsection shall not apply to extensions of existing roads.
d.
New subdivision roads, whether public or private, shall be named when created through the subdivision process, which shall include submission of the road names to the Address Program Administrator for approval.
e.
Developers establishing new public roads shall pay the County for the actual cost of purchasing and erecting street signs that meet the standards of the Department of Transportation.
f.
Developers desiring to use any type of sign other than the style which meets the standards set forth by the Department of Transportation on a public road shall have style and design approved by the Address Program Administrator with the concurrence of the Board of Commissioners.
g.
The names of private roads, including manufactured home park roads or mobile home park roads, that require naming to facilitate postal delivery and emergency response shall be recognized by the County at the request of the citizens who own property adjacent to the road.
i.
Such a road must serve at least three households.
ii.
The name of the private road shall be commonly known to the community.
iii.
If there are two or more recommendations of names, the County will recognize the name preferred by at least 51 percent of the property owners on the road.
4)
Renaming Roads.
a.
Property owners who want to have the name of a road changed must submit a petition to the Address Program Administrator for verification.
b.
The Address Program Administrator will make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners after the following criteria have been met:
i.
A nonrefundable fee as stated in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the Office of the County Clerk for each road shall accompany any petition requesting that an existing road name be changed.
ii.
The petition should include the existing road name, the proposed road name, and the signatures of 75 percent of those persons owning property adjacent to the road.
iii.
The Address Program Administrator shall cause the request to be advertised pursuant to zoning procedures notification requirements in Article IX of this UDC.
iv.
If the Address Program Administrator approves the request, with the concurrence of the Board of Commissioners, the petitioners shall be required to pay the County for the cost of purchasing new signs and erecting them.
D.
Road Address Numbering.
1)
Display of Road Address Numbers.
a.
Every owner of improved property shall purchase and display official address numbers so that they may be visible from the street on which the property fronts.
b.
The following criteria must be used to properly display the number:
i.
Address numbers must be a minimum of 3 inches in height for residential uses so as to be seen easily from the road.
ii.
Numbers for multiple-dwelling units and nonresidential buildings shall be at least 6 inches in height and shall be placed on the front of the building facing the road or on the end of the building nearest the road. Individual units shall be required to display at least 3 inches in height unit numbers on the front door or immediately adjacent to the door.
iii.
Address numbers must be set on a background of a contrasting color.
iv.
On a corner lot, the house number should face the street named in the address.
v.
If a building is more than 75 feet from any road, the address number shall be displayed on a sign attached to a fence, gate, lawn stake, mailbox, etc., adjacent to the road right-of-way.
vi.
Address numbers should be plain block numeric numbers and not in alpha print.
c.
The Address Program Administrator with the concurrence of the Board of Commissioners will have the right to authorize and approve alternate methods of displaying house numbers that meet the intent of this section when strict adherence to these standards cannot reasonably be met.
2)
Numbers for Future Buildings.
a.
All residential and business buildings shall be assigned a number prior to the issuance of a building permit.
b.
Owners shall purchase and display such number as provided in Section 6.03.13.
6.03.14   Traffic Control Devices
A.
All required street name signs, traffic control signs and other traffic control devices shall be installed by the developer at the developer's expense.
B.
All required street name signs shall be blue until final acceptance of the street by the Board of Commissioners in accordance with the requirements of this UDC.
C.
The design and placement of all traffic control devices shall meet the requirements of the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (latest edition). The design professional shall show the placement of all required street markers.
D.
All non-standard traffic control devices constructed of materials other than those provided by the County shall be the responsibility of the developer and the homeowners association and for the perpetual maintenance of these devices. All nonstandard traffic control devices shall provide "break-away" features and/or other appropriate safety measures prior to installation. The number, type and location of all traffic control devices shall be approved by the Director of Public Works.
6.03.15   Sidewalks
A.
Concrete sidewalks are required to be placed on only one side of the roadway for zoning categories with densities of R-3 or greater and on both sides of the roadway for all Residential 3 Collector Roads and for all new roads constructed to the interior of the development. Sidewalks are not required for a development containing a non-curb and gutter roadway section.
B.
All sidewalks must follow a logical design. Sidewalk locations can be varied at the discretion of the Director of Public Works with prior approval.
C.
Sidewalks shall be located on the east or north sides of streets, as established at the subdivision entrance.
D.
Sidewalks shall be placed in the right-of-way and run parallel to the street. They shall be centered 5 feet from the back of the curb.
E.
No certificate of occupancy will be granted for any specific lot that the installation of sidewalks are required until they are constructed.
F.
All sidewalks shall be constructed in compliance with all handicapped and American National Standards Institute (ANSI) requirements.
G.
The concrete shall be a minimum of 4 inches thick and shall have a minimum compressive strength of 3,000 PSI at 28 days.
H.
Sidewalks shall be backfilled and stabilized by grass.
I.
Handicapped access ramps shall be provided at all street intersections and curb cuts.
J.
Amenity areas must be accessible by sidewalks from the nearest sidewalk in the subdivision.
K.
When a subdivision project abuts a public right-of-way, sidewalks shall be required for a length equal to the distance of the required road improvements along the road frontage, Sidewalks will be constructed on both sides of the road (if development abuts both sides of the road) when the road is classified as an arterial, major collector or minor collector roadway.
L.
For all streets without curb, all sidewalk design and locations shall be approved by the County Engineer.
6.03.16   Street Lights
A.
Street lighting shall be required on all new County streets, excluding said streets in rural zoning districts and residential zoning districts, and shall meet the specifications as required by the Director of the Public Works Department and identified in this UDC.
B.
Street lighting shall be permissible, but not required, in residential zoning districts. Installation and maintenance shall be in accordance with this section.
C.
Street lights are intended to provide illumination on public streets to a level that provides a reasonably safe and secure operating environment for pedestrian and vehicular traffic within the public right-of-way. Generally, street lights are installed along public streets, at major intersections, and at defined hazardous locations.
D.
The County does not budget or fund the installation of utility poles or any types of decorative poles for street lighting. The developer is solely responsible for funding said installations and for coordinating said installations with the appropriate power company.
E.
The fixture must be installed on a pole that is accepted for maintenance by the appropriate power company.
F.
The American Standard Practice for Roadway Lighting, as sponsored by the Illuminating Engineering Society and approved by the American Standards Association shall be used as references.
G.
In all cases, the design will utilize existing poles as much as possible. Where there are no existing poles, placement of street lights shall follow the standards described herein. In residential areas, poles are normally placed at every other property line, and lights will generally be placed on every other pole. The spacing between lights will typically vary between 250 feet and 400 feet, depending upon conditions including but not limited to terrain, existing poles, lot size, type of locality, and street condition. Every effort shall be made to achieve consistent spacing of lights in each particular area. Lights will not be installed within 200 feet of any existing light.
H.
Usage and maintenance costs are the responsibility of the property owner(s).
6.03.17   Utilities
A.
The design and construction specifications for all public water and sanitary sewer facilities shall conform to the specifications of the applicable city Water and Sewer Department.
B.
For utility construction requirements see Section 6.03.04B.
C.
All utility crossings within the street right-of-way shall be installed and the ditches backfilled and thoroughly compacted before any pavement or base is installed. Compaction testing may be required by the County at the utility company's expense. Underground utilities shall be installed completely and proof rolled throughout the length of the street. Service connections for sanitary sewer and water shall be extended to the right-of-way line. Any pavement cuts to an existing street shall be repaired as specified in Standard Detail 211 "Open Cut Pavement Repair."
D.
Utility locations within a street right-of-way shall correspond to Standard Detail 208 "Utility Placement Detail." On streets constructed without curb and gutter, the utility depths may be increased by a minimum of 1 foot to allow the County Public Works Department to realign the ditches without damaging the utilities. The developer is encouraged to coordinate with the Public Works Department.
E.
The following construction sequence is recommended in order to assure a safe working environment and to protect utilities from damage during the construction process. As each utility finishes construction, the developer should notify the next company to maintain the construction timetable and reduce erosion of the graded shoulders.
EXPAND
1. Clearing and stumping 9. Telephone
2. Grading 10. Cable
3. Sanitary sewer right-of-way 11. Subgrade
4. Storm sewer 12. Curb and gutter subgrade
5. Utility crossing 13. Base and paving
6. Water 14. Sidewalks
7. Electric 15. Grassing shoulders
8. Gas
  F.
The standard color codes adopted by the American Public Works Association and the Georgia Utilities Coordinating Committee shall be utilized for any necessary marking of underground utility lines. The color scheme is as follows:
Table 6-5 Color Scheme for Marking Underground Utilities
EXPAND
Color
Utility
Red Electric
Yellow Gas/Oil
Orange Communications/Cable TV
Blue Water
Green Sewer
White Proposed Excavation
  G.
Utilities and contractors shall comply with O.C.G.A. 25-9-1. The Utility Protection Center of Georgia shall be called as needed at least 72 hours prior to earth disturbing activities involving machinery. The UPC number is 1-800-282-7411.
H.
All utility manholes and valve boxes shall be brought to the finished grade within the roadway section. Manhole covers and splice boxes placed within the sidewalk zone shall be constructed so as to be flush mounted with the finished sidewalk.
I.
All manholes and junction boxes shall have concrete inverts.
J.
Utility poles and transformers shall be located as near as possible to the lot frontage line. Wherever practical, utility poles or transformers shall not be located on the same lot corner as water service.
K.
Utility companies may utilize a joint trench for utility installation. If a joint trench is used, its depth shall be that of the utility in the trench required to place its lines at the greatest depth.
L.
The Catoosa County Government is authorized to require a performance guarantee from any private utility that is not governed by the public service commission. Such performance guarantee shall be separate from any guarantee provided by the developer.
M.
Privately owned utilities or equipment shall not be allowed in the County right-of-way.
N.
The County shall not be liable for any damage, destruction or removal of any such privately owned utilities or equipment, including irrigation sprinklers that may occur during a road widening project or a County project.
O.
Any repairs required by privately owned utilities or equipment, including sprinklers, shall be the responsibility of the damaged utility owner or owner of such privately owned equipment.
P.
The integrity of the established roadway shoulder elevations shall not be compromised by the placement of driveways or other appurtenances.
Q.
If any in place soil and erosion control measures are damaged by the utility company, the County shall issue a stop work order until they are repaired or replaced.
6.03.18   Sanitary Sewer
A.
See Section 6.03.04B.2 for sewer construction requirements.
B.
Use of septic tanks, where public sewers are not available, shall be approved by the Catoosa County Environmental Health Office per the regulations of the Georgia Department of Human Resources in effect at the time.
1)
This approval will be for the development in general, and a separate permit must be obtained on a lot-by-lot basis prior to the issuance of a building/development permit.
2)
Development site survey plans for single-family developments and subdivisions shall be accompanied by a certificate of approval from the Catoosa County Health Department and submitted to the Planning Commission for approval at least 30 days prior to commencement of construction.
6.03.19   Water
A.
Potable Water
1)
Domestic water supply shall be provided in accordance with the rules and regulations of the state Department of Human Resources, Environmental Health Division.
2)
All public water facilities shall be installed subject to the policies and procedures of the applicable water and sewer utility provider.
3)
No building permit shall be issued by the Building Official without the approval of EPD for a proposed private well, if applicable.
6.03.20   Dedication and Reservation
A.
Streets.
1)
Right-of-ways for all proposed and existing public streets shall be dedicated to Catoosa County as stipulated in the provisions of this UDC.
B.
Utility Reservation.
1)
Permanent sanitary sewer easements shall be provided for all pipes except for reinforced concrete pipe (RCP) and ductile iron pipe (DIP) a width of four times the pipe's vertical depth. For RCP and DIP at depths from 0 to 5 feet, the easement width shall be 10 feet. For RCP and DIP at depths of 5 feet or greater, the easement shall be 20 feet in width.
2)
When aerial utilities are placed in any development, a 12 foot easement shall be provided beyond the edge of the street right-of-way for tree clearing and the installation of necessary support guys with anchors. This easement will be shown on the final plat and provided to any public utility installing aerial facilities in the development.
C.
Storm Drainage.
1)
Drainage easements shall be 20 feet wide for open channels, and easements shall be provided for all pipes, except for reinforced concrete pipe (RCP), a width of four times the pipe's vertical depth. For RCP at depths from 0 to 5 feet, the easement width is 10 feet. For RCP at depths of 5 feet or greater, the easement shall be 20 feet in width.
2)
Drainage easements shall be provided where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway, natural stream or channel. They shall conform substantially to the limits of such watercourse plus any additional width as is necessary to accommodate future construction.
3)
Construction or obstructions, including fences and other structures, shall be prohibited within drainage easements.
4)
Drainage easements off the street right-of-way shall be clearly defined on the final plat and the plat of the individual property owner. Catoosa County will not maintain drainage easements outside of the street right-of-way.
5)
Catoosa County maintains the right, but not the obligation to access drainage easements for emergency purposes as deemed necessary by the Stormwater Director and the Public Works Director. The following statement shall appear on all final plats: "Catoosa County maintains the right to access drainage easements for emergency purposes as deemed necessary by the Stormwater Director and the Public Works Director."
6)
Drainage and sanitary sewer easements may be combined when both are piped, but must be a minimum of 25 feet if it is a concrete pipe with 10-foot spacing, or 30 feet if it is a metal pipe.
7)
It is the policy of Catoosa County that drainage easements dedicated to the public use are not accepted by Catoosa County for County maintenance and are not considered County property.
8)
It is Catoosa County Policy that no County forces or equipment shall be used to perform construction to any drainage easement within Catoosa County, unless said easements lie within Catoosa County right-of-way and/or said work is necessary to protect County right-of-way.
6.03.21   Construction Schedule
A.
No construction activity of any kind, including grading, installation of improvements shall begin on any land within the jurisdiction of these regulations without prior approval of the construction plans.
B.
Grading or land disturbing activities may commence only after a Land Disturbance Permit has been issued.
C.
Utility installation shall not occur until the Public Works Department has approved the rough grade of the street and shoulder.
D.
Periodic inspection during the installation of the required improvements in a development may be made by the Public Works Department to ensure conformity with the approved plans and specifications. Such inspections will be made at the following stages of construction:
1)
At the completion of clearing and stump removal.
2)
Beginning of grading operation to ensure proper compaction.
3)
During the installation of storm sewer cross drains.
4)
During the construction of curb and gutter, lateral storm drains, and storm drainage structures.
5)
Beginning of subgrade preparation and after subgrade preparation.
6)
Beginning of base installation and at the completion of base installation.
7)
Beginning of asphalt installation.
8)
At the completion of all grading and stabilization of shoulders through the following methods:
a.
Hydroseeding
b.
Wheat/Rye straw at 75 percent minimum coverage
c.
Wood mulch at a minimum of 6 inches thick
d.
Sod
9)
During the life of the project for proper erosion and sedimentation control.
6.04.00 - RIGHT-OF-WAY PROTECTION
6.04.01   Purpose and Intent
The purpose of this Section is to provide procedures, rules and regulations governing persons, firms, businesses, companies, municipalities, utilities and corporations engaged in any activity involving the utilization of county road rights-of-way in Catoosa County and to provide for the issuance of permits and posting of bonds to protect the citizens, the environment, county infrastructure, and to assure the public's safety.
6.04.02   Road Use Permit
A.
Required. No utility, contractor, or any other person or entity shall install, construct, maintain, renew, remove or relocate pipes, mains, conduits, cables, sewage systems, wires, poles, towers, or other equipment, facilities, or appliances in, on, along, over or under the rights-of-way of public roads that are a part of the county road system lying outside the corporate limits of the municipalities located in the county unless and until a permit is obtained prior to commencement of the work.
B.
Exceptions.
1)
The placement of mailboxes for the delivery of items from the U.S. Postal Service shall be exempt from the requirement for a permit, subject to the following standards:
a.
Said mailboxes shall be constructed or designed in such a way that the design allows for the unit to break away upon impact.
b.
It shall be the responsibility of the owner of the mailbox to maintain and repair those portions of the public rights-of-way impacted or damaged through the delivery of mail by vehicular traffic.
2)
The provisions of this Section shall not apply when a bona fide emergency exists that requires immediate repair of the utility located in the county rights-of-way. Provided, however, that this exemption shall only apply during the time of the bona fide emergency repair and that an application for a permit shall be filed as soon as practicable with the Public Works Department as soon as the bona fide emergency has been addressed.
C.
Application.
1)
Generally. As a condition precedent to the granting of the road use permit, each utility, contractor or other authorized person desiring to use the county road system shall make an application in writing to the Public Works Department describing the nature, extent and location of the portion of the utility affected, including a description of the work to be performed in, on, along, over or under the public road system of the county. At all times it shall be the duty of the County to ensure that the normal operation of the utility does not interfere with the use of the county road system. This provision shall not prohibit utility construction work that impairs the use of the county road system, provided that such interference is temporary and provisions are made by the utility or contractor for the reasonable use of the county road system during construction.
2)
Utility Providers. In addition to any information as may be required by the Public Works Department, Utility providers shall provide the following with their application:
a.
The location of the property on which the utility provider will engage in operations.
b.
The date utility operations are expected to commence and end.
c.
The name and address of all persons in a supervisory capacity engaged in the utility operation at the location for which the permit is requested.
d.
If the utility provider intends to engage independent contractors, then the name, SSN or E.I.N. of each independent contractor.
e.
In addition to the provisions of this section, the applicant for a permit will comply with all state and federal regulations pertaining to utility operations.
D.
Issuance of Permit.
1)
A permit will be issued to the applicant without charge when all required information and surety bond as required for the issuance of the permit has been provided.
2)
Permits will not be issued for signage, advertisements, or notices of any kind upon the rights-of-way of county roads, and the unauthorized placement of such shall be unlawful. Any unauthorized items placed upon the rights-of-way in Catoosa County shall be considered littering and Catoosa County, its officers and employees shall be empowered to remove and destroy such items.
E.
Damage to Road System. If a person using the county road system damages any part of the road system, the person shall reimburse the County for all reasonable expenses associated with the repair to the county road system. The Public Works Department may, in its discretion, require the person to post a bond for the payment of damages to the road system prior to the issuance of a road use permit.
F.
Penalties. Any person violating a provision of Section 6.04.02 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in the Penalties section of Article IX of this UDC. Violation of Section 6.04.02 may also be enforced by the seeking of civil remedies against the violator, including damages and injunctive relief.
6.04.03   Driveway Permit Required
A.
No driveway connecting to a public street or a public right-of-way or public property shall be repaired or installed without first having approval from the Public Works Department. If the driveway connects to a State or U.S. numbered highway, approval of the Georgia Department of Transportation shall be required.
B.
Application shall be made to the Public Works Department for processing (see Standard Detail 213). Approved permits will be issued by the Public Works Director or his/her assign.
C.
A permit shall expire for work not started within 90 days or completed within 6 months after issuance of permit, and a new permit shall be required before beginning or completing the work.
6.04.04   Notice of Timber Harvesting Operations
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-6-24, all persons or firms harvesting standing timber in unincorporated Catoosa County for delivery as pulpwood, logs, poles, posts, or wood chips to any woodyard or processing plant located inside or outside this state shall provide notice of such harvesting operations to Catoosa County prior to cutting any such timber.
A.
Notice Requirements.
1)
Prior written notice shall be required of any person or firm harvesting such timber for each separate tract to be harvested thereby, and shall be submitted in writing to the Public Works Department. Said notice shall consist of:
a.
A map of the area which identifies the location of the tract to be harvested and, as to those trucks which will be traveling to and from such tract for purposes of picking up and hauling loads of cut forest products, the main point of ingress to such tract from a public road and, if different, the main point of egress from such tract to a public road;
b.
A statement as to whether the timber will be removed pursuant to a lump sum sale, per unit sale, or owner harvest for purposes of ad valorem taxation under O.C.G.A. § 48-5-7.5;
c.
The name, address, and daytime telephone number of the timber seller if the harvest is pursuant to a lump sum or per unit sale or of the timber owner if the harvest is an owner harvest; and
d.
The name, business address, business telephone number, and nighttime or emergency telephone number of the person or firm harvesting such timber.
2)
Notice shall be effective for such harvesting operation on such tract within unincorporated Catoosa County upon receipt of the same by the Public Works Director and compliance with the requirements of Subsection B below, and until such time as the person or firm giving such notice has completed the harvesting operation for such tract; provided, however, that any subsequent change in the facts required to be provided for purposes of such notice shall be reported to the Public Works Director within three business days after such change.
3)
Notice requirements shall be applicable to any such timber harvested on or after the effective date of this UDC.
B.
Bond Requirement. Persons or firms subject to the timber notice requirement shall be required to deliver a bond as provided by this paragraph, in which case notice shall not be or remain effective for such harvesting operations unless and until the person or firm providing such notice has delivered to the Public Works Director a valid surety bond, executed by a surety corporation authorized to transact business in this state, protecting the County against any damage caused by such person or firm in an amount not exceeding $5,000.00. For purposes of this paragraph, any such surety bond shall be valid only for the calendar year in which delivered.
C.
Violations. Violation of the notice requirements of Section 6.04.04 shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $500.00.
6.04.05   Pavement Patching
A.
Description of Work.
1)
The extent of pavement patching consists of the repair of all pavement removed or damaged.
2)
Pavement patching includes repair of paved roads, streets, highways, walkways, driveways, patios, slabs on grade, and parking lots together with walls, curbing, gutters and headers, and other pavements and appurtenances. Pavement referred to under this Code section refers to asphaltic, cementious, brick, cobble or other large stone pavement materials together with underlying construction, irrespective of its composition.
B.
Job Conditions.
1)
Traffic Control. Schedule and conduct Work in a manner that will minimize inconvenience to vehicular and pedestrian traffic. Provide flaggers, barricades, warning signs, warning lights, and other warning means as appropriate. Flaggers, when utilized, must hold a valid Georgia DOT flagging certificate. Maintain traffic on all roads and streets disturbed by sewer line construction unless prior arrangements are made with the County. For road crossings, make two separate cuts so that at least one traffic lane is open at all times. All traffic controls during construction must conform to Part VI of the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, ANSI D6.1e (latest edition).
2)
Weather Limitations. Conduct all operations during weather conditions appropriate to the work being performed.
3)
Grade Control. Establish and maintain lines and elevations that will assure finished pavement patch having desirable appearance, function and strength.
C.
Products.
1)
For products not described below, use materials and gradations which have locally exhibited a satisfactory record of previous usage, and which for finished visible surfaces will permit obtaining appearance, color and texture reasonably matching remaining adjacent pavement of the same type.
2)
Asphalt Concrete: Bituminous plant mixture of asphalt cement and aggregates complying with 12.5 mm Superpave hot plant mix of Section 828 of the Georgia Department of Transportation "Standard Specifications Construction of Transportation Systems."
3)
Soil Cement Material (Pug Mix): Soil cement mixture complying with Section 814.2.02 and placed in accordance with applicable provisions of Section 301 of the Georgia Department of Transportation "Standard Specifications Construction of Transportation Systems."
4)
Graded Aggregate Base: Uniform graded aggregate material complying with Section 815 of the Georgia Department of Transportation "Standard Specifications Construction of Transportation Systems."
5)
Bituminous Prime: Cutback asphalt complying with Section 821 of the Georgia Department of Transportation "Standard Specifications Construction of Transportation Systems."
6)
Bituminous Tack Coat: Asphalt material complying with Section 413, topics 413.01 through 413.04 of the Georgia Department of Transportation "Standard Specifications Construction of Transportation Systems."
7)
Portland Cement Concrete: Concrete mix of Portland cement, aggregates, water, and air entraining admixture to produce the following properties: 4000 psi minimum compressive strength at 28 days per ASTM C39, 4 inches maximum slump per ASTM C143, and air content between 3 percent and 6 percent.
8)
Cold Mix: Uniform bituminous mixture of aggregate, asphaltic material and, if it is required, mineral filler complying with 12.5mm Superpave cold mix of Section 401 of the Georgia Department of Transportation "Standard Specifications Construction of Transportation Systems."
D.
Execution.
1)
Pavement Cuts
a.
Saw cut trench edges in paved areas to neat, straight lines before starting to break the pavement slab.
b.
Completely backfill the trench on half a road crossing before trenching the other half of pavement.
2)
Backfill Placement
a.
Place trench backfill materials in layers not more than 8 inches compacted thickness.
b.
Commence backfill immediately after sanitary sewer is installed.
c.
Complete new replacement base construction immediately after trench backfill.
d.
For all county roads, see also Section 6.03.04B.
E.
Inspection.
1)
Examine areas and conditions under which pavement patching will be conducted, giving special attention to stability of subbase.
2)
Do not proceed with pavement patching work until unsatisfactory conditions have been corrected.
F.
Preparation.
1)
Saw cut any ragged edges of existing pavement, or in the case of concrete work, remove existing pavement to nearest joint.
2)
Remove all loose material from underlying and adjacent surfaces.
G.
Strength and Stability.
1)
Use materials and construction techniques as necessary to obtain strength, stability and durability of pavement patch at least equal to that of remaining adjacent pavement of the same type.
2)
As a minimum, conform to pavement patch details in the Catoosa County Engineering Technical Standards Manual.
3)
Accomplish pavement patching utilizing material types and thicknesses not less than that of remaining adjacent pavement.
H.
Placing.
1)
Construct pavement using methods and equipment in general use for the type of work being performed.
2)
Immediately after new base construction, cover pavement cut with steel plates or similar devices of sufficient thickness to span the cut without noticeable deflection. Maintain plates in place for not less than 24 hours and not more than seven days and until the soil cement material (if used) has gained sufficient strength to withstand traffic loads. Traffic may resume after installation of metal plates.
3)
Upon removal of the metal plates or similar devices, provide new pavement surface in accordance with one of the following options: i) Immediately apply new permanent pavement surface materials indicated or ii) Immediately apply bituminous cold mixture over bond breaker paper over new base. Monitor performance and repair or replace materials regularly to maintain smooth traffic surface until placement of permanent pavement surface materials. At contractor's time selection prior to completion, remove cold mix and bond breaker paper and provide new permanent pavement surface materials. If performance or maintenance of cold mix patch is unsatisfactory in the opinion of the Director of Public Works, remove materials and provide new permanent pavement surface materials within 72 hours of notice by the Director of Public Works.
4)
Traffic control devices in lieu of cover plates are permitted for pavement patching longitudinal to the street centerline in excess of 20 feet. Use traffic barricades, warning signs and lights, flaggers, and other means as appropriate to continuously control traffic 24 hours per day. Use devices such that at least 12 feet wide, one-way through traffic access is provided at all times. Upon removal of traffic control devices, install permanent pavement surface.
5)
Contractor assumes all responsibility for maintaining repairing and or replacing soil cement base that may be damaged during curing period.
6)
For existing surface of Portland cement concrete, furnish new Portland cement concrete structure thickness, including base and pavement surface, of not less than 7 inches; except for sidewalks that are to be not less than 4 inches thick, and driveways are to be not less than 6 inches thick.
7)
Provide not less than eight inches thickness of new graded aggregate base for replacement of asphalt concrete pavement at driveways, sidewalks and parking lots.
8)
For repair of asphalt concrete pavement, clean base and adjacent surfaces and apply bituminous tack coat or bituminous prime (as appropriate) to such surfaces before placing new asphalt concrete surface.
I.
Finish.
1)
Accomplish pavement patching using materials and techniques which result in visible, finished surfaces having appearance, color, and texture reasonably matching remaining adjacent pavement of the same type.
2)
Do not permit the finished surface to have dips, objectionable roughness or discontinuity or non-draining areas.
3)
Do not create any unsafe pavement condition.
J.
Repairs.
1)
If pavement patch or adjacent pavement settles or shows evidence of other distress resulting from the work, cut pavement out, repair subgrade, and reconstruct patch.
2)
Do not place additional pavement material on top of unsatisfactory previously repaired surfaces.
3)
At expense of contractor, repair any pavement damaged beyond that minimum amount necessary to construct the work.
6.04.06   Utility Relocation
A.
General. Any utility using or occupying any part of a County road, street, easement or other property owned by the County which the County has undertaken to improve or intends to improve shall remove and relocate its utility facility when, in the reasonable opinion of the County, the utility facility constitutes an obstruction or interference with the use or safe operation of such road, street, easement or property by the traveling public or when, in the reasonable opinion of the County, the utility facility will interfere with the contemplated construction, use or maintenance.
B.
Process.
1)
Whenever the County and Board of Commissioners reasonably determines it is necessary to have a utility removed and relocated, the County shall give to the utility at least 60 days' written notice directing the removal and relocation of such utility obstruction.
a.
If the utility does not thereafter begin removal within a reasonable time sufficient to allow for engineering and other procedures reasonably necessary to the removal and relocation of the utility facility, the County may give the utility a final notice directing that such removal commence not later than ten days from the receipt of such final notice.
b.
If such utility does not, within 10 days of receipt of such final notice, begin to remove or relocate within a reasonable time, the County may remove or relocate the same with its own employees or private contractors and do whatever else is necessary to accomplish the removal or relocation. Unless the State Department of Transportation agrees to pay for the removal or relocation pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 32-6-173, the utility will be responsible for the expense incurred by the County in relocating the utility facility. A statement of such expense shall be submitted to the utility, which shall make payment to the County within 60 days after receipt of the statement. If the utility does not make payment or arrange to make payment to the County within 60 days, the County Manager shall certify the amount for collection and take appropriate action to collect the indebtedness from the utility.
2)
Nothing in this Code section shall be construed so as to deprive any utility, relocated from a location in which it owned a property interest, of compensation for such property interest.
6.04.07   Public Nuisance
A.
No person shall allow dirt, mud, gravel or other debris from adjoining land or resulting from any activity to accumulate upon the rights-of-way of any public road to such an extent that it becomes a nuisance or a hazard to persons traveling upon said roads, or that it creates an unsightly condition upon the public rights-of-way.
B.
No person shall allow dirt, mud or other debris resulting from any activity to accumulate in ditches and drainage areas on public rights-of-way to such an extent that the usual flow of water or run-off is stopped, disturbed, changed or interrupted.
C.
No person shall create any other type of public nuisance that interferes with or in any way damages the public rights-of-way in Catoosa County.
D.
No person shall park or leave unattended a truck or other motor vehicle or trailer upon the rights-of-way of any County road.
E.
No activity, whether permitted by this Code section or any other section, shall commence operation or continue to operate without first installing and maintaining, when necessary, a temporary drive cut and culvert to access property and installing and maintaining soil erosion and sedimentation controls sufficient to prevent dirt, mud, gravel or other debris from accumulating in the County drainage ditches or on County roads.
F.
No timber operator shall commence timber operations until he has first posted or caused to be posted along the public road onto which the timber operator will enter from his timber operations, at least the following signs: one sign in each direction located 500 feet from the entrance which states "Slow trucks entering highway", one sign in each direction located 1,000 feet from the entrance stating "Warning: Logging Operation Ahead." Each such sign shall be not less than 36 inches × 36 inches, orange in color and posted at least 3 feet from the edge of the surface of said road.
G.
No permitted activity shall continue in operation if the permittee fails to keep county roads free from dirt, mud, gravel or other debris resulting from the activity being performed.
H.
Immediately upon the completion of the permitted activity, an inspection shall take place by the road superintendent to ensure that all County rights-of-way have been restored to its original condition. Failure to ensure restoration shall result in the forfeiture of the surety bond.
I.
In addition to any other penalty provided for under the provisions of this Code section, or under the provisions of any state or federal law, any person in violation of this Code section shall reimburse the County for any and all costs and expenses incurred in abating said nuisance.
ARTICLE VII. - BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS

7.01.00 - GENERALLY
Article VII describes the powers and duties of the boards and commissions that are responsible for implementing the provisions of the UDC.
7.02.00 - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
7.02.01   Responsibilities Specifically Related to this UDC
The Board of Commissioners is responsible for making the final decision on the following types of applications:
A.
Amendment to change the text of the UDC;
B.
Amendment to change the official zoning map;
C.
Request to rezone property from one zoning classification to another; and
D.
Request to grant a special use permit for a property.
7.03.00 - PLANNING COMMISSION
7.03.01   Establishment, Membership and Officers
A.
There is hereby established the Planning Commission of Catoosa County, Georgia.
B.
All members of the Planning Commission shall be residents of Catoosa County, Georgia, above the age of 18 years and shall be registered voters of Catoosa County.
C.
The Planning Commission of Catoosa County shall be composed of five (5) members appointed by the Board of Commissioners to serve three (3)-year terms. Appointments shall be made so that the terms do not all expire in the same year. Each three (3)-year term shall commence on the first day of January of the year following the appointment by the Board of Commissioners and continuing until December 31 of the third year following the appointment, or until the successors are duly appointed and qualified, whichever last occurs.
D.
The Board of Commissioners shall determine the compensation of the members.
E.
The Board of Commissioners by a majority vote may:
1)
Fill any vacancy in the membership by appointing a successor to serve the remainder of the unexpired term; and
2)
Remove any member of the Planning Commission and thereafter appoint a successor to serve the remainder of the term of the member removed. No member shall be removed during his/her term except for good and sufficient cause shown upon a hearing.
F.
Three (3) members of the Planning Commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
G.
The chairman of the Planning Commission shall be elected from the membership of the Planning Commission (annually at the first meeting of the Planning Commission held in January by a majority vote of the members of the Planning Commission. The term of the chairman shall be for one (1) year. The chairman cannot serve more than two (2) consecutive one-year terms. An individual previously serving as chairman for two (2) terms may be reelected after one year following the last term in which the individual served as chairman.
7.03.02   Powers and Duties
A.
Platting Authority.
1)
The Planning Commission shall be the official platting authority, and no plat of land subdivision shall be entitled to record in the office of the clerk of court of Catoosa County unless it shall have the approval of the Planning Commission inscribed thereon.
2)
The filing or recording of a plat of a subdivision without the approval of the Planning Commission as required by this UDC is declared to be a misdemeanor. The provisions of this UDC shall govern all subdivisions of land within the unincorporated area of Catoosa County.
B.
Administrative Review. The Planning Commission shall have the power to hear and approve applications for conservation subdivisions, preliminary plats, and final plats that are initiated under this UDC.
C.
Amendments and Special Uses.
1)
The Planning Commission shall be authorized to recommend the adoption or denial of zoning amendments and special use permits to the governing authority.
2)
The Planning Commission shall be authorized to initiate zoning amendments on its own initiative. The Board of Commissioners may approve, disapprove, modify and/or remand (with or without directions) the recommendation of the Planning Commission.
D.
Appeals of Administrative Decisions.
1)
The Planning Commission shall have the power to hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Zoning Administrator or Building Official concerning the provisions of this UDC.
2)
The appeals process shall follow Article IX of this UDC.
E.
Variances.
1)
The Planning Commission shall have the power to authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the terms of this UDC as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this UDC will, in an individual case, result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of this shall be observed, the public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done; provided however, a variance cannot be granted to allow a use in a zoning district that is prohibited in such zoning district.
2)
Procedures for variance shall follow Article VIII of this UDC.
7.03.03   Behavior and Ethics
A.
A member shall disqualify himself/herself from voting on any rezoning or land subdivision decision and is prohibited from taking any action to influence action on any decision when he or she knew or reasonably should have known that:
1)
He or she has a property interest in any real property affected by a rezoning or land subdivision action;
2)
He or she has a financial interest in any business entity which has a property interest in any real property affected by a rezoning or land subdivision action;
3)
He or she has taken a public position for or against a zoning application or action prior to the time of the hearing on the application;
4)
He or she has a member of his or her immediate family having any interest or position described in paragraphs (1), (2), or (3) above.
B.
The member who has an interest as defined in paragraphs (1), (2), (3), or (4) above shall disqualify himself/herself from voting on the rezoning action. The disqualified member shall not take any other action on behalf of himself/herself or any other person to influence action on the application or zoning action.
C.
As used in this subsection the terms defined in O.C.G.A. § 36-67A-1 et seq. shall have the same definitions as those defined herein.
D.
No Planning Commission member shall represent applicants on matters on which the Planning Commission is to make a decision.
E.
A member may disqualify himself from voting or participating in any decision whenever any person has sought to influence the vote of such member prior to the decision.
7.03.04   Legal Advisor
A.
The Planning Commission shall utilize the County Attorney as its legal advisor and to provide legal services to enforce the zoning requirements of this UDC. The Planning Commission through its Chairman or the Zoning Administrator shall request that the County Attorney provide legal assistance through the County Manager who shall determine whether the legal assistance is required or the County Manager may delegate this action to the Chairman of the Planning Commission or Zoning Administrator.
7.03.05   Conduct of Meetings/Hearings
A.
Meetings of the Planning Commission shall be held at the call of the Planning Commission chairman (chair) and at such other times as the Planning Commission may determine.
B.
The Planning Commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be filed in the Planning and Zoning Office as provided by law and shall be a public record. The minutes of the Planning Commission shall conform to the requirements of the Open and Public Meeting Act (O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq.).
C.
All meetings of the Planning Commission shall be open to the public, other than those excepted from such requirement by the Open and Public Meetings Act (O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq.) as now and hereafter enacted by the Georgia Legislature. The decision shall be made in a public meeting with the vote of each member being recorded and made available to the public. All evidence that is received must be taken in public meetings (with the exception of a view of the affected properties, which the Planning Commission has the inherent and specific right herein to conduct).
D.
No cursing, personal attacks or disruptions of any type shall be allowed; and the chair shall have the authority to terminate the right of any person to further participate or attend the remaining proceedings if such person violates this subsection.
E.
The chair shall conduct the parliamentary order of all zoning meetings/hearings.
F.
All persons requesting to speak at a Planning Commission hearing are required to sign the sign-in sheet confirming attendance at the meeting.
G.
At any hearing, any person may appear or be represented by authorized agents or attorneys. "Authorized" shall mean said agent or attorney is designated by the property owner on the rezoning, variance or special use permit application. Every person shall have the right to submit input for consideration by the Planning Commission; provided however that the chair may limit the time that a person has to be orally heard if the meeting is expected to last for more than 2½ hours. In the event that the chair determines that the expected time will be more than said 2½ hours, the following limitations will apply:
1)
Each applicant may be limited to a maximum of 15 minutes (exclusive of sworn witnesses) to present any argument in support of the application.
2)
Each witness may be limited to a maximum of ten (10) minutes, with any additional testimony needed to be submitted in writing.
3)
Other interested persons desiring to argue orally may be limited to five (5) in number and may be limited to ten (10) minutes each for submitting oral testimony. Additional testimony from other interested persons may be submitted in writing.
4)
Adjacent property owners shall be entitled to be heard orally for a maximum of ten (10) minutes each.
H.
During the meeting/hearing each person having the floor shall proceed without interruption by any person other than the chair or a Planning Commission member or its counsel.
1)
All questions shall be directed by all parties to the chair; provided that Planning Commission members or counsel for the Planning Commission may call for pertinent facts from the speaker, applicant or zoning administrator at any time.
2)
There shall be no questioning or argument between individuals in the audience.
3)
Television and other camera equipment or recording devices shall be placed at locations at the meeting as directed by the chair so that they will not be unduly disruptive.
4)
Persons wishing to cross examine the speaker shall address their questions to the chair, and the chair shall direct the response so long as the question is relevant to the issues under consideration, is not repetitive, and is not argumentative. However, a witness shall be subject to a limited cross examination (in the interests of the time exigencies at the time of the cross examination being sought) by a representative of the applicant or by a representative of an opponent group.
5)
In the event that the meeting/hearing is expected by the chair to last more than 2½ hours, the chair may direct that the questions be submitted in writing. It is suggested that testimony and cross examination be prepared in writing prior to the meeting and that a group representative be chosen prior to the meeting so that time exigencies will not limit the desired presentation.
I.
The Planning Commission, upon majority vote, shall have the right to adjourn should the meeting extend past 10:00 p.m. This right shall also include the power to recess to a time and place certain so long as a newspaper of general circulation in the county is notified as soon as practicable of the date, time and place of the continuance of the meeting/hearing.
J.
Unless otherwise specified, the planning commission shall render a decision at the conclusion of the hearing and shall inform the applicant in writing of the decision within 10 days of the date of decision. A matter that has incomplete information may be tabled for a period not to exceed 60 days unless agreed to by all parties to extend such period. Upon expiration of that period(s), the Planning Commission may decide the case on the merits or may dismiss the case for lack of progress/presentation, with or without the applicant present.
7.03.06   Indemnity
The Planning Commission and members thereof exercising the powers and authority (either expressly or implicitly) provided for in this UDC are indemnified by the county for their actions so long as the same are exercised in good faith.
ARTICLE VIII. - VARIATIONS

8.01.00 - GENERALLY
The purpose of Article VIII is to provide mechanisms for obtaining relief from the provisions of this UDC. There are several ways that potential relief from hardship is addressed. Section 8.02.00 addresses relief through requirements regarding nonconforming development. Section 8.03.00 addresses relief through the grant of a variance in a particular situation due to the characteristics of the land to be developed based on the required site design standards. Section 8.04.00 addresses relief through the grant of an administrative variance in specific situations.
8.02.00 - NONCONFORMING LOTS, USES, AND STRUCTURES
8.02.01   Generally
A.
Within the zoning districts established by this UDC there may exist lots, structures, or uses of land which were lawfully established before this UDC was adopted but which do not comply with the requirements set forth in this UDC.
B.
It is the intent of this Section to allow these nonconformities to continue until they are removed or discontinued. It is further the intent of this Section that nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district.
C.
Once a building permit, development permit or special use permit has been issued by the zoning entity, a landowner has a right to develop the property pursuant to that permit during the term of such permit as specified in this UDC (but not thereafter), notwithstanding a zoning change subsequent to the issuance of the building/development permit.
8.02.02   Nonconforming Lots
A lot of record whose area, frontage, width or other dimensions, or location were lawful prior to the adoption or amendment of this UDC, and which, by reason of such adoption or amendment, no longer meets or exceeds one or more such requirements of the applicable zoning district, may be developed with any use that is allowed in the district. The following requirements shall also apply:
A.
All other requirements of the zoning district in which the lot is located are met.
B.
Building plans shall be consistent with all state and local codes.
C.
Single Lots. Where the owner of a lot at the time of the adoption of this ordinance or his successor in title thereto does not own sufficient land to enable him to conform to the dimensional requirements of this ordinance, such lot may be used as a building site for a single-family residence in a district where residences are permitted provided that the development of the lot is in compliance with any subdivision regulations and restrictions applicable thereto.
D.
Adjoining Lots. If two or more adjoining lots with continuous frontage are in a single ownership at any time after the adoption of this ordinance and such lots individually are too small to meet the yard, width and area requirements of the district in which they are located, such groups of lots shall be considered as a single lot or several lots of minimum permitted size and the lot or lots in one ownership shall be subject to the requirements of this ordinance.
E.
Mobile homes located in a nonconforming mobile home park space shall not be replaced when space is vacated unless that space is brought up to conformity, and new spaces may not be added to existing mobile home parks unless developed in compliance with this UDC.
8.02.03   Continuance of Nonconforming Use
Except for the provisions of this Article concerning zoning with compensation (see Section 8.02.06), the lawfully established use of any building or structure or land existing at the time of the enactment of this UDC that becomes nonconforming at the time of adoption or amendment of this UDC may continue subject to the following requirements:
A.
A nonconforming use shall not be changed to another nonconforming use; provided however, that a structure that is being leased which loses its tenant may alter that use to a use that is allowed under the same zoning classification as the previous tenant had used it (for example, a building that is being leased for an industrial use may continue to lease to an industrial tenant) subject to the requirements of this Article and the barrier/screening requirements that may be required in Article IV.
B.
A nonconforming use shall be allowed to continue within the confines of any structure in which it may be operating, subject to the following requirements:
1)
The use may continue and the volume or intensity of such nonconforming use or activity may be extended throughout any parts of a building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of adoption or amendment of this UDC.
2)
The use shall not be extended to occupy any structures or land outside the existing structure devoted to the use.
C.
A nonconforming use which is superseded by an allowed use shall not thereafter be resumed.
D.
A nonconforming use shall in no way be extended or relocated, either on the same or adjoining property.
E.
A nonconforming use shall not be reestablished after discontinuance of such use for one (1) year, regardless of any reservation of intent not to abandon.
F.
Notwithstanding any provisions of this UDC that may be to the contrary, a nonconforming use or structure that is damaged or destroyed by fire, natural deterioration or other natural disaster to an extent less than or equal to 50 percent of its fair market value immediately prior to damage or destruction may be rebuilt, altered or repaired only as provided herein:
1)
Restoration shall be commenced within 12 months from the date damages were incurred.
2)
If reconstruction is not commenced within 12 months, the reconstruction and use of the land or structure shall thereafter conform to the provisions of this UDC.
3)
Fair market value shall be determined by reference to current statutory provisions pertaining to the valuation of real property for ad valorem tax purposes.
G.
A structure damaged or destroyed by any means to an extent equal to or greater than 50 percent of its fair market value at time of damage or destruction shall be reconstructed only in conformity with the provisions of this UDC.
8.02.04   Nonconforming Structures
A lawfully established structure that becomes nonconforming at the time of adoption of this UDC may continue subject to the following requirements:
A.
The nonconforming structure shall not be enlarged, with the exception that barns and/or poultry houses, including those in noncompliance as to setbacks, may be replaced provide the replacement structure is built on the exact location and is no more than 25 percent greater in square footage than the original structure.
B.
Structures under physical construction (the terms "physical construction" shall refer to the completion of the digging of and laying of the entire masonry or other foundation for the structure) on the date of the adoption of this UDC, and that are under physical construction due to permits that were lawfully issued by Catoosa County, shall be allowed to be completed regardless of whether the use to be made in such structure would be in a nonconforming zone.
C.
The structure or portion thereof may be altered to decrease its degree of nonconformity.
D.
If a nonconforming structure is moved for any reason for any distance, it shall be brought into conformance with the building, site design, and use requirements of the zoning district to which it is moved.
E.
When any use of a nonconforming structure is discontinued for a continuous period in excess 12 months, any future use of the structure is permissible only when the structure has been brought into compliance with the provisions of this UDC.
8.02.05   Nonconforming Signs
A.
[Nonconforming sign.] A nonconforming sign is a sign that was lawfully erected and maintained prior to the adoption or amendment of this Development Code, and which by reason of such adoption or amendment fails to conform to all applicable regulations and restrictions of this Development Code.
B.
Grandfathered nonconforming signs. A nonconforming sign that is permanently affixed to the ground or to a building may continue to be used, except that the nonconforming sign shall not be replaced, expanded, relocated or substantially renovated except in conformity with the provisions of this Development Code.
C.
Temporary signs to be removed. Any nonconforming sign that is temporary in nature and not permanently affixed to the ground or to a building, such as but not limited to a portable sign, a streamer or pennant, shall be removed within 30 days of becoming a nonconforming sign.
D.
Treatment of Illegal Signs.
1)
The following requirements shall apply to illegal signs located within a public right-of-way or on public lands:
a.
Signs located illegally within any public right-of-way or other public lands shall be removed immediately upon adoption of this Development Code.
b.
The Code Enforcement Director or other county employee(s), (and/or private individuals, corporations and entities, if so authorized by the Board of Commissioners), shall be authorized to remove and dispose of nonconforming signs from public rights-of-way and other public lands with or without notice to and at the expense of the owner, builder or other parties responsible for placement of said sign.
2)
The following requirements shall apply to illegal signs not located within a public right-of-way or on public lands:
a.
A sign that did not lawfully exist under the County's regulations prior to adoption of this Development Code shall, within 30 days of adoption of this Development Code, either be removed or be brought into conformance with all provisions of this Development Code.
b.
Failure to remove such illegal sign or bring it into conformance following 30 days' notice to the owner or occupant of the property by the Code Enforcement Director shall authorize the County to remove the sign at the expense.
8.02.06   Zoning with Compensation
A.
General Provisions.
1)
From time to time, the use of existing land, buildings or structures might need to change depending upon the character of the neighborhood. The governing authority (upon the recommendation of the Planning Commission) may change the zoning of property and discontinue the preexisting use thereof by amending the zoning map and paying compensation to the landowner for the discontinuance of an existing use.
a.
In the event that the governing authority and the landowner cannot agree upon a price to be paid for the discontinuance of such use, then the governing authority shall pay its proposed price into the registry of the clerk of the superior court of Catoosa County, and may rezone the property to discontinue the existing use.
b.
The landowner may either obtain said funds from the clerk of the superior court of Catoosa County or file an action similar to an inverse condemnation suit in the superior court of Catoosa County, Georgia.
c.
The discontinuance of the existing use shall be accomplished immediately upon the rezoning or payment of such sum offered by the governing authority into the registry of the court, whichever shall occur last.
d.
The governing authority shall be authorized to uniformly access a special tax against neighboring properties to reimburse the county for any payment or award of damages given to the landowner provided that such discontinuance of use is of benefit to the neighboring properties.
e.
This "zoning with compensation" should only be accomplished after considerable input from property owners and from neighboring property owners.
B.
Provisions Regarding Junkyards.
1)
Subject to the provisions of this ordinance concerning zoning with compensation, any junkyard in existence on the date of the adoption of this ordinance shall be considered to be a valid nonconforming use only if: it is in full compliance with the legal requirements of the junkyard and junk motor vehicle control ordinance adopted by Catoosa County on February 10, 1984.
2)
No junkyard shall be allowed solely on the contention that it is grandfathered, and no person shall acquire or hold vested rights to junkyard ownership other than by and through the provisions of this ordinance.
3)
Any person affected by a junkyard established and maintained in violation of this ordinance, or the county attorney of Catoosa County, may file an appropriate action in the superior court of Catoosa County to enjoin any person, partnership, firm or corporation from maintaining a junkyard in violation of this ordinance. Upon determination by the court that such junkyard does not comply with the provisions of this ordinance, and is not subject to any exception to the [this] ordinance, the owner of such junkyard shall, within 30 days of such order, remove the junkyard; and in default thereof, the zoning administrator or his designees may take action to remove, obliterate or abate the junkyard, and may go on private property to accomplish such purpose. The zoning administrator may then submit, by registered or certified mail, a statement of expenses for such removal, obliteration or abatement to the person owning or operating such junkyard; and if payment is not made to the zoning administrator within 60 days of receipt thereof, such amount may be collected by an action at law.
8.03.00 - VARIANCES
8.03.01   Purpose
A.
When, due to the peculiar size, shape, topography or other unusual physical condition of the tract of land or when circumstances are such that a strict enforcement would inflict an unreasonable, unnecessary or peculiar hardship the Planning Commission may waive strict compliance with the provisions of this UDC and make necessary variances to accommodate the situation.
B.
The existence of a nonconforming use of neighboring land, buildings or structures in the same district or of permitted or nonconforming uses in other districts shall not constitute sufficient reason for granting the requested variance.
C.
In no event shall a variance be granted to permit a use in a zoning district that is prohibited in that district.
D.
In determining whether or not to grant a variance, the Planning Commission shall consider, the following:
1)
Whether there are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape or topography.
2)
If the application of this UDC to this particular piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship.
3)
Whether conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved.
4)
Whether the relief, if granted, would cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purposes and intent of this UDC.
E.
The variance should be granted only if the applicant meets the burden of proving (by the preponderance of evidence) that the need for the proposed variance outweigh the detriments or deprecating effects to other properties or the public health, safety, or general welfare.
8.03.02   Procedures
A.
Application.
1)
The application shall be sworn to be true and correct and signed by the landowner (and his/her/its agent) requesting the variance, if applicable.
2)
The application shall include the property owner's signature that attests to his or her ownership of the property shown on the application.
3)
Should the property owner appoint another party to act as his/her agent in the proposed zoning change, the application shall include the property owner's signature that identifies and authorizes the party responsible for acting as said agent.
4)
All applications for a variance shall be accompanied by a fee as established by the Board of Commissioners from time to time, unless a pauper's affidavit is approved by the county.
B.
Posting Sign. The application for a variance and the public hearing thereon shall also be published by the posting of a sign in accordance with the following:
1)
Upon receipt of an application for a variance by the Zoning Administrator, a sign containing the required public notice information shall be placed by the Zoning Administrator:
a.
In a conspicuous location on the property facing a public street or road immediately adjacent to a public road or right-of-way.
b.
At a point where the sign is likely to be most visible to vehicular traffic.
c.
Not less than 15 days prior to the date of the hearing.
C.
Notice to be Published in Newspaper. The applicant shall cause to be published a notice of the proposed action in a newspaper of general circulation within Catoosa County. The notice shall at least contain the following information:
1)
Name and address of the applicant;
2)
Street/road address (including box or postal number, if such has been designated by the postal service) location of the property for which the variance is sought; if the property is located in a subdivision, the lot number shall also be provided in the publication;
3)
Current zoning of the property for which the variance is sought;
4)
The variance requested (stating the proposed use of the property) and the reason for the requested variance;
5)
The date, time and place of the public hearing on said requested variance.
D.
Determination Time Limit.
The Planning Commission shall make a determination of whether a variance should be given (and under such terms as it may require) on the night of the hearing if practicable, or in any event within 10 days from the conclusion thereof.
8.04.00 - ADMINISTRATIVE VARIANCE
8.04.01   Authority
A.
The Zoning Administrator shall have the power to grant variances (except for density and use) from the development standards of this UDC if the intent of the UDC can be achieved and equal performance obtained by granting a variance.
B.
The Zoning Administrator may allow in his/her sole discretion a variance to the provisions of this UDC as specified in this section which shall not exceed [20] percent from the minimum or maximum required standards provided for in this UDC.
C.
The authority to grant an administrative variance shall be limited to the following:
1)
A reduction in the minimum front, side, or rear yard requirements for a single lot.
2)
An increase in the maximum height requirements for building construction on real property, if such variance does not allow space habitable by humans and is also approved by the Fire Marshal and would not result in an increase in the number of stories that would otherwise be allowed by the zoning district.
3)
A reduction in the minimum off-street parking and loading regulations.
4)
A reduction in the minimum width requirements for planted or undisturbed buffers.
D.
No variance may be granted administratively for an application for a variance that has been heard by the Planning Commission within one (1) year or if the application is for the expansion of a non-conforming use or structure.
8.04.02   Application Requirements
A.
Application.
1)
The applicant desiring an administrative variance shall file with the Planning and Zoning Office an application for administrative variance upon a standard form, which will be supplied by the Planning and Zoning Office upon request.
2)
The application shall be completed in its entirety by the applicant before the Planning and Zoning Office will accept it for filing and review.
B.
Payment. Payment of the published filing fee shall be required before the Planning and Zoning Office will accept the application for filing and review. Fees shall be set from time to time by resolution of the Board of Commissioners.
C.
Notification. Upon a determination by the Planning and Zoning Office all required information is complete and that the request is within the limits of consideration set forth in Section 8.04.01, public notice shall be provided in a newspaper of general circulation within Catoosa County in accordance with Section 8.03.02.C of this Article.
8.04.03   Approval
A.
Basis of Approval. The following criteria shall be considered by the Zoning Administrator before allowing an administrative variance.
1)
The variance achieves the general intent of this UDC;
2)
The variance does not exceed the scope of authority set forth in Section 8.04.01;
3)
In addition, the Zoning Administrator shall consider the review criteria in Section 8.03.01.D.
B.
Conditions of Approval.
1)
The Zoning Administrator may impose reasonable conditions upon any administrative variance to ensure that the public health, safety, and general welfare are protected.
2)
A violation of any imposed condition shall be a violation of this UDC.
8.04.04   Administration
A.
After required notice has been provided and the time period for response has passed, the Zoning Administrator shall consider the variance request at the published time and location and shall render a decision.
B.
Notice of the decision shall be provided to the applicant by mailing such decision within five business days of the decision.
C.
Notice of the action taken by the Zoning Administrator shall be provided to the Planning Commission and shall be placed as an item of old business for no further action upon the agenda of the Planning Commission within 31 days.
8.04.05   Compliance with Other County Codes
A.
The effect of an administrative variance approval shall be that a specific request is determined to be appropriate for a specific location.
B.
The administrative variance application shall not approve a site plan nor waive or modify any other requirements of any other county code other than as specifically granted pursuant to the variance.
ARTICLE IX. - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES

9.01.00 - GENERALLY
9.01.01   Purpose
Article IX sets forth the procedures and requirements that shall be followed in order to seek approval for any development in unincorporated Catoosa County. Article IX also sets forth the requirements for appealing decisions and for enforcement.
9.01.02   Approvals Required
A.
No person shall develop any property within Catoosa County without first obtaining an approved subdivision plat, an approved development plan, and development and building permits to perform such activities. Said permits shall not be issued until requested zoning changes, special use permits or variances, if applicable, are approved in accordance with the procedures of this Article. All development activities or site work conducted after approval of a development plan or subdivision plat shall conform to the specifications of such approved plat or plan.
B.
A plat of a land subdivision shall be recorded in the office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Catoosa County when approved as required by this UDC. The filing or recording of a plat of a subdivision without such approval is declared to be a violation of this UDC.
C.
The transfer of, sale of, agreement to sell, or negotiation to sell land by reference to, exhibition of, or other use of a plat of a subdivision that has not been given final approval as required by this Article and recorded in the office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Catoosa County is prohibited, and the description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document shall not exempt the transaction from prescribed penalties.
D.
It shall be unlawful to commence the following activities until the required development or development permit for such work has been issued by the Zoning Administrator:
1)
Excavation or filling of any lot for any construction of any building;
2)
Construction of any building;
3)
Moving or alteration of any building;
4)
Development of more than one acre of land (or the development of any size tract of land involving the creation of, or engaging in the operation of a mine, landfill, junkyard or recycling plant), for a use not requiring a building.
E.
Completion of an application for a building or development permit shall constitute permission for all county zoning entities to inspect or view the property at all reasonable times and to make such nondestructive testing (including, but not limited to, soil borings) as may be reasonable to determine factors relevant to the criteria set forth in this UDC.
F.
A permit meeting the standards found in O.C.G.A. § 36-72-1 et seq., shall be required prior to commencing any development, land disturbance, building, change of land use, or other action which is reasonably likely to disturb an abandoned cemetery or burial ground. See also Section 9.04.04 of this Article.
9.01.03   Fees Required
All applications shall be accompanied by payment of application fees, as adopted by the Board of Commissioners, and any other fees that may be assessed in accordance with Georgia Statutes or code requirements.
9.01.04   Determination of Completeness
All applications shall be complete before acceptance for review and decision making. A determination of completeness is a determination that all required documents and plans have been submitted and in sufficient number, and that all fees have been paid. A determination of completeness is not a determination of compliance with substantive standards and criteria.
9.02.00 - APPROVAL OF ZONING DECISIONS
9.02.01   Application, Zoning Change
A.
General Requirements. Any landowner or their authorized agent requesting a zoning change (rezoning or special use approval) shall file a written application containing no less than the following items of information:
1)
Name and address of the applicant.
2)
Street/road address (including box or postal number, if such has been designated by the postal service) location of the property for which the proposed amendment is sought; if the property includes more than one postal address, only one need be shown so long as a general description of the entire property is provided; if the property is in a subdivision, the lot number(s) shall also be provided in the application.
3)
Current zoning of the property for which the zoning change is being sought.
4)
Names and addresses of the owners and, if applicable, lessees of the property, if different than that of the petitioner.
5)
Requested zoning classification and reason for change with specificity.
6)
Such other or additional information as may be requested by the zoning administrator to enable him to determine whether the terms of this UDC are complied with.
7)
Said application shall be sworn to be true and correct and signed by the landowner and his/her/its agent requesting the zoning change, if applicable.
a.
The application shall include the property owner's signature that attests to his or her ownership of the property shown on the application.
b.
Should the property owner appoint another party to act as his/her agent in the proposed zoning change, the application shall include the property owner's signature that identifies and authorizes the party responsible for acting as said agent.
8)
The application shall be accompanied by an application fee as may be established by the Board of Commissioners from time to time unless a pauper's affidavit is approved by the County.
B.
Additional Requirements for Planned Unit Development (PUD).
A preliminary development plan containing the following information shall be filed with the application for rezoning, in addition to any information otherwise required of all rezoning applications:
1)
The proposed name of the PUD;
2)
An aerial photograph of the area and vicinity;
3)
A complete and accurate legal description of the proposed PUD property;
4)
A tabulation of total acreage of the site designated for various uses, i.e., parking, structures, streets, parks, playgrounds and utilities;
5)
Location of all structures in the PUD and proposed building densities (units per acre);
6)
Preliminary subdivision plats, if site is being subdivided, showing layout of all lots which shall comply with the subdivision regulations of this UDC;
7)
Proposed circulation pattern of the public streets and private driveways;
8)
Parking layout which complies with the provisions of this ordinance concerning off-street parking;
9)
All access points to the same arterial streets to be located and which shall have been approved by the public works department and/or the Georgia Department of Transportation;
10)
Preliminary engineering plans for any necessary infrastructure improvements necessary to adequately service the PUD.
C.
Additional Requirements for Special Use Permit. In addition to the application requirements of subsection A, a request for special use approval shall be accompanied by a plan, drawn to scale, showing:
1)
The proposed location of the various different uses of the property,
2)
Boundary lines,
3)
Dimensions of property,
4)
Names of the owners of abutting properties,
5)
Names of the owners or all persons having a legal or equitable interest in the business proposing the use,
6)
Location of proposed roads,
7)
Parking facilities and other structures,
8)
A topographical map and grading plan, and
9)
The type and location of drainage, sewage, water and other utilities at the premises.
D.
Disclosure of Financial Interest and Campaign Contributions.
1)
A local government official, including members of the Planning Commission and members of the Board of Commissioners, who has a property interest in any real property affected by a zoning change or has a financial interest in any business entity which has a property interest, or has a member of his family having such an interest, shall immediately disclose the nature and extent of such interest, in writing, to the Board of Commissioners as set out in O.C.G.A. Subsection 36-67A-2.
2)
When any applicant for a zoning change has, within two years immediately preceding the filing of that applicant's application for the rezoning action, made campaign contributions or made gifts aggregating $250.00 or more to a local government official involved in the rezoning action, it shall be the duty of the applicant and the attorney representing the applicant to file a disclosure report with the Board of Commissioners as set out in O.C.G.A. Subsection 36-67A-3.
9.02.02   Notification, Zoning Change [1]
A.
Public Notification.
1)
Zoning Change Initiated by Catoosa County.
Prior to taking action resulting in a zoning decision, the Board of Commissioners shall provide for a hearing on the proposed action. At least 15 but not more than 45 days prior to the date of the hearing, the Board of Commissioners shall cause to be published within a newspaper of general circulation within the territorial boundaries of Catoosa County a notice of the hearing. The notice shall state the time, place, and purpose of the hearing.
2)
Zoning Change Initiated by Property Owner. If a zoning change request is initiated by a party other than Catoosa County then:
a.
The notice, in addition to the requirements of subsection 1) of this Section, shall include the location of the property, the present zoning classification of the property, and the proposed zoning classification of the property; and
b.
A sign stating the date, time and place for the Planning Commission public hearing and the initially scheduled Board of Commissioners public hearing, the present zoning classification and the nature of the proposed zoning change (requested zoning classification or special use) shall be placed by the Zoning Administrator:
i.
In a conspicuous location on the property facing a public street or road immediately adjacent to a public road or right-of-way.
ii.
At a point where the sign is likely to be most visible to vehicular traffic.
iii.
At a height of no less than 4 feet above ground level.
iv.
Not less than 15 days prior to the date of the Planning Commission hearing.
B.
Notification; Recommendation. Upon receiving a complete application for a zoning change to Zoning Administrator, the application shall be forwarded by the Zoning Administrator to the Planning Commission, who will make a recommendation to the governing authority of Catoosa County for action on the proposal.
1)
It shall be the responsibility of the Zoning Administrator to set the agenda for the meetings of the Planning Commission. All submitted applications shall be reviewed by the Zoning Administrator for compliance with this Development Code and only those submissions that are complete in all respects will be accepted for placement onto the Planning Commission agenda, in the order in which they were received.
2)
The agenda shall list all applications with a description of each and provide the order in which they will be considered by the Planning Commission. A copy should be available for all attendees.
9.02.03   Planning Commission Recommendation, Zoning Change
A.
The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on each application for rezoning or special use in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Article.
B.
A staff report on each application shall be submitted to and considered by the Planning Commission at the public hearing.
C.
The Planning Commission shall review all zoning change requests on its agenda, considering the standards set forth in this Article, and make a recommendation for approval, approval with conditions, or denial, unless the agenda item is tabled for any other valid reason.
D.
The Planning Commission shall forward a written recommendation for each zoning change request to the Board of Commissioners.
E.
The recommendation of the Planning Commission shall be considered by the Board of Commissioners at its regular meeting at 6:00 p.m. on the third Tuesday of each month immediately following the date of action by the Planning Commission.
9.02.04   Board of Commissioners Action, Zoning Change
A.
The Board of Commissioners may grant a continuance to any party or may continue any hearing scheduled on its own motion.
B.
If a hearing is continued the date, time and place of such continued hearing shall be announced at the public hearing. Such announcement, recorded in the meeting minutes, shall constitute public notice of the hearing on the application and no further notice is required.
C.
So that the purpose of this UDC will be served and the health, safety, or general welfare is secured, the Board of Commissioners may approve, disapprove, modify and/or remand (with or without directions) the recommendation of the Planning Commission. Actions by the Board of Commissioners may also include changing the zoning classification requested, allowing an application to be withdrawn in accordance with Section 9.02.05 of this Article, and adding or deleting conditions of approval.
D.
The decision by the Board of Commissioners on an application for a zoning change shall be based on, but not limited to, a consideration of the standards set forth in Section 9.02.07 of this Article.
E.
The decision of the Board of Commissioners shall be in writing and shall be filed in the minute book of the County. If the decision of the Board of Commissioners is to allow an amendment to the official zoning maps, such amendments shall be incorporated into the official zoning maps by the Planning Commission.
9.02.05   Withdrawn Application, Zoning Change
A.
An application may be withdrawn without prejudice at any time in writing prior to the first appearance of the legal advertisement required by Section 9.02.02A of this Article.
B.
An application may be withdrawn prior to a recommendation by the Planning Commission or prior to final action by the Board of Commissioners, but in such event an application for the same amendment may not be resubmitted for consideration by the Planning Commission for a period of 6 months from the date of withdrawal.
C.
Unless withdrawn at the hearing, the withdrawal must be in writing, signed and dated by the applicant.
9.02.06   Denial, Zoning Change
If the zoning change is denied, then the same property may not again be considered for rezoning until the expiration of at least 12 months immediately following the denial of the application.
9.02.07   Standards for Considering Zoning Changes
A.
Standards for Considering Rezoning Applications.
In considering any application for a rezoning, the Board of Commissioners shall balance the interest in promoting the public health, safety, morality or general welfare against the right to the unrestricted use of property. In doing so the Board of Commissioners will consider the following objective factors that are relevant to the application. Emphasis may be placed on those criteria most applicable to the specific use proposed:
1)
Will the zoning proposal permit a use that is suitable in view of the use, development and zoning of adjacent or nearby property?
2)
Will the zoning proposal adversely affect the existing use or usability of adjacent or nearby property?
3)
Does the subject property have a reasonable economic use as currently zoned?
4)
Will the zoning proposal result in a use which will or could cause an excessive or burdensome use of existing streets, transportation facilities, utilities, schools, police protection, public health facilities or emergency medical service?
5)
Is the zoning proposal in conformity with the policy and intent of the Comprehensive Plan for the physical development of the area?
6)
What is the effect on the property value of the subject property should the existing zoning be retained?
7)
If denied, will the effect on the subject property's value under the existing zoning be offset by the gain to the health, safety, morals or general welfare of the public?
8)
If denied, how does the relative gain to the public compare to the hardship imposed upon the individual property owner?
9)
Has the property been undeveloped an unusual length of time as currently zoned, considered in the context of land development in the area in the vicinity of the property?
10)
Are these other existing or changing conditions affecting the use or development of the property which give supporting grounds for either approval or disapproval of the zoning proposal?
11)
Would the change create an isolated district unrelated to the surrounding districts, such as spot zoning?
12)
Are the present zoning district boundaries illogically drawn in relation to existing conditions in the area?
13)
Is the change requested out of scale with the needs of the county as a whole or the immediate neighborhood?
14)
Is it impossible to find adequate sites for the proposed use in districts permitting such use and already appropriately zoned?
15)
Would there be an ecological or pollution impact resulting from major modifications to the land if the request is granted?
16)
Is there reasonable evidence based upon existing and anticipated land use that would indicate a mistake was made in the original zoning of the property?
B.
Standards for Considering Special Use Applications.
In considering any application for a special use permit, the Board of Commissioners shall balance the particular requirements or need for the proposed use against any depreciating effects of such use on other properties or persons. The Board of Commissioners shall consider the following objective factors. Emphasis may be placed on those criteria most applicable to the specific use proposed:
1)
Is adequate space for off-street parking provided?
2)
Is the use consistent with the goals, policies, objectives, and intent of the Comprehensive Plan?
3)
Is the proposed use consistent with the purpose and intent of the zoning district?
4)
Are public facilities such as schools, water or sewer utilities, and police or fire protection adequate to serve the proposed use?
5)
Is access into and out of the property adequate to provide for traffic and pedestrian safety, the anticipated type and volume of traffic flow, and access by emergency vehicles?
6)
Is the type of street providing access to the use adequate to serve the proposed use?
7)
Is the lot size sufficient in relation to the proposed use?
8)
Are refuse, service, parking and loading areas on the property located or screened to protect other properties in the area from such adverse effects as noise, light, glare or odor?
9)
Will the hours and manner of operation of the special use have no adverse effects on other properties in the area?
10)
Will the height, size or location of the buildings or other structures on the property be compatible with the height, size or location of buildings or other structures on neighboring properties?
9.02.08   Public Hearing Procedures, Zoning Change
A public hearing shall be held by the Planning Commission and the Board of Commissioners on each proposed zoning change, as follows:
A.
The chair or an appointed designee acting as presiding official shall allow the Zoning Administrator as the first speaker to present the staff review and recommendation concerning the applicant's case.
B.
Following this presentation, the applicant or the applicant's authorized designee shall be allowed to present the applicant's case and then shall also afford the applicant an opportunity, prior to a vote, to answer questions and respond to objections of others in attendance.
C.
Others desiring to speak or make a statement shall be given reasonable opportunity to do so.
D.
Both proponents and opponents of the matter under consideration shall be given comparable time and opportunity by the presiding official to speak. This time period shall not be less than 10 minutes per side in accordance with State Law.
E.
Persons speaking at such a hearing shall rise, state their name and address to the Planning Commission or the Board of Commissioners who may be holding the hearing.
F.
Questions shall be directed to the presiding official who shall designate a person for the response.
9.02.09   Amendments to the Development Code
A.
Generally.
1)
This Development Code may be amended from time to time in whole or in part by the Board of Commissioners.
2)
Any amendment to or insertion of a new Article, Section, Subsection or Paragraph that is not subject to the Georgia Zoning Procedures Law (O.C.G.A. 36-66-1 et seq.) shall be considered and acted upon by the Board of Commissioners following applicable requirements and procedures for the adoption of acts, resolutions or ordinances, as applicable under the County's Charter.
3)
Any amendment to or insertion of a new Article, Section, Subsection or Paragraph that is subject to the Georgia Zoning Procedures Law shall be considered and acted upon by the Board of Commissioners under the provisions of this Section.
B.
Initiation of Text Amendments.
The Board of Commissioners may propose a change to the text of this Development Code when public necessity, general welfare or good zoning practice justifies such action.
C.
Text Amendment Process.
No amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been submitted to the Planning Commission for review and recommendations.
D.
Public Notice.
1)
Before enacting an amendment to this UDC, the County shall hold a public hearing thereon.
2)
At least 15 days but not more 45 days prior to the public hearing, notice is to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within Catoosa County. The notice is to state the time, place and purpose of the hearing.
E.
Public Hearings; Procedures.
The public hearing held by the Planning Commission and the Board of Commissioners for a text amendment shall be conducted in the following manner:
1)
The public hearing is to be convened at the scheduled time and place by the chair or an appointed designee, who will act as the presiding official.
2)
The presiding official will call for each proposed text amendment to be presented.
3)
No person in attendance is to speak unless first formally recognized by the presiding official. Upon rising to speak each person recognized is to state their name and home address.
a.
The presiding official may place reasonable limits on the number of persons who may speak for or against a proposal, on the time allowed for each speaker, and on the total time allowed for presentation of the proposed zoning change.
b.
No less than 10 minutes shall be provided for all of those speaking in support of a text amendment and no less than 10 minutes shall be provided for all of those speaking against, unless such proponents or opponents take less time than the minimum allowed.
c.
If reasonable time limitations permit, any member of the general public may speak at a hearing.
d.
During the public hearing, the Planning Commission and the Board of Commissioners members may ask questions at any time. Time devoted to questions and answers will not be counted against any time limitations that have been imposed on presentations.
F.
Decision on a Text Amendment.
1)
The Planning Commission shall make a recommendation for approval, denial or such other action it deems appropriate. The report of the Planning Commission shall be forwarded in writing to the Board of Commissioners for final approval or denial.
2)
The recommendation of the Planning Commission shall be considered by the Board of Commissioners at its regular meeting at 6:00 p.m. on the third Tuesday of each month immediately following the date of action by the Planning Commission.
3)
The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a written record (or a tape recording) and date of such amendments as approved or denied by the County Commission.
G.
Standards for a Text Amendment.
The Planning Commission and the Board of Commissioners shall consider the following standards in reviewing any proposal that would result in a change to the text of this UDC, giving due weight or priority to those factors that are appropriate to the circumstances of each proposal:
1)
Is the proposed text amendment compatible with the purpose and intent of the Comprehensive Plan?
2)
Is the proposed text amendment consistent with the purpose and intent of this Development Code?
3)
Will adoption of the amendment further the protection of the public health, safety or general welfare?
9.02.10   Certificate of Zoning Compliance
If a request is made (pursuant to a legitimate business purpose and need) to the Zoning Administrator concerning whether a proposed use is in compliance with the zoning for the property in question, the Zoning Administrator may issue a certificate that such property is in conformity or nonconformity with existing zoning laws. However, if such certificate or letter is issued, it cannot make an assurance that the proposed use will be allowed for any particular time in the future (beyond the time required for a hearing on an amendment) without expressing that this assurance remains valid until the next regularly scheduled or specially called zoning meeting. Upon receipt of such request, the Zoning Administrator may make such investigation or initiate and publicize a hearing in accordance with Section 9.02.02A(1) to determine whether conformity exists.
9.03.00 - PROJECT APPROVAL
9.03.01   Subdivisions, Generally
A.
All subdivisions shall have a preliminary plat and no development work shall begin until the Planning Commission has approved and signed the preliminary drawing, with the exception of minor subdivisions as defined herein.
B.
Pre-Application Review. Whenever the subdivision of a tract of land is proposed, the subdivider shall consult with the Zoning Administrator. The subdivider may submit sketch plans and data showing existing conditions within the site and in its vicinity and the proposed development layout of the subdivision.
9.03.02   Exemptions (Minor Subdivisions)
A.
Minor subdivisions are exempt from the preliminary plat and final plat approval processes as described beginning with Section 9.03.03 and are subject to the approval requirements identified in the provisions of this Section 9.03.02.C.
B.
A "minor subdivision" by its very nature is one in which no public improvements (such as new streets, stormwater drainage facilities or public utilities) are to be made. Minor subdivisions are defined as any one of the following:
1)
The combination or recombination of previously platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are equal to the standards of this Development Code.
2)
The division of land into 10 fewer lots, tracts or parcels with each resultant lot, tract or parcel:
a.
Fronting an existing county road, provided however that up to four lots each having a minimum of five acres may front on a private substandard street as set forth in Article VI of this UDC.
b.
Conforming to this Development Code.
C.
Restriction on Resubdividing. Land subdivided under the provisions of this Section 9.03.02.B(2) may not be resubdivided under the provisions of this Section 9.03.02.B(2). Any further subdivision of a lot or tract created by approval of a minor subdivision plat under this Section 9.03.02.B(2) must be accomplished following the preliminary plat and final plat approval processes as described beginning with Section 9.03.03 of this UDC.
D.
Approval of a minor subdivision shall be conducted as follows:
1)
The subdivider shall submit a final plat to the Planning and Zoning Office that is clearly and legibly drawn in permanent ink on easily reproducible tracing material. Sheet sizes shall be no larger than 17 inches by 21 inches. The final plat shall also meet the following specifications, as applicable:
a.
Certification by the landowner shall be shown directly on the final plat setting forth the description of the public rights-of-way and other lands or facilities to be dedicated to Catoosa County.
b.
Certification by the Catoosa County Health Department or the applicable city Water and Sewer Department shall be shown directly on the plat or by separate letter that the water and sewerage systems meet the applicable regulations.
c.
Certification by the Zoning Administrator that all improvements have been installed shall be shown directly on the plat.
d.
Certification by the Catoosa County Soil and Water Conservation District and the Director of Stormwater Management that an approved soil erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan has been secured.
2)
Approval of the final plat by the Zoning Administrator, the Planning Commission Chair and one member of the Planning Commission shall authorize recordation of the plat with the Clerk of the Superior Court.
3)
Deeds and easement agreements, as applicable, for all public rights-of-way and other lands or facilities to be dedicated to Catoosa County are forwarded to the Board of Commissioners for acceptance.
4)
After recordation of the Final Plat, the lots may be sold, and building permits and driveway permits on the lots may be obtained.
9.03.03   Application for Preliminary Plat Approval
A.
Prior to commencing work of any type, the subdivider of any subdivision that is not a minor subdivision as defined herein shall submit the following documents no later than the close of business on the fourth Thursday of the month. Documents are to be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Office.
1)
An application (and fee as may be established by the Board of Commissioners from time to time) requesting review of a preliminary plat at the regular monthly meeting of the Planning Commission, and an acknowledgement that a representative will be at the meeting to discuss the project.
2)
Ten copies of the preliminary plat prepared in accordance with Section 9.03.05 of this UDC and all other documents required elsewhere in this Article.
3)
If all documents are presented in the proper form an agenda number will be assigned and the matter considered at the next meeting. Should the documents be incomplete, the matter cannot be placed on that month's agenda and also cannot be rescheduled until the defect is corrected.
B.
Notification of Development to Utility Providers
1)
Developer to Deliver Plats to Affected Utilities. Prior to review of a preliminary plat by the Planning Commission, each utility provider to be involved in the subdivision development must receive a copy of the proposed plat. The developer shall provide proof of delivery to the Planning Commission. Proof may be shown by certified mail receipt, or by an authorized signature of the utility.
2)
Time for Delivery. The developer shall deliver the preliminary plat to the affected utilities prior to making an application for preliminary plat approval.
3)
Duty of Utility. The utility must act upon the plat after receipt. Each utility shall sign or stamp the plat or shall provide approval in writing. Failure to act after delivery prior the meeting of the Planning Commission at which the plat is considered shall be equivalent to approval of the plat by the utility. The utility must state the reasons for disapproval in writing, delivered to the Planning Commission, or may send a representative to the meeting at which the plat is considered.
9.03.04   Review of Preliminary Plat
The Zoning Administrator shall check the plat for conformance to this UDC, and the Planning Commission shall afford a hearing on the preliminary plat at the appropriate meeting.
A.
After meeting health department regulations the Planning Commission shall give tentative approval or disapproval to the preliminary plat. A notation of the action shall be made on two copies of the preliminary plat, including a statement of the reasons for disapproval if the preliminary plat is disapproved. One copy shall be returned by the Planning Commission.
B.
Approval of the preliminary plat does not constitute approval of a final plat. It indicates only approval of the layout as a guide to the preparation of the final plat. Preliminary plat approval shall expire and be null and void after a period of 12 months unless construction is begun or unless an extension of time is granted in writing by the Planning Commission. After recordation of the final plat, lots may be sold, and building permits may be obtained.
C.
In the case of a large development to be done in phases, the approval for any portion of the area that is not completed within the 12 months noted in Subsection B. above expires and must be resubmitted and new approval granted prior to any work being performed.
D.
If some action on a preliminary plat is not taken by the Planning Commission within 45 days of the date of complete submittal, the preliminary plat shall be considered approved and a certificate of preliminary approval shall be issued on demand. However, the applicant for approval may waive this requirement and consent to an extension of time. This 45-day rule shall not apply if a regular meeting is held during this time and a representative of the developer is not present to discuss his plan.
9.03.05   Preliminary Plat Specifications
A.
Scale. The preliminary plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn at a scale not smaller than 100 feet to one inch.
B.
Sheet Size. Sheet size shall be no greater than 17 inches × 36 inches. If the complete plat cannot be shown on one sheet of this size, it may be shown on more than one sheet with an index map on a separate sheet of the same size.
C.
Ground Elevations. The preliminary plat shall show ground elevations, based on the datum plane of the U.S. coast and geodetic survey with contour lines at intervals of not more than five feet. Surveyor shall state on the preliminary plat that he has field verified topographical survey.
D.
Information to be Provided on Preliminary Plat. The preliminary plat shall contain the following information:
1)
Name and address of owner of record and of subdivider.
2)
Proposed name of subdivision and its acreage.
3)
Statement acknowledging the acceptability of soil for septic tank use determined by Catoosa County Health Department in accordance with current standards based on type of soil and slope.
4)
North point and graphic scale and date.
5)
Vicinity map showing location and acreage of the subdivision.
6)
Exact boundary lines of the tract with bearings and distances. Parallel lines and rectangular lot need not depict identical distances or bearings.
7)
Names of owners of record of adjoining land.
8)
Existing streets, utilities and easements on and adjacent to the tract.
9)
Proposed layout, to be reviewed by a registered engineer or a registered land surveyor, including streets and alleys, proposed street names, lot lines with approximate dimensions, and easements.
10)
Block number and lot numbers. If the preliminary plat is an additional phase of an existing subdivision the lot numbers must be consecutive to the lot numbers in the original subdivision.
11)
Exact locations and sizes of water supply, public sewers and utility lines shall be furnished by the appropriate utility.
12)
A soil erosion and sedimentation plan is to be submitted and reviewed in accordance with the requirements of Section 3.02.00 Soil Erosion, Sediment and Pollution Control of this UDC.
13)
Required setbacks of the zoning district and the front setback line for each lot.
14)
Present zoning of the tract and the zoning of abutting land.
15)
Proposed street cross sections and centerline profiles; including proposed finished elevations.
16)
The acreage of each drainage area affecting or affected by the proposed subdivision. The size and type of the drainage structure is to be determined by the project engineer.
17)
Location of existing streams, lakes, swamps, sinkholes, and land subject to flood as determined from past history of flooding or hydraulic engineering calculations of existing conditions.
18)
Plat shall state whether or not any part of the proposed development lies within the 100-year flood plain as defined by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
19)
Certification by a registered land surveyor attesting that the preliminary plat has been prepared in conformity with the minimum standards of this UDC.
20)
Certification, directly on the preliminary tracing, of approvals by all agencies and utilities required by this Section.
21)
Indicate the most recent traffic count, as recorded by the Georgia DOT, on any existing road or street affected by this subdivision.
E.
Certificate of Preliminary Approval.
A certificate of approval, by the Planning Commission, for the preliminary plat, shall be inscribed on the plat in substantially the following form:
Pursuant to the Unified Development Code of Catoosa County, Georgia, all the requirements of preliminary approval having been fulfilled, this preliminary plat was given preliminary approval by the Catoosa County Planning Commission on ____________/____________/____________, 20 ____________ . This preliminary approval does not constitute approval of a final plat. This certificate of preliminary approval shall expire and be null and void 12 months from the date written above.
____________ ____________      ____________ / ____________ / ____________
Chairman, Catoosa County Planning Commission   Date
9.03.06   Final Plat Procedure
A.
Application for Final Plat Approval.
After the completion of the installation of all infrastructure required by this UDC or shown on the approved preliminary plat, the subdivider shall submit the following documents to the Planning and Zoning Office:
1)
An application requesting review of a final plat.
2)
Ten copies of the final plat prepared in accordance with Section 9.03.06.D of this UDC and all other documents required elsewhere in this UDC.
3)
In addition to paper submissions as required by this UDC, all as-built and final plats for subdivisions containing 10 or more lots shall be submitted in an electronic format which is compatible with the county's GIS format. All such plans shall be CAD files submitted in AUTOCAD, Microstation, or ESRI ARC MAP format.
B.
Surety for Completion of Improvements.
To assure the maintenance of roads, curbs, etc., during and until the end of the 24-month waiting period prior to final acceptance as a county road, the developer shall provide a form of financial surety to guarantee funds are available for maintenance.
1)
Surety Bond. The Planning Commission shall not grant final plat approval until said written surety is presented to the Planning Commission. This surety shall take the form of a surety bond issued by a surety qualified under the laws of Georgia.
2)
Requirements. To assure the repair or replacement of required improvements, the subdivider shall deliver to the Planning Commission, a surety bond in such aggregate amount as is estimated by the Planning Commission to be the total cost of the construction and installation of all public improvements which are the responsibility of the subdivider.
3)
Conditions. Bonds posted shall be payable to Catoosa County and provide that the subdivider, his heirs or successors and assigns, and their agents and servants, will comply with all applicable terms, conditions, provisions and requirements of this UDC; will faithfully perform and complete the work of constructing and installing said facilities or improvements in accordance with this UDC; and that the subdivider shall be responsible to Catoosa County for any unnecessary expense incurred through the failure of the subdivider, his heirs, successors and assigns, or their agents or servants, to complete the work of said construction in an acceptable manner, and from any damages growing out of negligence in performing or failing to perform said construction and installation.
4)
Duration and Release. Bonds and/or other surety posted pursuant to this UDC shall be released or returned as the case may be, at such time as the facilities guaranteed thereby have been accepted by Catoosa County. Acceptances shall be in writing accurately identifying the improvements covered. Facilities shall not be accepted unless they conform to the applicable county specifications and requirements. Acceptance of facilities will be considered only upon separate written request by the developer, subdivider, or any person or persons who own all fee simple interest in the subject facility.
5)
Default. If the repair or replacement of any improvements or facilities for which a bond is posted is not completed within one month after substantial completion of any building or structures which said improvements or facilities are designed to serve, or within one year after the date of recording of the final plat, whichever is sooner, or if said construction or installation is not in accordance with applicable standards, the county may proceed to construct, install or modify said improvements or facilities in accordance with the applicable specifications and requirements using the proceeds from such surety deposits to pay for such work. Such work may be done under contract or by county personnel. To the extent that any portion of a cash deposit is not required or used, said excess cash shall be repaid to the person making the deposit.
6)
Certification of Receipt of Surety for Required Improvements.
a.
The Planning Commission shall issue a receipt for surety as filed.
b.
The Planning Commission shall not cause its final approval stamp to be affixed to the plat until said receipt is issued and the receipt number inscribed on the plat.
C.
Review of Final Plat.
1)
The Zoning Administrator shall check the final plat for conformance with the approved preliminary plat and shall check for compliance with all requirements of applicable rules and regulations.
a.
The Zoning Administrator shall be authorized to approve or disapprove the final plat with the concurrence of the chairman and one member of the Planning Commission, provided no changes have been made from the approved preliminary plat, and provided further the Catoosa County Public Works Department has affixed a stamp of certification to the plat showing any roads or streets thereon have been inspected and are found to be in compliance with the requirements of Catoosa County for county roads.
b.
If approved, a notation of the action shall be made on seven prints of the final plat supplied by the applicant, two copies of which are to be recorded in the Office of the Clerk of the Superior Court as provided for elsewhere in this UDC, and two of which are to be provided to the Planning and Zoning Office. A fifth copy is to be retained in the files of the Catoosa County Health Department or the applicable city Water and Sewer Department.
c.
If disapproved, a written statement of the therefor shall be provided to the applicant.
2)
If action is not taken by the Planning Commission within 45 days of the date of a complete submittal, the final plat shall be considered approved and a certificate of approval shall be issued on demand. However, the applicant for approval may waive this requirement and consent to an extension of time.
D.
Final Plat Specifications.
The final plat shall conform to and meet the specifications of the preliminary plat, with the following additions:
1)
The final plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn in permanent ink on easily reproducible tracing material.
2)
Sheet sizes shall be no larger than 17 inches × 21 inches, and where more than one sheet is required an index map shall be required on the same size sheet.
3)
The final plat shall show:
a.
Bearings and distances to the nearest existing street lines or benchmarks or other permanent monuments shall be accurately described on the plat.
b.
Municipal, county and land lot lines accurately tied to the lines of the subdivision by distances and angles when such lines traverse or are reasonably close to the subdivision.
c.
Exact boundary lines of the tract, determined by a field survey.
d.
Name of subdivision, exact location, widths, and names of all streets and alleys within and immediately adjoining the plat.
e.
Street centerlines showing angles of deflection, angles of intersection, radii and lengths of tangents.
f.
Lot lines with dimensions to the nearest one-tenth foot and bearing to the nearest minute.
g.
Lots numbers in numerical order and any blocks lettered alphabetically. If done in phases no duplication of lot numbers.
h.
Location, dimensions and purposes of any easements and any areas to be reserved or dedicated for public use.
i.
Accurate location, material and description of monuments and markers.
j.
Certification by a registered land surveyor directly on the plat attesting to the accuracy of the survey, plat and placement of monuments.
k.
Certification by the landowner, directly on the final plat, setting forth the description of the areas and improvements he dedicates to the public, including streets, alleys, walkways and other open spaces.
l.
Certification by the Catoosa County Health Department or the applicable city Water and Sewer Department directly on the plat or by separate letter that the water and sewerage systems meet the requirements of health department regulations.
m.
Certification by the Zoning Administrator of Catoosa County that all improvements have been installed.
n.
Certification of approval, directly on the plat, by the Planning Commission chair and one member that all requirements of this UDC have been met and the plat is approved for recording in the Office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Catoosa County.
o.
Certification by the Catoosa County Soil and Water Conservation District and the Director of Stormwater Management that an approved soil erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan has been secured.
p.
Vicinity map showing location and acreage of the subdivision.
q.
A certification by the road inspector of the Catoosa County Public Works Department that all roads and rights-of-way within the subdivision to be henceforth maintained by Catoosa County have been constructed according to the specifications of this ordinance or to a greater standard. Such certification will be evidenced by the official stamp of the road inspector on the plat.
E.
Changes from the Approved Preliminary Plat.
1)
If it should become necessary (due to unusual or unexpected physical or topographical reasons) to vary from the details of the approved preliminary plat, the Planning Commission shall not be obligated in any way to approve the changes just because the developer has already completed the improvements.
2)
It is strongly suggested that the developer contact the Planning Commission for review before varying (more than slightly) from the requirements of the approved preliminary plat.
F.
Recording of Final Plat.
1)
Upon approval of a final plat, it shall be recorded in the Office of the Clerk of Superior Court of Catoosa County. Proof of the recording is to be returned to the Planning and Zoning Office to be kept on file.
2)
Minimum Quantity of Lots to be Recorded
a.
When the Planning Commission grants final approval for any subdivision of land resulting in the creation of 20 or less new lots, a final plat of all of the resultant lots will be recorded (at the direction of the Planning Commission) in the Office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Catoosa County within three business days of the satisfactory completion of the drawings.
b.
Subdivisions of land resulting in more than 20 new lots may, at the written request of the developer, be recorded in the following manner:
i.
A complete master final plat covering the entire development must be submitted to and receive approval of the Planning Commission.
ii.
Upon full approval of the Planning Commission, this plat will be endorsed accordingly and retained in the files of the Planning and Zoning Office and a copy delivered to the Board of Tax Administrators.
iii.
Any portion of this plat that meets or exceeds the greater of 20 lots or 20 percent of the total number of lots as shown on the approved master plat, may be submitted as a separate drawing for certification of approval and recording.
iv.
The Chairman of the Planning Commission and one additional member of the Planning Commission (without further commission action) shall be authorized to certify these separate plats for recording so long as they conform exactly with the approved master final plat on file.
9.04.00 - PERMITS
9.04.01   Building/Development Permit Required
A.
It shall be unlawful to commence the excavation or filling of any lot for any construction of any building, or to commence construction of any building, or to commence the moving or alteration of any building or to commence the development of more than one acre of land (or the development of any size tract of land involving the creation of, or engaging in the operation of a mine, landfill, junkyard or recycling plant), for a use not requiring a building, until a building/development permit for such work has been issued by the zoning administrator.
B.
Completion of an application for such permit shall constitute permission for all county zoning entities to inspect or view the property at all reasonable times and to make such nondestructive testing (including, but not limited to, soil borings) as may be reasonable to determine factors relevant to the criteria set forth in this ordinance.
9.04.02   Application for Building/Development Permit
A.
All applications to the Zoning Administrator for building/development permits shall be accompanied by a site plan to scale (in the event that the Zoning Administrator cannot with reasonable certainty ascertain that the setback distance requirements are met, then the site plan shall be accompanied by a survey from a professional surveyor, or other similar licensed professional) in duplicate, showing:
1)
The actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon;
2)
The size of the building to be erected;
3)
The location of the building on the lot;
4)
The location of existing structures on the lot, if any;
5)
The number of dwelling units the building is designed to accommodate;
6)
The setback lines of buildings on adjoining lots (an approximation may be made if access to such property is prohibited);
7)
The layout of off-street parking and loading spaces;
8)
Such other information as may be essential for determining whether the provisions of this ordinance are being observed; and
9)
The name and address of the landowner and the name, address and telephone number of the applicant.
10)
With respect to all buildings or structures to which Section 4.07.00 of this UDC applies, there shall also be submitted a plan depicting in detail the type, nature, location and amount of exterior lighting to be utilized in connection with said building or structure.
B.
Additional Requirements for Planned Unit Development (PUD).
Building/development permits may be issued upon approval of final development plans by the Planning Commission. Final development plans shall include the following:
1)
All those requirements designated for submission with the preliminary development plans in accordance with Section 9.02.01B;
2)
Detailed landscaping plans, including and designating types of buffer or landscape screens placed between abrupt changes of land uses;
3)
Detailed engineering plans or final subdivision plat showing site grading, street improvements, drainage and public utility locations;
4)
Other conditions as applicable to the PUD; and
5)
Covenants, and other agreements concerning construction, operation, and administration of the area such as green areas, housing corporations, etc.
C.
Other Requirements.
1)
Site Landscaping Plans.
a.
Site landscaping plans are required upon application for a development permit or for a building permit for new construction of buildings in any development to which landscaping, screening or buffer requirements apply (see Section 4.08.00 of this UDC).
b.
The location and detail (including size, spacing and species of plantings) of all zoning buffers and screening shall be depicted on the required site landscaping plan.
c.
The site landscaping plan shall be to scale and shall be stamped by a landscape architect that is registered in the state of Georgia.
2)
Street Address. In accordance with Chapter 58. Roads, Article III. Road Naming of the Catoosa County Code of Ordinances, all residential and business buildings shall be assigned a number prior to the issuance of a building permit.
9.04.03   Construction Progress; Term (Duration) of Permit
A.
Any building/development permit and a special use permit issued shall become invalid unless the work authorized by it shall have been commenced within six months of the date of issue, or if the work authorized by the permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of one year.
B.
For Planned Unit Developments (PUDs), construction shall be initiated within one year from the date of final approval of the PUD; an extension to the applicant may be granted provided that:
1)
A formal written request for the extension is presented to Catoosa County at least 90 days prior to the deadline; and
2)
The written request explains the reasons that construction was not initiated within the time allotted.
9.04.04   Permit for Development Affecting Abandoned Cemeteries and Burial Grounds
A.
The permit shall contain the standards set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-72-1 et seq., and those standards and the procedures therein shall be satisfied by the applicant.
B.
The permit fee shall be $2,500.00.
C.
The Planning Commission and the Zoning Administrator are the delegated authority to implement the permit herein, and to administer all proceedings and its enforcement.
D.
The Board of Commissioners retains the power reserved to it under O.C.G.A. § 36-72-7 to make a final decision on the application.
9.04.05   Additional Permits
A.
See Article III for required permits and procedures associated with natural resource protection.
B.
See Article V for sign permit requirements.
9.05.00 - NUISANCE ABATEMENT
9.05.01   Illustrative Examples of Nuisances
A.
Illustrative Examples of Nuisances.
The following conditions, whether on occupied or unoccupied lands, public or private property are hereby declared to be and constitute a public nuisance and shall be abated; although this Section shall not be construed to be limiting with regard to its enumeration of public nuisances:
1)
Weeds or grass allowed to grow to a height of greater than 12 inches on the average, or any accumulation of dead weeds, grass, or brush, that may provide safe harborage for rats, mice, snakes and/or other vermin.
2)
Vegetation that obstructs the safe passage or line of sight of motorists or pedestrians at an intersection or driveway connection with a public or private street or alley or along any street or sidewalk.
3)
Accumulation of trash, rubbish, refuse, junk, construction debris and other abandoned materials, metals, lumber, or other such items.
4)
The keeping or maintenance of one or more abandoned vehicles in public view or in a manner inconsistent with this Section.
5)
All noises which may annoy or inhibit others in the reasonable enjoyment or use of their property, or any noise that is unreasonably loud, disturbing or unnecessary. Any bass sound that causes vibrations or rattles adjoining properties or homes.
6)
The following conditions with respect to noise are hereby declared to be and constitute a public nuisance and shall be abated:
a.
The sounding of any bell, horn, whistle, mechanical device operated by compressed air, or signal device while not in motion, except as a danger signal, for any unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
b.
The use of any siren, other than police, fire or emergency vehicle;
c.
The use or operation of any musical instrument, radio, loudspeaker, or sound amplifying device so loudly as to disturb persons in the vicinity thereof;
d.
The use of any vehicle that is in a state of disrepair so as to create loud or unreasonable grinding, rattling, backfiring or other noise.
7)
All disagreeable or obnoxious odors or stenches as well as conditions, substances or other causes which give rise to the admission or generation of such odors or stenches, including smoke and fires, with the exception that noxious or offensive odors which are caused by an animal and which spread to property other than that of the owner shall be abated in accordance with Article 14 Animals of the Official Code of Catoosa County, Georgia.
8)
The pollution of any public well, stream, lake, canal or body of water by sewage, dead animals, industrial waste, agricultural waste, industrial waste, or other substances.
9)
Any building structure or other place or location where any activity is conducted, performed or maintained in violation of local, state or federal law.
10)
Any accumulation of stagnant water.
11)
Any method of human excretion disposal, which does not conform to the provision of local ordinances, state or federal law.
12)
Keeping of nondomesticated animals in a residential zone.
13)
Visual clutter.
14)
Illegal filling of land.
15)
A nonconforming use in a district.
16)
Dilapidated structures.
17)
Discharge of stormwater or soil or sediments onto county roads or right-of-ways which constitute a potential danger to motorists.
B.
Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity to cause, permit, maintain, or allow the creation or maintenance of a nuisance, as defined in this UDC.
C.
Nuisance Abatement.
1)
Authorization.
a.
The Zoning Administrator shall have the power to bring actions for nuisance as they appear upon complaint by aggrieved citizens or otherwise, in his discretion.
b.
In all cases for an abatement of a nuisance the Zoning Administrator shall request the defendant to abate the nuisance before instituting an action.
2)
Affidavit of Complaint.
No investigation or action based upon nuisance shall be commenced unless at least three persons from different households sign an affidavit of complaint with the Zoning Administrator, subject to subsection (3), below.
3)
Discretion to Zoning Administrator.
a.
If the Zoning Administrator determines the allegations of the affidavit of complaint appear to be made for the purposes of harassment by neighbor against neighbor, or are otherwise not brought in good faith, he may refuse to act upon the complaint.
b.
The Zoning Administrator shall also be vested with discretion to bring an action for nuisance on his own motion or refuse to bring an action if in his opinion circumstances demand.
4)
Notice to Abate.
a.
Whenever any nuisance is found to exist within the jurisdiction of the county, the Zoning Administrator shall give written notice to the owner or occupant of the property upon which such nuisance exists or upon the person causing or maintaining the nuisance, to abate the nuisance.
b.
The notice to abate a nuisance issued under the provisions of this Article shall contain the following:
i.
An order to abate the nuisance or to request a hearing within a stated time, which shall be reasonable under the circumstances;
ii.
The location of the nuisance, if the nuisance is stationary;
iii.
A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
iv.
A statement of acts necessary to abate the nuisance; and
v.
A statement if the nuisance is not abated as directed, the county will file an action in the Magistrate Court of Catoosa County, Georgia, to abate the nuisance.
D.
Penalties for Violation.
1)
Following a hearing in the magistrate court and upon a finding by the magistrate court that a nuisance exists and upon the failure of the owner or occupant of the property or the person causing or maintaining the nuisance to fail to abate the nuisance, that person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction, shall be punished for each offense according to the law with the fine to be not less than $50.00 and not more than $1,000.00.
2)
Each day such violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
E.
Nothing in this Section shall affect the policy of conserving, protecting, and encouraging agricultural and food production operations as stated in O.C.G.A. § 41-1-7.
9.06.00 - APPEALS
9.06.01   Appeals, Hearings and Notice
A.
Any appeal from, or request for review of, the decision of a zoning entity must be filed within 30 days from the date of the decision of such entity. The date of the decision shall be the date the decision is written, signed by or on behalf of the zoning entity and recorded in its minutes.
B.
Appeals from a decision of the Zoning Administrator to the Planning Commission may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of Catoosa County affected by any decision of the Zoning Administrator. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the Planning Commission a written appeal specifying the grounds therefor. If a form is provided for such use, it may be used, but any relevant additional attachments may be made to such form.
C.
Review of a decision of the Planning Commission to the governing authority may be had by any person aggrieved, or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of Catoosa County affected by any decision of the Planning Commission or by the Zoning Administrator. Such review shall be taken by filing with the Planning Commission a written appeal specifying the grounds therefor. If a form is provided for such use, it may be used, but any relevant additional attachments may be made to such form. Within 10 days thereafter, the Planning Commission shall transmit to the governing authority all documents constituting the record of the hearing below.
D.
The review by the governing authority shall be by means of exhibits, or other evidence submitted at the Planning Commission hearing (if a written transcript is requested by any affected person or by the governing authority, then the requesting entity shall bear the cost of preparation and submittal to the governing authority) unless the governing authority specifically makes a finding that the record needs supplementation; in such event, the governing authority may provide for a hearing by it or the Planning Commission for the purpose of receiving such supplemental evidence (such limited hearing will be conducted in substantially the same format as the procedures set forth in this ordinance for Planning Commission zoning hearings). The decision of the governing authority may affirm, reverse, modify and/or remand (with or without directions) the decision below and shall state the written reasons therefor; and such decision shall be rendered within 45 days from the date of the hearing it may hold. It shall be necessary for the party seeking review from the decision of the Planning Commission to obtain a majority vote of the members present of the governing authority in order to overrule or reverse the decision of the Planning Commission; otherwise, the decision of the Planning Commission shall stand. Recourse from a decision of the governing authority shall be to a court of competent jurisdiction when so provided by state law. A copy of such appeal shall be filed with the Planning Commission and the governing authority within five days from any court filing. The date of the hearing on the review shall be at its regular meeting of each month following the date of action by the Planning Commission. The governing authority may continue the hearing at the request of any party or upon its own request.
9.06.02   Stay of Proceedings
An appeal stays all hearing proceedings (except for court orders) in furtherance of the action appealed from (or that review is sought from) unless the Zoning Administrator certifies after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by an order which may be granted by the Planning Commission, governing authority or by a court of record on application, on notice to the Zoning Administrator, and on due cause shown.
9.07.00 - JURISDICTION, ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES
9.07.01   Primary Jurisdiction
A.
When violations of any portion of this UDC shall occur, the Zoning Administrator, Building Official or other designated enforcement officer shall issue a citation and prosecute said citation (with the advice and direction of the county attorney) in the magistrate court of Catoosa County.
9.07.02   Enforcement
A.
The Zoning Administrator shall have the power to enforce the provisions of this Article, and may write citations or commence proceedings for violations as they appear upon complaint by aggrieved persons or otherwise.
B.
In furtherance of his duties, the Zoning Administrator shall be relieved from any liability for trespass upon private property, provided he is in the scope of his duty.
9.07.03   Penalties
A.
Any person violating any provision of this Article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished for each offense according to law with the fine to be not less than $50.00 and not more than $1,000.00, or 60 days or both. Each day such violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense. In addition to any other penalties that may be imposed in this ordinance, a double permit fee will be charged for violators not obtaining a building/development permit originally (prior to construction or development).
B.
Penalties for violation. Where the court finds a defendant guilty of a violation of this Article or any other portion of the UDC the Zoning Administrator is charged to enforce, the court shall in all cases impose at least a $100.00 fine.
9.07.04   Remedies
In case any building is in the process of being (or has been) erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building or land is used in violation of the this UDC, the Zoning Administrator, or any other appropriate county authority, or any person who has suffered or will suffer annoyance, noise, traffic hazard or other harm in addition to or beyond or increased over conditions already existing prior to the alleged violation, in addition to any other remedies provided by law, may seek injunctive, mandamus or other appropriate relief to prevent (temporarily and/or permanently) or remedy (including the removal or destruction of a nonconforming structure, fill or other development) the violation. This ordinance shall be construed such that courts will be encouraged to freely grant interlocutory injunctions (even upon ex parte evidence if it finds upon affirmed evidence that the limited duration of such order would impose potentially less of a hardship on the owner/developer than it would on another (others) if the construction or use continued) until administrative legal remedies can be exhausted by the county. A specific legal remedy is the process of issuing a certificate of zoning compliance as set forth in Section 9.02.00.
9.07.05   Indemnity
All zoning entities and members thereof exercising the powers and authority (either expressly or implicitly) provided for in this UDC are indemnified by the County for their actions so long as the same are exercised in good faith.
ENGINEERING TECHNICAL STANDARDS MANUAL[1]
STANDARD DETAILS
EXPAND
Name Number
Residential Streets 201
Nonresidential Streets 202
Minimum Stopping Distance 203
Intersection Sight Distance Requirements for Driveways and Side Streets 204
Cul-de-Sac Details 205
Subdivision Entrance Intersection 206
Curb and Gutter Cross Sections 207
Utility Placement Detail 208
Utility Placement Detail 208-A
Utility Placement Detail 208-B
Nonresidential Driveway 209
Nonresidential Driveway on Existing Street Landing Requirements 210
Open Cut Pavement Repair Detail 211
Concrete Pavement Replacement Detail 212
