Chapter 30 - EMERGENCY SERVICES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 30-1—30-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - AMBULANCE SERVICE

Sec. 30-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Advanced life support ambulance service means that the ambulance, equipment on the ambulance, supplies on the ambulance and personnel manning the ambulance meet the requirements for advanced life support ambulance service as set forth in chapter 290-5-30—.04 of the rules and regulations of the state department of health.
Basic life support ambulance service means that the ambulance, equipment on the ambulance, supplies on the ambulance and personnel manning the ambulance meet the minimum standards set forth in chapter 290-5-30—.04 of the rules and regulations of the state department of health.
Dispatcher means the employee of the county who monitors 911 calls and routes emergency calls to the appropriate ambulance service.
(Res. of 9-21-93, § I)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 30-32. - Advanced life support ambulance service required.
The county shall not route emergency calls to any ambulance service that does not provide advanced life support ambulance service. If there is no ambulance available from the service that provides advanced life support to respond to the emergency call, a basic life support ambulance may be dispatched from the service to respond to the emergency call. If an advanced life support ambulance is not available from the service and the dispatcher dispatches a basic life support ambulance, the dispatcher shall also dispatch an advanced life support ambulance from another service to respond to the emergency call. If a basic life support ambulance and an advanced life support ambulance are both dispatched to a call, the advanced life support ambulance shall transport the patient unless circumstances require that the patient be transported by the first responding unit.
(Res. of 9-21-93, § II)
Sec. 30-33. - Inspections.
The director of the 911 emergency program shall determine whether an ambulance service provides basic life support services or advanced life support services. The director of the 911 system shall rely on the designation provided by the local coordinating entity designated by the board of human resources to determine whether an ambulance service provides advanced life support services.
(Res. of 9-21-93, § III)
Secs. 30-34—30-65. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - EMERGENCY 911 SYSTEM

Sec. 30-66. - Authority.
This article is adopted following the authorization for its adoption by a vote of a majority of the voters residing in the county who voted at the general election to authorize the implementation of an emergency 911 system in the county. This article is adopted pursuant to the authority granted to the board of commissioners pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-5-133. This article is adopted to implement the provisions of the "Georgia Emergency Telephone Number `911' Service Act of 1977," as amended.
(Ord. of 5-18-93(1), § I)
Sec. 30-67. - Billing of subscribers; collection of charge; equipment installation.
(a)
A monthly 911 charge as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county clerk shall be imposed on each subscriber of an exchange access facility for monthly 911 charges with respect to that facility by the service supplier. All exchange access facilities billed to federal, state or local governments shall be exempt from the 911 charge. Each service supplier shall, on behalf of the county, collect the 911 charge from those telephone subscribers to whom it provides exchange telephone service in the county. As a part of its normal monthly billing process, the service supplier shall collect the 911 charge for each month an access exchange facility is in service, and it shall list the 911 charge as a separate entry on each bill. If a service supplier receives a partial payment for a monthly bill from a telephone subscriber, the service supplier shall apply the payment against the amount the telephone subscriber owes the service supplier first.
(b)
Every telephone subscriber in the county shall be liable for the 911 charge imposed under this article until it has been paid to each service supplier. A service supplier shall have no obligation to take any legal action to enforce the collection of the 911 charge. The service supplier shall provide the governing authority, within 60 days, with the name and address of each subscriber located in the county who has refused to pay the 911 charge after such 911 charge has become due. The county may, in its discretion, initiate a collection action against each subscriber who has refused to pay the 911 charge after such 911 charge has become due. Further, the county shall be authorized to collect all reasonable costs incurred in collecting the 911 charge, including attorney's fees associated with the collection action to collect the 911 charge.
(c)
The county shall remain ultimately responsible to the service supplier for all emergency 911 system installation, service, equipment, operation and maintenance charges owed to the service supplier. Any taxes due on emergency 911 system service provided by the service supplier will be billed to the county. State and local taxes shall not apply to the 911 charge billed to telephone subscribers in accordance with provisions of O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134(c).
(Ord. of 5-18-93(1), § II)
Sec. 30-68. - Emergency telephone system fund; fee for collection of 911 charges; use of funds from emergency telephone system fund.
(a)
Each service supplier that collects 911 charges on behalf of the county is entitled to retain as an administrative fee an amount equal to three percent of the gross 911 charge receipts to be remitted to the county. The remaining amount shall be due quarterly to the county and shall be remitted to the county no later than 60 days after the close of a calendar quarter. Each service supplier shall maintain records of the amount of the 911 charge collected for a period of at least three years from the date of collection. The county may at its expense require an annual audit of the service suppliers' books and records with respect to the collection and remittance of the 911 charge.
(b)
There is established on behalf of the county a separate restricted revenue fund known as the emergency telephone system fund of the county. The county may invest the money in the fund in the same manner that other moneys of the county may be invested, and any income earned from such investment shall be deposited into the emergency telephone system fund of the county.
(c)
Money from the emergency telephone system fund of the county shall be used only as follows:
(1)
The lease, purchase or maintenance of emergency telephone equipment, including necessary computer hardware, software, and database provisioning; addressing; and nonrecurring cost of establishing of a 911 system;
(2)
The rate associated with the services suppliers' 911 service and other suppliers' reoccurring charges;
(3)
The actual cost of salaries of employees hired by the county solely for the operation and maintenance of the emergency 911 system;
(4)
Office supplies of the public safety answering points used directly in providing emergency 911 system services; and
(5)
The cost of leasing or purchasing a building used as a public answering point.
Moneys from the emergency telephone system fund cannot be used for the construction or lease of an emergency 911 system building until the local government has completed its street addressing plan.
(d)
The county may contract with a service supplier for any term negotiated by the service supplier and the county for emergency 911 system and may make payments from the emergency telephone system fund of the county to provide any payments required by the contract.
(Ord. of 5-18-93(1), § III)
Sec. 30-69. - Reaffirmation of emergency 911 system.
The county shall, by resolution, reaffirm the necessity for the 911 charge beginning with the 13th month following the month in which the emergency 911 system service is first provided in the county and during such month annually thereafter. The monthly 911 charge may be reduced at any time by the board of commissioners by resolution; however, the governing authority shall be required to reduce such monthly 911 charge at any time the projected revenues from 911 charges will cause the unexpended revenues in the emergency telephone system fund of the county at the end of the fiscal year to exceed by one and one-half times the unexpended revenues in such fund at the end of the immediately preceding fiscal year or at any time the unexpended revenues in such fund at the end of the fiscal year. Such reduction in the 911 charge shall be an amount that will avert the accumulation of revenues in such fund at the end of the fiscal year that will exceed by one and one-half times the amount of revenues in the fund at the end of the immediately preceding fiscal year. In order to provide additional funding for the county for emergency 911 system purposes, the county may receive federal, state, municipal or private funds, which shall be expended for the purposes contained in this article.
(Ord. of 5-18-93(1), § IV)
Sec. 30-70. - Creation of advisory board; membership; duties.
(a)
A nine-member advisory board consisting of the:
(1)
Sheriff;
(2)
Chief of police of the City of Ringgold, Georgia;
(3)
Chief of police of the City of Fort Oglethorpe, Georgia;
(4)
Chief of the Catoosa County-Ringgold fire department;
(5)
Chief of the Fort Oglethorpe fire department;
(6)
Director of the county emergency medical service;
(7)
Director of the Hutcheson Medical Center emergency medical service or his designee;
(8)
Civilian emergency medical service representative;
(9)
The representative of the board of commissioners, selected by the board of commissioners;
are designated as the advisory board under O.C.G.A. § 45-5-136. The remaining commissioners on the board of commissioners shall serve as ex officio members of the advisory board. The members of the advisory board shall serve until their replacements are named or their successors in office assume office. Vacancies on the advisory board will be filled by the board of commissioners.
(b)
The advisory board shall assist the board of commissioners in:
(1)
Reviewing and analyzing the progress by public safety agencies in developing 911 system requirements.
(2)
Recommending steps of action to effect the necessary coordination, regulation and development of a 911 system.
(3)
Identifying mutual aid agreements necessary to effect the 911 system.
(4)
Assisting in the promulgation of necessary rules, regulations, operating procedures, schedules and other such policy and administrative devices as shall be deemed necessary and appropriate.
(5)
Providing other services as may be deemed appropriate by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 5-18-93(1), § V)
Cross reference— Boards, commissions and authorities, § 2-126 et seq.
Sec. 30-71. - Prepaid wireless service charge.
(1)
911 Charge on prepaid wireless transactions. In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2, there is hereby imposed a prepaid wireless 911 charge, as defined by O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2(a)(4), upon every prepaid wireless retail transaction occurring within the jurisdiction of Catoosa County's public service answering point in the amount of 75 cents.
(2)
Collection of 911 charge on prepaid wireless transactions. Prepaid wireless 911 charges collected by sellers shall be remitted to the commissioner of the department of revenue at the times and in the manner provided by Chapter 8 of Title 48 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated with respect to the sales and use tax imposed on prepaid wireless calling service.
(3)
Administrative provisions. The clerk of the county is hereby directed to file with the state revenue commissioner a certified copy of this section and amendments thereto, in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2(j)(1), within ten days of enactment of this ordinance.
(4)
Depositing of funds; use of funds. In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2(j)(5), funds received by this county from charges imposed by this section shall be deposited in the emergency telephone system fund maintained by this county pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134 and kept separate from general revenue of the jurisdiction; all such funds shall be used exclusively for the purposes authorized by O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134(f).
(Ord. No. 11-001, §§ 1—4, 10-18-11)
