SECTION 5. - SCHEDULE OF PERMITTED USES

5-1 - Table of Permitted Uses.
modified
Within the various Land Use districts as indicated on the "Official Land Use Districts Map of Brantley County", no building, structure, or land shall be constructed, erected, altered, or used except as indicated in the following schedules:
5-1.1
Uses Permitted by Right: Uses permitted as a matter of right are indicated on the following schedule by the letter "X" in the appropriate column.
5-1.2
Special Exception: Uses permitted only after special review and approval of the County Commission are indicated on the following schedule by the letters "SE" in the appropriate column. Requests to approve a Use by Special Exception shall be advertised, reviewed and processed in the same manner as an amendment to the Official Land Use Districts Map as described in Section 12 - Amendment.
5-1.3
Uses Not Allowed: Uses not specifically designated by an "X" or "SF" within the appropriate column are not allowed within the district,
5-1.4
Conflict of Use Interpretation: In the event of a discrepancy between the various provisions of this ordinance as relates to a particular use of land being allowed in a particular Land Use district, Section 5, Schedule of Permitted Uses, shall govern.
5-1. Table of Permitted Uses
EXPAND
LAND USE LAND USE DISTRICT
AG RR R1 R22 DR22M MR MHP BR CH L-1 HI CA
RESIDENTIAL AND RELATED USES
Accessory Buildings or Uses not otherwise listed in this table, normally incidental to one or more permitted principal uses. X X X X X X X X X X X
Animals, non-commercial (domestic) no more than, (4) dogs, or (4) cats or (4) chickens, NO ROOSTERS as an accessory use to residential land uses, provided that in R-1, R-22, DR-22-M, M-R zones:
a) All buildings used to house the animals shall be set back not less than 25 feet from any property line.
b) All animals shall be maintained within the owner's property lines. X X X X X X
Animals, kennel, non-commercial, (10) as an accessory use to residential land uses provided that (Domestic Animals) a) Minimum lot size of one acre. b) All buildings used to house the animals shall be set back 30 feet from any property lines. X
Boarding or Rooming House SE X X
Chicken Houses (Commercial). All chicken house facilities shall be restricted to the A-G Land Use district and be located at least 1,000 feet from any residential dwelling or residential Land Use district, excluding any dwelling belonging to the owner of the poultry operation, as well as any commercial or industrial use. Setbacks for buildings shall be at least 100 feet from a public road or adjoining property line. Parcel upon which a poultry facility is to be sited shall be at least ten (10) acres in size. SE
Church or other Place of Worship, including Sunday School Buildings, parish houses, convents, nursery school, kindergartens and other related uses on the same premises and operated by the church provided that in any residential district:
a) Parking access shall be separated from adjoining private properties by a distance of at least fifteen (15) feet with a planted buffer.
b) The lot size shall be no less than three (3) acres;
c) Any building or structure established with any such use shall have minimum side and rear yards of fifty (50) ft. X X X X X X X X
Dwellings Residential Group Development Projects (Planned Development) SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE
Dwelling, Single Family X X X X X X
Dwelling, Two Family (Duplex) X X
Family Day Care Home in Single-family detached dwellings X X X X X X X
Family Personal Care Home (2-6) SE X
Farm Operations, including related structures X X
Garage Apartment, provided no more than one shall be permitted on a lot with the principal dwelling, and provided such shall be permitted only within the rear yard. The lot on which such use is to be established must be 50% greater in lot area than the minimum standard lot size for that district. X X X
Group Personal Care Home, provide that:
a) Minimum lot size of one (1) acre in all zones;
b) Parking is restricted to rear and side yard and shall be screened. SE X
Guest Quarters or Servant Quarters, provided no more than one shall be permitted on a lot with the principal building and provided such shall be permitted only within the rear yard. The lot on which such use is to be established must be fifty percent (50%) greater in lot area than the minimum standard lot size for the respective district. X X X
Home Occupation (See Section 9) X X X X X X X
Home Based Business (See Section 9) SE SE SE SE
Rural Home Occupation SE
Manufactured Home, individually sited, provided that:
a) The manufactured home shall meet the same minimum square footage, setback and yard requirements as any other single-family dwelling, and
b) Must be installed and anchored as per Georgia State minimum requirements, properly underpinned or skirted within 30 days with material comparable to the proposed manufactured home. X X X
Manufactured Housing Park, provided that
a) Access to manufactured housing parks shall be by paved street and directly abut a connector roadway as designed on the Major Thoroughfare Plan, Brantley County, Georgia, and,

b) The manufactured housing park meets the requirements of Section 9 of this ordinance. X
Public Owned Recreation Centers, Y.M.C.A. and Institutions of Similar Nature SE X X
Raising of Pen Raised Game Birds (commercial) - Pen shall be located a minimum of five hundred (500) feet from all property lines; however, in A-G districts, that such operations as part of a farm shall not be subject to setback provisions. SE
Raising of Pen Raised Game Birds (Personal Use) - Pen shall be located a minimum of five hundred (500) feet from all property lines; however, in A-G districts, that such operations as part of a farm shall not be subject to setback provisions. X
Schools (Public or Private) Elementary through High School SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE
Schools, Kindergartens, Nurseries, and Child Day Care Centers, provided that:
a) Off-street loading and unloading spaces are supplied; and
b) At least one-hundred (100) square feet of outdoor play area is supplied for each child accommodated; and
c) The entire play area is enclosed by a steel mesh security fence with lockable gates approved by the Building Inspector or other substantial building material affording equal or better protection having a minimum height of at least four (4) feet and constructed in such a manner that maximum safety to the children is ensured. SE SE SE SE SE SE SE
Tourist Homes (Bed and Breakfast Inn) SE SE SE SE
Recreational Vehicles, Occupied provided that:
Non-commercial, property owner-only or property owner-accompanied family and friends, recreational vehicle camping, meeting the following standards:
a. The lot must contain a minimum of three (3) acres.
b. Recreational vehicle(s) must be removed immediately following each camping stay.
c. Camping may be for a period not to exceed thirty (30) cumulative days per calendar year, pre parcel.
d. No rent, fees or other compensation may be charged or received for any campers accompanying the property.
e. Property-owner accompanied camping trips which include three (3) to five (5) recreational vehicles must be registered with the appropriate County department with any required fees. Permit must be prominently displayed, visible to code enforcement offers.
f. All recreational vehicles must be self-contained with potable water and waste holding tanks, wastewater may not be disposed of on-site unless an operational, permitted septic system exists on-site and is properly connected to.
g. The recreational vehicles must meet and exceed all minimum A-R zoning district setbacks.
h. Any camping proposed for more than five (5) recreational vehicles at one time or more than thirty (30) cumulative days per year, per parcel may only be approved by special exception. Permits must be prominently displayed, visible to code enforcement officers.
i. Recreational vehicles used in A-R zoning district camping and the camp sites are subject to ordinance compliance inspections.
j. No structures such as porches, storage space, additional rooms, permanent stairs, or the like, may be attached to recreational vehicles.
k. The parking of one unoccupied, travel trailer, motor coach, and pleasure boat.
Travel trailers and motor coaches not approved for camping or other temporary use, pursuant to this section, may not be located on A-R zoned property without the presence of a principle dwelling or home on-site. Such travel trailers must be unoccupied, and store as required SE
BUSINESS USES
Accessory Buildings or Uses X X X X X X X X X
Airport (Commercial or Private use) SE
Adult Entertainment Establishments, provided that,
a) No adult entertainment establishment shall advertise its location by signs more than six inches in height placed on the front of the building, which shall state the name of the business and hours of operation only.
b) No adult entertainment establishment shall advertise its location with flashing or other kinds of lights, signs, banners, or other devices, intended to attract the attention of the general public to its location.
c) Adult bookstores shall maintain all windows in a clear unobstructed manner so as to provide an open and unobstructed view by the public from all adjoining public thoroughfares and rights-of-ways.
d) Adult movie houses shall maintain all windows in a clear and unobstructed manner, so that the entire reception area, lobby, ticket sales area of the theater is open and unobstructed to view by the public from all adjoining public thoroughfares and rights-of-way.
e) Adult service establishments (bath houses, movie houses, etc.) shall maintain all windows in a clear and unobstructed manner, so that the entire reception area, lobby, ticket sales area of the service establishment is open and unobstructed to view by the public from all adjoining public rights-of-way. SE
Amusement or Recreational Activities (Commercial), carried on outside a building such as a golf or baseball driving range, miniature golf course, softball field, marinas, hunting, fishing and shooting preserves and/ or ranges, clubs, gardens, riding stables or archery ranges and uses of similar nature. SE SE
Amusement or Recreational Activities (Commercial), carried on outside a building which produces noise and/ or noxious fumes, such as drag racing strips, racetracks, motorcycle races or ATV (all-terrain vehicle) courses, and uses of a similar nature. SE SE
Amusement or Recreational Activities (Commercial) carried on wholly within a building such a cinema, theater, Auditorium, and use of similar nature. X X
Animal Hospital, Commercial Kennels, Veterinary Clinic or Animal Boarding place, located at least three hundred (300) feet from the nearest residential district. X X
Art Studio X X
Automobile Service Station, provided that major auto repair shall not be permitted, nor shall there be outside storage of materials or equipment other than merchandise offered for sale in a B-R or C-H district. X X X
Automobile, Truck, Farm Equipment, or Motorcycle Sales, Repair, or Upholstery, Auto Washerteria Paint Shop, or Tire Recapping, (including rebuilding of parts or sales of parts and equipment indoors only, no outside storage of equipment or parts except for L-I and H-I districts). X X X
Automobile Parking Lot or Parking Garage (Commercial) X X
Bait and Tackle Store; SE X X
Banks, Financial Institutions, and Offices not specifically listed elsewhere in this column. X X
Bookbinding, Printing, Engraving, Blueprinting, Photostatting, or Letter Shop X X X
Building Contractor and Related Activities and Storage of Building Supplies and materials, provided that outside storage is permitted in a C-H district by SE under the following conditions:
a) Minimum front yard setbacks from storage areas shall be 80 feet or equal to the principal building setback, whichever is greater;
b) Opaque screening of a nature not injurious to adjoining properties shall be erected on all sides to screen outside storage to a minimum height of eight (8) feet. Such screening shall be of quality and design comparable to the principal building. SE SE X X
Business School (Private) SE SE SE
Colleges and Universities including dormitories and fraternity or sorority houses if located on main campus; X X
Clothing and Dry Goods Stores, including shoe stores, men's shops, women's shops, variety stores and stores of similar nature. X X
Clubs or Lodges (Nonprofit) SE SE X
Conference Centers and Retreat Centers SE X X
Contractors Establishments SE X X X
Country clubs, including golf courses and clubhouses including restaurants and golf prop shops as accessory uses- residential lot size controlled by development district standards. SE SE SE
Cultural Facilities, libraries, museums, and similar facilities. SE SE X X
Dance School or studio SE X X
Day Care Centers (commercial) serving no more than seventeen (17) persons. SE X X
Day Care Centers (commercial) serving eighteen (18) or more persons. SE X
Department Stores X X
Drive-In Restaurants X X
Drive-In Theaters X
Drug Stores X X
Electrical Repair and similar repair of heavy commercial nature. X X
Electrical Appliance Repair, wholly contained within a building. SE X X
Experimental Laboratory X X X
Freight Express Office X X X
Farmers Market and Seasonal Produce Sales X X X
Farm Supplies, including feed, seed, and insecticides, and fertilizer retail sales. SE X X
Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate Establishments X X
Flower Shop X X
Food Stores, including retail bakeries, meat markets, dairy products, confectioner Shop, and stores of similar nature X X
Funeral Home X X
Furniture Upholstery Shop X X X
Glass Sales and Storage - Wholly contained within a building. X X X
Golf Course- Lighted SE X
Golf Course, provided that:
a) It shall be for daytime use only; and
b) All greens and fairways shall be set back at least one hundred (100) feet from any exterior property lines; and
c) Structures shall meet minimum setback requirements for single-family residences within the respective
district SE SE SE X
Growing of Crops X
Health Spas X X
Home Furnishing and Hardware, such as appliance sales, hardware stores, paint stores, sporting goods stores, furniture stores, and stores of a similar nature. X X
Hospitals, Nursing Homes, Care Homes, and Congregate Personal Care Homes, provided that:
a) The lot size shall be no less than three (3) aces within any district where allowed;
b) Any building or structure established with any such use shall have minimum side and rear yard of fifty (50) feet;
c) The front yard setback shall be twenty-five (25) feet more than required for other structures within the same district; and
d) The lot upon which any hospital is built shall front on an arterial or collector street as specified on the Major Thoroughfare
Plan. SE SE X X
Hotels SE X
Laboratory Service Professional Requirements - Medical, Dental X X
Laundromat X X
Locksmith, Gunsmith - Repairs and sales only. X X
Medical, Dental, or Similar Clinic X X
Motels SE X
Music Teaching Studio X X
Neighborhood Dry-cleaning Plants, Laundry Pick-up Stations:
a) The dry-cleaning plant and its operation shall meet the requirements of the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) and the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc.; and
b) The dry-cleaning plant shall serve not more than one pick-up and delivery station exclusive of one occupying the same premises as the plant; and
c) The building for a dry-cleaning plant shall not contain more than 4,000 square feet of floor area inclusive of dry-cleaning pick-up facilities within the building; and
d) The dry-cleaning plant shall be designed to operate in a manner that will not emit smoke, or odor, or objectionable waste materials and which will not produce noise that will carry beyond the walls of the building occupied by such plant; and
e) Fuel for operation of equipment shall be smokeless fuel; and
f) The applicant for the dry-cleaning plant shall certify in writing at the time of application that all the above conditions will be met. X X
Newspaper or Periodical production, Sales and Distribution X X X
Night club or Lounge, provided lot must front arterial street. X
Office Equipment Sales and Service X X
Pawn Shops and small personal loan offices other than commercial banks. X X
Personal Service Shops, such as barbershops, beauty shops, shoe repair, watch repair, and services of similar nature. SE SE X X
Pest control, providing no outside storage other than within an L-I and H-I district. X X X
Photography Studio SE SE X X
Radio and Television Towers, and Utility substations provided all buildings mast and other facilities are located at least two hundred (200) feet from adjacent property lines on any lot which adjoins any residential district. SE X X X
Radio and Television Studios SE X X X
Research, Scientific, and Testing Laboratories SE X X X
Restaurants, including drive-ins or drive-through facilities. SE X X
Railroad or Bus Passenger Station X X
Rail Freight Station X
Retail Auto Parts and Tire Stores X X
Residential Mobile Home Sales Room and Sales Lot
Security Worker Housing X X X X X X
Shell Home Display Yards X X X
Shrubbery Sales (wholly contained within the building.) X X X
Specialty Shops, such as gift shops, jewelry stores, jewelry repair, antique shops, and stores of a similar nature. X X
Taxidermist SE SE X X X
Taxi Office X
Telecommunications Towers (Commercial) SE SE SE SE
Telegraph or Messenger Service X X
Trade Schools SE X X
Travel Trailer Park, provided that:
a) No travel trailer nor R/V park shall be located except with direct access to a principal or minor arterial with a minimum lot width of not less than fifty (50) feet for that portion used for entrance and exit. No entrances or exits shall be through a residential district, or shall require movement of traffic from the park through a residential district;
b) The minimum lot area required for a travel trailer park shall be three (3) acres.
c) Spaces in a travel trailer park may be used by travel trailers provided they shall be rented by the day or week only, and an occupant of such space shall remain in the trailer park for a period of not more than thirty (30) days.
d) Management headquarters, recreational facilities, toilets, showers, laundry facilities and other uses and structures customarily incidental to operation of a trailer park are permitted as accessory uses in any district in which travel trailer parks are allowed.
g) No space shall be located so that any part intended for occupancy for sleeping purposes shall be within twenty (20) feet of the exterior property lines.

h) In addition to meeting the above requirements, the travel trailer park site plan shall be accompanied by a certificate of approval from the Brantley County Health Department. SE X
Utility Trailer Rentals and Rent-Alls X X
Vending Machines located out-of-doors subject to yard and setback requirements for the respective districts X X X X X
MANUFACTURING WHOLESALE & INDUSTRY
Acid Storage and Distribution X
Feed, Grain, or Fertilizer Wholesaling and Storage SE X
Freezer Locker Service, Ice Storage X
Greenhouse and Plant Nursery (Commercial) SE X X X
Heavy Manufacturing X
Heavy Manufacturing. The like which produce noise, odor, dust, fumes, fire hazards or other nuisance feature shall be setback not less than five hundred (500) feet from any H-I district boundary SE
Junk Yard or Auto Graveyard, provided that:
a) Minimum lot size of five (5) acres is required; and
b) Front yard setback increased fifty (50) feet over requirements for other uses in L-I and H-I zones; and
c) Must be set back five hundred (500) feet from any district boundary
d) The entire junkyard or auto graveyard shall be screened as required in Section 3-18. SE SE SE
Solid Waste, inert SE SE SE
Solid Waste, sanitary, waste energy SE
Light Manufacturing (see section 4-1.10) X
Lumber Yard, or Other Storage Not Specifically Listed in this column such yards if within an L-I district shall be enclosed by screening per Section 3-18. X X
Petroleum Storage (Wholesale storage and wholesale distribution) X
Railroad Classification and Repair Yard X
Sale of Livestock (Commercial Sales and/ or Auction Facility) SE X X
Stock Yards and Slaughter Houses SE SE
Truck Terminal X X
Warehousing (not related to sales on the premises) X X
Warehousing (mini Storage Facility) Storage for personal property SE X X
Wholesaling of a Light Commercial nature when operated in conjunction with or as part of a retail outlet X X X
Wholesaling (not covered in other parts of this list) X X X
Wood Products Manufacturing SE X
MISCELLANEOUS
Armories, for meetings and training organizations (National Guard, etc.) SE X X
Carnival or Athletic Event, Community Fair or Other Event of Interest to the Public, not to exceed thirty (30) days. X X X
Cemetery (Commercial or Family) SE SE X
Flea Market SE X
Religious Meetings, held in a tent or other temporary structure not to exceed thirty (30) days. X X X X
Temporary Buildings and Storage or Materials (in conjunction with construction of a building) on a lot where construction is taking place or on adjacent lots such temporary uses to be terminated upon completion of construction. No temporary building shall be used for residential purposes. X X X X X X X X X X X
  (Ord. of 9-8-2016; Ord. of 6-15-2017, Exh. A; Amend. of 11-17-2021 )
