Chapter 58 - PARKS AND RECREATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— A resolution adopted December 3, 2015(2), repealed ch. 58, §§ 51-1 and 82-31 and enacted a new ch. 58 as set out herein. Former ch. 58 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from a resolution adopted May 14, 1990.
State Law reference— State parks, O.C.G.A. § 12-3-1 et seq.; establishment of recreation systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-1 et seq.; recreation boards, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-5; Georgia state games commission, O.C.G.A. § 50-12-40 et seq.; authority to provide parks, recreation areas, programs and facilities, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(5).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 58-1. - Recreation required.
The board of commissioners shall provide recreational activities to the citizens of the county, employ a recreation director to carry out the recreation activities in the county and to provide for a parks and recreation advisory committee to advise the board of commissioners and assist the recreation department.
(Res. of 12-3-2015, § 3)
Secs. 58-2—58-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PARKS AND RECREATION ADVISORY COMMITTEE[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Authorities, boards and commissions, § 2-61 et seq.

Sec. 58-31. - Establishment of a parks and recreation advisory committee.
(a)
There is established and created for the county a committee to be known as the county parks and recreation advisory committee (referred to in this article as the committee).
(b)
The committee shall consist of five members, posts 1 through 5, and one optional youth member, post 6, appointed by the board of commissioners as follows:
(1)
Post 1 shall be an ex-officio position held by a county commissioner. The term for this post shall be for a period of two years as long as the member still holds elected office. This member can be reappointed at the expiration of a term and shall hold all powers and duties as other committee members.
(2)
Post 2 shall be an ex-officio position held by the county recreation director. This member shall serve as secretary of the committee and shall hold all powers and duties as other committee members.
(3)
Posts 3 through 5 shall be held by citizens of the county who are eighteen years of age or older and have knowledge and interest in sports and recreation, and/or property maintenance and/or development. The terms for these posts shall be for a period of two years and can be reappointed. Committee members holding these posts shall have a meetings attendance policy such that members missing two consecutive meetings or three meetings within a calendar year will be replaced. Individuals with children that participate in recreation sports programs directed by other counties or private entities with the exception of travel teams that do not directly conflict with the seasonal programs offered by the recreation department shall be ineligible to hold these posts. Members holding these posts shall not be an employee of the recreation department or the immediate family of any full-time employee of the recreation department as defined in section 500.700 of the county human resources policy.
(4)
Post 6 shall be an optional youth member. If the board of commissioners decides to make an appointment to this post, it shall be held by an individual whom at the time of appointment is a high school student in the county and is between the ages of 15 and 18 years old. The term for this post is one year and the member cannot be reappointed to the same post at the expiration of their term. This post shall not vote on matters coming before the committee but shall hold all other powers and duties as other committee members. Committee members holding this post shall have a meetings attendance policy such that members missing two consecutive meetings or three meetings within a calendar year will be replaced. Members holding this post shall not be an employee of the recreation department or the immediate family of any full-time employee of the recreation department as defined in section 500.700 of the county human resources policy.
(c)
The committee shall organize itself at its initial meeting by the election of a chairman, and vice chairman both of which shall be chosen only from posts three, four, or five and shall have a term of one year and are elected annually at the first meeting of each calendar year. The committee shall meet at the recreation department office regularly on the second Tuesday of every other month with the first annual meeting being in January and the committee can also meet upon the call of the chair; the committee shall hold its meetings in compliance with the state Open Meetings Act (O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq.). The committee shall hold its first meeting within 15 days of the final appointment of all of its initial members.
(d)
Any issue coming before the committee for a vote must receive a majority vote of the attending members to pass, with the chair and vice chair having the authority to vote on all matters. Three voting members of the committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business. The committee shall function under Robert's Rules of Order.
(e)
Neither the committee nor any member thereof shall have the authority or power to make any purchases or otherwise bind the county to any financial obligation or undertaking, such authority being hereby expressly prohibited and reserved unto the board of commissioners. Nothing in this section shall be construed to repeal any powers, duties, or authority of the ex-officio members in their capacity beyond this committee.
(f)
All members of the committee shall be provided a full and complete copy of this chapter of The Code of Brantley County, Georgia prior to participating in their first committee meeting.
(Res. of 12-3-2015, §§ 5, 6)
Sec. 58-32. - Powers, duties, and responsibilities.
The parks and recreation advisory committee was created to represent the board of commissioners and the community regarding matters related to our local parks and recreational activities.
The advisory committee shall recommend and advise the following to the county board of commissioners:
• The initiation, planning, design of a system of parks, facilities, etc., that will accommodate the public's need for parks and recreation activities.
• Rules and regulations by which parks and recreation programs may operate.
• Results of review of that portion of the annual budget of the county pertaining to the parks and recreation department.
• Fee schedules for programs conducted or operated by the department of parks and recreation.
• Ways and means by which parks and recreation programs may be improved or strengthened.
• Support of new parks, programs, and activities as public need may dictate.
• A system of fees and charges for use of parks and recreation facilities or for participation in parks and recreation programs, and to identify alternate sources of funding to parks and recreation such as grants, gifts, endowments, sponsor donations, etc.
• Rules governing participation in parks and recreation programs.
• Rules governing use of county parks and facilities.
The advisory committee shall be charged with the following responsibilities and report to the board of commissioners the same:
• Evaluate programs and activities which are offered from year to year.
• Assist with the adjudication of complaints, disputes or other grievances from the public arising out of parks and recreation activities.
• Assess the safety and security of site locations and physical facility standards.
• Perform other duties and responsibilities as may be conferred by the county board of commissioners from time to time.
(Res. of 12-3-2015, § 7)
