ARTICLE V. - TIMBER OPERATIONS[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted June 9, 2009, §§ I—VII, did not specify manner of inclusion; hence, codification as Art. V, §§ 26-171—26-176 was at the editor's discretion.

Sec. 26-171. - Title.
This article shall be known as the "Brantley County Timber Operations Ordinance."
(Ord. of 6-9-2009, § I)
Sec. 26-172. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the terms:
(1)
Board means the Board of Commissioners of Brantley County, or their successors in office, being the governing authority of Brantley County.
(2)
County means the unincorporated area of Brantley County, Georgia.
(3)
Timber means pine, cypress and hardwood trees and trees of every size, species and description. Also, for purposes of this article, "timber" includes such trees after harvesting and while being transported as logs or in shorter lengths.
(4)
Timber operations means purchasing and/or cutting and harvesting timber in Brantley County, or transporting such timber from the site at which it was cut; or the moving of equipment to and from the site of such cutting.
(5)
Timber operator means any person, firm or corporation engaged in commercial timber operations, whether engaged in one or all of said activities described in subsection (4) above. It shall not include persons cutting or transporting timber solely for noncommercial personal use or firewood.
(Ord. of 6-9-2009, § II)
Sec. 26-173. - Permit.
(a)
Permit required. No timber operator shall engage in the timber operations in the unincorporated area of Brantley County without first obtaining a permit to conduct such operations as provided herein; provided, however, employees of a timber operator shall not be required to obtain separate permits for activities within the scope of such employment if their employer has obtained a valid permit for such activities; and provided further, that an independent contractor transporting timber for another timber operator shall not be required to obtain a separate permit if the timber operator for whom he is transporting timber has obtained a valid permit for such timber operations at the same location.
(b)
Place of filing. The application for permit shall be signed by the applicant and filed with the Office of the Board of Tax Assessors for Brantley County, and forms shall be available at such office. The chief appraiser or his designee at said office of the Brantley County Tax Assessor shall review the application and issue the permit if all required information is provided. Completed application forms may be faxed or e-mailed to said office, and if the applicant provides his fax number, the permit may be faxed back to the applicant.
(c)
Application for permit. The application for permit shall be in the form prescribed by the board of commissioners from time to time and shall contain the following information:
(1)
The name, address and telephone number of the applicant, timber operator or timber purchaser.
(2)
If the applicant or timber operator intends to engage another or other contractor(s) to harvest or transport the timer, the application shall also include the name, address and telephone number of each such contractor or harvester.
(3)
The name, address and telephone number of the owner of the real property on which the applicant/purchaser/timber operator will perform the timber operations.
(4)
The location of the real property on which the applicant/purchaser/timber operator will engage in timber operations (to include the tax map and the parcel number).
(5)
The roads in Brantley County upon which motor vehicles will travel in transporting such timber and in transporting the equipment to be used in the timber operations.
(6)
The dates cutting operations are expected to commence and end.
(d)
Incomplete applications. Incomplete applications will not be accepted and will be returned to the applicant.
(e)
Other laws. In addition to the provisions of this article, the applicant for a permit shall comply with all state and federal regulations pertaining to its timber operations, including payment of all applicable ad valorem tax on the timber.
(f)
Cost. No fee shall be charged for filing the application or issuing the permit.
(g)
Separate applications. Applicants must file a separate application and receive a separate permit for each timber cutting operation and each separate landowner.
(Ord. of 6-9-2009, § III)
Sec. 26-174. - Notice to timber operators.
The county board of tax assessors shall mail or deliver a copy of this article to all timber operators and other persons whom the board has knowledge of or can identify as persons or businesses which cut, harvest or transport trees or timber on or from lands in Brantley County. A notice as to the adoption of this article shall be published in the newspaper for two weeks and made known to as many persons as possible dealing with timber in this county.
(Ord. of 6-9-2009, § V)
Sec. 26-175. - Application/permit numbers.
Each application filed shall be assigned a number consisting of the year and quarter of year of filing, followed by a number representing the order in which that application was filed in that year. (For example: The first application filed in the first quarter of 2009 would have a number of "2009-1-1").
The permit number will be the same number as the application number.
(Ord. of 6-9-2009, § VI)
Editor's note— The permit application referenced above has not been set out, but may be reviewed at the county offices.
Sec. 26-176. - Violations; penalties.
Any timber operator who shall willfully fail to comply with this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. The violation of the article shall be tried in the Magistrate Court of Brantley County, Georgia, and upon conviction, the timber operator shall be punished by fine not to exceed $1,000.00. Each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. of 6-9-2009, § VII)
Secs. 26-177—26-200. - Reserved.
