PART I - RELATED LAWS
ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Provided herein is 1927 Ga. Laws, page 500 which created a board of commissioners of the county. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used including the addition of catchlines where needed. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Creation.
There is hereby created a five-member Board of Commissioners of Brantley County who shall administer the affairs of the county.
(1968 Ga. Laws, page 2258; 1980 Ga. Laws, page 4262)
Sec. 2. - Numbering positions; qualifying of candidates.
For the purpose of electing members of the board, the respective positions on the board shall be numbered Post 1, Post 2, Post 3, Post 4, and Post 5. A candidate elected to Post 1 shall serve as the chairman of the board of commissioners for Brantley County during his respective term on the board. At the time of qualifying as a candidate for election to the board, a candidate shall designate the post for which he offers for election; and a candidate may not offer for more than one post. Candidates offering for election to the board may reside anywhere within the county.
(1968 Ga. Laws, page 2258; 1980 Ga. Laws, page 4262)
Sec. 3. - Staggered appointments.
The members of the Board of Commissioners of Brantley County serving on the effective date of this Act, or any successors appointed to fill vacancies created by such members, shall serve for a term of office expiring December 31, 1980. At the general election in 1980, the members of the board of commissioners elected to Post 1, Post 2, and Post 3 in accordance with the provisions of Section 2 shall be elected to take office on January 1, 1981, for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified. At said general election in 1980, the members elected to Post 4 and Post 5 shall be elected to take office on January 1, 1981, for terms of two years and until their successors are elected and qualified. Thereafter, successors shall be elected in the general election in the year in which the terms of office expire and shall take office on the first day of January immediately following their election for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(1968 Ga. Laws, page 2258; 1980 Ga. Laws, page 4262)
Sec. 4. - Chairperson.
The chairperson of the board of commissioners shall be the chief executive officer of the board. He or she shall not vote on questions coming before the board except to break a tie. The chairperson's salary shall be $8,000.00 per annum, to be paid in equal monthly installments from the funds of Brantley County. In addition to the compensation otherwise provided in this Act, the chairperson of the board of commissioners shall receive a mileage expense at the rate set by the State of Georgia for its employees per mile traveled pursuant to his or her official duties.
(1968 Ga. Laws, page 2258; 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4138; 1980 Ga. Laws, page 4262; 1985 Ga. Laws, page 4283; 1991 Ga. Laws, page 4457; 1999 Ga. Laws, page 4319; Res. of 11-13-2007; Res. of 12-27-2007, adopted 5-12-2008, eff. 1-1-2009)
Sec. 5. - Consolidation of returns; commission by Governor.
The managers of elections, held under this Act shall consolidate the return of said election as provided by law for general elections held in said county, and certify the results to the Probate Court of Brantley County, and said commissioners shall be commissioned by the Governor of the State of Georgia as other county officers are commissioned.
Sec. 6. - Vacancies.
If a vacancy occurs on the Board of Commissioners of Brantley County and the unexpired term of office exceeds twelve months in duration, not less than thirty days after the occurrence of said vacancy the election superintendent of Brantley County shall issue the call for a special election for the purpose of electing a successor to serve out the unexpired term of office. If a vacancy occurs on said board and the unexpired term of office is less than twelve months in duration, the judge of the Superior Court of Brantley County with the longest term of service as judge of said court shall appoint a successor to serve out the unexpired term of office; provided, however, that, if the vacancy occurs in Post 1 and the unexpired term of office is less than twelve months in duration, the person appointed by the judge of the superior court shall not serve as chairman. The duties of the chairman in such a case shall be performed by the vice chairman or, if not the vice chairman for any reason, then by the commissioner elected by the members of the board to carry out such duties.
(1980 Ga. Laws, page 4262)
Sec. 7. - Oath.
Said commissioners shall each, before entering upon their duties, be commissioned by the Governor and take and subscribe to an oath before the judge of the probate court of said county, to faithfully discharge his duties and to carry out the provisions of this Act to the best of his skill and knowledge, and to the best interest of the entire County of Brantley.
Sec. 8. - Meetings; salaries; compensation for travel.
The board of commissioners shall hold at least one regularly scheduled monthly meeting which shall be on the second Tuesday in each month until changed by the board. The board shall establish the salary of the members of the board in an amount not less than $200.00 per month and not more than the salary paid to the commissioners of any county adjacent to Brantley County having a population comparable to Brantley County, which shall mean having a population of 15,000 or less, according to the 1990 decennial census, as such salaries were calculated on January 1, 1999. If any member of the board shall miss more than two regularly scheduled meetings of the board during any calendar year for any cause other than providential, he or she shall not be entitled to receive compensation provided for in this Act for the remainder of that calendar year. The base monthly salary of the members of the board of commissioners shall cover the regular monthly meeting and two called meetings. The members of the board of commissioners, other than the chairperson, shall also receive the sum of $50.00 for each called meeting in excess of two called meetings per month. In addition to compensation provided in this Act, members of the board of commissioners shall receive mileage expense at the rate set by the State of Georgia for its employees per mile traveled pursuant to their official duties and going to and from meetings of the board.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 3309; 1968 Ga. Laws, page 2258; 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4138; 1980 Ga. Laws, page 4262; 1985 Ga. Laws, page 4283; 1991 Ga. Laws, page 4457; 1999 Ga. Laws, page 4319)
Sec. 9. - Meetings to try road defaulters.
Said board shall have the right, and is hereby empowered, to call a meeting at any other time or place than the county site, for the purpose of trying road defaulters.
Sec. 10. - Employment of clerk of commissioners.
Said board shall employ a clerk, whose duty it shall be to keep an accurate and minute record of all proceedings of the board, all contracts made, all bills paid; and any and all actings and doings of the board shall be kept in a well-bound book which shall be open for the inspection of any taxpayer of the county on the first Tuesday in each month during the hours of the regular meeting of the board of said commissioners.
(1933 Ga. Laws, page 411)
Sec. 11. - Clerk.
The clerk of the board shall receive such compensation for his services as such as shall be fixed by the board not to exceed the sum of $250.00 per month.
(1933 Ga. Laws, page 411; 1968 Ga. Laws, page 2258)
Sec. 12. - Jurisdiction and powers.
Said Board of Commissioners shall have original and exclusive jurisdiction over the following subject-matters to wit: In directing and controlling all county property of said County of Brantley, as they may deem expedient according to law, including the county jail and courthouse; in levying a general tax for general purposes and a special tax for special purposes, according to law; and over all roads, as aforesaid; in establishing and changing election precincts and militia districts; in examining and allowing, according to law, all claims that may arise against the county; in examining and auditing or the hiring of an examiner or auditor of the accounts and records of all officers having the care, management, keeping, collecting, or disbursing of monies belonging to the county or appropriated for its benefit or use, and bringing them to a settlement; in making rules and regulations, according to law, for the support of the poor of the county, and for the promotion of health as is granted by law. Also to do all and singular other acts devolving upon the office of commissioners having full and complete charge of county affairs, and to exercise all power over roads and revenues under the laws of this State, as given probate court judges in counties where there are no commissioners.
ARTICLE II. - DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1968 Ga. Laws, page 3488 which created the Brantley County Development Authority. An amendment to the state constitution authorizing the creation of such development authority is set forth in 1968 Ga. Laws, page 1731. The amendment was continued in force and effect pursuant to 1987 Ga. Laws, page 5103. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Short title.
This Act may be cited as the "Brantley County Development Authority Act."
Sec. 2. - Created, members.
There is created a body corporate and politic to be known as the 'Brantley County Development Authority' which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation, and by that name, style, and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The authority shall consist of eight members who shall be residents of Brantley County and not less than 21 years of age at the time of appointment. In making the nominations and appointments of members of the authority not more than one member should be selected from any one family, partnership, or other business organization. The members shall be selected in the following manner: Immediately after the approval of this Act the Board of Commissioners of Brantley County shall appoint eight members of the authority. For the first appointment the county commission shall appoint two persons for one year, two for two years, two for three years, and two for four years. Thereafter all terms and appointments, except in case of a vacancy, shall be for four years. If a member of the authority fails to attend three consecutive meetings of the authority, it shall be the duty of the remaining members of the authority to notify the Board of Commissioners of Brantley County of such fact. The Board of Commissioners of Brantley County shall inquire into the reasons for such absences, and if, in the sole discretion of the board of commissioners, the board determines that such member is unable to perform his or her duties or is unwilling to do so, the board of commissioners may declare that a vacancy exists on the authority. In the event any vacancy occurs the board of county commissioners shall fill, by appointment, such vacancy, for the unexpired term. A member shall be eligible for reappointment. The authority shall elect a chairman, a vice-chairman, and a secretary-treasurer or a secretary and a treasurer. Neither the secretary nor the treasurer shall be required to be a member of the authority. One county commissioner selected by the county commissioners shall be ex officio member of the authority. The members of this authority shall be entitled to no compensation. However, all members shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
(1988 Ga. Laws, page 3942)
Sec. 3. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
(a)
The word "Authority" shall mean the "Brantley County Development Authority" created by this Act and by and under Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph V of the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(b)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition of lands, properties and improvements for development, expansion and promotion of industry, commerce, agriculture, natural resources and vocational training; the construction of buildings and plants for the purpose of selling, leasing or renting such structures to private persons, firms or corporations.
(c)
The term "cost of project" shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, easements, rights and franchises acquired, the cost of machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction and for one year after completion of construction, cost of engineering, architectural and legal expenses, and plans and specifications and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, the construction of any project and placing the same in operation.
Sec. 4. - Contracts.
The County of Brantley is expressly authorized to enter into contracts with the Authority as a public corporation.
Sec. 5. - Quorum.
Any five members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of the ordinary business of the Authority; however, any action with respect to any project of the Authority must be approved by not less than five affirmative votes.
Sec. 6. - Powers.
The Authority shall have powers:
(a)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure.
(b)
To acquire, hold and dispose of personal property, including the stock of other corporations, for its corporate purposes.
(c)
To enter into contracts with the County of Brantley.
(d)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions, and in such manner as it may deem proper, real property or liens or easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same, and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or disposal of same in any manner the Authority deems to its best advantage. If the Authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project or use any project already constructed on lands, the title to which shall then be in the County of Brantley, the governing authorities of Brantley County are authorized in their discretion to convey title to such lands, including any improvements thereon, to the Authority.
(e)
To appoint and select officers, agents, and employees including engineers, architects, builders and attorneys, and to fix their compensation.
(f)
To make contracts, and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for projects, or contracts with respect to the use of projects, which it erects or acquires. The County of Brantley is hereby expressly authorized and empowered to enter into agreements with the Authority for use by the Authority of funds collected by special tax levies by the county for development purposes.
(g)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, extend, improve, equip, operate and manage projects, self-liquidating or otherwise, located on property owned or leased by the Authority, and to pay the cost of any such project from the proceeds of revenue-anticipation certificates of the Authority or from any grant from the County of Brantley, or from any contribution or loans by persons, firms, or corporations all of which the Authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use.
(h)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to execute notes, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds and such other instruments as may be necessary or convenient to evidence and secure such borrowing.
(i)
To exercise any power granted by the laws of the State of Georgia to public or private corporations, performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(j)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly conferred by this Act.
(k)
To adopt, alter or repeal its own by-laws, rules and regulations governing the manner in which its business may be transacted and in which the power granted to it may be enjoyed, as the Authority may deem necessary or expedient in facilitating its business.
(l)
To issue revenue-anticipation certificates for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any project of the Authority. Such revenue-anticipation certificates shall be issued and validated under and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Act of the General Assembly of 1937 (1937 Ga. Laws, pages 761—774), and as subsequently amended, providing for the issuance of revenue-anticipation certificates.
Sec. 7. - Taxes.
All lands and improvements and personal property the title to which is vested in the Authority, and all debentures, notes, bonds and revenue-anticipation certificates issued by the Authority shall be exempt from State and local taxation. The tax exemption herein provided shall not include an exemption from sales and use taxes on property purchased by the Authority or for the use of the Authority.
Sec. 8. - Debts.
The Authority shall not be empowered or authorized in any manner to create a debt as against the State of Georgia or the County of Brantley.
Sec. 9. - Audits.
The books and records of the Authority shall be audited at least annually, at the expense of the Authority, by a competent auditor. The Authority shall furnish copies of said audit to the County of Brantley.
Sec. 10. - Intent.
This Act being for the purpose of developing and promoting the public good and the welfare of the County of Brantley and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
Sec. 11. - Severability.
The provisions of this Act are severable, and if any of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions.
Sec. 12. - Effective date.
The provisions of this Act shall not become effective unless and until a proposed amendment to the Constitution authorizing the creation of the Brantley County Development Authority shall be ratified in the general election conducted in 1968.
RELATED LAWS COMPARATIVE TABLE
This table shows the location of the Georgia Laws in the Related Laws.
EXPAND
Year Page Section this
Related Laws
1927 500 Art. I, §§ 1—12
1933 411 Art. I, § 10,
Art. I, § 11
1963 3309 Art. I, § 8
1968 2258 Art. I, § 1—
Art. I, § 4
Art. I, § 8
Art. I, § 11
3488 Art. II, §§ 1—12
1978 4138 Art. I, § 4
Art. I, § 8
1980 4262 Art. I, § 1—
Art. I, § 4
Art. I, § 6
Art. I, § 8
1985 4283 Art. I, § 4
Art. I, § 8
1988 3942 Art. II, § 2
1991 4457 Art. I, § 4
Art. I, § 8
1999 4319 Art. I, § 4
Art. I, § 8
2008 4380 Art. III, §§ 1—17
  This table is a numerical listing of all ordinances and resolutions affecting the Related Laws of Brantley County, Georgia.
EXPAND
Adoption
Date Section Section
this Related Laws
11-13-2007 Art. I, § 4
12-27-2007 Art. I, § 4
3-26-2013 (H.B. 655) 1—5       Rpld Art. III, §§ 1—17
