ARTICLE XVI. - WETLANDS PROTECTION
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 5-548. - Findings of fact.
(a)
The wetlands within the city are indispensable and fragile natural resources with significant development constraints due to flooding, erosion, and soils limitations. In their natural state, wetlands serve man and nature. They provide habitat areas for fish, wildlife, and vegetation; water quality maintenance and population control; flood control; erosion control; natural resource education; scientific study; open space; and recreational opportunities. In addition, the wise management of forested wetlands is essential to the economic well-being of many communities within the state.
(b)
Nationally, a considerable number of these important natural resources have been lost or impaired by draining, dredging, filling, excavating, building, pollution, and other acts. Piecemeal or cumulative losses will, over time, destroy additional wetlands. Damaging or destroying wetlands threatens public safety and the general welfare.
(c)
The state department of natural resources and the state department of community affairs have determined that each local government with classified wetlands located in its jurisdiction must adopt a wetlands protection ordinance under the requirements of House Bill 215, Georgia's 1989 Growth Strategies Legislation and the rules promulgated thereunder.
(d)
It is therefore necessary for the city to ensure maximum protection for wetlands by discouraging development activities in wetlands.
(Code 1991, § 5-547; Ord. of 6-30-1999)
Sec. 5-549. - Title and purpose.
This article shall be known as the "Wetlands Protection Ordinance of Thomasville, Georgia." The purpose of this article is to promote wise use of wetlands and protect wetlands, while taking into account varying ecological, economic development, recreational, and aesthetic values. Activities which may damage wetlands should be located on upland sites to the greatest degree practical as determined by a permitting process. The objective of this article is to protect wetlands from alterations which will significantly affect or reduce their primary functions for water quality, floodplain and erosion control, groundwater recharge, aesthetic nature, and wildlife areas and to comply with the requirements of state law related to wetland protection.
(Code 1991, § 5-547; Ord. of 6-30-1999)
Sec. 5-550. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Functions means the beneficial roles that wetlands serve, including storage, conveyance, and attenuation of floodwater and stormwater; protection of water quality and reduction of erosion; habitat for wildlife, including rare, threatened and endangered species; food chain support for a wide variety of wildlife and fisheries; educational, historical, and archeological value protection; and scenic, aesthetic, and recreational amenities.
Generalized wetland map means a map depicting jurisdictional wetlands within the city.
Hydric soils means soils that form as a result of saturated soil conditions. A list of these soils is maintained by the Soil Conservation Service.
Hydrophytic vegetation means macrophytic plants tolerant of or dependent on saturated soil conditions.
Jurisdictional wetland means a wetland area that meets the definition requirements for wetlands as determined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
Regulated activity means any activity which will, or which may reasonably be expected to, result in the discharge of dredged or fill material into waters of the United States excepting those activities exempted in section 404 of the federal Clean Water Act.
Silviculture means the art of producing, reproducing and growing a forest of distinctive stands of trees.
Temporary emergency permit means a temporary permit that may be issued in certain circumstances specified herein.
Wetland means an area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and distribution sufficient to support and, under normal circumstances, does support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophilic vegetation. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs and similar areas.
Wetland delineation means the establishment of wetland boundaries by a representative of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers or an authority designated by the Corps.
Wetland protection district means all wetlands within the jurisdiction of the city which are indicated on the generalized wetland map as "wetlands providing significant wildlife habitat and/or which may be subject to extensive mitigation."
(Code 1991, § 5-548; Ord. of 6-30-1999)
Sec. 5-551. - Amendments.
These regulations and the generalized wetland map may from time to time be amended in accordance with procedures and requirements in the general statutes and as new information concerning wetland locations, soil, hydrology, flooding, or botanical species peculiar to wetlands become available.
(Code 1991, § 5-549; Ord. of 6-30-1999)
Secs. 5-552—5-580. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - WETLAND PROTECTION DISTRICT

Sec. 5-581. - Applicability; wetland map adopted.
This division shall apply to all wetlands within the wetland protection district as devised herein and located within the jurisdiction of the city. The generalized wetland map, adopted as part of this division, shows the general location of wetlands and of the wetland protection district and should be consulted by persons contemplating activities in or near wetlands before engaging in a regulated activity. The generalized wetland map, together with all explanatory matter thereon and attached thereto, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this division. The generalized wetland map shall be on file in the city building inspection office and in the office of the city clerk.
(Code 1991, § 5-550; Ord. of 6-30-1999)
Sec. 5-582. - Wetland protection district boundaries.
The generalized wetland map is a general reference document and wetland boundaries indicated on the map are approximations. The purpose of the generalized wetland map is to alert developers/landowners if they are within proximity to a wetland, which means that there is a high likelihood of the presence of a jurisdictional wetland and a need for the developer/landowner to seek U.S. Army Corps of Engineers guidance as to whether a section 404 Permit will be required prior to any activity. The generalized wetland map does not necessarily represent the exact boundaries of jurisdictional wetlands within the jurisdiction of the city and cannot serve as a substitute for a delineation of wetlands boundaries by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as required by section 404 of the Clean Water Act, as amended. Any local government action under this division does not relieve the landowner from federal or state permitting requirements.
(Code 1991, § 5-551; Ord. of 6-30-1999)
Secs. 5-583—5-612. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - LOCAL DEVELOPMENT PERMITS

Sec. 5-613. - Requirements.
No regulated activity will be allowed within the wetland protection district without written permission from the city or its designee in the form of a local development permit. Issuance of a local development permit is contingent on full compliance with the terms of this division and other applicable regulations. All activities that are not exempted in section 404 of the Clean Water Act or by other local development ordinances shall be prohibited without prior issuance of a local development permit. If the area proposed for development is located within 50 feet of the wetland protection district boundary, as determined from the generalized wetland map, a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers determination shall be required. If the Corps determines that wetlands are present and that a section 404 permit or letter of permission is required, a local development permit will be issued only following issuance of the section 404 permit or letter of permission.
(Code 1991, § 5-552; Ord. of 6-30-1999)
Sec. 5-614. - Permissible uses (use as a right).
(a)
The following uses shall be allowed as a right within the wetland protection district to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance or law and provided they do not require structures, grading, fill, drainage, or dredging except as provided herein.
(1)
Operations conducted during normal silvicultural activities, including minor dredge and fill associated with road construction, harvesting, and reforestation practices provided they meet the performance standards and road construction best management practices required under section 404 of the Clean Water Act.
(2)
Conservation or preservation of soil, water, vegetation, fish, and other wildlife, provided they do not affect waters of the state or of the United States in such a way that would require an individual 404 permit.
(3)
Outdoor passive recreational activities, including fishing, bird watching, hiking, boating, horseback riding, and canoeing.
(4)
Forestry practices applied in accordance with best management practices approved by the state forestry commission.
(5)
The cultivation of agricultural crops. Agricultural activities shall be subject to best management practices approved by the state department of agriculture.
(6)
The pasturing of livestock, provided that riparian wetlands are protected, that soil profiles are not disturbed and that approved best management practices are followed.
(7)
Education, scientific research, and nature trails.
(b)
Temporary emergency permit. A temporary emergency permit can be issued by the city or its designee for the following reasons:
(1)
Maintenance or repair of lawfully located roads or structures and of facilities used in the service of the public to provide transportation, electric, gas, water, telephone, telegraph, telecommunication or other services, provided that such roads, structures, or facilities are not materially changed or enlarged and that, prior to the commencement of work, written notice has been given to the city or its designee and provided that the work is conducted using best management practices to ensure that flow and circulation patterns, and chemical and biological characteristics of the wetland, are not impaired and that any adverse effect on the aquatic environment will be minimized.
(2)
Temporary water level stabilization measure with silvicultural operations, provided that they are necessary to alleviate abnormally wet or dry conditions that would have an adverse impact on the conduct of silvicultural activities if not corrected.
(3)
Limited ditching, tilling, dredging, excavating, or filling done solely for the purpose of maintaining or repairing existing drainage systems necessary for the cultivation of agricultural crops, provided that the maintenance or repair activity does not result in the impairment, alteration, or loss of wetlands not previously subject to agricultural and silvicultural use under the terms and provisions of section 404 of the Clean Water Act.
(4)
Limited excavating and filling necessary for the repair and maintenance of piers, walkways, nature trails, observation decks, wildlife management shelters, boathouses, or other similar water-related structures, provided that they are built on pilings to allow unobstructed flow of water and preserve the natural contour of the wetland.
(Code 1991, § 5-553; Ord. of 6-30-1999)
Sec. 5-615. - Site plans.
(a)
Applications for a development permit within the generalized wetland protection district shall include a site plan, drawn at a scale of one inch equals 50 feet (the city may approve a different scale where necessary to clearly provide the required information), with the following information:
(1)
A map of all planned excavation and fill, including calculations of the volume of cut and fill involved, cross-sectional drawings showing existing and proposed grades. Elevations, horizontal scale, vertical scale must be shown on the cross-sectional drawings.
(2)
Location, dimensions and area of all impervious surfaces, both existing and proposed, on the site and adjacent to the site for a distance of 200 feet, more or less.
(3)
The orientation and distance from the boundaries of the proposed site to the nearest bank of an affected perennial stream or water body.
(4)
Elevations of the site and adjacent lands within 200 feet of the site at contour intervals of no greater than two feet.
(5)
Location and detailed design of any spill and leak collection systems designed for the purpose of containing accidentally released hazardous or toxic materials.
(6)
All proposed temporary disruptions or diversions of local hydrology.
(b)
Activities to comply with site plan. All development activities or site work conducted after approval of the site plan shall conform with the specifications of said site plan. The site plan may be amended only with the approval of the chief building official or its designee. The chief building official shall require a bond of $1,000.00 per acre of project area and with surety and conditions sufficient to secure compliance with the conditions and limitations set forth in the permit. The particular amount and conditions of the bond shall be consistent with the purposes of this division. In the event of a breach of condition of any such bond, the city or its designee may collect such bond or institute an action in a court of competent jurisdiction upon such bond and prosecute the same to judgment and execution.
(Code 1991, § 5-554; Ord. of 6-30-1999)
Sec. 5-616. - Filing fee.
Amended by Ordinance of 11-14-2022 (1)
At the time of the application, the applicant shall pay a filing fee of $100.00.
(Code 1991, § 5-555; Ord. of 6-30-1999)
Sec. 5-617. - Review procedure.
The application shall be made with the city building department and applicant will receive written notification of the findings thereof.
(Code 1991, § 5-556; Ord. of 6-30-1999)
Secs. 5-618—5-637. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - MONITORING AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 5-638. - Duration of permit validity.
(a)
If construction described in the development permit has not commenced within 12 months from the date of issuance, the permit shall expire.
(b)
If construction described in the development permit is suspended or abandoned after work has commenced, the permit shall expire 12 months after the date that work ceased.
(c)
Written notice of the pending expiration of the development permit may be issued by the city building department.
(Code 1991, § 5-557; Ord. of 6-30-1999)
Sec. 5-639. - Enforcement authority.
(a)
The chief building official is hereby established as the administrator of this article.
(b)
The chief building official and employees shall have authority to enter upon privately owned land for the purpose of performing their duties under this article and may make or cause to be made such examinations, surveys, or sampling as the chief building official or their designee deems necessary.
(c)
The chief building official shall have authority to enforce this article: issue permits thereunder; and address violations or threatened violations thereof by issuance of violation notices, administrative orders, and civil and criminal actions. All costs, fees and expenses in connection with such actions may be recovered as damages against the violator.
(d)
Law enforcement officials or other officials having police powers shall have authority to assist the chief building official or its designee in enforcement.
(e)
The chief building official designee shall have authority to issue cease and desist orders in the event of any violation of this article. Cease and desist orders may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction, as identified herein.
(f)
The chief building official may require a bond as set forth in section 404 of the Clean Water Act and with surety and conditions sufficient to secure compliance with the conditions set forth in the permit. The particular amount and the conditions of the bond shall be consistent with the purposes of this article.
(Code 1991, § 5-558; Ord. of 6-30-1999)
Sec. 5-640. - Penalties.
(a)
Any person who commits, takes part in, or assists in any violation of any provision of this article shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided by law. Each violation of this act shall be a separate offense, and, in the case of a continuing violation, each day's continuance shall be deemed to be a separate and distinct offense.
(b)
When a building or other structure has been constructed in violation of this article, the violator may be required to remove the structure, at the discretion of the chief building official or its designee.
(c)
When removal of vegetative cover, excavation or fill has taken place in violation of this article, the violator may be required to restore the affected land to its original contours and to restore vegetation, as far as practicable, at the discretion of the chief building official or its designee.
(d)
If the chief building official or its designee discovers a violation of this article that also constitutes a violation of provisions of the Clean Water Act as amended, the chief building official or its designee may issue written notification of the violation to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the landowner.
(Code 1991, § 5-559; Ord. of 6-30-1999)
Sec. 5-641. - Suspension or revocation.
The chief building official or its designee may suspend or revoke a permit if it finds that the applicant has not complied with the conditions or limitations set forth in the permit or has exceeded the scope of the work set forth in the permit. The chief building official or its designee may cause notice of its denial, issuance, conditional issuance, revocation, or suspension of a permit to be published in a daily newspaper having a broad circulation in the area where the wetland is located.
(Code 1991, § 5-560; Ord. of 6-30-1999)
