ARTICLE III. - ADMINISTRATIVE AFFAIRS

Section 3.10. - Administrative and service departments.
Except as otherwise provided in this charter, the city manager shall prescribe the functions or duties and establish, abolish, or alter all nonelective offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city, as necessary for the proper administration of the affairs and government of this city.
Section 3.11. - Boards, commissions, and authorities.
(a)
The city council shall create by ordinance such boards, commissions, and authorities to fulfill any investigative, quasi-judicial, or quasi-legislative function the city council deems necessary and shall by ordinance establish the composition, period of existence, duties and powers thereof.
(b)
All members of boards, commissions, and authorities of the city shall be appointed by the city council for such terms of office and in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance, except where other appointing authority, terms of office, or manner of appointment is prescribed by this charter or by law.
(c)
The city council by ordinance may provide for the compensation and reimbursement for actual and necessary expenses of the members of any board, commission or authority.
(d)
Except as otherwise provided by charter or by law, no member of any board, commission, or authority shall hold any elective office in the city.
(e)
Any vacancy on a board, commission, or authority of the city shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner prescribed herein for original appointment, except as otherwise provided by this charter or by law.
(f)
Reserved.
(g)
Any member of a board, commission, or authority may be removed from office for cause by a vote of four (4) members of the city council.
(h)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter or by law, each board, commission, or authority of the city shall elect one (1) of its members as chairman and one (1) member as vice-chairman, and may elect as its secretary one (1) of its own members or may appoint as secretary an employee of the city. Each board, commission, or authority of the city government may establish such bylaws, rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this charter, ordinances of the city, or law, as it deems appropriate and necessary for the fulfillment of its duties or the conduct of its affairs. Copies of such bylaws, rules and regulations shall be filed with the clerk of the city.
( Ord. No. 02092004-1 , § I(G), 2-9-2004; 2004 Ga. Laws, page 4787, § I(G))
Section 3.12. - Chief of police and marshal, appointment.
The office of the chief of police and marshal shall be filled by appointment by the city manager.
Section 3.13. - City attorney.
The city council shall appoint a city attorney, together with such deputy city attorneys as may be authorized and shall provide for the payment of such attorney or attorneys for services rendered to the city. The city attorney shall serve at the pleasure of the city council and may be removed at any time, without cause or notice. The city attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a party; may be the prosecuting officer in the municipal court; shall attend the meetings of the city council as directed; shall advise the city council and other officers and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs; and shall perform such other duties as may be required of him by virtue of his position as city attorney.
( Ord. No. 09282020 , § I, 9-28-2020)
Section 3.14. - City clerk.
The city manager shall appoint a city clerk who shall not be a councilmember. The city clerk shall be custodian of the official city seal; maintain city council's records and minutes required by this charter; and perform such other duties as may be required by the city council.
Section 3.15. - City treasurer.
The city manager shall appoint a city treasurer to collect all taxes, licenses, fees, and other moneys belonging to the city subject to the provisions of this charter and the ordinances of the city and to enforce all laws of Georgia relating to the collection of delinquent taxes and sale or foreclosure for nonpayment of taxes by the city. The city treasurer shall also be responsible for the general duties of a treasurer and fiscal officer.
Section 3.16. - Authority to combine offices of city clerk and city treasurer.
The city manager may, should he deem the same expedient and in the interest of economy, appoint one and the same person to both offices of the city clerk and the city treasurer and such person is hereby expressly authorized to serve in both official capacities for the city.
Section 3.17. - Regulation of liquor licenses and sale of alcoholic beverages.
The city council shall have the exclusive right to license, regulate, control, and tax the sale of alcoholic beverages inside the city limits.
Section 3.18. - Position classification and pay plans.
The city manager shall be responsible for the preparation of a position classification and pay plan. Such plan may apply to all employees of the city, except the utilities department, and any of its agencies, departments, boards, commissions, or authorities. For purposes of this section, all elected and appointed city officials are not city employees.
(Ord. of 6-12-1995(1), § I(B); 1995 Ga. Laws (ex. sess.), page 427, § I(B))
Section 3.19. - Personnel policies.
The city manager shall promulgate rules and regulations consistent with this charter concerning:
(1)
The method of employee selection and probationary periods of employment;
(2)
The administration of the position classification and pay plan, methods of promotion and application of ratings thereto, and transfer of employees within the classification plan;
(3)
Hours of work, vacation, sick leave, and other leaves of absence and overtime pay;
(4)
Such other personnel notices as may be necessary to provide for adequate and systematic handling of personnel affairs.
Nothing contained in this charter shall be construed to create any contract of employment between the city and any employee of the city.
