ARTICLE XIV. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 14.10. - Prior ordinances.
All ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations now in force in the city not inconsistent with this charter are hereby declared valid and of full effect and force until amended or repealed by the city council.
Section 14.11. - Pending matters.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this charter, all rights, claims, actions, orders, contracts and legal or administrative proceedings shall continue, and any such ongoing work or cases shall be completed by such city agencies, personnel, or offices as may be provided by the city council.
Section 14.12. - Construction.
Section captions in this charter are informative only and are not to be considered as a part thereof.
The word "shall" is mandatory and the word "may" is permissive.
The singular shall include the plural, the masculine shall include the feminine, and vice versa.
The word "city" means the City of Thomasville.
Section 14.13. - Severability.
If any article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof of this charter shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect or impair other parts of this charter unless it clearly appears that such other parts are wholly and necessarily dependent upon the part held to be invalid or unconstitutional, it being the legislative intent in enacting this charter that such article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof be enacted separately and independent of each other.
Section 14.14. - Specific repealer.
An Act incorporating the City of Thomasville in the County of Thomas, approved October 3, 1889 (Ga. L. 1889, p. 854), and the Act approved March 15, 1943 (Ga. L. 1943, p. 1601), are repealed in their entirety and all amendatory acts thereto are likewise repealed in their entirety.
Section 14.15. - Effective date.
This Act shall become effective upon July 1, 1990.
Section 14.16. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
