Chapter 14 - ANIMALS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 38.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 14-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
At large means off the premises of the owner, and not under the voice or manual control of the owner or a member of his immediate family.
Dog means both male and female.
Nuisance means, but is not limited to, defecation, urination, disturbing the peace, destroying private property, attacking persons or other animals, emitting noxious or offensive odors, or emitting noxious or offensive sounds and noises.
Owner means any person owning, keeping or harboring a dog.
(Ord. of 4-9-90, § 1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 14-2. - Running at large prohibited.
No owner shall permit his dog to run at large.
(Ord. of 4-9-90, § 4)
Cross reference— Streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 58.
Sec. 14-3. - Restraint of dogs.
The owner, keeper or custodian of any dog shall be responsible for keeping it from becoming a nuisance or from endangering or injuring any other person or property.
(Ord. of 4-9-90, § 5)
Sec. 14-4. - Cleanliness of premises where dogs are kept.
Every person owning or occupying premises where any dog is kept shall keep the premises in which the dog is kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
(Ord. of 4-9-90, § 6)
Sec. 14-5. - Authority to go on private property.
Police officers of the city and/or any officer or employee of the county rabies control department shall have the right to go upon private property within the corporate limits of the city for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. of 4-9-90, § 7)
Sec. 14-6. - Administration.
Police officers of the city and/or any officer or employee of the county rabies control department shall have the duty and the power to enforce all sections of this chapter and may institute proceedings in the municipal court on behalf of the city against any person violating any provisions or terms of this chapter.
(Ord. of 4-9-90, § 8)
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
Sec. 14-7. - Cruelty.
Causing or fitting to cause pain to any animal from undue abuse or starvation is prohibited.
(Ord. of 4-9-90, § 19)
Sec. 14-8. - Control and removal of animal waste.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any animal to refuse or fail to immediately remove any feces deposited by such animal upon public sidewalks, public streets, public parks or other public property in the city, or upon any private property within the city not under the exclusive use and control of said owner or keeper unless the owner or keeper has the permission of the owner of such other private property.
(b)
The provisions of this section shall not apply to service dogs or dogs involved in police or rescue activities.
(c)
Any violation of this section may be enforced by a citation returnable to the municipal court and upon conviction the violator shall be subject to a civil penalty as follows:
(1)
First violation—A civil penalty of not less than $25.00.
(2)
Second violation—A civil penalty of not less than $50.00.
(3)
Third violation—A civil penalty of not less than $75.00.
(4)
Fourth violation and each violation thereafter—A civil penalty of not less than $100.00 and not more than $1,000.00.
(Ord. No. 2013-0923, § 1, 9-23-13)
Secs. 14-9—14-75. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - RABIES CONTROL

Sec. 14-76. - Notice.
(a)
If a dog is believed to have rabies or has been bitten by a warm-blooded animal suspected of having rabies, such dog shall be confined at once in a secure place by his owner or keeper; and the owner shall notify the poundmaster of the fact that his dog has been exposed to rabies. At his discretion, the poundmaster is empowered to have such dog removed from the owner's premises to the county pound and there placed under the observation for a period of two weeks at the expense of the owner.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person knowing or suspecting a dog has rabies to allow such dog to be taken off his premises or beyond the limits of the city without written permission of the poundmaster. Every owner or other person, upon ascertaining that a dog is rabid, shall immediately notify the pound or summarily destroy it.
(Ord. of 4-9-90, § 12)
Sec. 14-77. - Animals biting a person.
A person who has custody of an animal that has bitten a person shall immediately notify the rabies control unit if the animal shows any sign of sickness or abnormal behavior, or if the animal escapes confinement. If the animal dies while it is in confinement, the person having custody of the animal shall notify the rabies control unit and shall surrender the carcass of the animal to such officers.
(Ord. of 4-9-90, § 13)
Sec. 14-78. - Vaccination.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to keep or maintain a dog unless it shall have been vaccinated by a licensed veterinarian with antirabies vaccine within one year preceding the date which such dog is kept or maintained.
(Ord. of 4-9-90, § 14)
Secs. 14-79—14-110. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - IMPOUNDMENT

Sec. 14-111. - Authorized.
It shall be the duty of the county rabies control officers, assisted by the city police if needed, to apprehend any dog found running at large and to impound such dog in the county pound or other suitable place. If any licensed dog is impounded under any section of this chapter, the poundmaster shall enter upon a registry the name and address of the owner and the number of license tag. Licensed dogs shall be separated from unlicensed dogs.
(Ord. of 4-9-90, § 9)
Sec. 14-112. - Notice to owner and redemption.
Not later than 24 hours after the impounding of any licensed dog, the poundmaster shall notify the city manager and the owner of such impoundment. The owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim such dog upon payment of the required license fee, if unpaid, and of all costs and charges incurred by the city for impounding and maintenance of the dog. Charges to be paid to the pound for impounding or for keeping any dog are as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges.
(Ord. of 4-9-90, § 10)
Sec. 14-113. - Disposition of unclaimed or infected dogs.
It shall be the duty of the poundmaster to keep all impounded dogs for a period of five days. If at the expiration of five days from the date of impounding such dog has not been redeemed, it may be destroyed or placed in an adoptive home of two maximum per year. Any dog which appears to be suffering from rabies or affected with hydrophobia, mange or other infectious or dangerous disease shall not be released but may be forthwith destroyed.
(Ord. of 4-9-90, § 11)
Secs. 14-114—14-130. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS DOGS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Section I of Ord. No. 2013-0610, adopted June 10, 2013, repealed the former art. IV, §§ 14-131—14-138, and enacted a new art. IV as set out herein. The former art. IV pertained to vicious animals and derived from Ord. No. 2008-1202-4, § I, adopted Dec. 2, 2008.

Sec. 14-131. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Classified dog means any dog that has been classified as either a dangerous dog or a vicious dog pursuant to this article.
Dangerous dog means any dog that:
(1)
Causes a substantial puncture of a person's skin by teeth without causing serious injury; provided, however, that a nip, scratch, or abrasion shall not be sufficient to classify a dog as dangerous under this subparagraph;
(2)
Aggressively attacks in a manner that causes a person to reasonably believe that the dog posed an imminent threat of serious injury to such person or another person although no such injury occurs; provided, however, that the acts of barking, growling, or showing of teeth by a dog shall not be sufficient to classify a dog as dangerous under this subparagraph; or
(3)
While off the owner's property, kills a pet animal; provided however, that this subparagraph shall not apply where the death of such pet animal is caused by a dog that is working or training as a hunting dog, herding dog, or predator control dog.
Owner means any natural person or any legal entity, including, but not limited to, a corporation, partnership, firm, or trust owning, possessing, harboring, keeping, or having custody or control of a dog. In the case of a dog owned by a minor, the term "owner" includes the parents or person in loco parentis with custody of the minor.
Proper enclosure means an enclosure for keeping a dangerous or vicious dog, while on the owner's property, securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen, fence, or structure suitable to prevent the entry of young children and designed to prevent the dog from escaping. Any such pen or structure shall have secure sides and a secure top. If the dog is enclosed within a fence, all sides of the fence shall be of sufficient height and the bottom of the fence shall be constructed or secured in such a manner as to prevent the dog's escape either from over or under the fence. Any such enclosure shall also provide protection from the elements for the dog.
Serious injury means any physical injury that creates a substantial risk of death; results in death, broken or dislocated bones, lacerations requiring multiple sutures, or disfiguring avulsion; requires plastic surgery or admission to a hospital; or results in protracted impairment of health, including transmission of an infection or contagious disease, or impairment of the function of any bodily organ.
Vicious dog means a dog that inflicts serious injury on a person or causes serious injury to a person resulting from reasonable attempts to escape from the dog's attack.
(Ord. No. 2013-0610, § I, 6-10-13)
Sec. 14-132. - Exemptions from article.
No dog shall be classified as a dangerous dog or vicious dog for actions that occur while the dog is used by a law enforcement or military officer to carry out the law enforcement or military officer's official duties. No dog shall be classified as a dangerous dog or vicious dog if the person injured by such dog was a person who, at the time, was committing a trespass, was abusing the dog, or was committing or attempting to commit an offense under O.C.G.A. tit. 16, ch. 5.
(Ord. No. 2013-0610, § I, 6-10-13)
Sec. 14-133. - Violation of article.
Provisions pertaining to violations of this article and penalties therefore shall be applied in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 4-8-32.
(Ord. No. 2013-0610, § I, 6-10-13)
Sec. 14-134. - Animal control board.
There is hereby created an animal control board, consisting of a single member. The person occupying the office of municipal court judge of the city is hereby designated to serve and function as the animal control board for the purpose of conducting hearings as required by this article.
(Ord. No. 2013-0610, § I, 6-10-13)
Sec. 14-135. - Classification as dangerous dog or vicious dog; notice to owner.
(a)
Upon receiving a report of a dog believed to be subject to classification as a dangerous dog or vicious dog within the county, the animal control officer shall make such investigations as necessary to determine whether such dog is subject to classification as a dangerous dog or a vicious dog. When the animal control officer classifies any dog as a dangerous dog or a vicious dog under this article, the animal control officer shall notify the dog's owner within 72 hours of such classification. The notice to the owner shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
The notice shall be in writing and mailed by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery to the owner's last known address.
(2)
The notice shall include a summary of the animal control officer's determination of the dog's classification as a dangerous or a vicious dog.
(3)
The notice shall be dated and shall state that the owner has a right to request a hearing on the classification within 15 days after the date shown on the notice.
(4)
The notice shall state that the animal control board shall conduct the hearing.
(5)
The notice shall state that if the owner does not request such a hearing within the allotted time, the classification of the dog as a dangerous dog or a vicious dog shall become effective for all purposes under this article.
(6)
The notice shall include a form to request a hearing before the animal control board and shall provide specific instructions on mailing or delivering such a request.
(b)
When the animal control board receives a request for a hearing from an owner, it shall schedule such a hearing within 30 days of receipt of the request, provided that such hearing may be continued by the animal control board for good cause shown. The animal control board shall notify the owner in writing by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery of the date, time, and place of the hearing; such notice shall be made to the owner at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing. At the hearing, the owner shall be given the opportunity to testify and to present evidence.
The animal control board shall also receive such other evidence and hear such other testimony as it may find reasonably necessary to make a determination to sustain, modify, or overrule the classification of the dog by the animal control officer. Within ten days of the date of the hearing, the animal control board shall notify the owner in writing, by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, of its determination on the matter. If the determination is made that the dog is a dangerous dog or a vicious dog, the notice shall specify the date upon which that determination is effective. If the determination is that the dog is to be euthanized pursuant to subsection (c) below, the notice shall specify the date by which the euthanasia shall occur. Unless the board determines that a later date is appropriate in a particular case, the effective date of the determination shall be the date of the animal control officer's classification.
(c)
A dog that is found, after notice and opportunity for hearing as provided in this section, to have caused serious injury to a human on more than one occasion shall be euthanized; provided, however, that no injury occurring before July 1, 2012, shall count for purposes of this subsection.
(Ord. No. 2013-0610, § I, 6-10-13)
Sec. 14-136. - Duties of owner; registration fee.
Provisions pertaining to the requirements for possessing dangerous or vicious dog shall be applied in accordance with O.C.G.A. §§ 4-8-27 and 4-8-28. Also, each owner of a dangerous dog or a vicious dog shall be charged an annual registration fee of $100.00 which shall be due no later than January 15 of each year. The annual registration fee shall be paid at the office of the city manager.
(Ord. No. 2013-0610, § I, 6-10-13)
Sec. 14-137. - Confinement.
Provisions pertaining to restrictions on permitting dangerous or vicious dogs to be outside a proper enclosure shall be applied in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 4-8-29.
(Ord. No. 2013-0610, § I, 6-10-13)
Sec. 14-138. - Confiscation of dogs.
(a)
A police officer or animal control officer shall immediately impound a dog if the officer believes the dog poses a threat to public safety.
(b)
A dangerous or vicious dog shall be immediately confiscated by any animal control officer or by a police officer in the case of any violation of this article. A refusal to surrender a dog subject to confiscation shall be a violation of this article.
(c)
The owner of any dog that has been confiscated pursuant to this article may recover such dog upon payment of reasonable confiscation and housing costs and proof of compliance with the provisions of this article. All fines and all charges for services performed by a police or animal control officer shall be paid prior to owner recovery of the dog. Criminal prosecution shall not be stayed due to owner recovery or euthanasia of the dog.
(d)
In the event the owner has not complied with the provisions of this article within 20 days of the date the dog was confiscated, then such dog shall be destroyed in an expeditious and humane manner, and the owner may be required to pay the costs of housing and euthanasia.
(e)
The provisions of this section shall govern, as to classified dogs, over any contrary provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2013-0610, § I, 6-10-13)
Sec. 14-139. - Liability.
Under no circumstances shall the city or its employees or officials be held liable for any damages to any person who suffers an injury inflicted by a dog as a result of a failure to enforce the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 2013-0610, § I, 6-10-13)
Sec. 14-140. - Reclassification.
(a)
Any dog classified prior to July 1, 2012, as a potentially dangerous dog shall on and after that date be classified as a dangerous dog under this article.
(b)
Any dog classified prior to July 1, 2012, as a dangerous dog or a vicious dog shall on and after that date be classified as a vicious dog under this article.
(Ord. No. 2013-0610, § I, 6-10-13)
