Chapter 18 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING CONSTRUCTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 38; floods, ch. 42; solid waste, ch. 54; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 58; road naming and addressing, § 58-91 et seq.; utilities, ch. 70; subdivisions, app. A; zoning, app. B.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 18-1. - Self-inspection by plumbers, utility contractors prohibited.
The city is exempted from the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26(d) relating to the self-inspection of certain water and sewer lines, and such provisions shall not be applicable in the city. Self-inspection of water and sewer lines shall not be permitted in the city.
(Ord. No. 96-0909, § 1, 9-9-96)
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 22.
Secs. 18-2—18-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CONSTRUCTION CODES

Sec. 18-31. - Adopted.
The following codes, the latest edition as adopted and amended by the state department of community affairs, are adopted by reference and shall be enforced within the city:
(1)
Standard Existing Building Code.
(2)
Standard Building Code, including appendixes C, D, G, J and L.
(3)
Standard Mechanical Code, including appendix B.
(4)
Standard Gas Code.
(5)
Standard Plumbing Code, including appendixes B, C, H and J.
(6)
National Electrical Code.
(7)
Standard Fire Prevention Code, including chapter 1 and appendixes B, C and D.
(8)
CABO One and Two Family Dwelling Code, including chapter 1.
(9)
Georgia State Energy Code for Buildings, including chapter 1.
(10)
Standard Unsafe Building Abatement Code, including chapter 1.
(Ord. No. 96-0812, 8-12-96)
State Law reference— Authority to adopt technical codes, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(12); construction standards generally, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-1 et seq.; minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25.
Sec. 18-32. - Administration and enforcement.
The city delegates authority to the county building inspector to enforce the provisions of this article and the codes adopted in this article; however, the city code enforcement officer shall have the exclusive authority to determine the correctness of any proposed zoning classification contained in any building permit. Such determination shall be determined from approved design standards, building plans and landscape designs submitted with the building permit. The city shall retain its legislative authority and all related proceedings as necessary to comply with the law; and any action, proceeding or citation for enforcement, penalty or violation shall be done in the name of the city.
(Ord. No. 96-0812, 8-12-96; Ord. No. 2018-0108-02, § 1, 1-8-18)
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
Sec. 18-33. - Permit fees.
The city adopts the schedule of permit fees applicable under this article as set forth by the board of commissioners of the county, a copy of which is on file in the office of the city manager.
(Ord. No. 96-0812, 8-12-96)
Secs. 18-34—18-65. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - CONSTRUCTION PADS

Sec. 18-66. - When required.
If the enforcement officer or his designee determines that any site under development or construction poses a significant problem for soil to be tracked onto the roads in a subdivision or city roads, a construction entrance shall be required to be implemented by the builder, developer or all responsible parties.
(Ord. No. 96-0528-A, § 1, 5-28-96)
Sec. 18-67. - Measurements.
If required, a construction entrance shall be a gravel pad consisting of 1½-inch to two-inch rock, and shall be laid out with the following dimensions: at least 12 feet in width, 20 feet long, and three inches thick at all points.
(Ord. No. 96-0528-A, § 2, 5-28-96)
Sec. 18-68. - Enforcement.
The chief of police or the utilities superintendent shall be delegated concurrent authority to enforce the provisions of this article and issue citations for violation. The council reserves the right to designate such other persons to enforce the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 96-0528-A, § 3, 5-28-96)
Sec. 18-69. - Penalty.
(a)
A violation of this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(b)
Prosecution shall lie in the city court.
(Ord. No. 96-0528-A, §§ 4, 5, 5-28-96)
Sec. 18-70. - Appeal of decisions.
(a)
Any decision of any officer designated in this article or rule of decision may be appealed to the city council by delivering a written notice of appeal to the city manager within five days of the action complained of.
(b)
A person who appeals shall bear the burden of proving by clear and convincing evidence before the council that the decision of the officer should be overturned.
(c)
Any appeal that appears from clear and convincing evidence to have been filed for purposes of delay, harassment or vexation, or is based on a theory that no reasonable council is likely to accept as a ground for overturning the decision complained of shall subject the appealing party to the payment of attorney fees to the city as reimbursement of costs incurred in the appeal.
(Ord. No. 96-0528-A, § 6, 5-28-96)
Secs. 18-71—18-100. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - COMMERCIAL BURNING

Sec. 18-101. - Prohibited burnings.
No person shall burn any materials outside of the regulations of the state forestry department.
(Ord. No. 96-0528-C, §§ 1, 2, 5-28-96)
Sec. 18-102. - Incinerators.
(a)
Incinerators lawfully in use prior to May 28, 1996, shall be allowed to continue use but only in accordance with restrictions under state permitting requirements.
(b)
All new incinerators must meet state guidelines as well as any requirements of this article.
(Ord. No. 96-0528-C, §§ 3, 4, 5-28-96)
Cross reference— Solid waste, ch. 54.
Sec. 18-103. - Enforcement.
The chief of police or such other person as the council may designate shall enforce the provisions of this article and issue citations for violation.
(Ord. No. 96-0528-C, § 5, 5-28-96)
Sec. 18-104. - Penalty.
(a)
A violation of this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(b)
Prosecution shall lie in the city court.
(Ord. No. 96-0528-C, §§ 6, 7, 6-28-96)
Secs. 18-105—18-135. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - WATER CONSERVATION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Utilities, ch. 70.
State Law reference— Flow-rate restrictions on plumbing fixtures, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-3.

Sec. 18-136. - Purpose of article.
It is the purpose of this article to:
(1)
Require the use of ultra-low-flow plumbing fixtures in all new construction or when replacing plumbing fixtures during renovation or remodeling of existing buildings;
(2)
Require the certification of plumbing fixtures regarding flow rates and serviceability standards;
(3)
Promote compliance with state laws for the purpose of conserving water;
(4)
Maintain the integrity of drinking water supplies; and
(5)
Reduce wastewater flows.
Sec. 18-137. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial building means any type of building other than residential.
Construction means the erection of a new building or the alteration of an existing building in connection with its repair or renovation or in connection with making an addition to an existing building, and shall include the replacement of a malfunctioning, unserviceable or obsolete faucet, showerhead, toilet or urinal in an existing building.
Plumbing fixtures means any toilet, urinal, showerhead, bathroom, lavatory and kitchen faucet and replacement aerators.
Residential building means any building or unit of a building intended for occupancy as a dwelling but shall not include a hotel or motel.
Toilet means any fixture consisting of a water-flushed bowl with a seat, used for the disposal of human waste.
Urinal means any fixture consisting of a water-flushed bowl used for the disposal of human waste.
(Ord. of 4-22-91, § 1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 18-138. - Standards for fixtures.
No plumbing fixture shall be installed which does not meet the standards listed in this section or the state plumbing code, whichever is stricter. This includes all plumbing fixtures installed in newly constructed buildings or when replacing plumbing fixtures during remodeling or renovation of existing buildings, except as noted in section 18-140. The effective date of this requirement for residential buildings shall be April 1, 1992, and for commercial buildings the effective date shall be July 1, 1992.
(1)
All plumbing fixtures installed as referred to in this section shall not exceed the following maximum water use rates:
a.
Toilets, gallons per flush .....1.6
b.
Urinals, gallons per flush .....1.0
c.
Showerheads, gallons per minute, at 60 psi gauge pressure .....2.5
d.
Kitchen faucets, gallons per minute .....2.5
e.
Bathroom and lavatory faucets, gallons per minute .....2.0
(2)
The flow restriction device in a showerhead must be a permanent and integral part of the showerhead and must not be removable to allow flow rates in excess of that stated in subsection (1) of this section.
(3)
Lavatory faucets located in restrooms intended for use by the general public shall be of the metering or self-closing type, in addition to the flow requirement listed in subsection (1) of this section.
(4)
The flow rates for all showerheads, kitchen, bathroom and lavatory faucets shall be determined in accordance with ANSI/ASME A112.18.1M-1989 Plumbing Fixture Fittings, as amended; except that maximum flow rates may not exceed those given in subsection (1) of this section.
(5)
All toilets and urinals shall be certified to meet the hydraulic performance standards for low-consumption water closets specified in ANSI/ASME A112.19.2-1990 Vitreous China Plumbing Fixtures, as amended, and ANSI/ASME A112.19.6-1990 Hydraulic Requirements for Water Closets and Urinals, as amended.
(Ord. of 4-22-91, §§ 2—4)
Sec. 18-139. - Product certification.
The manufacturer shall certify compliance with the standards in section 18-138 by labeling the fixture and packaging as described in this section and providing, upon request, appropriate certification by an independent national testing organization acceptable to the city building official. Effective April 1, 1992, all toilets, urinals, showerheads or faucets shall be clearly labeled to indicate the maximum flow rate or water usage of the fixture at the specified test pressure. Toilets and urinals shall additionally be labeled ASME A112.19.2M, as prescribed in section 8 of such standard. The label shall be affixed to the fixture and remain there until the proper building and/or plumbing inspections have been conducted. Also, the packaging must be clearly marked to identify water use rates when offered for retail.
Sec. 18-140. - Exceptions.
Permission for the exceptions listed in this section must be obtained from the building official. New construction and the repair or renovation of an existing building may be exempt from the standards of section 18-138 for the following:
(1)
Showers and faucets installed for safety purposes, such as emergency eye wash stations, etc.
(2)
Plumbing fixtures specifically designed for the physically handicapped.
(3)
Fixtures specifically designed to withstand unusual abuse or for installation in a correctional institution, which may require more water for proper operation.
(4)
Instances of building renovation where significant plumbing modifications would be required to accommodate the lower flows or for specialized purposes that cannot be accommodated by existing technology.
(Ord. of 4-22-91, § 5)
Sec. 18-141. - Enforcement; penalty for violation of article.
Citations for violations of this article may be issued by the building official or his authorized representative. Any person violating this article may be tried before the municipal court of the city. Upon conviction, such person found guilty of a violation of this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Ord. of 4-22-91, § 6)
Secs. 18-142—18-149. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - CONSTRUCTION WASTE

Sec. 18-150. - Construction sites.
(a)
Litter prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any owner or agent of a construction site, or any contractor on a construction site, to cause, permit, or allow the presence of litter on such site outside of a proper receptacle or to cause, permit, or allow litter or waste to be spilled, discharged, or blown by wind or water. It shall be the responsibility of the owner or agent of the property and each contractor performing work on the site to keep the property free of litter.
(b)
Receptacles required. The owner, agent, or contractor in charge of a construction site shall furnish on such site receptacles sufficient to contain worker's litter and receptacles sufficient to contain all construction waste. All receptacles shall be conveniently available and maintained and secured or covered so as to prevent litter and waste from being spilled, discharged, or blown by wind or water. The primary contractor should determine the number and capacity of receptacles, but no less than one receptacle for worker's litter and no less than one receptacle for construction waste shall be placed at each construction site. Receptacles required under this subsection shall be not less than ten gallons capacity. All receptacles shall be emptied as necessary, but not less frequently than weekly, except that receptacles used exclusively to contain construction waste shall be serviced with sufficient frequency to prevent spillage from overflow and to prevent offensive odors. All receptacles required under this subsection shall remain conveniently available on the site from the time construction activity commences until the construction activity ceases.
(c)
Exclusion. The requirement for receptacles in this section shall not apply to any construction site on which only repair or renovation of a building is taking place, provided that no litter or construction waste is placed, stored, or otherwise accumulated on the exterior of the property outside of a proper receptacle and any such receptacle is maintained in accordance with this chapter.
(d)
Portable toilets required. The owner, agent or contractor in charge of a construction site shall furnish no less than one portable toilet facility on such site but in any event such number sufficient to service the sanitary waste needs for the site. It shall be unlawful for the owner, agent or contractor in charge of a construction site to cause, permit or allow such facility to spill or discharge on the site or into waters located on the site. It shall be the responsibility of the owner, agent or contractor in charge of a construction site to have such facility emptied, serviced and maintained on an "as needed" basis.
(e)
Concrete truck washout. It shall be unlawful for the owner, agent or contractor in charge of a construction site to permit and unlawful for the driver operator or other employee on a concrete truck to wash or discharge excess concrete from the chute, pump, drum or barrel of a concrete truck onto a construction site, upon the city right-of-way or city streets.
(f)
Chemical storage. Any chemicals stored on a construction site shall be stored in approved containers, properly secured, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, agent or contractor in charge of a construction site to permit the improper storage of chemicals on a construction site.
(g)
Enforcement; penalties. Citations for violations of this article may be issued by the code enforcement officer, the chief of police or their respective authorized representatives. Any person or entity violating this article may be tried before the municipal court of the city. Upon conviction, such person found guilty of a violation of this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Ord. No. 2019-0311-01, § 1, 3-11-19)
