ARTICLE IV. - BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND AUTHORITIES[5]
Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Cross reference— Recreation committee, § 50-31 et seq.; board of zoning appeals, app. B, art. X.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-236—2-250. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - COOSA VALLEY AREA PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Cross reference— Subdivisions, app. A; zoning, app. B.

Sec. 2-251. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Area planning commission means the Coosa Valley Area Planning Commission established in this division.
(Ord. of 1-12-61, preamble)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 2-252. - Created, established.
In order to guide and accomplish a coordinated and harmonious development of the city and the Northwest Georgia Area that will, in accordance with existing and future needs, best promote public health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity and the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development, the Coosa Valley Area Planning and Development Commission is created and established as authorized by O.C.G.A. § 36-70-1 et seq. The area planning commission shall be organized and empowered as provided in this division.
(Ord. of 1-12-61, preamble)
Sec. 2-253. - Membership.
The area planning commission shall consist of two members from each of the counties participating in the area planning commission. Of the two members from each county, one shall be appointed by the governing authority of the municipality wherein the county seat is located and the other member shall be appointed by the governing authority of the county.
(Ord. of 1-12-61, § 1)
Sec. 2-254. - Term of office; filling of vacancies; compensation.
(a)
The term of office for all members shall be five years.
(b)
Any vacancy in the membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by the governing authority making the appointment which has become vacant. The appointing authority shall also have the power to remove any member it may appoint for cause, on written charges, after public hearing.
(c)
All members shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. of 1-12-61, § 2)
Sec. 2-255. - Organization, rules, staff and finances.
The area planning commission shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among its appointive members. The term of office of the chairman and vice-chairman shall be for one year or until reelected or their successors are elected. The commission shall appoint a secretary, who may be an employee of the commission. The commission shall meet at least once each month at the call of the chairman and at such other times as the chairman or the city council may determine; shall adopt rules for the transaction of business; and shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations, which record shall be a public record. The commission may appoint such employees and staff as it may deem necessary for its work; contract with or accept funds from federal, state or local public or semipublic agencies or private individuals or corporations; may spend such funds; and may carry out such cooperative undertakings and contracts. It may make expenditures for the purchase of required equipment and contracts. The expenditures of the commission, exclusive of gifts to the commission and contract receipts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for the purpose by the participating governing authorities.
(Ord. of 1-12-61, § 3)
Sec. 2-256. - Powers and duties.
It shall be the function and duty of the area planning commission to make such careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of existing conditions and probable future developments and to prepare such plans for physical, social and economic growth as will best promote the public health, safety, morals, convenience, prosperity, or the general welfare as well as efficiency and economy in the development of the entire Northwest Georgia Area and each of its political subdivisions. In general, the commission shall have such powers and duties and responsibilities as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-70-1 et seq.
(Ord. of 1-12-61, § 4)
Secs. 2-257—2-280. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - MUNICIPAL PLANNING COMMISSION[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Cross reference— Subdivisions, app. A; zoning, app. B.

Sec. 2-281. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Planning commission means the municipal planning commission created in this division.
(Ord. of 4-9-59, preamble)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 2-282. - Created, established.
In order to guide and accomplish a coordinated and harmonious development of the city that will, in accordance with existing and future needs, best promote the public health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity and the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development, the city planning commission is created and established as authorized by O.C.G.A. § 36-70-1 et seq. The planning commission shall be organized and empowered as provided in this division.
(Ord. of 4-9-59, preamble)
Sec. 2-283. - Membership.
The planning commission shall consist of six members, who shall be residents of the city, appointed by the mayor and council of the city. The members shall serve staggered terms of four years. Any vacancy in membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by the mayor and council, who shall also have the authority to remove any member for cause, on written charges, after a public hearing. All members shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their official duties.
(Ord. of 4-9-59, § 1)
Sec. 2-284. - Organization, rules, staff, finances.
(a)
The commission shall make its own rules of procedure which shall include the method for the election of a chairperson and the determination of the place and time of meeting. All meetings of the commission at which official action is taken shall be open to the public, and all records of the planning commission shall be a public record.
(b)
The commission may appoint such employees and staff as it may deem necessary for its work and may contract with the state planning commission and city planners and other consultants for such services as it may require, with the approval of the city council.
(c)
The expenditures of the planning commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for the purpose by the mayor and council.
(Ord. of 4-9-59, § 2; Ord. No. 2010-0308, § I, 3-8-10)
Sec. 2-285. - Powers and duties.
From and after the time the planning commission shall have organized and shall have adopted its rules of procedure, the commission shall have all the powers, duties and responsibilities set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-70-1 et seq.
(Ord. of 4-9-59, § 3)
