ARTICLE VI. - ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS[8]
Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
Cross reference— Land development, zoning ordinance and subdivision regulations, app. A.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 10-341. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to regulate certain types of businesses, including, but not limited to, adult entertainment establishments, to the end that the many types of criminal activities frequently engendered by such businesses will be curtailed. However, it is recognized that such regulation cannot de facto approach prohibition. Otherwise, a protected form of this expression would vanish. As to adult dance establishments, this article represents a balancing of competing interests: Reduced criminal activity and protection of the neighborhoods through the regulation of adult entertainment establishments versus the protected rights of adult entertainment establishments and patrons.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-1; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-342. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Adult bookstore means an establishment having a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade books, magazines or other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or section, comprising five percent of its total floor space, devoted to the sale or display of such materials or five percent of its net sales consisting of printed materials which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Adult dancing establishment means a business that features dancers displaying or exposing specified anatomical areas.
Adult mini-motion-picture theater means an enclosed building with a capacity of less than 50 persons used for commercially presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting or relating to specific sexual activities or specific anatomical areas for the observation by patrons therein.
Adult motion-picture arcade means any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein coin- or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion-picture machines, projectors, or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time and where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Adult motion-picture theater means an enclosed building with a capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
Adult video store means an establishment having a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade videotapes or movies or other reproductions, whether for sale or rent, which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or section, comprising five percent of its total floor space, devoted to the sale or display of such material or which derives more than five percent of its net sales from videos which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Erotic dance establishment means a nightclub, theater or other establishment which features live performances by topless and/or bottomless dancers, go-go dancers, strippers or similar entertainers, where such performances are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Escort bureau means any business, agency or person who, for a fee, commission, hire, reward or profit, furnishes or offers to furnish names of persons or who introduces, furnishes or arranges for a person who may accompany other persons to or about social affairs, entertainments or places of amusement or who may consort with others about any place of public resort or within any private quarters.
Good moral character refers to a person who has not been convicted of a felony or any crime not a felony if it involves moral turpitude in the past five years. The city may also take into account such other factors as are necessary to determine the good moral character of the applicant or employee. Conviction shall include pleas of nolo contendere or bond forfeiture when charged with such crime.
Minor means any person who has not attained the age of 18 years.
Specified anatomical areas includes any of the following:
(1)
Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals or pubic region, buttocks, or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola; or
(2)
Human male genitalia in a discernable turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
Specified sexual activities means and includes any of the following:
(1)
Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual relationship and any of the following sexually oriented acts or conducts: Anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio, necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty;
(2)
Clearly depicting human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or tumescence;
(3)
Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus or masturbation;
(4)
Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks or female breast;
(5)
Masochism, erotic or sexually oriented torture, beating or inflicting of pain;
(6)
Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexual contact with an animal by a human being; or
(7)
Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal irrigation.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-2; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 10-343. - Erotic dance establishment regulations.
(a)
No person shall advertise or cause to be advertised an erotic dance establishment without a valid adult entertainment establishment permit issued pursuant to this article.
(b)
No later than March 1 of each year, an erotic dance establishment permittee shall file a verified report with the license officer showing the permittee's gross receipts and amounts paid to dancers for the preceding calendar year.
(c)
An erotic dance establishment permittee shall maintain and retain for a period of two years the names, addresses and ages of all persons employed as dancers.
(d)
No adult entertainment establishment permittee shall employ or contract with as a dancer a person under the age of 21 years or a person not issued a permit pursuant to this article.
(e)
No person under the age of 18 years shall be admitted to an adult entertainment establishment.
(f)
An erotic dance establishment may be open only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12.00 midnight Monday through Friday, and Saturday from 8:00 a.m. through 12:00 midnight on Sunday. No permittee shall permit his place of business to be open on Christmas Day.
(g)
No erotic dance establishment permittee shall serve, sell, distribute or suffer the consumption or possession of any intoxicating liquor or controlled substance upon the premises of the permittee.
(h)
An adult entertainment establishment permittee shall conspicuously display all permits required by this article.
(i)
All dancing shall occur on a platform intended for that purpose which is raised at least two feet from the level of the floor.
(j)
No dancing shall occur closer than ten feet to any patron.
(k)
No dancer shall fondle or caress any patron, and no patron shall fondle or caress any dancer.
(l)
No patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any dancer.
(m)
No dancer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron.
(n)
All areas of an establishment for which a permit is issued under this article shall be fully lighted at all times patrons are present. Full lighting shall mean illumination equal to 3.5 foot candles per square foot.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-3; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-344. - Certain activities prohibited.
No person shall publicly display or expose or suffer the public display or exposure, with less than a full opaque covering, of any portion of a person's genitals, pubic area or buttocks in a lewd and obscene fashion.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-4; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-345. - Operation without permit unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an adult bookstore, adult motion-picture theater, adult mini-motion-picture theater, adult hotel or motel, adult motion-picture arcade, cabaret, encounter center, escort bureau or adult business or adult dancing establishment unless such business shall have a currently valid permit or shall have made a proper application for renewal within the time required under this article, which permit shall not be under suspension or permanently or conditionally revoked.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-6; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-346. - Admission of minors unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for a person issued a permit under this article to admit or permit the admission of minors within the premises.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-7; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-347. - Sales to minors unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, barter or give or to offer to sell, barter or give to any minor any service, material, device or thing sold or offered for sale by an adult bookstore, adult motion-picture theater, adult massage parlor or adult dancing establishment or other adult entertainment facility.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-8; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-348. - Location.
(a)
No adult business or use restricted under this article shall be located:
(1)
Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land which is either named or used for residential uses or purposes.
(2)
Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land upon which a church, school, governmental building, library, civic center, public park or playground is located.
(3)
Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land upon which another establishment regulated or defined under this article is located.
(4)
Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land upon which any other establishment selling alcoholic beverages is located.
(b)
For the purpose of this section, distance shall be by airline measurement from the property line, using the closest property lines of the parcels of land involved. The term "parcel of land" means any quantity of land capable of being described by location and boundary, designated and used or to be used as a unit.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-9; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-349. - Employees.
(a)
Qualifications. Employees of an adult entertainment establishment shall be not less than 18 years of age. Every employee must be of good moral character. Any employee who is convicted of a crime constituting a felony or a crime not a felony involving moral turpitude while employed as an adult entertainment establishment employee shall not thereafter work on any permitted premises for a good five years from the date of such conviction, unless a longer time is ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction on a plea of guilty or nolo contendere or the forfeiture of a bond when charged with a crime.
The terms "employed on the permitted premises" and "work on any permitted premises" shall include as well work done or services performed while in the scope of employment elsewhere than on the permitted premises.
(b)
Approval for employment. Before any person may work on a premises for which a permit is issued under this article, he shall file a notice with the licensing officer of his intended employment on forms supplied by the licensing officer and shall receive approval of such employment from the licensing officer. The prospective employee shall supply such information as the licensing officer requires, including a set of fingerprints, on regular city or United States Department of Justice forms. Upon approval, the employee may begin working on the premises. If approval is denied, the prospective employee may, within ten days of the denial, apply to the licensing officer for a hearing. The decision of the licensing officer after the hearing may be appealed to the city council which may issue such order as is proper. An investigation fee of $50.00 shall accompany the notice of intended employment or a receipt of the licensing officer evidencing the payment of such fee at the time the notice is filed.
(c)
Suspension, revocation of permit. Violation of the provisions of this article, this Code, city ordinances, laws and regulations of the state or the rules and regulations of the city shall subject an employee to suspension or revocation of the permit.
(d)
Independent contractors. For the purpose of this article, independent contractors shall be considered as employees and shall be issued a permit as employees, regardless of the business relationship with the owner or permittee of any adult entertainment establishment.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-10; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-350. - Cleaning of premises.
Each premises for which a permit is issued under this article shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be cleaned at least once daily and more frequently when necessary. This activity shall be supervised by the person in charge of the premises. There shall be provided adequate facilities, equipment and supplies on the premises to meet this requirement, and adequate ventilation and illumination shall be provided to permit thorough, complete cleaning of the entire premises. Trash and garbage shall not be permitted to accumulate or to become a nuisance on or in the immediate vicinity of the premises but shall be disposed of daily or as often as collections permit.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-29; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-351. - Self-inspection of premises.
The permittee of a premises for which a permit is issued under this article or his designated representative shall make sanitary inspections of the premises at least once a month and shall record his findings on a form supplied by the licensing officer. Each premises shall post and maintain in a readily accessible place a schedule for maintaining the sanitation of the premises.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-30; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-352. - Sealing for unsanitary or unsafe conditions.
A premises for which a permit is issued under this article or any part thereof may be sealed by order of the licensing officer on his finding of a violation of this article resulting in an unsanitary or unsafe condition. Prior to sealing, the licensing officer shall serve on the permittee, by personal service on him or by posting in a conspicuous place on the premises, a notice of the violation and an order to correct it within 24 hours after service. If the violation is not corrected, the licensing officer may physically seal that portion of the premises causing the violation and order the discontinuance of use thereof until the violation has been corrected and the seal removed by the licensing officer. The licensing officer shall affix to the sealed premises a conspicuous sign labeled "unclean" or "unsafe," as the case may be.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-31; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-353. - Abatement as sanitary nuisance.
A premises for which a permit is issued under this article or any part thereof may be abated as a sanitary nuisance.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-32; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-354. - Violations; penalty.
Any person violating this article shall, upon conviction, be subject to the penalties in section 1-8. Violation of this article shall also be grounds for immediate suspension or revocation of the permit issued.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-27; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-355. - Unlawful operation declared nuisance.
Any adult entertainment establishment operated, conducted or maintained contrary to this article shall be and is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance. The city may, in addition to or in lieu of prosecuting a criminal action under this article, commence an action or proceeding for abatement, removal or enjoinment thereof in the manner provided by law. It shall take such other steps and shall apply to such court as may have jurisdiction to grant such relief as will abate or remove such adult entertainment establishment contrary to this article. In addition, violation of this article shall be per se grounds for suspension or revocation of a permit granted.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-28; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Secs. 10-356—10-380. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 10-381. - Required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct or carry on in or upon any premises within the city any of the adult entertainment establishments defined in this article without a permit. No permit so issued shall condone or make legal any activity thereunder if the activity is deemed illegal or unlawful under the laws of the state or the United States.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-5; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-382. - Application.
(a)
Any person desiring to obtain a permit to operate, engage in, conduct or carry on any adult entertainment establishment shall make application to the city administrator. Prior to submitting such application, a nonrefundable fee, established by resolution of the city council, shall be paid to the city clerk to defray, in part, the cost of investigation and report required by this division. The city clerk shall issue a receipt showing that such application fee has been paid. The receipt or a copy thereof shall be supplied to the city administrator at the time such application is submitted.
(b)
The application for the permit does not authorize the engaging in, operation of, conduct of or carrying on of any adult entertainment establishment.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-11; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-383. - Application contents.
Each application for an adult entertainment establishment permit shall contain the following information:
(1)
The full true name and any other names used by the applicant.
(2)
The present address and telephone number of the applicant.
(3)
The previous addresses of the applicant, if any, for a period of five years immediately prior to the date of the application and the dates of residence at each.
(4)
Acceptable written proof that the applicant is at least 18 years of age.
(5)
The applicant's height, weight, color of eyes and hair and date and place of birth.
(6)
Two photographs of the applicant at least two inches by two inches taken within the last six months.
(7)
The business, occupation or employment history of the applicant for the five years immediately preceding the date of application. Business or employment records of the applicant, partners in a partnership, directors and officers of a corporation and, if a corporation, all shareholders holding more than five percent of the shares of corporate stock outstanding.
(8)
The business license history of the applicant and whether such applicant, in previous operations in this or any other city, state or territory under license, has had such license or permit for an adult entertainment business or similar type of business revoked or suspended, the reason thereof, and the business activity or occupation subsequent to such action of suspension or revocation.
(9)
All convictions, including ordinance violations, exclusive of traffic violations, stating the dates and places of any such convictions.
(10)
If the applicant is a corporation, the name of the corporation shall be set forth exactly as shown in its articles of incorporation or charter, together with the place and date of incorporation, and the names and addresses of each of its current officers and directors, and each stockholder holding more than five percent of the stock in the corporation. If the applicant is a partnership, the applicant shall set forth the names, residence addresses and dates of birth of the partners, including limited partners. If the applicant is a limited partnership, it shall furnish a copy of its certificate of limited partnership filed with the county clerk. If one or more of the partners is a corporation, the provisions of this subsection pertaining to corporations shall apply. The applicant corporation or partnership shall designate one of its officers or general partners to act as its responsible managing officer. Such designated person shall complete and sign all application forms required of an individual applicant under this division, but only one application fee shall be charged.
(11)
The names and addresses of the owner and lessor of the real property upon which the business is to be conducted and a copy of the lease or rental agreement.
(12)
Such other identification and information as the police department may require in order to discover the truth of the matters specified as required to be set forth in the application.
(13)
The age and date of birth of the applicant, of any partners or of any and all officers, of any stockholders of more than five percent of the shares of the corporation stock outstanding, and directors of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation.
(14)
If the applicant, any partners or any of the officers or stockholders holding more than five percent of the outstanding shares of the corporation, or the directors of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation, have ever been convicted of any crime constituting a felony or any crime not a felony involving moral turpitude in the past five years and, if so, a complete description of any such crime, including date of violation, date of conviction, jurisdiction and any disposition, including any fine or sentence imposed and whether the terms of disposition have been fully completed.
(15)
The city shall require the individual applicant to furnish fingerprints of the applicant.
(16)
If the applicant is a person doing business under a trade name, a copy of the trade name properly recorded. If the applicant is a corporation, a copy of authority to do business in this state, including the articles of incorporation, trade name affidavit, if any, and last annual report, if any.
(17)
At least three character references from individuals who are in no way related to the applicant or individual shareholders, officers or directors of a corporation and who are not or will not benefit financially in any way from the application if the permit is granted and who have not been convicted of any felony or a municipal code violation involving moral turpitude in the past five years. The licensing officer shall prepare forms consistent with the provisions of this subsection for the applicant, who shall submit all character references on such forms.
(18)
Address of the premises for which a permit is to be issued.
(19)
Whether the premises are owned or rented and, if the applicant has a right to legal possession of the premises, copies of those documents giving such legal right.
(20)
A plat by a registered engineer, licensed by the state, showing the location of the proposed premises in relation to the neighborhood; the surrounding zoning; its proximity to any church, school, public park, governmental building or site or other business regulated under this article.
(21)
Each application for an adult entertainment establishment license shall be verified and acknowledged under oath to be true and correct by:
a.
If the applicant is an individual, the individual.
b.
If a partnership, the manager or general partner.
c.
If a corporation, the president of the corporation.
d.
If any other organization or association, the chief administration official.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-12; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-384. - Appearance by applicant.
The applicant for the permit required under this division, if an individual, or designated responsible managing officer, if a partnership or corporation, shall personally appear at the city and produce proof that a nonrefundable application fee, established by resolution of the city council, has been paid and shall present the application containing the information mentioned and described in section 10-383.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-13; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-385. - Investigation of application.
The city shall have 30 days to investigate the application for the permit required under this division and the background of the applicant. Upon completion of the investigation, the city council may grant the permit if it finds:
(1)
The fee required has been paid.
(2)
The application conforms in all respects to the provisions of this article.
(3)
The applicant has not knowingly made a material misrepresentation in the application.
(4)
The applicant has fully cooperated in the investigation of his application.
(5)
The applicant, if an individual, or any stockholders of the corporation, any officers or directors, if the applicant is a corporation, or any of the partners, including limited partners, if the applicant is a partnership, has not been convicted in a court of competent jurisdiction of an offense involving conduct or convicted of an attempt to commit any of the offenses mentioned in section 10-383 or any crime involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or moral turpitude.
(6)
The applicant has not had an adult entertainment establishment permit or other similar license or permit denied or revoked for cause by this city or any other city located in or out of this state prior to the date of the application.
(7)
The building, structure, equipment or location of such business as proposed by the applicant would comply with all applicable laws, including, but not limited to, health, zoning, distance, fire and safety requirements and standards.
(8)
The applicant is at least 21 years of age.
(9)
The applicant, his employee, agent, partner, director, officer, stockholder or manager has not, within five years of the date of the application, knowingly allowed or permitted any of the specified sexual activities to be committed or allowed in or upon the premises where such adult entertainment establishment is to be located or to be used as a place in which solicitations for the specified sexual activities openly occur.
(10)
On the date the business for which a permit is required commences and thereafter, there will be a responsible person on the premises to act as manager at all times during which the business is open.
(11)
The proposed premises is not to be located too close to any church, school, library, governmental building or site or any other business restricted under this article.
(12)
The granting of such license will not cause a violation of this article or any other ordinance or regulation of the city.
(13)
Any other inquiry deemed necessary or desirable by the city to ensure the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city or the preservation of its neighborhoods.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-14; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-386. - Issuance to certain persons prohibited.
(a)
No permit provided for by this division shall be issued to or held by:
(1)
An applicant who has not paid all required fees and taxes for a business at that location or property taxes.
(2)
Any person who is not of good moral character.
(3)
Any corporation, any of whose officers, directors or stockholders holding over five percent of the outstanding issued shares of capital stock are not of good moral character.
(4)
Any partnership or association, any of whose officers or members holding more than five-percent interest therein are not of good moral character.
(5)
Any person employed, assisted by or financed in whole or in part by any person who is not of good moral character.
(6)
Any applicant who is not qualified to hold and conduct a business according to the laws of the United States, the state or the city.
(b)
Should there be sufficient number of current licenses to meet the needs and desires of the inhabitants of the city, no new permits shall issue. In determining the needs and desires of the inhabitants, the standard of review shall be that the market is virtually unrestrained as defined in Young v. American Mini Theaters, Inc., 427 U.S. 50, 81.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-15; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-387. - Denial; appeal.
If the city, following investigation of the applicant for the permit required under this division, deems that the applicant does not fulfill the requirements as set forth in this article, it shall notify the city clerk of such opinion and, within 30 days of the date of the application, provide copies of the investigation report to the city clerk. The city clerk shall, within ten days, notify the applicant by certified mail of such denial. Any applicant who is denied a permit may appeal such denial to the city council.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-16; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-388. - Renewal.
Permits for adult entertainment establishments may be renewed on a year-to-year basis, provided that the permittees continue to meet the requirements set out in this article. The renewal fees for the adult entertainment establishment permits shall be established by resolution of the city council.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-17; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-389. - Transferability.
No adult entertainment establishment permit may be sold, transferred or assigned by a permittee, or by operation of law, to any other person. Any such sale, transfer or assignment or attempted sale, transfer or assignment shall be deemed to constitute a voluntary surrender of such permit, and such permit shall thereafter be null and void; provided and excepting, however, that if the permittee is a partnership and one or more of the partners should die, one or more of the surviving partners may acquire, by purchase or otherwise, the interest of the deceased partner without effecting a surrender or termination of such permit, and in such case the permit, upon notification to the city, shall be placed in the name of the surviving partner. An adult entertainment establishment permit issued to a corporation shall be deemed terminated and void when either any outstanding stock of the corporation is sold, transferred or assigned after the issuance of a permit or any stock authorized but not issued at the time of granting of a permit is thereafter issued and sold, transferred or assigned.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-18; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-390. - Change of location or name.
(a)
No adult entertainment establishment shall move from the location specified on its permit until a change of location fee, established by resolution of the city council, has been deposited with the city and approval has been obtained from the city administrator and the zoning department. Such approval shall not be given unless all requirements and regulations as contained in this Code have been met.
(b)
No permittee shall operate, conduct, manage, engage in or carry on an adult entertainment establishment under any name other than his name and the name of the business as specified on his permit.
(c)
Any application for an extension or expansion of a building or other place of business where the adult entertainment establishment is located shall require inspection and shall comply with the provisions and regulations of this article.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-19; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-391. - Appeal procedure.
(a)
The permittee under this division shall, within ten days after he has been notified of an adverse determination, submit a notice of appeal to the city clerk.
(b)
The notice of appeal shall be addressed to the council and shall specify the following:
(1)
The subject matter of the appeal;
(2)
The date of any original and amended application or requests;
(3)
The date of the adverse decision or receipt of notice thereof;
(4)
The basis of the appeal;
(5)
The action requested of the council; and
(6)
The name and address of the applicant.
(c)
The clerk shall place the appeal on the agenda of the next regular council meeting occurring not less than five nor more than 30 days after receipt of the application for council action.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-20; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-392. - Council procedure.
(a)
When an appeal is placed on the council agenda pursuant to section 10-391, the council may take either of the following actions:
(1)
Set a hearing date and instruct the city clerk to give such notice of hearing as may be required by law.
(2)
Appoint a hearing officer and fix the time and place for the hearing. The hearing officer may or may not be a city employee and may be appointed for an extended period of time.
(b)
The clerk shall assume responsibility for such publication of notice of the hearing as may be required by law. If a hearing officer is appointed, the hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures set out in this division.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-21; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-393. - Council hearing of appeal.
Whenever the city clerk has scheduled an appeal before the city council under this division, at the time and date set therefor the council shall receive all relevant testimony and evidence from the permittee, from interested parties and city staff. The city council may sustain, overrule or modify the action complained of. The action of the city council shall be final.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-22; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-394. - Powers of hearing officer.
The hearing officer appointed pursuant to the procedure set out in this division may receive and rule on the admissibility of evidence, hear testimony under oath and call witnesses as he may deem advisable with respect to the conduct of the hearing.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-23; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-395. - Rules of evidence.
The city council and the hearing officer shall not be bound by the traditional rules of evidence in hearings conducted under this division. Rules of evidence as applied in an administrative hearing shall apply.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-24; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-396. - Hearing officer's report.
(a)
The hearing officer shall, within a reasonable time not to exceed 30 days from the date the hearing on the appeal under this division is terminated, submit a written report to the council. Such report shall contain a brief summary of the evidence considered and shall state findings, conclusions and recommendations. All such reports shall be filed with the city clerk and shall be considered public records. A copy of such report shall be forwarded by certified mail to the permittee/appellant the same day it is filed with the city clerk, with additional copies furnished to the city administrator and chief of police.
(b)
The city clerk shall place the hearing officer's report on the agenda of the next regular council meeting occurring not less than ten days after the report is filed and shall notify the permittee/appellant of the date of such meeting at least ten days prior to the meeting unless the permittee/appellant stipulates to a shorter notice period.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-25; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-397. - Action by council on hearing officer's decision.
Under this division the council may adopt or reject the hearing officer's decision in its entirety or may modify the proposed recommendation. If the council does not adopt the hearing officer's recommendation, it may:
(1)
Refer the matter to the same or another hearing officer for a completely new hearing or for the taking of additional evidence on specific points; in either of such cases, the hearing officer shall proceed as provided in this division.
(2)
Decide the case upon a review of the entire record before the hearing officer with or without taking additional evidence.
(Code 1987, § 2.5-26; Ord. of 3-7-1994; Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
