APPENDIX C - ELIMINATION OR REPAIR OF UNSAFE AND NONFUNCTIONING STRUCTURES (OTHER THAN BUILDINGS)[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Appendix C contains the code for the elimination or repair of unsafe and nonfunctioning structures (other than buildings) as originally adopted on May 17, 1994. History notation following a particular section or subsection indicates legislation amendatory of said section or subsection. Words contained in brackets [ ] have been included by the editor for clarity.

CHAPTER 1. - ADMINISTRATION
101. - TITLE AND SCOPE

101.1. - Title.
The provisions included within the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be known and may be cited as "The Douglas County Code for the Elimination or Repair of Unsafe and Nonfunctioning Structures (Other than Buildings)," hereinafter referred to as "this code."
101.2. - Code remedial.
This code is hereby declared to be remedial and shall be construed to secure the beneficial interests and purposes thereof, which are public safety, health, and general welfare, through structural strength, stability, sanitation, and safety to life and property from hazards incident to the construction, alteration, repair, removal, demolition, use, neglect, and use of structures or premises.
101.3. - Scope.
The provisions of this code shall apply to all structures other than buildings, as herein defined, and shall apply equally to new and existing conditions.
101.4. - Alterations, repairs or rehabilitation work.
101.4.1. Alterations, repairs or rehabilitation work may be made to any existing structure without requiring it to meet all of the requirements of current Douglas County regulations as long as the alterations, repairs or rehabilitation meet all of the requirements of the Douglas County regulations at the time of the original construction. However, this in no way relieves the responsibility to meet all of the applicable regulations of state and federal agencies.
101.4.2. Alterations, repairs or rehabilitation work shall not cause an existing structure to become unsafe or nonfunctioning.
101.5. - Maintenance.
All structures, both existing and new, and all parts thereof, shall be maintained in a safe, sanitary and fully functioning condition. All devices or safeguards required when erected, altered or repaired, shall be maintained in good working order. The owner, or his designated agent, shall be responsible for the full functioning operation and maintenance of structures.
102. - ORGANIZATION

102.1. - Enforcement officer.
The provisions of this code shall be enforced by the Douglas County director of engineering and/or his authorized representative.
102.2. - Restrictions on employees.
An officer or employee connected with the department, except one whose only connection is as a member of a board established by this ordinance, shall not have a financial interest in the furnishing of labor, material or appliances for the construction, alteration, demolition, repair or maintenance of a structure, or in the making of plans or of specifications therefor, unless he is the owner of such structure. Such officer or employee shall not engage in any work which is inconsistent with his duties or with the interests of the department.
102.3. - Records with respect to this code.
The director of engineering shall keep, or cause to be kept, a record of the business of the department in regards to this code. The records of the department shall be open to public inspection.
103. - POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR OF ENGINEERING WITH RESPECT TO THIS CODE

103.1. - Right of entry.
103.1.1. The director of engineering and/or his authorized representative may enter any property at all reasonable times to make an inspection or to enforce any of the provisions of this code.
103.1.2. When entering property that is occupied, the director of engineering and/or his authorized representative, shall first identify himself, present proper credentials, and request entry. If the property is unoccupied, he shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having charge of the property and request entry. If entry is refused, the director of engineering shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
103.1.3. No person, owner, or occupant of any property shall fail, after proper credentials are displayed, to permit entry onto any property by the director of engineering and/or his authorized representative for the purpose of inspections pursuant to this code. Any person violating this action shall be prosecuted within the limits of the law as established by the proper governing authority.
103.2. - Inspections.
The director of engineering and other authorized representatives are hereby authorized to make such inspections and take such actions as may be required to enforce the provisions of this code.
103.3. - Requirements not covered by this code.
Any requirement necessary for the strength, stability and/or proper functioning of an existing or proposed structure, or for the safety or health of the occupants thereof, or neighbors thereto, not specifically covered by this code, shall be determined by the director of engineering.
103.4. - Liability.
Any officer or employee, or member of the board of adjustments and appeals, charged with the enforcement of this code, acting for the applicable governing body in the discharge of his duties, shall not thereby render himself liable personally, and he is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his duties. Any suit brought against any officer or employee because of such act performed by him in the enforcement of any provision of this Code shall be defended by the Douglas County board of commissioners until the final termination of the proceedings.
104. - VIOLATIONS AND APPEALS
Any person, firm, corporation, or agent who shall violate a provision of this code, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof, or who shall erect, construct, alter, demolish or move any structure, or has erected, constructed, altered, repaired, moved or demolished a structure in violation of a detailed statement or drawing submitted and approved thereunder, shall be prosecuted within the limits provided by state or local law. Each such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for any violation of any of the provisions of this code, and upon connection of any such violation such person shall be punished within the limits and as provided by state or local laws.
105. - BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS AND APPEALS

105.1. - Appointment.
A board of adjustments and appeals shall be established for the expressed purpose of providing for the final interpretation of provisions of this code. The board shall consist of five (5) members who are not elected officials or employees of Douglas County and shall be appointed by the Douglas County board of commissioners. The composition of the board shall be one (1) engineer, one (1) construction industry employee, and three (3) citizens not employed in the engineering profession or the construction industry; all five (5) members must be Douglas County property owners.
105.2. - Term of office.
Of the members first appointed, two (2) shall be appointed for a term of one (1) year, two (2) for a term of two (2) years, one (1) for a term of three (3) years, and thereafter they shall be appointed for terms of four (4) years. Vacancies shall be filled for an unexpired term in the manner in which original appointments are required to be made.
105.3. - Quorum.
Three (3) members of the board shall constitute a quorum. In varying the application of any provisions of this code or in modifying an order of the director of engineering, affirmative votes of the majority present, but not less than three (3) affirmative votes, shall be required. A board member shall not act in a case in which he has a personal interest.
105.4. - Records of the board.
The director of engineering shall act as secretary to the board, shall not vote, and shall make a detailed record of all its proceedings. The record shall set forth the reasons for the board's decisions, the vote of each member participating therein, the absence of a member, and any failure of a member to vote.
105.5. - Procedures.
The board shall establish rules and regulations for its own procedure not inconsistent with the provisions of this code. The board shall meet at a regular intervals, to be determined by the chairman, or in any event, the board shall meet within ten (10) days after notice of appeal has been received.
106. - VALIDITY
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this code is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this code.
CHAPTER 2. - DEFINITIONS
201. - GENERAL

201.1. - Tense, gender, and number.
For the purpose of this code, certain abbreviations, terms, phrases, words and their derivatives shall be construed as set forth in this section. Words used in the present tense include the future. Words in the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter. Words in the feminine and neuter gender include the masculine. The singular number includes the plural and the plural number includes the singular.
201.2. - Words not defined.
Words not defined herein shall have the meanings stated in the Standard Building Code, Standard Mechanical Code, Standard Plumbing Code, Standard Gas Code, Standard Housing Code or Standard Fire Prevention Code, as developed and issued by the Southern Building Code Congress International (SBCCI). Words not defined in the standard codes shall have the meanings stated in the Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary, latest edition, as revised.
202. - DEFINITIONS
Applicable governing body. Douglas County board of commissioners.
Approved. Approved by the director of engineering or other authority having jurisdiction.
Board. Board of adjustments and appeals (for this code).
Building. Any structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind which has enclosing walls for fifty (50) per cent of its perimeter. The term "building" shall be construed as if followed by the words "or part thereof." For the purpose of this code, each portion of a building separated from other portions by a fire wall shall be considered as a separate building.
Chief appointing authority. The Douglas County board of commissioners or the persons or persons designated by the laws of Douglas County as having authority to appoint persons to various boards.
Clerk of superior court. That office in Douglas County responsible for recording deeds and other legal documents or actions.
Department. The Douglas County department of engineering or other agency charged with the enforcement of this Code.
Director of engineering. The Douglas County officer or other designated authority charged with the administration and enforcement of this code, or his duly authorized representative.
Nonfunctioning. A structure designed and constructed to accomplish a certain purpose, but is not performing its full and intended purpose, regardless of whether or not part of its purpose is being met.
Owner. Any person, agent, firm or corporation having a legal or equitable interest in the property.
Premises/property (used interchangeable). Land.
Structure. That which is built or constructed, either with natural or man-made materials not for the support, shelter, or enclosure of persons or animals, the term "structure" shall be construed as if followed by the words "or part thereof."
Unsafe and/or nonfunctioning structure. Any structure (other than a building) that has any of the following conditions, such that the life, health, property, or safety of its occupants, its neighbors, and/or the general public are endangered:
1.
The structure or portion thereof, has been damaged/destroyed/filled in by fire, flood, earthquake, wind, erosion, siltation, vandalism, or other cause to the extent that the integrity of the structure is less than it was prior to the damage and/or is less than the minimum required when the structure was construed;
2.
If for any reason the structure, or portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe or unsanitary for the purpose or which it is being used;
3.
The structure or portion thereof has been constructed or maintained in violation of a specific requirement of a county, state, or federal law;
4.
Any structure or portion thereof that is in such a condition as to constitute a public nuisance;
5.
Any structure or portion thereof that is nonfunctioning, unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous to human life, and/or which in relation to existing use or non-use, constitutes a hazard to safety, property, or health by reason of inadequate maintenance, siltation, erosion, dilapidation, obsolescence, abandonment, or similar cause.
CHAPTER 3. - INSPECTION AND NOTICE OF NONCOMPLIANCE
301. - ACTION REQUIRED

301.1. - General.
The director of engineering shall inspect, or cause to be inspected, any structure or portion thereof which is or may be unsafe and/or nonfunctioning. After the director of engineering has inspected or caused to be inspected a structure or portion thereof and has determined that such structure or portion thereof is unsafe and/or nonfunctioning, he shall initiate proceedings to cause the abatement of the unsafe and/or nonfunctioning condition by repair, vacation, or demolition or combination thereof.
The director of engineering shall also inspect, or cause to be inspected, structures, properties, etc., which may be located adjacent/near to the unsafe and/or nonfunctioning structure, which have been negatively affected due to the unsafe and/or nonfunction structure, and shall also initiate proceedings to cause the correction of the negatively affected adjacent/near to structure or property.
302. - NOTICE

302.1. - Content.
302.1.1. The director of engineering shall prepare and issue a notice of unsafe and/or nonfunctioning structure directed to the owner of record of the structure or property. The notice shall contain, but not be limited to, the following information:
1.
The street address and legal description of the structure or property;
2.
A statement indicating the property or structure has been declared unsafe and or nonfunctioning by the director of engineering, and a detailed report documenting the conditions determined to have rendered the property of structure unsafe and/or nonfunctioning under the provisions of this code;
3.
A statement advising that if the following required action, as determined by the director of engineering, is not commenced within or completed by the specified time, the director of engineering may cause the work to be done and all costs incurred charged against the property and/or the owner of record;
3.1.
If the structure is to be repaired, the notice shall require that all necessary permits be secured and the work commenced within sixty (60) days and continued to completion with such time as the director of engineering determines. The notice shall also indicate the degree to which the repairs must comply with applicable regulations.
3.2.
If the structure is to be vacated, the notice shall indicate the time within which vacation is to be completed.
3.3.
If the structure is to be demolished, the notice shall require that the premises be vacated within sixty (60) days, that all required permits for demolition be secured, and that the demolition be completed within such time as determined reasonable by the director of engineering.
4.
A statement advising that any person having any legal interest in the property may appeal the notice by the director of engineering to the board of adjustment and appeals and that such appeal shall be in writing in the form specified in Section 401 of this Appendix, and shall be filed with the director of engineering within thirty (30) days from the date of the notice and that failure to appeal in the time specified will constitute a waiver of all rights to an administrative hearing.
If an adjacent/near to structure or property has been negatively affected by the cited unsafe and/or nonfunctioning structure, the notice shall also include this information, location, and required corrective action. The owner of the unsafe and/or nonfunctioning structure shall be responsible for the correction of the negatively affected adjacent/near to structure or property, regardless of its ownership.
302.1.2. The notice and all attachments thereto shall be served upon the owner of record and posted on the property in a conspicuous location. A copy of the notice and all attachments thereto shall also be served on any person determined from public records to have a legal interest in the property. Failure of the director of engineering to serve any person herein required to be served other than the owner of record shall not invalidate any proceedings hereunder nor shall it relieve any other person served from any obligation imposed on him.
302.1.3. The notice shall be served either personally or by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to each person at the address as it appears on the official public records. If addresses are not available on any person required to be served the notice, the notice addressed to such person shall be mailed to the address of the structure involved in the proceedings. The failure of any person to receive notice, other than the owner of record, shall not invalidate any proceedings under this section. Service by certified or registered mail as herein described shall be effective on the date the notice was received as indicated on the return receipt.
302.1.4. Proof of service of the notice shall be by written declaration indicating the date, time, and manner in which service was made and signed by the person served on by the return receipt.
302.2. - Recording of notice.
If the notice is not complied with or an appeal filed within the allotted time, the director of engineering shall file, in the office of the clerk of superior court of Douglas County, a certificate describing the property and certifying that the structure is unsafe and/or nonfunctioning, and that the owner of record has been served. This certificate shall remain on file until such time as the conditions rendering the structure unsafe and/or nonfunctioning have been abated. At such time, the director of engineering shall file a new certificate indicating that corrective action has been taken and the structure is no longer unsafe and/or nonfunctioning from that condition.
303. - STANDARDS FOR COMPLIANCE
The following action shall be taken by the director of engineering when ordering the repair, vacation, or demotion of an unsafe and/or nonfunctioning structure.
1.
The structure shall be ordered repaired in accordance with its construction design criteria, or demolished if its function is no longer necessary.
2.
If the structure poses an immediate hazard to life or to the safety of the public, it shall be ordered vacated immediately and safety precautions installed until permanent actions can be taken.
304. - POSTING OF NOTICE TO VACATE
Every notice to vacate, in addition to complying with section 302 of this appendix, shall be posted at the structure or property and shall state:
"THIS PROPERTY CONTAINS A
STRUCTURE WHICH IS UNSAFE AND/OR
NONFUNCTIONING, AND ITS USE OR
OCCUPANCY IS PROHIBITED EXCEPT AS
DIRECTED BY THE DOUGLAS COUNTY
DIRECTOR OF ENGINEERING"
Such notice shall remain posted until the required repairs are made or demolition is completed. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation or their agents to remove such notice without written permission of the director of engineering, or for any person to enter the property except for the purpose of making the required repairs or of demolishing same.
CHAPTER 4. - APPEALS
401. - RIGHT OF APPEAL

401.1. - Filing.
Any person entitled to service in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 3 of this appendix may appeal any action of the director of engineering under this code to the board of adjustments and appeals. Such appeal must be filed in writing with the director of engineering within thirty (30) days from the date of service and must contain at least the following information:
1.
Identification of the structure concerned by street address or legal description;
2.
A statement identifying the legal interest of each appellant;
3.
A statement identifying the specific order or section being appealed;
4.
A statement detailing the issues on which the appellant desires to be heard;
5.
The legal signature of all appellants and their official mailing address.
401.2. - Hearing.
Upon receipt of an appeal, the board shall, as soon as practicable, fix a date, time, and location for the hearing of an appeal. The hearing date shall not be more than sixty (60) days from the date the appeal was filed with the director of engineering. Written notice of the time and location of the hearing shall be delivered personally or mailed to each appellant at the address on the appeal by certified mail, postage prepaid, and receipt requested.
402. - FAILURE TO APPEAR
Failure of any person to appear at the hearing set in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a waiver of his right to an administrative hearing on this notice.
403. - SCOPE OF HEARING
The hearing shall offer the appellant reasonable opportunity to be heard on only those specific matters or issues raised by the appellant in his appeal. The appellant may appear at the hearing in person or through his attorney or other designated representative.
404. - STAYING OF NOTICE UNDER APPEAL
Except for a vacation order issued in accordance with section 303 of this appendix, enforcement of any notice issued by the director of engineering under the provisions of this code shall be held in abeyance during the course of an appeal.
CHAPTER 5. - RULES OF PROCEDURES FOR HEARING APPEALS
501. - GENERAL

501.1. - Hearing examiners.
The board itself may conduct the appeals hearing or, at its discretion, may appoint one (1) or more hearing examiners to conduct the appeals hearing. The examiner shall exercise all powers relating to the conduct of hearings until a report is submitted by him to the board.
501.2. - Reporting.
A permanent record shall be made of all hearings and proceedings using the method of recording designated by the board. A transcript of the proceedings of all hearings shall, upon payment of the prescribed fees, be made available to any person on request.
501.3. - Reasonable dispatch.
The board shall proceed with reasonable dispatch to conclude any matter before it, with due regard to the convenience and necessity of the parties involved.
501.4. - Form of notice.
501.4.1. The hearing notice shall include, but not be limited to, the following information.
You are hereby notified that, on the _______ day of ________, 19___, at _______ a.m./p.m., at _______, a hearing will be held before the Board of Adjustments and Appeals (for the (Unsafe and/or Nonfunctioning Structures Code) or its hearing examiner to consider the appeal from the order of the Douglas County Director of Engineering regarding property located at _______. You may choose to be represented by counsel. You may present relevant evidence and will be given an opportunity to cross-examine all witnesses. You may request the issuance of subpoenas to compel witnesses to appeal and/or for the production of other supporting data or documentation, by filing a written report with the Board of Adjustments and Appeals (for the Unsafe and/or Nonfunctioning Structures Code).
501.4.2. The hearing notice shall be served personally or mailed as required in subsection 302.1.3 of this appendix at least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing date.
502. - SUBPOENAS

502.1. - Filing.
The board or hearing examiner may obtain the issuance and service of subpoenas for the attendance of witnesses or the production of evidence at the hearings. Subpoenas may be issued upon the request of any member of the board, the hearing examiner, or upon the written request of any party involved in the hearing. The issuance and service of subpoenas shall be in accordance with established law.
502.2. - Failure to appear.
Any person who refuses, without legal excuse, to respond to any subpoena lawfully issued and served may be prosecuted to the extent established by law.
503. - PROCEDURES FOR HEARING

503.1. - Rules.
503.1.1. Hearings shall not be required to be conducted in accordance with the technical rules relating to evidence and testimony.
503.1.2. The board may grant continuance for good cause.
503.2. - Evidence.
503.2.1. In any proceedings under this chapter, any member of the board or the hearing examiner shall have the power to administer oaths and affirmations and to certify official acts.
503.2.2. Oral evidence shall be taken only on oath or affirmation.
503.2.3. Hearsay evidence may be used for the purpose of supplementing or explaining any direct evidence. The further use of hearsay evidence shall be limited to that which would be admissible in civil court.
503.2.4. Relevant evidence shall be admitted if it is the type on which responsible persons are accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious affairs, regardless of the existence of any common law or statutory rule which might make improper the admission of such evidence over objection in civil courts.
503.3. - Inspections.
The board or the hearing examiner may inspect any structure or premise involved in the appeal during the course of the hearing, provided the following are complied with:
1.
Notice of such inspection is given to the parties prior to making the inspection, and
2.
The parties are allowed to be present during the inspection, and
3.
The inspector states for the record, upon completion of the inspection, the facts observed and any conclusions drawn therefrom.
504. - DECISION PROCEDURE

504.1. - Board hearing.
When an appeal is heard before the board itself, any member who did not hear the evidence presented, or has not read the entire record of the proceedings, shall not vote or take part in the decision.
504.2. - Hearing before examiner.
504.2.1. When an appeal is heard before an examiner, the examiner shall, within a reasonable time not to exceed thirty (30) days from the date the hearing is closed, submit in writing a report to the board. Such report shall summarize the evidence submitted and considered and state precisely the examiner's findings, conclusions and recommendations. The report shall also contain a proposed decision that may be adopted by the board. All such reports shall become matters of public record and shall be mailed to each party on the date they are filed with the board.
504.2.2. The board shall set a time, date, and location to consider the examiner's report. Such date shall not exceed thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of the hearing examiner's report. Each interested party shall be notified by mail at least five (5) days prior to the meeting date by the manner prescribed in subsection 302.1.3 of this appendix.
504.2.3. The board may adopt or reject the hearing examiner's proposed decision in whole or in part and may modify the proposed decision.
504.2.4. If the proposed decision is not adopted as provided in section 504.2.3 of this appendix, the board may decide the appeal upon the entire record before it with or without taking additional evidence, or the cause may be referred back to a hearing examiner for additional evidence.
504.2.5. The final decision of the board shall be in writing and shall contain all findings of fact and detailed requirements to be complied with. A copy of the decision shall be delivered to the appellant either personally or by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested.
504.2.6. The effective date of the board's final decision shall be as stated therein.
505. - RECOURSE
If the appellant feels he is aggrieved by the decision of the board of adjustments and appeals, nothing in this code shall be construed to deprive him of seeking redress in the civil or other applicable court. Said appeal must be filed within thirty (30) days from the effective date of the board's final decision.
CHAPTER 6. - IMPLEMENTATION
601. - COMPLIANCE

601.1. - Failure to respond.
Any person who, after the order of the director of engineering or the decision of the board becomes final, fails or refuses to respond to the direction of such order, shall be prosecuted to the extent provided for by law.
601.2. - Failure to commence work.
601.2.1. Whenever the required repair, vacation or demolition is not commenced within thirty (30) days after the effective date of any order, the structure or premise shall be posted as follows:
UNSAFE AND/OR NONFUNCTIONING STRUCTURE OR PROPERTY
DO NOT OCCUPY
IT SHALL BE PUNISHABLE BY LAW TO OCCUPY THIS STRUCTURE OR REMOVE OR DEFACE THIS NOTICE
Director of Engineering
Douglas County, Georgia
601.2.2. Subsequent to posting the structure or property, the director of engineering may cause the structure, to the extent required to render it safe or if the notice required demolition, to be repaired or demolished and all debris removed from the premise. The cost of repair or demolition shall constitute a lien on the property and shall be collected in a manner provided by law.
601.2.3. Any monies received from the sale of a structure, or from the demolition thereof, over and above the cost incurred, shall be paid to the owner of record or other persons lawfully entitled thereto.
602. - EXTENSION OF TIME
The director of engineering may approve one (1) or more extensions of time, at time intervals of his own determination, as he may determine to be reasonable to complete the required repair or demolition. Such requests for extensions shall be made in writing stating the reasons therefor. If the extensions of time, in total, exceed one hundred twenty (120) days, they must also be approved by the board which may act without further public hearing.
603. - INTERFERENCE
No person shall obstruct or interfere with the implementation of any action required by the final notice of the director of engineering or the board. Any person found interfering or obstructing such actions shall be prosecuted to the extent provided for by law.
604. - PERFORMANCE OF WORK
The repair or demolition of an unsafe and/or nonfunctioning structure or property as required in the notice by the director of engineering or the final decision by the board shall be performed in an expeditious and workmanlike manner in accordance with the requirements of this code and all other applicable codes and accepted engineering practice standards. Any repair or demolition of an unsafe and/or nonfunctioning structure or property must be permitted, inspected, and approved by the applicable local, county, state and/or federal agencies.
CHAPTER 7. - RECOVERY OF COST OF REPAIR OR DEMOLITION
701. - GENERAL
Whenever a structure is repaired or demolished in accordance with the provisions of this code, and the cost of such repair or demolition is borne by Douglas County, procedures for the budgeting, expenditure, and recovery of such funds shall be established.
