ARTICLE XIII. - EXCAVATING AND TRENCHING[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Sections 1—7 of an ordinance adopted Dec. 5, 1989, have been included herein at the discretion of the editor as Art. XIII, §§ 6-200—6-206.
Cross reference— Excavations and backfilling relative to utility easements, § 14-49.

Sec. 6-200. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this article, the following words shall have the following meanings:
Certificates means the certificate issued upon satisfactory completion of a mandatory training/educational program regarding excavation and trenching safety practices, such program to be provided by or approved by the Douglas County Fire Department.
Certificate holder means the holder of the "certificate" identified above.
Excavation means any manmade cavity or depression in the earth's surface, including its sides, wall, or faces, formed by earth removal and producing unsupported earth conditions by reasons of the excavation. If installed forms or similar structures reduce the depth-to-width relationship, an excavation may become a trench.
OSHA means the U.S. Department of Labor, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or successor agency.
Supervisory personnel means any person who has the responsibility for layout, oversight, superintending, directing or controlling an excavation or trenching site.
Trench is a narrow excavation made below the surface of the ground. In general, the depth is greater than the width, but the width of a trench is not greater than fifteen (15) feet.
(Ord. of 12-5-89, § 1; Ord. of 3-20-90)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction, § 1-2.
Sec. 6-201. - Prohibition.
No individual, partnership, corporation, or other entity of any kind whatsoever shall engage in any excavation or trenching except in compliance with the provisions of this article and in compliance with any applicable laws of the State of Georgia or of the United States or Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), or any other state or federal governmental entity or department rules and regulations applicable to excavating and trenching.
(Ord. of 12-5-89, § 2)
Sec. 6-202. - Adoption of OSHA safety and health regulations.
All safety and health regulations adopted by OSHA with regard to excavating and trenching operations, particularly part 1926, Subpart P—Excavations, Trenching, and Shoring Section 1926.650, 1926.651, 1926.652, 1926.653 of the Code of Federal Regulations, as the same now exist or may be hereafter amended, are adopted as a part of this article the same as if quoted verbatim herein.
(Ord. of 12-5-89, § 3)
Sec. 6-203. - Certificate required.
(a)
Douglas County will honor certificates issued by other agencies if such agencies can satisfactorily show proof that their training/educational program meets or exceeds the Douglas County program regarding excavation and trenching safety practices.
(b)
The directors of the departments of safety and emergency management, engineering/public works, health, maintenance, the chief building inspector, the code compliance officer or a designated representative of either of these officers shall have the authority to cause any trenching or excavation work in progress to be halted upon a finding that these certificate requirements are not being met on the particular job site. The said director may issue a verbal warning or a written citation in his discretion or he may recommend to the board of commissioners a revocation of the permits of responsible persons.
(c)
No certificate shall be suspended or revoked, except for due cause, and after a hearing before the board of commissioners of Douglas County upon written notice to the holder of such certificate of the time, place and purpose of such a hearing and a statement of the charge upon which such hearing shall be held. Three (3) days notice shall be deemed reasonable, but shorter or longer periods of notice shall be authorized as the board of commissioners may deem appropriate. Due cause for revocation shall consist of the violating of any laws or ordinances regulating excavating or trenching. At any such hearing, the certificate holder shall be entitled to be represented by an attorney and to cross examine any witnesses who may appear and to present evidence in his own behalf.
(Ord. of 12-5-89, § 4; Ord. of 3-20-90)
Sec. 6-204. - Permit required.
No excavating or trenching shall be performed until a permit for same has been obtained from Douglas County engineering department. All applicants shall be required to acknowledge receipt and understanding of safety requirements before a permit will be issued. All such permits shall be conspicuously posted upon the job site. No such permit shall be suspended or revoked except for due cause and after hearing before the board of commissioners after notice to the permit holder of the date, time and place of hearing, along with a statement of the charges upon which the hearing is to be had. The violation of any laws or ordinances regulating excavating or trenching as set forth hereinabove shall constitute due cause for suspending or revoking such permit. Three (3) days' notice shall be deemed reasonable, but shorter or longer periods of notice shall be authorized as the board of commissioners may deem appropriate. At such hearing, the permit holder shall be entitled to be represented by an attorney, to cross-examine all witnesses who may appear against him, and to present evidence in his own behalf.
After March 1, 1990, no permit shall be issued unless an authorized agent of the applicant holds a certificate.
(Ord. of 12-5-89, § 5)
Sec. 6-205. - Inspection by Douglas County.
The directors of the department of public safety and emergency management, engineering/public works, health, maintenance, the chief building inspector and the code compliance officer shall periodically inspect trench/excavation sites. Such inspectors shall, among other things, verify the presence of the required permits, the existence of required "certificates" and compliance with OSHA safety standards hereinabove adopted.
(Ord. of 12-5-89, § 6)
Sec. 6-206. - Violations.
(a)
Violations of this article may result in revocation or suspension of any "certificate" issued hereunder as set out above.
(b)
Violations of this article may result in revocation or suspension of excavating/trenching permits issued hereunder as set above.
(c)
When oral notice is not deemed sufficient a written notice of violation may be issued for any deficiency. Upon receipt of such notice, the deficiency shall be corrected immediately.
(d)
The directors named in sections 6-203(b) and 6-205 above shall cause excavation and trenching work upon any job site to cease immediately upon discovery that there is trench activity by any person not a "certificate" holder, when there is a refusal or failure to correct deficiencies immediately and/or when such work is being done without a permit.
(e)
If deficiencies identified in a notice or violation are not timely corrected, the building permit, land disturbance permit or any other permit issued by Douglas County may be suspended or revoked for due cause upon the conditions herein identified for revocation of authorization.
(f)
Flagrant and/or repeated violations shall be reported by Douglas County to OSHA for action by that agency.
(g)
Any person violating this article shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or six (6) months imprisonment or both for each violation.
(h)
In addition, every violation of the terms of the article by any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or entity of any kind whatsoever, shall be deemed a nuisance and a continuing nuisance so long as such violation may be continued; and such violation is subject to abatement as a nuisance as provided by the laws of this state.
(i)
Any violation of this article shall be subject to injunction.
(j)
The above named remedies are in addition to any and all other remedies available under the laws of the state.
(Ord. of 12-5-89, § 7)
Secs. 6-207—6-249. - Reserved.
