DIVISION 8. - DISCIPLINARY ACTION

Sec. 13-100. - Types of disciplinary action.
The following provisions shall govern disciplinary actions affecting employees in the classified service. A department head, subject to the appeal rights of the employee, shall have the following alternatives for disciplinary actions, either of which may be exercised singularly or together with others. All such action taken shall be noted in writing in the employee's permanent personnel file and a copy thereof shall be delivered to the employee:
(1)
Reprimand. A department head may submit a written reprimand to an employee when an oral warning has not resulted in the expected improvements or when a more severe initial action is warranted.
(2)
Probation. A department head may place an employee on probation for a period not to exceed six (6) months. The department head shall give written notice of such probation and shall state such conditions, if any, that are imposed.
(3)
Suspension.
a.
A department head may, for cause, suspend without pay any employee in such department head's department for up to thirty (30) days. A written statement specifically setting forth the reasons for suspension shall be furnished to the employee and to the Human Resources Director. If, in the opinion of the department head, the conditions which gave rise to the suspension continue to exist at the end of the thirty-day period of suspension, such suspension may be continued by the department head for an additional period of thirty (30) days, and for additional periods of thirty (30) days thereafter as such conditions continue to exist.
b.
The county has the right to request that a suspended employee take a drug test prior to returning to work. Refusal to take the drug test shall result in the employee being denied reinstatement.
(4)
Demotion or reduction in salary. With the prior notice to the human resources director and county administrator, a department head may reduce the salary of an employee within the range provided in the pay plan or demote the employee for cause to a lower class. A written statement of the reasons for such action shall be given to the employee with copies to the human resources director and county administrator.
(5)
Termination. An employee may be terminated by the department head for those reasons noted in section 13-89, and as outlined in section 13-101 below, with prior notice to the human resources director and the county administrator. A written statement of the reasons for such action shall be given to the employee with copies to the human resources director, the county administrator, and the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 4-21-98; Amd. of 11-7-06; Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-101. - Reasons for disciplinary action.
Actions of an employee which may result in the disciplinary action referred to in section 13-100 include, but are not limited to, the following offenses:
(1)
Being convicted of a felony or of a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
(2)
Excessive time not working when on the job. Idleness, dereliction, or failure to work on assigned duties;
(3)
Being absent without leave;
(4)
Excessive tardiness;
(5)
Abuse of sick leave;
(6)
Carelessness, inefficiency, negligence or incompetence in the performance of assigned duties;
(7)
Willfully giving false statements to supervisors, officials or the public;
(8)
Violation of written county ordinances; administrative regulations or departmental rules;
(9)
a.
Being under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs when reporting for or during work, or drinking of alcoholic beverages or use of illegal drugs during working hours;
b.
Possession of an illegal drug or controlled substance during working hours;
c.
Any employee involved in an accident while on county duty operating a county vehicle shall be required to submit to a drug screening test;
(10)
Instigation of, participation in or leadership of a strike, work stoppage, slowdown, or artificial restriction of productive work;
(11)
The promotion of dissension, ill-will and/or insubordination within the employee's department;
a.
Creating a disturbance resulting in an adverse effect on morale, production, or safety;
b.
Threatening or attempting to inflict bodily harm;
c.
Hitting, or other acts against another causing injury;
(12)
Lack of personal hygiene or personal cleanliness;
(13)
Violation of the provisions of division 11, ethics and conduct;
(14)
Failure to follow county policies or safety rules;
a.
Violations where safety to persons or property is not involved and/or one (1) safety violation by a county employee within a one-year period shall be sufficient cause for disciplinary action as outlined in section 13-100(1)—(3);
b.
Violation where safety to persons or property is involved and/or three (3) safety violations by a county employee within a one-year period shall be sufficient cause for disciplinary actions as outlined in section 13-100(1)—(5);
(15)
Discourtesy; use of insulting, abusive, or obscene language or gestures to fellow employees, customers, the public, or supervisors;
(16)
Insubordination or refusal of a lawful or proper direct order by a supervisor or department head;
(17)
Sexual harassment involving an employee, customer, or public;
(18)
Immoral, indecent, or disgraceful conduct during work hours;
(19)
The loss of job requirements, such as the loss of a necessary license or certificate, which prevents the adequate performance of assigned duties;
(20)
Intentionally giving a false statement or information furnished in an employment application;
(21)
Use of any county property, services, personnel, labor or other thing of value for personal gain or for any purpose other than the official business of the county.
(Ord. of 8-7-90; Ord. of 4-18-97; Amd. of 3-20-01; Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-102. - Emergency relief from duty.
If it is determined to be in the best interest of the county, a supervisor who is not the department head who supervises an employee may temporarily relieve that employee from duty for disciplinary purposes. Relief from duty shall be only from the time the action is initiated by the supervisor until the beginning of the employee's next scheduled work period. The supervisor shall report the action and circumstances to the department head who shall review the action and initiate any further disciplinary actions which may be warranted.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-103. - Notice of pending disciplinary action.
All employees, prior to imposition of any disciplinary action, shall be notified of the proposed action.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-104. - Employee liability for loss.
Any employee who causes damage to or loss of county property may be required to repay the county government for any cost of repairs to or replacement of such property.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Secs. 13-105—13-109. - Reserved.
