ARTICLE X. - SALE OF PHOSPHATE LAUNDRY DETERGENT[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Sections 1—6 of an ordinance adopted July 6, 1989, have been codified herein at the discretion of the editor as Art. X, §§ 12-150—12-155.

Sec. 12-150. - Declaration of policy.
O.C.G.A. section 12-5-27.1 provides that whenever a local governmental entity is required by the Environmental Protection Division to reduce phosphorus in its wastewater being discharged into the waters of the state, such local governmental entity shall pass an ordinance and/or resolution mandating the retail sale of low phosphorus household laundry detergent as part of its phosphorus reduction process. It is hereby declared to be the public policy of the authority, the city, and the county to encourage the use of clean, phosphate-free household laundry detergents and to prohibit the sale of household laundry detergents which contain more than 0.5 percent phosphorus by weight. The authority, the city and the county find that such use and sale will be a cost-effective way to reduce the amount of phosphorus in wastewater discharge so as to protect Georgia's rivers and lakes downstream and promote health, safety, and welfare, and to prevent injury to human health, plant, and animal life and property. It is vital to the health, well-being and welfare of present and future inhabitants of the city and the county that these sources be protected against contamination and pollution.
(Ord. of 7-6-89, § 1)
Sec. 12-151. - Definitions.
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of this article:
Authority means the Douglasville-Douglas County Water and Sewer Authority.
City means the City of Douglasville, Georgia.
County means Douglas County, Georgia.
A household laundry detergent means a laundering cleaning compound in liquid, bar, spray, tablet, flake, powder, or other form used for domestic clothes-cleaning purposes. The term "household laundry detergent" shall not mean:
(1)
A dishwashing compound, household cleaner, metal cleaner, degreasing compound, commercial cleaner, industrial cleaner, or other substance that is intended to be used for non-laundry cleaning purposes;
(2)
A detergent used in dairy, beverage, or food processing cleaning equipment;
(3)
A phosphorus acid product, including a sanitizer, brightener, acid cleaner, or metal conditioner.
(4)
A detergent used in hospitals, veterinary hospitals or clinics, or health care facilities or in agricultural production;
(5)
A detergent used by industry for metal cleaning or conditioning;
(6)
A detergent manufactured, stored, or distributed for use or sale outside of the State of Georgia;
(7)
A detergent used in any laboratory, including a biological laboratory, research facility, chemical laboratory, and engineering laboratory; or
(8)
A detergent used in a commercial laundry that provides laundry service for hospitals, health care facilities, or veterinary hospitals.
Person means any person, firm, partnership or corporation.
Phosphorus means elemental phosphorus.
(Ord. of 7-6-89, § 2)
Sec. 12-152. - Retail sale prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell at the retail level a household laundry detergent which contains greater than 0.5 percent phosphorus by weight and is intended to be used for domestic clothes-cleaning purposes.
(Ord. of 7-6-89, § 3)
Sec. 12-153. - Penalties.
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be subject to a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each such violation.
(Ord. of 7-6-89, § 4)
Sec. 12-154. - Additional remedies for violation of article.
In addition to the penalty provided in section 12-153, the authority, the city, and the county may maintain an action or proceeding in any court of competent jurisdiction to compel compliance with or restrain any violation of this article.
(Ord. of 7-6-89, § 5)
Sec. 12-155. - Rights to damage or relief.
Nothing in this article shall be construed to abridge, limit or otherwise impair the right of any person to damages or other relief on account of injuries to persons or property arising out of a violation of this article and to maintain any action or other appropriate proceeding therefor.
(Ord. of 7-6-89, § 6)
Secs. 12-156—12-159. - Reserved.
