Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— The following listed Acts of the General Assembly of Georgia, creating and describing the county and providing for a board of commissioners and administration of the county government, were adopted as an ordinance by the board of commissioners on March 8, 1977: Acts of 1870, p. 13; 1874, p. 371; 1874, p. 390; 1877, p. 273; 1881, p. 531; 1952, p. 2705; 1953, p. 2300; 1968, p. 2996; 1973, p. 2121; 1975, p. 2513; and 1976, p. 2707.

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of Ordinances, Douglas County, Georgia," and may be so cited. The Code may also be cited as "The Douglas County Code."
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
The following definitions and rules of construction shall apply to all ordinances and resolutions of the board of commissioners unless the context requires otherwise:
Generally. The ordinary signification shall be applied to all words, except words of art, or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter, when they shall have the signification attached to them by experts in such trade, or with reference to such subject matter. In all interpretations the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the board of commissioners, keeping in view, at all times, the old law, the issue sought to be addressed, and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate the remedy sought, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(a), (b).
Board. "Board" or "the board" shall mean the county board of commissioners.
Code. The term "Code" means the Code of Ordinances of Douglas County as designated in section 1-1 above.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other ordinances, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurement of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted. If the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in Official Code of Georgia Annotated section 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven (7) days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation of time.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(3).
County. The words "the county" or "this county" shall mean Douglas County, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires the head of a department or other officer of the county to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
Gender. Any word importing one (1) gender shall extend to be applied to the other genders also, if the sense permits.
State Law reference— Gender, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(4).
Governing authority, governing body. The words "governing authority" or "governing body" shall mean the county board of commissioners.
Joint authority. All words purporting to give a joint authority to three (3) or more county officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such officers or other persons, unless it shall be otherwise expressly declared in the ordinance giving the authority.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(5).
Keeper, proprietor. The words "keeper" and "proprietor" shall mean and include persons, as herein defined, whether acting by themselves or through servant, agent or employee.
Land, real estate. The terms "land" and "real estate" include rights and easements of incorporeal nature.
May. The word "may" is permissive rather than mandatory.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(10).
Month. The word "month" shall mean calendar month.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(11).
Number. A word importing the singular number only shall extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one (1) person or thing, and every word importing the plural number shall extend and apply to one (1) person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(11).
Oath. The word "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "affirm" and "affirmed" shall be equivalent to the words "swear" or "sworn."
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(12).
Or, and. The word "or" may be read "and" and the word "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
Overlapping provisions. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provisions imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction shall be applicable.
Owner. The word "owner," when applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership or joint tenant of the whole or a part of such building or land.
Person. The word "person" shall include a corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
State Law reference— Definition of Person, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(14).
Personal property. The term "personal property" shall include every specie of property except real property, as hereinafter defined.
Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" shall mean next before and next after, respectively.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(8), (15).
Property. The term "property" includes both real and personal property.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(16).
Public place. The term "public place" shall include any place that the public is invited or permitted to go or congregate.
Real property. Real property shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Reasonable time or notice. Reasonable time or notice shall be deemed to mean only such time as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the act required.
Road, street. The words "road" and "street" shall mean any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley, viaduct or bridge, and the approaches thereto, within the county.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, but shall not include any unimproved areas between the curbline and improved walkways.
Signature or subscription. A "signature" or "subscription" includes, in addition to its common usage, the mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(19).
State. The words "state" or "this state" shall mean the State of Georgia.
Tenant or occupant. The word "tenant" or "occupant," when applied to a building or to land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of, such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. The use of any verb in the present tense shall include the future if the sense permits.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(7).
Week. The word "week" shall mean a calendar week of seven (7) days.
Writing or written. The words "writing" and "written" shall include printing and all numerals.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(23).
Year. The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
(Ord. of 2-1-77, § 1(2-103))
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(24).
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal or expiration.
(a)
The repeal of a Code section or ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued or any offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding commenced before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired, unless otherwise provided herein.
(b)
When any ordinance repealing a former Code section, ordinance, clause or provision shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former Code section, ordinance, clause or provision.
(Ord. of 2-1-77, § 1(2-105))
Sec. 1-5. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances, etc.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are in substance the same as ordinances, resolutions, or regulations existing at the effective date of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-6. - Amending Code.
(a)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _______ of the Code of Douglas County, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows.…" The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(b)
In the event a new section not theretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "The Code of Douglas County, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or subsection or chapter) to be numbered _______, which section (or subsection or chapter) reads as follows.…" The new provision shall then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
All sections, chapters or provisions sought to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, chapter or provision number, as the case may be.
Sec. 1-7. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the governing body. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete. The new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _______ to _______" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted in the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect or ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-8. - Violations; abatement of nuisance; appeal in license suspension or revocation cases.
(a)
Whenever in this Code any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in this Code the doing of an act is declared to be unlawful or a misdemeanor, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision shall be punished to the maximum extent allowed in sections 15-10-60 and 36-1-20 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, or as otherwise provided by the laws of the state.
(b)
Each day any violation of this Code shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(c)
In addition to the penalties provided in this section or elsewhere in this Code, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any ordinance shall be deemed a public nuisance, and may be abated by the county as provided by law or ordinance. Each day that such condition continues shall be regarded as new and separate offenses.
(d)
In any case in which the suspension or revocation of a license issued under this Code is sought, the licensee shall be entitled to a hearing before the board of commissioners, or body designated by it, for a determination of whether or not the license shall be suspended or revoked or neither suspended nor revoked. Each such licensee shall be entitled to be represented by counsel, to present evidence, and to cross-examine witnesses presented against such licensee.
State Law reference— Nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1 et seq.; punishment for driving under the influence, O.C.G.A. § 40-9-391. The above-cited § 15-10-60 authorizes punishment of five hundred dollars ($500.00) and/or sixty (60) days in jail.
Sec. 1-9. - Code does not affect prior offenses, rights, etc.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing, or any prosecution, suit or proceeding pending or any judgment rendered, on or before the effective date of this Code.
Sec. 1-10. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever, except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the board of commissioners.
Sec. 1-11. - Applicability of Code.
The provisions of this Code, unless otherwise specified, shall apply only in the unincorporated areas of the county.
Sec. 1-12. - Matters not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any legislation promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the county, or any evidence of the county's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the county;
(3)
Any right or franchise granted by the county to any person;
(4)
Any legislation dedicating, naming, defining, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the county;
(5)
Any appropriation or legislation authorizing appropriations or gifts;
(6)
Any legislation providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor;
(7)
Any legislation establishing subdivision regulations or dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the county;
(8)
Any zoning ordinance or resolution;
(9)
Any legislation which is temporary, although general in nature;
(10)
Any legislation which is special, although permanent in nature;
(11)
Any legislation levying or otherwise relating to taxes, not in conflict with this Code;
(12)
Any legislation establishing fees, not in conflict with this Code;
(13)
Any legislation providing traffic regulations for specific areas, such as no-parking zones, stop intersections, etc., not in conflict with this Code; or
(14)
Any legislation enacted after the date of the adoption of this Code;
and all such legislation is hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
Sec. 1-13. - Prior illegal uses not authorized.
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or permitting any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any law in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
Sec. 1-14. - Effective date of ordinances and resolutions.
Ordinances and resolutions which do not provide for their taking effect at a different time shall take effect immediately after their passage, or as otherwise provided by law.
Sec. 1-15. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the board of commissioners that the sections, clause, paragraphs, phrases and sentences of this Code are severable, and if any sentence, phrase, clause, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining sentences, phrases, clauses, paragraphs and sections of this Code, inasmuch as the same would have been enacted by the board of commissioners without incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional sentence, phrase, clause, paragraph or section.
