Chapter 7 - CODE OF ETHICS

Sec. 7-1. - Declaration of policy.
It is essential to the proper government and administration of the county that its board of commissioners and other appointed officials covered by this chapter be, and give the appearance of being, independent and impartial, that public service not be used for private gain, and that there be public confidence in the integrity of the county government. Because the attainment of one (1) or more of these ends is impaired whenever there exists in fact, or appears to exist, a conflict between the private interests and public responsibilities of county officials, the public interest requires that the county protect against such conflicts of interest by establishing appropriate ethical standards with respect to the conduct of the officials covered by this chapter in situations where a conflict may exist. It is also essential to the efficient operation of the county that those persons best qualified be encouraged to serve in positions of public trust. Accordingly, the standards hereinafter set forth must be so interpreted and understood as not unreasonably to frustrate or impede the desire or inclination of those best qualified to seek and serve in public office. To that end, the officials herein noted should not, except as otherwise provided by law, be denied the opportunity available to all other citizens to acquire and maintain private, economic and other interests except where a conflict of interest situation would necessarily result. The policy and purpose of this chapter, therefore, is to make clear those standards of ethical conduct that shall be applicable to the officials herein noted in the discharge of their official duties, to implement the objective of protecting the integrity of the county's government, and to prescribe only such essential restrictions against conflicts of interest as will not impose unnecessary barriers against public service.
(Ord. of 3-17-87, § A)
Sec. 7-2. - Definitions.
As used herein, the following terms shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them:
Appointed official: Appointed official means the county manager, the county attorney, the clerk of the board of commissioners, all county department heads (as defined in the merit system regulations, section 13-14, definitions), any county employee exempt from the merit system regulations and all persons appointed by the board of commissioners to boards who receive compensation.
Business: A corporation, a partnership, a sole proprietor, or any other person or organization carrying on an enterprise for profit.
Business relationship: An agreement between parties which is designed to result in an enterprise for profit to the parties.
Censure: An expression of severe criticism or reproach.
Confidential information: Any information which, by law or practice, is not available to the public.
Contract: Any lease, claim, account or demand against or agreement with any person, whether express or implied, executed or executory verbal or in writing.
Employment: Any rendering of services on request, whether paid or unpaid.
Immediate family: An official or appointed official and such official's or appointed official's husband, wife, father, mother, brother, sister, son, daughter, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandmother, grandfather, step-father, step-mother, and step-children.
Interest: Any director or indirect pecuniary or material benefit held by or accruing to an official or appointed official as a result of a contract or transaction which is or may be the subject of an official act or action by or with the county. Unless otherwise provided, the term "interest" does not include any remote interest. For the purpose of this chapter, an official or appointed official shall be deemed to have an interest in transactions involving any one (1) of the following:
(1)
Any person and such person's immediate family;
(2)
Any person with whom a contractual relationship (either written or implied) exists, whereby such person may receive any payment or other benefit, including an agreement for employment;
(3)
Any business in which such person is a director, officer, employee, prospective employee or substantial (greater than ten (10) percent) shareholder.
Official. The chairman and any member of the board of commissioners of this county.
Official act or action: Any executive, legislative, administrative, appointive or discretionary act of the board of commissioners or appointed official taken pursuant to a regular discharge of such official's or appointed official's official duties.
Paid: The receipt of, or right to receive, a salary or a commission, percentage, brokerage or contingent fee.
Participate: To take part in official acts, actions or proceedings personally as an official or an appointed official through approval, disapproval, decision, or the failure to act or perform a duty.
Person: As defined in section 1-2, specifically including any individual, business, labor organization, representative, fiduciary, trust or association, whether paid or unpaid, and includes any official or appointed official.
Property: Any property, whether real or personal, tangible or intangible, and includes currency and commercial paper.
Reprimand: An expression of disapproval.
Transaction: The conduct of any activity that results in or may result in an official act or action of the county.
(Ord. of 3-17-87, B; Ord. of 8-7-90)
Sec. 7-3. - Impartiality.
No official or appointed official shall, by such official's or appointed official's conduct, give reasonable basis for the impression that any person improperly can influence such official or appointed official or unduly enjoy such official's or appointed official's favor in the performance of official acts or actions, or that such official or appointed official is affected unduly by the kinship, rank, position or association with any person.
(Ord. of 3-17-87, § C)
Sec. 7-4. - Gifts and favors.
No official or appointive official shall directly or indirectly request, exact, receive or agree to receive a gift, loan, favor, promise or thing of value for such official's or appointed official's self or another person. This section shall not apply in the case of:
(1)
An occasional, nonpecuniary gift of insignificant value (less than $250.00);
(2)
An award publicly presented in recognition of public service; and
(3)
A commercially reasonable loan made in the ordinary course of business by an institution authorized by the laws of the state to engage in the making of such a loan.
Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit any official or appointed official from accepting a gift on behalf of the county, provided that the person accepting the gift shall promptly report the receipt of such gift to the board of commissioners, which shall have the gift added to the inventory of property of the county.
(Ord. of 3-17-87, § D)
Sec. 7-5. - Campaign contributions.
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to campaign contributions made to an official in compliance with the Georgia Campaign and Financial Disclosure Act (O.C.G.A. Chapter 21-5).
(Code of 3-17-87, § E)
Sec. 7-6. - Confidential information.
No official or appointed official, whether paid or unpaid, shall disclose confidential information, nonpublic information or undisclosed information concerning the property, governing operations, policies, decisions, plans or affairs of the county, nor shall such official or appointed official use such information or any acquired in such official's or appointed official's official capacity to advance the financial or personal interest of that party or others under any circumstances.
(Ord. of 3-17-87, § F)
Sec. 7-7. - Representation.
Except in the regular discharge of official duties, no official or appointed official shall appear on such official's or appointed official's own behalf, or represent, or appear on behalf of, whether paid or unpaid, any person before any court or legislative, administrative or quasi-judicial board, agency, commission or committee appointed by the board of commissioners, or an official or appointed official concerning any contract or transaction which is or may be the subject of an official act or action of the county, or otherwise use or attempt to use such official's or appointed official's official position to secure unwarranted privileges or exemptions for such official's or appointed official's self or other persons.
(Ord. of 3-17-87, § G)
Sec. 7-8. - Incompatible employment.
No official or appointed official shall engage in, accept employment with or render services for any person or business when such is adverse to and incompatible with the proper discharge of such official's or appointed official's official duties.
(Ord. of 3-17-87, § H)
Sec. 7-9. - Abstention.
An official or appointed official who has an interest that such official or appointed official has reason to believe may be affected by such official's or appointed official's official acts or actions or by the official acts or actions of the county shall disclose that interest and shall abstain from participating in such official acts or actions affected thereby. That interest shall be disclosed by such official or appointed official prior to there being taken any official act or actions.
(Ord. of 3-17-87, § I)
Sec. 7-10. - Contracts.
Any official or appointed official who shall violate the terms and provisions of O.C.G.A. section 36-1-14 or any provisions of any county ordinances, rules, and/or regulations shall be deemed in violation of this chapter and shall be subject to the penalties herein stated.
(Ord. of 3-17-87, § J)
Sec. 7-11. - Zoning.
All officials and appointed officials are deemed subject to the provisions of O.C.G.A. Chapter 36-67A et seq., shall make the disclosures therein required, and shall be subject to the penalties therein stated. In addition, any official or appointed official required to make the disclosures set forth in the aforesaid provisions of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated shall be prohibited from participating in the zoning matter in which such official or appointed official has a direct or indirect interest. A violation of the aforesaid provisions of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated shall also constitute a violation of this chapter.
The disclosure requirements set forth in Chapter 36-67A of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated and the prohibition from participation imposed in the preceding paragraph shall also pertain to all officials and appointed officials who are involved in the process of approving and/or disapproving residential and commercial subdivision plats.
(Ord. of 3-17-87, § K)
Sec. 7-12. - Disclosure of relationships.
(a)
Each party subject to this chapter shall submit in writing to the full board of commissioners the following information:
(1)
Any business interests between or among any parties subject to this chapter, with complete description of said involvement.
(2)
Any business interests between or among any parties subject to this chapter which have been terminated within the past six (6) months.
(3)
Any business interests between or among any parties subject to this chapter anticipated in the next six-month period.
(4)
Any business interests in which any official or appointed official owns an interest equal to ten (10) percent of the net worth of the business or twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00), whichever is less.
(5)
Any employers, clients or business interests which pay to any official or appointed official an amount equal to ten (10) percent of that official or appointed official's total gross revenues in any one (1) year or twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) in one (1) year, whichever is less.
(6)
Any real estate holdings in which an official or appointed official has an interest which is located in the unincorporated limits of the county.
(b)
Henceforth, each party subject to this chapter shall inform the full board of commissioners in writing of any such business relationships or interests within thirty (30) days of the creation of any such contractual relationship or acquisition and shall provide all of the information requested in subparagraphs (1) through (6) of subsection (a) of this section. Notwithstanding the preceding reporting requirement, however, it is required that at least one (1) report be made by each official or appointed official at least once annually, which report shall be made on the first day of May of each year.
(c)
Failure on the part of any party subject to this chapter to comply with the provisions of this section shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter.
(d)
All information supplied hereunder shall be received by the board of commissioners, sealed by it, and delivered to the judge of the probate court for retention. The information shall not be available for review by any person or entity other than the committee designated in section 7-15 to hear complaints, and such release shall be authorized then only in the event of a complaint having been filed as provided in this chapter. The committee shall have the right to review the records of only the official or appointed official charged. The records may also be subject to review upon the issuance of a subpoena for the production of such documents by a court of competent jurisdiction or upon order of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 3-17-87, § L)
Sec. 7-13. - Use of county property.
No official or appointed official shall use any county property, services, personnel, labor or other thing of value for personal gain or for any purpose other than the official business of the county. Any parties so violating this provision shall be required to pay to the county a sum equal to the value of the benefits so received, and shall likewise be deemed to have violated the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. of 3-17-87, § M)
Sec. 7-14. - Compliance with applicable laws.
No official or appointed official shall engage in any activity or transaction that is prohibited by any law, now existing or hereafter enacted, which is applicable to him or her by virtue of his or her office. Without limiting the applicability of other statutory provisions, the provisions of O.C.G.A. section 45-10-1 are incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. of 3-17-87, § N)
Sec. 7-15. - Violations.
Complaints regarding alleged violations of this chapter by an official or appointed official shall be referred to the current foreman of the then-impaneled grand jury by any person having personal knowledge of such violation. A complaint shall be in writing and shall specify in detail the circumstances constituting the alleged violation, the transaction or matter to which the violation relates, and the official or appointed official alleged to have violated this chapter. Upon receipt of a complaint, the foreman shall designate a committee composed of two (2) members of the then-impaneled grand jury and a third party to be selected by the official or appointed official alleged to have violated this chapter. The committee thus formed shall make such investigation of the complaint as it deems appropriate with respect to the matters contained in the complaint and, within thirty (30) days of its appointment, shall report its findings to the full board of commissioners. In the event that the committee finds that a violation has occurred, it shall also recommend whether the board of commissioners shall either censure or reprimand the official or appointed official or take no further action. The board of commissioners at its next regular meeting not less than fifteen (15) days after the committee makes its report, shall, by majority, act upon the report by either censuring or reprimanding the official or appointed official or, in their discretion, taking no further action. In the event a member of the board of commissioners is the party under investigation, such member shall not participate in the deliberations and voting by the board of commissioners. The report of the committee shall be made a part of the minutes of the board of commissioners and a copy thereof forwarded to the district attorney of the Douglas Judicial Circuit for such further legal action as the district attorney shall consider appropriate.
In the event that the two (2) members of the then-impaneled grand jury are not capable of serving for any reason, then the two (2) such members shall be designated by a mutual decision of the probate judge and the judges of the superior court of the county.
All proceedings and records of the aforesaid committee are confidential, although the report of the committee may be made public.
(Ord. of 3-17-87, § O)
Sec. 7-16. - Construction; application.
(a)
This chapter shall be construed liberally to effectuate its purposes and policies and to supplement such existing laws as may relate to the conduct of the persons made subject to this chapter.
(b)
The propriety of any official act or action taken by or transaction involving any official or appointed official immediately prior to the time this chapter shall take effect shall not be affected by the enactment of this chapter.
(Ord. of 3-17-87, § P)
Sec. 7-17. - Executive sessions.
Except as otherwise provided by law, all meetings as defined in O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq. shall be open to the public. When any portion of a meeting of the board of commissioners is closed to the public pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq. all members of the commission, attending any portion of such closed meeting, shall limit all discussion to those items exempt under state law and shall execute and file with the official minutes of the meeting a notarized affidavit stating under oath that the subject matter of the meeting or the closed portion thereof was devoted to matters within the exceptions provided by law and identifying the specific relevant exceptions. The commissioners, attending any portion of the closed meeting, shall execute the affidavit immediately upon the adjournment of the executive session and before the adjournment of the public portion of the meeting.
(Ord. of 7-6-99)
