ARTICLE II. - BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
DIVISION 1. - CHEROKEE COUNTY RECREATION AND PARKS ADVISORY BOARD[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2010-O-008, adopted Dec. 21, 2010, amended Art. II, Div. 1, to read as set out herein. Former Art. II, Div. 1, §§ 2-36—2-42, pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 2007-O-002, §§ 1—7, adopted June 19, 2007.

Sec. 2-36. - Established.
The Cherokee County Board of Commissioners (BOC) did hereby adopt an ordinance on the 19th day of June, 2007, establishing the Cherokee County Recreation and Parks Advisory Board (CCRP Advisory Board).
The CCRP advisory board's principle responsibilities are:
(1)
To advise in the initiation, planning, organization, implementation, and coordination of public recreation programs and activities for the county.
(2)
To recommend a system of parks and facilities that will accommodate the public's need for recreation programs and activities.
(Ord. No. 2010-O-008, 12-21-10)
Sec. 2-37. - Duties and scope.
The duties and scope of the CCRP advisory board shall be advisory in nature, except as specifically authorized by the board of commissioners.
Planning:
(1)
Assist and advise regarding "vision" for future parks, programs, partnerships, etc.
(2)
Assist and advise in determining direction and priorities for programs and utilization of resources. This could/would include, but is not limited to, impact and consideration of budgets and organizational structure, human resource allocation, etc.
(3)
Assist and advise regarding evolution of future green space and passive recreation sites, scope, and priorities.
Programs:
(4)
To assist in establishing and/or reviewing guidelines, rules and regulations by which parks and recreation programs may operate.
(5)
To Approve fees and charges for use of facilities and participation in programs.
(6)
To review staff recommendations of contracts for provision of programs and services.
Facilities:
(7)
To ensure at all times safety and security of site locations and physical facility standards.
(8)
To review new park and any major renovation concept design draft and submit recommendations to BOC to include in final concept design approval.
(9)
When requested by BOC, participate in contract bid review process.
Other:
(10)
To be the reference point for adjudication of complaints, disputes or other grievances from the public arising out of parks and recreation activities. If remain unresolved, these issues will pass to the BOC, as appropriate.
(11)
To submit annual report to BOC citing key issues resolved, program accomplishments, program effectiveness, etc.
(12)
To perform other duties and responsibilities as may be conferred by the Cherokee County Board of Commissioners from time to time.
(Ord. No. 2010-O-008, 12-21-10)
Sec. 2-38. - Membership.
The CCRP advisory board shall be representative of the community and shall consist of five members who shall be residents of the county and who shall serve with compensation, as determined by the BOC. Each member of the BOC shall have one appointee.
Meetings:
(a)
Meetings of the CCRP advisory board shall be on a bimonthly basis unless when determined otherwise by the CCRP advisory board. The chairperson of the CCRP advisory board, or in his absence, the vice-chair, may call a special meeting of the CCRP advisory board at any time by giving each member 24 hours notice. Notice of meetings and agendas must be posted on the Cherokee Recreation and Parks Agency web site, as soon as possible but at least 24 hours before the date and time set for the meeting.
(b)
Special called meetings will be scheduled upon request by three or more members. A quorum of the CCRP advisory board shall be in attendance before action of an official nature can be taken. A quorum is three of the appointed members. All meetings of the CCRP advisory board shall be subject to the Georgia Open Meetings Act.
(c)
Attendance of members. An appointed member who misses more than three consecutive meetings loses his status as a member of the CCRP advisory board until reappointed or replaced by the respective appointing member of the BOC. Absences due to sickness or other emergencies of like nature, shall be regarded as approved absences and shall not affect the member's status on the CCRP advisory board, except that in the event of a long illness, or other such cause for prolonged absence, the member may be replaced.
(d)
Election of officers. The CCRP advisory board shall elect from its membership a chairperson and other officers as may be desired. Officers shall be elected on a calendar year basis and may be reelected for succeeding terms.
(Ord. No. 2010-O-008, 12-21-10)
Sec. 2-39. - Terms of office.
The terms of office of the members of the CCRP advisory board shall run concurrently with the term of the member of the board of commissioners who appointed that particular member. In any event, term shall not exceed four years in the absence of reappointment.
(Ord. No. 2010-O-008, 12-21-10)
Secs. 2-40—2-55. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CHEROKEE CLEAN COMMISSION[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Solid waste, ch. 46.
State Law reference— Solid waste management education program; establishment of Georgia Clean and Beautiful Advisory Committee and Interagency Council on Solid Waste Management, O.C.G.A. § 50-8-7.3.

Sec. 2-56. - Establishment.
For the purpose of assisting the county and the board of commissioners in establishing, promoting and maintaining a countywide policy for improved environmental and waste management, a commission is hereby created, to be known as the Cherokee Clean Commission. The commission shall have only advisory authority in recommending waste and environmental management policies, with the goal that all refuse and clean community activities may follow a common purpose.
(Ord. of 8-18-87(2), § 1)
Sec. 2-57. - Membership; appointment of members; initial terms.
(a)
The commission established by this division shall consist of 15 members appointed by the board of commissioners, serving without remuneration, who represent the areas of business and industry, communications, community and civic organizations, municipalities and educational institutions. The qualifications, method of selection, procedure for removal and method of filling vacancies shall be provided by resolution of the board of commissioners and the current chairman of Cherokee Clean and Beautiful.
(b)
In order to achieve continuity of actions and procedures, the initial appointments shall be as follows: seven members for a period of one year and eight members for a period of two years.
(Ord. of 8-18-87(2), §§ 2, 3)
Sec. 2-58. - Organization; meetings.
The commission established by this division shall hold an organizational meeting to select from its membership a chairman, a secretary and other such officers as may be desired before proceeding to any other matters of business. The commission shall also designate the time and place of all future meetings, to be held at regular intervals. A quorum shall consist of eight members.
(Ord. of 8-18-87(2), § 5)
Sec. 2-59. - Rules of procedure; minutes.
The commission established by this division shall adopt its own bylaws and rules of procedure. The secretary of the commission shall take minutes of all meetings of the commission and keep records of all regularly scheduled meetings and other pertinent actions or proceedings.
(Ord. of 8-18-87(2), § 6)
Sec. 2-60. - Duties.
The responsibilities of the commission established by this division shall include but not be limited to the following:
(1)
To determine and recommend program priorities on a countywide basis;
(2)
To review current ordinances and propose to the board of commissioners any changes or additional ordinances felt to be necessary in order to achieve the goals of the commission, with particular emphasis placed on more stringent enforcement;
(3)
To monitor performance from data collected and examined under the Keep America Beautiful, Inc., Clean Community System guidelines and make an annual report to the board of commissioners;
(4)
To initiate, plan, direct and coordinate communitywide efforts to achieve its goals;
(5)
To solicit and accept donations and appropriations of money, services, products, property and facilities for expenditure and use by the commission for the accomplishment of its objectives; and
(6)
To carry out such tasks as the board of commissioners may designate.
(Ord. of 8-18-87(2), § 4)
Sec. 2-61. - Expenditure of county funds.
The commission established by this division shall not have the power to financially obligate the county without prior approval of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 8-18-87(2), § 7)
Sec. 2-62. - Annual report; financial records.
The commission established by this division shall annually provide the board of commissioners a report of its actions and proceedings in connection with each project or undertaking, and shall include as part of its report a statement of its receipts and disbursements, from whatever source and to whatever object, for the preceding 12 months. The commission records shall be kept in a manner that will enable it to make such reports and accountings, and they shall be subject to verification and examination by auditors of the county.
(Ord. of 8-18-87(2), § 8)
Sec. 2-63. - Authority of board of commissioners to terminate projects.
Any project or undertaking begun by the commission established by this division shall be terminated at any time upon the decision of the board of commissioners that the continuation thereof is not in the best interests of the county.
(Ord. of 8-18-87(2), § 9)
Secs. 2-64—2-70. - Reserved.
