Chapter 30 - PLANNING[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Coordinated and comprehensive planning by municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-70-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 30-1—30-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Downtown development authority created in each municipality, O.C.G.A. § 36-42-4.

Sec. 30-19. - State downtown development authorities law made effective within city.
The state Downtown Development Authorities Law, as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-42-1 et seq., is hereby made effective within the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 2000, § 58-31; Ord. No. 1232, § 1, 5-6-1995)
Sec. 30-20. - Legislative purpose.
The revitalization and redevelopment of the central business district of the city develops and promotes for the public good and general welfare trade, commerce, industry, and employment opportunities and promotes the general welfare of the city by creating a climate favorable to the location of new industry, trade, and commerce and the development of existing industry, trade, and commerce within the city. Revitalization and redevelopment of central business districts by financing projects under this article will develop and promote for the public good and general welfare trade, commerce, industry, and employment opportunities and will promote the general welfare of the city. It is, therefore, in the public interest and is vital to the public welfare of the people of the city, and it is declared to be the public purpose of this article, to so revitalize and redevelop the central business district of the city. No bonds, notes, or other obligations, except refunding bonds, shall be issued by an authority under this article unless its board of directors adopts a resolution finding that the project for which such bonds, notes, or other obligations are to be issued will promote the foregoing objectives.
(Code 2000, § 58-32; Ord. No. 1232, § 3, 5-6-1995)
State Law reference— Purpose and declaration of need, O.C.G.A. § 36-42-2.
Sec. 30-21. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Authority means each public body corporate and politic created pursuant to this article.
Cost of the project or cost of any project means and includes:
(1)
All costs of acquisition (by purchase or otherwise), construction, assembly, installation, modification, renovation, or rehabilitation incurred in connection with any project or any part of any project;
(2)
All costs of real property, fixtures, or personal property used in or in connection with or necessary for any project or for any facilities related thereto, including, but not limited to, the cost of all land, estates for years, easements, rights, improvements, water rights, connections for utility services, fees, franchises, permits, approvals, licenses, and certificates; the cost of securing any such franchises, permits, approvals, licenses, or certificates; and the cost of preparation of any application therefor and the cost of all fixtures, machinery, equipment, furniture, and other property used in or in connection with or necessary for any project;
(3)
All financing charges and loan fees and all interest on revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations of an authority which accrues or is paid prior to and during the period of construction of a project and during such additional period as the authority may reasonably determine to be necessary to place such project in operation;
(4)
All costs of engineering, surveying, and architectural and legal services and all expenses incurred by engineers, surveyors, architects, and attorneys in connection with any project;
(5)
All expenses for inspection of any project;
(6)
All fees of fiscal agents, paying agents, and trustees for bondholders under any trust agreement, indenture of trust, or similar instrument or agreement; all expenses incurred by any such fiscal agents, paying agents, and trustees; and all other costs and expenses incurred relative to the issuance of any revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations for any project;
(7)
All fees of any type charged by an authority in connection with any project;
(8)
All expenses of or incidental to determining the feasibility or practicability of any project;
(9)
All costs of plans and specifications for any project;
(10)
All costs of title insurance and examinations of title with respect to any project;
(11)
Repayment of any loans made for the advance payment of any part of any of the foregoing costs, including interest thereon and any other expenses of such loans;
(12)
Administrative expenses of the authority and such other expenses as may be necessary or incidental to any project or the financing thereof or the placing of any project in operation; and
(13)
The establishment of a fund for the creation of a debt service reserve, a renewal and replacement reserve, or such other funds or reserves as the authority may approve with respect to the financing and operation of any project and as may be authorized by any bond resolution, trust agreement, indenture of trust, or similar instrument or agreement pursuant to the provisions of which the issuance of any revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations of the authority may be authorized.
Any cost, obligation, or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of proceeds of revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations issued by the authority.
Downtown development area means the geographical area within the city designated as such by this article activating the authority for the city as modified by any subsequent resolution of the city commission.
Project means the acquisition, construction, installation, modification, renovation, or rehabilitation of land, interests in land, buildings, structures, facilities, or other improvements located or to be located within the downtown development area, and the acquisition, installation, modification, renovation, rehabilitation, or furnishing of fixtures, machinery, equipment, furniture, or other property of any nature whatsoever used on, in, or in connection with any such land, interest in land, building, structure, facility, or other improvement, all for the essential public purpose of the development of trade, commerce, industry, and employment opportunities in the downtown development area. A project may be for any industrial, commercial, business, office, parking, public, or other use, provided that a majority of the members of the authority determine, by a duly adopted resolution, that the project and such use thereof would further the public purpose of this article.
Revenue bonds or bonds means any bonds of an authority which are authorized to be issued under the constitution and laws of the state, including refunding bonds but not including notes or other obligations of an authority.
(Code 2000, § 58-33; Ord. No. 1232, § 4, 5-6-1995)
State Law reference— Downtown Development Authorities Law statutory definitions, O.C.G.A. § 36-42-3.
Sec. 30-22. - Creation of downtown development authority; appointment; terms of directors; quorum.
(a)
There is created in and for the city a public body corporate and politic to be known as the downtown development authority of the city, which shall consist of a board of seven directors.
(b)
The city commission shall appoint two directors for two years, two directors for four years, and three directors for six years for the first board of directors, and thereafter the terms of all directors shall be four years. If at the end of any term of office of any director a successor to such director has not been appointed, the director whose term of office has expired shall continue to hold office until his successor is appointed. A majority of the board of directors shall constitute a quorum.
(Code 2000, § 58-34; Ord. No. 1232, § 5, 5-6-1995)
State Law reference— Creation of downtown development authority, O.C.G.A. § 36-42-4.
Sec. 30-23. - Downtown development area.
There is created in and for the city a downtown development area which consists of all that tract or parcel of land described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of South Lee Street and Highway 23 and following the meanderings of South Lee Street to its intersection with Main Street; thence following the meanderings of Main Street to its intersection with Hill Street; thence following the meanderings of Hill Street to its intersection with Highway 23; and thence along Highway 23 to the point of beginning.
(Code 2000, § 58-36; Ord. No. 1232, § 7, 5-6-1995)
Sec. 30-24. - Action subsequent to passage of resolution activating authority.
The city commission may, by proper resolution adopted subsequent to this article activating its authority:
(1)
Change its designation of the downtown development area to a geographical area within the municipal corporation which, in the judgment of the city commission, at the time constitutes the central business district, provided that any such change in the downtown development area shall be effective prospectively from the adoption of the resolution providing therefor and shall not affect any project of, or any action taken by, the authority within or with respect to the downtown development area as defined prior to such change becoming effective;
(2)
Appoint directors of the authority which the city commission is authorized to appoint; and
(3)
Disapprove any proposed issue of revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations of the authority, in the manner provided in this article.
(Code 2000, § 58-37; Ord. No. 1232, § 8, 5-6-1995)
State Law reference— Subsequent resolutions, O.C.G.A. § 36-42-6.
Sec. 30-25. - Qualifications of directors; election of officers; reimbursement; training.
Directors shall be taxpayers residing in the city and their successors shall be appointed by the city commission. Not less than four of the directors shall be persons who, in the judgment of the city commission of the city, either have or represent a party who has an economic interest in the redevelopment and revitalization of the downtown development area. The directors shall elect one of their members as chairman and another as vice-chairman and shall also elect a secretary and a treasurer or a secretary-treasurer, either of whom may, but need not be, a director. The directors shall receive no compensation for their services but shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties. The authority shall have perpetual existence. Each director shall attend and complete at least eight hours of training on downtown development and redevelopment programs within the first 12 months of a director's appointment to the downtown development authority.
(Code 2000, § 58-38; Ord. No. 1232, § 9, 5-6-1995)
State Law reference— Qualifications of directors; officers; compensation; expenses; training, O.C.G.A. § 36-42-7.
Sec. 30-26. - Power of authority.
(a)
The authority shall have all of the powers necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of this article, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power to:
(1)
Bring and defend actions;
(2)
Adopt and amend a corporate seal;
(3)
Make and execute contracts, agreements, and other instruments necessary or convenient to exercise the powers of the authority or to further the public purpose for which the authority is created, including, but not limited to, contracts for construction of projects, leases of projects, contracts for sale of projects, agreements for loans to finance projects, and contracts with respect to the use of projects;
(4)
Acquire by purchase, lease, or otherwise and to hold, lease, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character, or any interest therein, in furtherance of the public purpose of the authority;
(5)
Finance (by loan, grant, lease, or otherwise), construct, erect, assemble, purchase, acquire, own, repair, remodel, renovate, rehabilitate, modify, maintain, extend, improve, install, sell, equip, expand, add to, operate, or manage projects and to pay the cost of any project from the proceeds of revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations of the authority or any other funds of the authority, or from any contributions or loans by persons, corporations, partnerships (whether limited or general), or other entities, all of which the authority is authorized to receive, accept, and use;
(6)
Borrow money to further or carry out its public purpose and to execute revenue bonds, notes, other obligations, leases, trust indentures, trust agreements, agreements for the sale of its revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations, loan agreements, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds, security agreements, assignments, and such other agreements or instruments as may be necessary or desirable, in the judgment of the authority, to evidence and to provide security for such borrowing;
(7)
Issue revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations of the authority and use the proceeds thereof for the purpose of paying, or loaning the proceeds thereof to pay, all or any part of the cost of any project and otherwise to further or carry out the public purpose of the authority and to pay all costs of the authority incidental to, or necessary and appropriate to, furthering or carrying out such purpose;
(8)
Make application directly or indirectly to any federal, state, county, or municipal government or agency or to any other source, whether public or private, for loans, grants, guarantees, or other financial assistance in furtherance of the authority's public purpose and to accept and use such loans, grants, guarantees, or other financial assistance upon such terms and conditions as are prescribed by such federal, state, county, or municipal government or agency or other source;
(9)
Enter into agreements with the federal government or any agency thereof to use the facilities or services of the federal government or any agency thereof in order to further or carry out the public purposes of the authority;
(10)
Contract for any period, not exceeding 50 years, with the state, state institutions, or any municipal corporation or county of the state for the use by the authority of any facilities or services of the state or any such state institution, municipal corporation, or county, or for the use by any state institution or any municipal corporation or county of any facilities or services of the authority, provided that such contracts shall deal with such activities and transactions as the authority and any such political subdivision with which the authority contracts are authorized by law to undertake;
(11)
Extend credit or make loans to any person, corporation, partnership (whether limited or general), or other entity for the costs of any project or any part of the costs of any project, which credit or loans may be evidenced or secured by loan agreements, notes, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds, security agreements, assignments, or such other instruments, or by rentals, revenues, fees, or charges, upon such terms and conditions as the authority shall determine to be reasonable in connection with such extension of credit or loans, including provision for the establishment and maintenance of reserve funds; and, in the exercise of powers granted by this article in connection with any project, the authority shall have the right and power to require the inclusion in any such loan agreement, note, mortgage, deed to secure debt, trust deed, security agreement, assignment, or other instrument of such provisions or requirements for guaranty of any obligations, insurance, construction, use, operation, maintenance, and financing of a project, and such other terms and conditions, as the authority may deem necessary or desirable;
(12)
As security for repayment of any revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations of the authority, pledge, mortgage, convey, assign, hypothecate, or otherwise encumber any property of the authority (including, but not limited to, real property, fixtures, personal property, and revenues or other funds) and to execute any lease, trust indenture, trust agreement, agreement for the sale of the authority's revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations, loan agreement, mortgage, deed to secure debt, trust deed, security agreement, assignment, or other agreement or instrument as may be necessary or desirable, in the judgment of the authority, to secure any such revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations, which instruments or agreements may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default in any obligation of the authority, either in payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest or in the performance of any term or condition contained in any such agreement or instrument. The state, on behalf of itself and each county, municipal corporation, political subdivision, or taxing district therein, waives any right it or such county, municipal corporation, political subdivision, or taxing district may have to prevent the forced sale or foreclosure of any property of the authority upon such default and agrees that any agreement or instrument encumbering such property may be foreclosed in accordance with law and the terms thereof;
(13)
Receive and use the proceeds of any tax levied by the city to pay the costs of any project or for any other purpose for which the authority may use its own funds pursuant to this article;
(14)
Receive and administer gifts, grants, and devises of money and property of any kind and to administer trusts;
(15)
Use any real property, personal property, or fixtures or any interest therein or to rent or lease such property to or from others or make contracts with respect to the use thereof, or to sell, lease, exchange, transfer, assign, pledge, or otherwise dispose of or grant options for any such property in any manner as it deems to the best advantage of the authority and the public purpose thereof;
(16)
Acquire, accept, or retain equitable interests, security interests, or other interests in any real property, personal property, or fixtures by loan agreement, note, mortgage, deed to secure debt, trust deed, security agreement, assignment, pledge, conveyance, contract, lien, loan agreement, or other consensual transfer in order to secure the repayment of any moneys loaned or credit extended by the authority;
(17)
Appoint, select, and employ engineers, surveyors, architects, urban or city planners, fiscal agents, and others and to fix their compensation and pay their expenses;
(18)
Encourage and promote the improvement and revitalization of the downtown development area and to make, contract for, or otherwise cause to be made long-range plans or proposals for the downtown development area in cooperation with the city;
(19)
Adopt bylaws governing the conduct of business by the authority, the election and duties of officers of the authority, and other matters which the authority determines to deal with in its bylaws;
(20)
Exercise any power granted by the laws of the state to public or private corporations which is not in conflict with the public purpose of the authority; and
(21)
Do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers conferred by this article.
(b)
The powers enumerated in subsection (a) of this section are cumulative of and in addition to those powers enumerated elsewhere in this article; and no such power limits or restricts any other power of the authority.
(Code 2000, § 58-39; Ord. No. 1232, § 10, 5-6-1995)
State Law reference— Powers of the authority, O.C.G.A. § 36-42-8.
Sec. 30-27. - Revenue bonds, notes and other obligations.
(a)
Revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations issued by the authority shall be paid solely from the property (including, but not limited to, real property, fixtures, personal property, revenues, or other funds) pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated, or otherwise encumbered to secure or to pay such bonds, notes, or other obligations.
(b)
All revenue bonds, notes, and other obligations shall be authorized by resolution of the authority, adopted by a majority vote of the directors of the authority at a regular or special meeting.
(c)
The authority shall file with the department of community affairs, not later than the January 31 of each year, a statement with respect to all bonds, notes, and other obligations which it issued during the immediately preceding calendar year, and such statement shall contain with respect to each such issue of bonds, notes, or other obligations:
(1)
The name and address of the authority;
(2)
The date of the issue and the face amount of the issue;
(3)
The name and address of the principal user or principal users, determined based upon reasonable expectations at the time of issuance, of any facilities provided with the proceeds of the issue; and
(4)
A general description of the type of project financed with proceeds of the issue. The department of community affairs may, for cause shown, grant an extension of the time within which such filing is required. Such filing shall be informational only, shall not affect any action taken or to be taken by any authority, and shall be deemed to be made upon mailing to the department of community affairs in Atlanta, Georgia. Such statement may, at the authority's option, be filed separately with respect to each issue at the time of issuance or any time thereafter prior to January 31 of the next year. The requirements of this subsection (c) shall apply to bonds, notes, and other obligations which are issued after November 1, 1983.
(d)
Revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations shall bear such date, shall mature at such time (not more than 40 years from their respective dates), shall bear interest at such rate (which may be fixed or may fluctuate or otherwise change from time to time), shall be subject to redemption on such terms, and shall contain such other terms, provisions, covenants, assignments, and conditions as the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds, notes, or other obligations may permit or provide. The terms, provisions, covenants, assignments, and conditions contained in or provided or permitted by any resolution of the authority authorizing the issuance of such revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations shall bind the directors of the authority.
(e)
The authority shall have power from time to time and whenever it deems it expedient to refund any bonds by the issuance of new bonds, whether or not the bonds to be refunded have matured, and may issue bonds partly to refund bonds then outstanding and partly for any other purpose permitted under this article. The refunding bonds may be exchanged for the bonds to be refunded, with such cash adjustments as may be agreed upon, or may be sold and the proceeds applied to the purchase or redemption of the bonds to be refunded.
(f)
There shall be no limitation upon the amount of revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations which any authority may issue. Any limitations with respect to interest rates or any maximum interest rate or rates found in O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq. (the Revenue Bond Law), the usury laws of the state, or any other laws of the state shall not apply to revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations of the authority.
(Code 2000, § 58-40; Ord. No. 1232, § 11, 5-6-1995)
State Law reference— Revenue bonds, O.C.G.A. § 36-42-9.
Sec. 30-28. - Applicability of revenue bond law; form of bonds; exchange and transfer; certificate of validation; specification of interest rates.
(a)
All bonds issued by the authority under this article shall be issued and validated under and in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq. (the Revenue Bond Law), except as provided in this article, provided that notes and other obligations of the authority may, but shall not be required to, be so validated.
(b)
Bonds issued by the authority may be in such form, either coupon or fully registered, or both coupon and fully registered, and may be subject to such exchangeability and transferability provisions as the bond resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or any indenture or trust agreement may provide.
(c)
Bonds shall bear a certificate of validation. The signature of the clerk of the superior court of the county may be made on the certificate of validation of such bonds by facsimile or by manual execution, stating the date on which such bonds were validated; and such entry shall be original evidence of the fact of judgment and shall be received as original evidence in any court in the state.
(d)
In lieu of specifying the rate of interest which bonds to be issued by an authority are to bear, the notice to the district attorney or the attorney general, the notice to the public of the time, place, and date of the validation hearing, and the petition and complaint for validation may state that the bonds when issued will bear interest at a rate not exceeding a maximum per annum rate of interest (which may be fixed or may fluctuate or otherwise change from time to time) specified in such notices and petition and complaint or may state that, if the bonds are to bear different rates of interest for different maturity dates, none of such rates will exceed the maximum rate (which may be fixed or may fluctuate or otherwise change from time to time) so specified; provided, however, that nothing in this article shall be construed as prohibiting or restricting the right of the authority to sell such bonds at a discount, even if in doing so the effective interest cost resulting therefrom would exceed the maximum per annum interest rate specified in such notices and in the petition and complaint.
(e)
The terms "cost of the project" and "cost of any project" shall have the meaning prescribed in this article whenever those terms are referred to in bond resolutions of an authority, in bonds, notes, or other obligations of an authority, or in notices or proceedings to validate such bonds, notes, or other obligations of an authority.
(Code 2000, § 58-41; Ord. No. 1232, § 12, 5-6-1995)
State Law reference— Validation, O.C.G.A. § 36-42-10.
Sec. 30-29. - Authorized contents of agreements and instruments; use of proceeds of sale of bonds, notes, etc.; subsequent issues.
(a)
Subject to the limitations and procedures provided by this section and by section 30-28, the agreements or instruments executed by the authority may contain such provisions not inconsistent with law as shall be determined by the board of directors of the authority.
(b)
The proceeds derived from the sale of all bonds, notes, and other obligations issued by the authority shall be held and used for the ultimate purpose of paying, directly or indirectly as permitted in this article, all or part of the cost of any project, or for the purpose of refunding any bonds, notes, or other obligations issued in accordance with this article.
(c)
Issuance by the authority of one or more series of bonds, notes, or other obligations for one or more purposes shall not preclude it from issuing other bonds, notes, or other obligations in connection with the same project or with any other projects; but the proceeding wherein any subsequent bonds, notes, or other obligations are issued shall recognize and protect any prior loan agreement, mortgage, deed to secure debt, trust deed, security agreement, or other agreement or instrument made for any prior issue of bonds, notes, or other obligations, unless in the resolution authorizing such prior issue the right is expressly reserved to the authority to issue subsequent bonds, notes, or other obligation on a parity with such prior issue.
(d)
The authority shall have the power and is authorized, whenever bonds of the authority shall have been validated as provided in this article, to issue from time to time its notes in anticipation of such bonds as validated and to renew from time to time any such notes by the issuance of new notes, whether or not the notes to be renewed have matured. The authority may issue such bond anticipation notes only to provide funds which would otherwise be provided by the issuance of the bonds as validated. Such notes may be authorized, sold, executed, and delivered in the same manner as bonds. As with its bonds, the authority may sell such notes at public sale or at private sale. Any resolution authorizing notes of the authority or any issue thereof may contain any provisions which the authority is authorized to include in any resolution authorizing bonds of the authority to any issue thereof; and the authority may include in any notes any terms, covenants, or conditions which the authority is authorized to include in any bonds. Validation of such bonds shall be a condition precedent to the issuance of such notes, but shall not be required that such notes be judicially validated. Bond anticipation notes shall not be issued in an amount exceeding the par value of the bonds in anticipation of which they are to be issued.
(Code 2000, § 58-42; Ord. No. 1232, § 13, 5-6-1995)
State Law reference— Provisions and obligations; limitations and procedures, O.C.G.A. § 36-42-11.
Sec. 30-30. - Bonds, notes, etc., of authorities not to constitute public debt of state or political subdivision.
No bonds, notes, or other obligations of, and no indebtedness incurred by, the authority shall constitute an indebtedness or obligation of the state or any county, municipal corporation, or political subdivision thereof; nor shall any act of the authority in any manner constitute or result in the creation of an indebtedness of the state or any county, municipal corporation, or political subdivision thereof. No holder of any such bonds, notes, or other obligations shall ever have the right to compel any exercise of the taxing power of the state or any county, municipal corporation, or political subdivision thereof, nor to enforce the payment thereof against the state or any such county, municipal corporation, or political subdivision.
(Code 2000, § 58-43; Ord. No. 1232, § 14, 5-6-1995)
State Law reference— Bonds, notes and other obligations not to constitute public debt, O.C.G.A. § 36-42-12.
Sec. 30-31. - Constitutional authority for enactment of article; tax exemption for authority and property.
This article is enacted pursuant to authority granted the general assembly by the constitution of the state. The authority created pursuant to this article is created for nonprofit and public purposes. It is found, determined, and declared that the creation of such authority and the carrying out of its corporate purposes is in all respects for the benefit of the people of the state and that such authority is an institution of purely public charity and will be performing an essential governmental function in the exercise of the power conferred upon it by this article; and for such reasons, the state covenants with the holders from time to time of the bonds, notes, and other obligations issued under this article that the authority shall not be required to pay any taxes or assessments imposed by the state or any counties, municipal corporations, political subdivisions, or taxing districts thereof upon any property acquired by the authority or under its jurisdiction, control, possession, or supervision or leased by it to others or upon its activities in the operation or maintenance of any such property or on any income derived by the authority in the form of fees, recording fees, rentals, charges, purchase price, installments, or otherwise. The bonds, notes, and other obligations of the authority, their transfer, and the income therefrom shall at all times be exempt from taxation within the state. The tax exemption provided for in this section shall not include any exemption from sales and use tax on property purchased by the authority or for use by the authority.
(Code 2000, § 58-44; Ord. No. 1232, § 15, 5-6-1995)
State Law reference— Constitutionality; tax exemption of authority, O.C.G.A. § 36-42-13.
Sec. 30-32. - Construction of article; applicability of Georgia Uniform Securities Act of 2008.
This article shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof. The offer, sale, or issuance of bonds, notes, or other obligations by the authority shall not be subject to regulation under, the Georgia Uniform Securities Act of 2008, O.C.G.A. § 10-5-1 et seq. No notice, proceeding, or publication except those required by this article shall be necessary to the performance of any act authorized by this article, nor shall any such act be subject to referendum.
(Code 2000, § 58-45; Ord. No. 1232, § 16, 5-6-1995)
State Law reference— Construction, O.C.G.A. § 36-42-15.
Sec. 30-33. - Downtown development authority attorney appointed.
The duly appointed city attorney shall be the attorney in all matters concerning the downtown development authority of the city.
(Code 2000, § 58-46; Ord. No. 1232, § 17, 5-6-1995)
