Chapter 26 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— State preemption as to municipal prohibition of an offense which is an offense under state law, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2)(A); Criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.

Sec. 26-1. - County code provisions adopted by reference.
(a)
Adoption by reference. The city hereby adopts and incorporates by reference as if fully set forth herein the following certain chapters of the Code of Gwinnett County, to wit:
(1)
Chapter 34, Emergency management and emergency services: Article III, alarm systems;
(2)
Chapter 66, Offenses: section 66-4, disorderly conduct;
(3)
Chapter 46, Health and sanitation: section 46-1, food service; section 46-2, tourist accommodations; section 46-3, swimming pools, public spas and bathhouses; section 46-4, vector control; section 46-6, on-site sewage management systems;
(4)
Chapter 18, Businesses: article VII, precious metals dealers; article XIII, pawnshops.
(b)
Enforcement. The city hereby expressly authorizes law enforcement officers and officials of the Gwinnett County police department to issue warning and citations for violation within the city of the chapter provisions adopted and enumerated in subsection (a) of this section. Venue for said citations shall lie in the recorder's court of Gwinnett County.
(c)
Penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this section shall be punished in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowed fine and imprisonment as provided by state law.
(Code 2000, § 50-1; Ord. No. 1370, § 1(b), 8-6-1990; Ord. of 6-5-2000, §§ 1—3; Ord. of 8-4-2008(2); Ord. of 2-1-2010(1); Ord. of 2-1-2010(2))
Sec. 26-2. - Gambling and gambling devices prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any gaming house, gambling game, slot machine, or gambling device of any kind in the city.
(Code 2000, § 50-4; Ord. No. 610)
Sec. 26-3. - Placing posters, cards, etc., on utility poles.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or post, or cause, assist, or abet anyone else to place or post, any poster, card, sign, or any commercial or political advertising of any kind on any utility pole, lamp post, street signpost, public building, or other public property without the express consent of the city commission.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person whose posters, cards, signs, circulars, or other commercial or political advertisements of their business, vocation, or political campaign have been placed or posted on any utility pole, lamp post, street sign post, public building, or other public property, to maintain or allow such posters, cards, signs, circulars, or other commercial or political advertisements to remain thereon, after having been notified by any member of the police department to remove such signs from such locations.
(c)
It shall be the duty of the police department to immediately notify any person, or owner, agent, or manager of any business whose posters, cards, signs, or other advertising materials are posted in violation of this section, to have such illegal advertisements removed from such locations. If such person, or owner, agent, or manager of such business fails and refuses to immediately remove such posters, cards, signs, or other advertising materials, the person, or owner, agent, or manager shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(d)
This section shall not apply to any legal advertisement or notice placed upon any public bulletin board provided such purpose is in compliance with the provisions or requirements of law.
(Code 2000, § 50-5; Ord. No. 490)
Sec. 26-4. - Damage to electric, telephone, or telegraph poles and fixtures.
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully destroy, injure, or damage any electric, telephone, or telegraph pole, wire, or fixture thereon.
(Code 2000, § 50-6; Ord. No. 480)
Sec. 26-5. - Trespass on public property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to trespass upon any public property, or to climb upon the city water tank or water reservoir, or to open any fire hydrant, or trespass or interfere in any way with any mechanism of any machinery belonging to the city, unless authorized to do so.
(Code 2000, § 50-7; Ord. No. 470)
Sec. 26-6. - Removal of furniture and fixture from public buildings.
It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any of the furniture, fixtures, or any material of any kind from the city hall, school buildings, pumping station, electric station, public parks, buildings, swimming pool, athletic fields, or any other property of the city without the permission of the city commission.
(Code 2000, § 50-8; Ord. No. 460)
Sec. 26-7. - Unlawful occupancy.
It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy, lodge, trespass on or sleep in any vacant or unoccupied lot, house, barn, garage, shed, shop, or other building or structure, or in any automobile, truck, railroad car, or other vehicle, without owning such vacant or unoccupied lot, house, barn, garage, shed, shop, or other building or structure, or such automobile, truck, railroad car, or other vehicle or without the permission of the owner or person in the legal possession of such vacant or unoccupied lot, house, barn, garage, shed, shop, or other building or structure, or such automobile, truck, railroad car, or other vehicle.
(Code 2000, § 50-10; Ord. No. 320)
Sec. 26-8. - Improper use of public spaces.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Camp means residing in or using a location for private living accommodations, such as erecting tents or other temporary structures or objects providing shelter; sleeping in a single place for more than one hour at a time; cooking or preparing meals; or other similar activities.
Storing personal property means leaving one's personal effects, such as, but not limited to, clothing, bedrolls, cookware, sleeping bags, luggage, knapsacks, or backpacks, unattended for more than one hour.
(b)
City parks. It shall be unlawful to camp or to store personal property in any park owned by the city.
(c)
Streets and sidewalks. It shall be unlawful to camp, sleep, store personal property, or to sit or lie down on any street or sidewalk or public right-of-way.
(d)
Other public property; blocking ingress and egress. It shall be unlawful to camp, sleep, store personal property, or to sit or lie down on any public property so as to interfere with the ingress or egress from buildings.
(e)
Warning. No person may be arrested for violating this section by simply sleeping, sitting, or lying down in a prohibited location or for a prohibited period of time without having first received an oral or written warning to cease such unlawful conduct.
(f)
Exceptions. Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, this section shall not apply to, nor be construed to prohibit, the following behavior:
(1)
Persons sitting or lying down as a result of a medical emergency;
(2)
Persons sitting in wheelchairs while using sidewalks;
(3)
Persons sitting down while attending parades;
(4)
Persons sitting down while patronizing outdoor cafes;
(5)
Persons sitting down, lying down, or napping while attending performances, festivals, concerts, fireworks, or other special events taking place in any park or on any street or sidewalk closed by permit for such purpose;
(6)
Persons sitting on chairs or benches supplied by a public agency or abutting private property owner; provided, however, that such person shall not loiter or remain on said premises for an excessive period of time or camp as defined above;
(7)
Persons sitting on seats in bus zones occupied by people waiting for the bus;
(8)
Persons sitting or lying down while waiting in an orderly line outside a box office to purchase tickets to any sporting event, concert, performance, or other special event;
(9)
Persons sitting or lying down in an orderly line awaiting entry to any building, including shelters, or awaiting social services, such as provisions of meals; or
(10)
Children under the age of 13 years sleeping in parks, or sleeping anywhere else while being carried by an accompanying person or while sitting or lying in a stroller or baby carriage.
(g)
Enforcement. The city manager, or his designee, shall be responsible for the enforcement of this section.
(h)
Penalty. Any person who violates any provision of this section may be subject to arrest or summoned to appear in the city municipal court and, upon conviction or other finding of guilt, be punished by a fine of up to $1,000.00 or 60 days of imprisonment, or both.
(Code 2000, § 50-15; Ord. of 10-6-2008)
Sec. 26-9. - Creating a hazardous or offensive condition on roadway.
A person shall be guilty of violating this section where one creates or initiates a hazardous condition on a roadway which serves no legitimate purpose which may hinder the safe flow of traffic or endanger other vehicles or pedestrians.
(Code 2000, § 50-20; Ord. of 10-2-2006(3), § 1)
