Subpart B - RELATED LAWS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— This subpart B is a compilation of local legislation enacted by the Georgia General Assembly which was deemed advisable to print. Enacting language has been deleted from each act printed herein. Section numbers have been arbitrarily assigned for ease of reference and indexing. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines, and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

ARTICLE I. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION FOR SENIOR CITIZENS AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES

Sec. 201. - [Homestead exemption.]
(a)
Each resident of the City of Buford who is 65 years of age or over or who is disabled and who meets the requirements of subsection (b) of this section is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from all City of Buford ad valorem taxes for any city purposes, including, but not limited to, taxes to retire bonded indebtedness, in the amount of $30,000.00 of the assessed value of that resident's homestead, as defined and qualified in Code Section 48-5-40 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 48-5-40], except that land which is included in that homestead and which exceeds one acre shall not have the value thereof exempt under this act.
(b)
The exemption provided by this act, shall not be granted unless the resident's net income, together with the net income of that resident's spouse who also occupies and resides at such homestead, as net income is defined by Georgia law, from all sources, except as otherwise provided in this section, does not exceed $25,000.00 for the immediately preceding taxable year for income tax purposes. For the purposes of this act, net income shall not include income received as retirement, survivor, or disability benefits under the federal Social Security Act or under any other public or private retirement, disability, or pension system, except such income which is in excess of the maximum amount authorized to be paid to an individual and that individual's spouse under the federal Social Security Act; and income from such sources in excess of such maximum amount shall be included as net income for the purposes of this act.
(c)
In order to qualify for the exemption granted to disabled persons provided for in this act, the person claiming such exemption shall be required to obtain a certificate from not more than three physicians licensed to practice medicine under Chapter 34 of Title 43 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 43-34-1 et seq.], relative to medical practitioners, certifying that in the opinion of such physicians such person is mentally or physically incapacitated to the extent that such person is unable to be gainfully employed and that such incapacity is likely to be permanent.
(1990 Ga. Laws, p. 4291, § 1)
Sec. 202. - [Application.]
The governing authority of the City of Buford or its designee shall provide certificate and application forms for the exemption granted by this act and shall require with the initial application a certificate, if such owner is disabled, and an affidavit by the owner as to the age and income of the owner, the income of the owner's spouse who occupies and resides at the homestead, and such other information as may be necessary to determine the eligibility of the owner for the exemption.
(1990 Ga. Laws, p. 4291, § 2)
Sec. 203. - [Claim.]
The exemption granted by this act shall be claimed and returned as provided in Code Section 48-5-50.1 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 48-5-50.1].
(1990 Ga. Laws, p. 4291, § 3)
Sec. 204. - [Reapplication; ineligibility.]
After any such owner has filed the proper affidavit and, if disabled, the proper certificate, as provided in this act, and has been allowed the exemption provided in this act, it shall not be necessary that he make application and file such affidavit and certificate for any year thereafter and such exemption shall continue to be allowed to such owner. It shall be the duty of any resident of the City of Buford who has claimed the homestead exemption provided for in this act to notify the governing authority of the City of Buford or its designee in the event he becomes ineligible for any reason to receive such homestead exemption.
(1990 Ga. Laws, p. 4291, § 4)
Sec. 205. - [Exclusivity.]
The exemption granted by this act shall be in lieu of and not in addition to any other homestead exemption from City of Buford ad valorem taxes.
(1990 Ga. Laws, p. 4291, § 5)
Sec. 206. - [Effective date.]
The exemption granted by this act shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1990.
(1990 Ga. Laws, p. 4291, § 6)
Sec. 207. - [County and state taxes not affected.]
The exemption granted by this act shall not apply to or affect any county taxes for county purposes, county school district taxes for educational purposes, or state taxes.
(1990 Ga. Laws, p. 4291, § 7)
Secs. 208—210. - [Reserved.]
ARTICLE II. - GENERAL HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION
A BILL TO BE ENTITLED
AN ACT
To provide for a homestead exemption from City of Buford ad valorem taxes for municipal purposes in an amount equal to the amount by which the current year assessed value of that homestead exceeds the base year assessed value of that homestead; to provide for definitions; to specify the terms and conditions of the exemption and the procedures relating thereto; to provide for applicability; to provide for related matters; to provide for compliance with constitutional requirements; to provide for a referendum, effective dates, and automatic repeal; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:

Sec. 1 [211]. - [Homestead exemption granted.]
(a)
As used in this Act, the term:
(1)
"Ad valorem taxes for city purposes" means all ad valorem taxes for city purposes levied by, for, or on behalf of the City of Buford, including, but not limited to, any ad valorem taxes for special district purposes and any taxes to pay interest on and to retire city bonded indebtedness.
(2)
"Base year" means the taxable year immediately preceding the taxable year in which the exemption under this Act is first granted to the most recent owner of such homestead.
(3)
"Homestead" means homestead, as defined and qualified in Code Section 48-5-40 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 48-5-40], with the additional qualification that it shall include only the primary residence and not more than five contiguous acres of land immediately surrounding such residence.
(b)
Each resident of the City of Buford is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from all City of Buford ad valorem taxes for city purposes in an amount equal to the amount by which the current year assessed value of that homestead exceeds the base year assessed value of that homestead. This exemption shall not apply to taxes assessed on improvements to the homestead or additional land that is added to the homestead after January 1 of the base year. If any real property is removed from the homestead, the base year assessed value shall be adjusted to reflect such removal and the exemption shall be recalculated accordingly. The value of that property in excess of such exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation.
(c)
Any person that owns and occupies their property as their primary residence and has qualified and received a homestead exemption from either Gwinnett County or Hall County shall receive the exemption granted by subsection (b) of this section without any additional act required.
(d)
The exemption shall be claimed and returned as provided in Code Section 48-5-50.1 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 48-5-50.1]. The exemption shall be automatically renewed from year to year as long as the owner occupies the residence as a homestead. It shall be the duty of any person granted the homestead exemption under subsection (b) of this section to notify the tax commissioner of the county or the designee thereof in the event that person for any reason becomes ineligible for that exemption.
(e)
The exemption granted by this Act shall not apply to or affect state ad valorem taxes or Gwinnett County or Hall County ad valorem taxes. The homestead exemption granted by subsection (b) of this section shall be in addition to and not in lieu of any other homestead exemption applicable to City of Buford ad valorem taxes for city purposes.
(f)
The exemption granted by subsection (b) of this section shall apply to all taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2021.
(2020 Ga. Laws (Act No. 396), p. 3676, § 1)
Sec. 2 [212]. - [Two-thirds majority vote.]
In accordance with the requirements of Article VII, Section II of the Constitution of the State of Georgia, this Act shall not become law unless it receives the requisite two-thirds' majority vote in both the Senate and the House of Representatives.
(2020 Ga. Laws (Act No. 396), p. 3676, § 2)
Sec. 3 [213]. - [Referendum.]
The municipal election superintendent of the City of Buford shall call and conduct an election, as provided in this section, for the purpose of submitting this Act to the electors of the City of Buford for approval or rejection. The municipal election superintendent shall conduct that election on the next possible date for holding special elections in the State of Georgia upon approval of this Act and shall issue the call and conduct that election as provided by general law. The municipal election superintendent shall cause the date and purpose of the election to be published once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the date thereof in the official organ of Gwinnett County. The ballot shall have written or printed thereon the words:
EXPAND
( ) Yes
( ) No Shall the Act be approved which provides a homestead exemption from certain City of Buford ad valorem taxes for city purposes in an amount equal to the amount by which the current year assessed value of that homestead exceeds the base year assessed value of that homestead?
  All persons desiring to vote for approval of the Act shall vote "Yes," and all persons desiring to vote for rejection of the Act shall vote "No." If more than one-half of the votes cast on such question are for approval of the Act, Section 1 [211] of this Act shall become of full force and effect on January 1, 2021. If the Act is not so approved or if the election is not conducted as provided in this section, Section 1 [211] of this Act shall not become effective and this Act shall be automatically repealed on the first day of January immediately following that election date. The expense of such election shall be borne by the City of Buford. It shall be the municipal election superintendent's duty to certify the result thereof to the Secretary of State.
(2020 Ga. Laws (Act No. 396), p. 3676, § 3)
Sec. 4 [214]. - [Effective date.]
Except as otherwise provided in Section 3 [213] of this Act, this Act shall become effective upon its approval by the Governor or upon its becoming law without such approval.
(2020 Ga. Laws (Act No. 396), p. 3676, § 4)
Sec. 5 [215]. - [Repealer.]
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
(2020 Ga. Laws (Act No. 396), p. 3676, § 5)
