Chapter 16.38 - GENERAL REGULATIONS AND CONDITIONS
Sections:

16.38.010 - Title for citation.
The franchise ordinance codified in this Division 3 of Title 16 shall be known as and may be cited as "the basic franchise ordinance."
(Ord. 9329 § 1, 1967: Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 100, 1959.)
16.38.020 - Rules, regulations, terms and conditions applicable.
Every franchise granted after March 6, 1959, by the county of Los Angeles for the use of county highways for any purpose, except as otherwise provided in the ordinance granting such franchise, shall be granted upon and be subject to such of the following rules, regulations, restrictions, terms and conditions as are incorporated therein by reference, in addition to the rules, regulations, restrictions, terms and conditions set forth in the ordinance granting each such franchise.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 101, 1959.)
16.38.030 - Franchise grant not exclusive.
The granting of a franchise or any of the terms or conditions therein shall not be construed to prevent the county from granting any identical or similar franchise to any person other than the grantee.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 118, 1959.)
16.38.040 - Rights and powers of county officers, departments or employees.
Any right or power conferred or duty imposed upon any officer, employee, department or board of the county shall be subject to transfer by operation of law to any other officer, employee, department or board of the county.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 133, 1959.)
16.38.050 - Application—Filing—Information required.
The application for a franchise shall be filed with the board. Unless the franchise is to cover all of the unincorporated territory of the county, the application shall be accompanied by six copies of a map, drawn to a size and scale approved by the road commissioner, showing the location boundaries of the area to be described in the franchise.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 147, 1959.)
16.38.060 - Term of franchise.
Unless the ordinance granting the franchise provides otherwise, the term of the franchise shall be 25 years.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 148, 1959.)
16.38.070 - Acceptance of franchise.
The grantee, except the United States of America, in which case use will constitute acceptance, shall within 60 days after the passage of the ordinance granting the franchise, file with the clerk of the board a written acceptance of the terms and conditions of said ordinance, including such terms and conditions of this Division 3 as are incorporated by reference in the said ordinance.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 127, 1959.)
16.38.080 - Surety bond required when—Amount and conditions.
The notice of sale may require that the grantee shall file, within the time specified therein, and at all times during the life of the franchise, keep on file with the director, facilities department, county of Los Angeles, a corporate surety bond running to the county and also to any incorporated city or public entity which may become entitled to the benefits herein reserved in the franchise by virtue of future annexations or incorporating, in the penal sum of $1,000.00, or such other sum as may be specifically provided in the said notice of sale with surety to be approved by the director, facilities department, county of Los Angeles, conditioned that the grantee shall well and truly observe, fulfill and perform each term and condition of the franchise and that in case of any breach of condition of the bond, the whole amount of the penal sum therein named shall be deemed to be liquidated damages, and shall be recoverable from the principal and sureties upon the bond. If the bond is not so filed within the time aforesaid, the award of the franchise may be set aside at any time prior to the filing thereof, and any money paid therefor shall be forfeited; and if an ordinance has been enacted granting the franchise, the board may repeal such ordinance. In the event that said bond, after it has been so filed, shall at any time during the life of the franchise become insufficient, the grantee, by accepting the terms and conditions thereof, agrees to renew said bond with sureties to be approved by the director, facilities department, county of Los Angeles within 10 days after written notice to do so from the director, facilities department, county of Los Angeles.
(Ord. 11373 § 1, 1976: Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 128, 1959.)
16.38.090 - Assignment of savings and loan certificates in lieu of bond.
If the notice of sale requires that the grantee shall file a corporate surety bond, it also may permit the deposit and assignment in lieu thereof of savings and loan certificates or shares in the same amount, subject to all of the provisions of Chapter 4.36 of the Los Angeles County Code. If the grantee elects to so deposit and assign savings and loan certificates or shares he shall assign such certificates or shares to the county of Los Angeles and deposit them with the clerk of the board.
(Ord. 8375 § 1, 1963: Ord. 7849 § 1, 1960: Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 128.1, 1959.)
16.38.100 - Notice of sale—Deposit to cover costs.
Prior to publication of the notice of sale, the applicant for a franchise shall deposit with the clerk of the board a sum which the clerk estimates to be ample to cover the cost of such publication.
(Ord. 8246 § 1 (part), 1962: Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 128.3, 1949.)
16.38.110 - Notice of sale—Costs—Disposition of extra funds.
The cost of publication of the notice of sale of a franchise shall be paid from the money deposited by the applicant. If the cost of publication is less than the amount deposited the clerk shall:
A.
Refund the difference to the applicant if the franchise is not awarded to him;
B.
Apply the difference to other moneys due to the county from the applicant under the terms of the franchise if the franchise is awarded to the applicant.
(Ord. 8246 § 1 (part), 1962: Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 128.6, 1959.)
16.38.120 - Map of facilities installed in highways—Annual filing required.
A.
The grantee, except the grantee of a franchise for a railroad track, shall file with the road commissioner, within 90 days after the effective date of the ordinance granting the franchise, and each year thereafter within 90 days after the anniversary of the effective date of said ordinance, a map or set of maps, each drawn to a scale not smaller than 600 feet to one inch, showing in detail the exact location and size of all facilities, except service connections used by or under the control of the grantee, installed beneath the surface of the highways described in and maintained pursuant to the authority of the ordinance granting the franchise.
B.
The map or set of maps filed pursuant to the provisions of this section shall show in detail the location of such facilities, excluding service connections, which shall have been laid, constructed or abandoned subsequent to the filing of the last preceding map or set of maps. Each map or set of maps shall be accompanied by an affidavit endorsed thereon and subscribed and sworn to by the grantee, verifying the correctness thereof.
(Ord. 12420 § 12, 1981: Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 149, 1959.)
16.38.130 - Public utility franchises—Value agreement.
The grantee of any franchise awarded to a public utility, by accepting the terms and conditions thereof, stipulates and agrees that in any proceeding for the purpose of regulating the rates of the grantee, no greater value shall be placed upon the franchise than the actual cash paid therefor by the grantee, including the cost of advertising paid by the grantee pursuant to Section 16.38.160
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 119, 1959.)
16.38.140 - Payments to county—Amount—Exceptions.
A.
The grantee of any franchise awarded to a public utility or mutual water company, except a franchise for a railroad track, shall, during the life of the franchise, pay to the county, in lawful money of the United States, two percent of the gross annual receipts of the grantee arising from the use, operation or possession of the franchise.
1.
No percentage shall be paid for the first five years succeeding the effective date of the franchise, but thereafter such percentage shall be payable annually.
2.
Provided further, that if the franchise be a renewal of a right already in existence, the payment of said percentage of gross receipts shall accrue from the effective date of the ordinance granting the franchise.
3.
In case the franchise is granted to a street railway company or trackless trolley, and provides for an extension of an existing system, then the gross receipts shall be estimated to be one-half of the proportion of the total gross receipts of said system which the mileage of such extension bears to the total mileage of the whole system, and said estimate shall be conclusive as to the amount of the gross receipts of said extension.
B.
As used above, the phrase "two percent of the gross annual receipts of the grantee arising from the use, operation or possession of the franchise" shall be construed as that similar phrase found in Section 6006 of the Public Utilities Code and in former Section 3 of Chapter 578, Page 777, Statutes of 1905, popularly known as the Broughton Act.
(Ord. 12420 § 5, 1981: Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 123, 1959.)
16.38.150 - Payments to county—Service connections excluded when.
Whenever the length of any wire, pipe or conduit is a factor in calculating any payment due under any franchise granted by the county, all service connections shall be excluded in determining such length.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 116, 1959.)
16.38.160 - Payments to county—Publishing and advertising costs.
The grantee shall pay to the county within 30 days after receiving a statement therefor, all advertising and publishing costs, including the cost of publishing the ordinance, incurred in connection with the granting of the franchise, minus the amount, if any, which the grantee has deposited pursuant to Section 16.38.100. The grantee shall not receive credit for any deposit made by any other person.
(Ord. 8246 § 2, 1962: Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 129, 1949.)
16.38.170 - Payments to county—When franchise not awarded or accepted.
If the applicant does not bid for the franchise and the franchise is not awarded to any person, or if the franchise is awarded to the applicant and he fails to accept it, the applicant shall pay the entire cost of publication of the notice of sale. The amount of money which he deposited shall first be applied and, if insufficient, within 30 days of notice thereof, the applicant shall pay the difference to the county.
(Ord. 8246 § 3 (part), 1962: Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 129.3, 1959.)
16.38.180 - Payments to county—When franchise awarded to person other than applicant.
If the franchise is awarded to a person other than the applicant and such grantee pays all publication costs to the county, upon such payment the county shall refund to the applicant the amount which he deposited minus such portion thereof, if any, already refunded to him.
(Ord. 8246 § 3 (part), 1962: Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 129.6, 1959.)
16.38.190 - Report of annual gross receipts—Filing time.
A.
The grantee of any franchise awarded to a public utility or a mutual water company, except a franchise for a railroad track, shall file with the county auditor-controller for each franchise payment period, within 90 days after such period, two copies of a report verified by the oath of the manager, or any responsible officer of the grantee (except where the grantee is an individual, in which case the report shall be verified by the oath of the grantee) showing the total gross receipts of the grantee for the franchise payment period, received or accrued in connection with the furnishing of the commodity or service arising from the use or operation of the franchise, together with such additional data as is necessary, in the opinion of the county auditor-controller, to calculate or verify the calculation of the annual payment required by Section 16.38.140 (or the pro rata thereof for the first period if the first period is less than one year) and which payment shall be paid concurrently with the filing of the statement.
B.
In the event the amount paid is incorrect in the judgment of the board, it may order the payment of such additional sum as it may find due thereunder; and if not paid, or if paid under protest, the same may be determined by suit.
(Ord. 12420 § 6, 1981: Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 124, 1959.)
16.38.200 - Report of annual gross receipts—Interest charged on late payments.
Should any annual report and accompanying payment be not made under Section 16.38.190 within the 90-day period therein mentioned, the grantee shall further pay interest on the amount due under that section at the rate of one percent per month from the last day of the franchise payment period for which such payment was due.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 125, 1959.)
16.38.210 - Right to examine records and facilities.
At all reasonable times, the grantee shall permit any duly authorized representative of the board to examine all property of the grantee erected, constructed, laid, operated or maintained pursuant to the franchise, together with any appurtenant property of the grantee, and to examine and transcribe any and all books, accounts, papers, maps and other records kept or maintained by the grantee or under its control which treat of the operations, affairs, transactions, property or financial condition of the grantee with respect thereto.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 130, 1959.)
16.38.220 - Liability for damages.
The grantee shall indemnify, defend, and hold the county, its officers, agents, and employees harmless from and against any and all loss, damages, liability, claims, suits, costs and expenses, including reasonable attorney's fees, defense costs and legal fees, regardless of the merit or outcome of any such claim or suit, claimed, arising from or connected with the grant, exercise or enjoyment of the franchise, the grantee's franchise operations, and the use, operation or maintenance of the facilities erected, constructed, laid, operated or maintained under the franchise.
(Ord. 12420 § 8, 1981: Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 136, 1959.)
16.38.230 - Sale, lease or transfer of franchise—Terms and conditions.
A.
The grantee shall not sell, transfer, assign or lease the franchise, or any part thereof, except with the consent of the board. Such sale, transfer, assignment or lease shall be made only by filing with the board a copy of the duly executed instrument of such sale, transfer, assignment or lease, and a written request for the consent of the board to such sale, transfer, assignment or lease. If such duly executed instrument and such written request is not filed with the board before the expiration of 60 days after the effective date of such sale, transfer, assignment or lease then, upon the expiration of said 60 days, the franchise shall be subject to forfeiture and the board may, without notice, by ordinance, repeal the franchise.
B.
As a condition to the granting of consent to such sale, transfer, assignment or lease, the board may impose such additional terms and conditions upon the franchise and upon the grantee or assignee which the board may deem to be in the public interest. Such additional terms and conditions shall be expressed by ordinance.
C.
Nothing herein contained shall be construed to grant to the grantee the right to sell, transfer, assign or lease the franchise, or any part thereof, except in the manner aforesaid. This section applies to any assignment, whether by operation of law, by voluntary act of the grantee or otherwise. No such consent shall be required to any transfer of the franchise in trust or by way of mortgage or hypothecation with all or a part of grantee's other property for the purpose of securing any indebtedness of grantee. A merger will not be deemed a sale, transfer, assignment or lease of the franchise under this section.
(Ord. 12420 § 7, 1981: Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 131, 1959.)
16.38.240 - Conditions of franchise grant—Suspension or forfeiture grounds and procedure.
The franchise is granted and shall be held and enjoyed upon each and every condition contained in the ordinance granting the franchise, including such conditions contained herein as are incorporated by reference in said franchise ordinance, and shall ever be strictly construed against the grantee. Nothing shall pass thereby unless it be granted in plain and unambiguous terms. Any neglect, failure or refusal to comply with any of the conditions of the franchise shall constitute grounds for the suspension or forfeiture thereof. The board, prior to any suspension or forfeiture of the franchise, shall give to the grantee not less than 30 days' notice in writing of any default thereunder. If the grantee does not within the noticed period begin the work of compliance, or after such beginning does not prosecute the work with due diligence to completion, the board may hold a hearing, at which the grantee shall have the right to appear and be heard, and thereupon the board may determine whether such conditions are material and essential to the franchise and whether the grantee is in default with respect thereto and may declare the franchise suspended or forfeited. Notice of the hearing shall be given to the grantee by certified mail not less than five days before said hearing.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 117, 1959.)
16.38.250 - Facilities within municipal corporation.
It is not intended by the grantor to include in the franchise any portion of the county which, on the effective date of the ordinance granting the franchise, is included within any municipal corporation, and whenever thereafter any portion of the territory covered by the franchise shall be included within any municipal corporation, the rights reserved under the franchise to the county or any officer thereof, shall, as to the territory so included in the municipal corporation, inure to the benefit of such municipal corporation and its appropriate officers, so long as the grantee maintains its facilities pursuant to such franchise in the streets of the portion of the city so annexed.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 120, 1959.)
16.38.260 - Extra communication circuits for county use.
A.
The board, in granting the franchise, does expressly reserve at no cost to the county the right and privilege of installing and maintaining four communication circuits upon any poles or in any communication conduit erected or placed by virtue of the franchise. The county may use the circuits for maintaining a communication, control and fire-alarm service in the dispatch of county business; and all such poles erected or conduits laid under the authority of the franchise shall be erected and laid in such a manner as to leave sufficient space for the proper accommodation of the four circuits to be installed and maintained by the county. The grantee of a franchise shall have no responsibility or liability for the installation, maintenance or operation of such circuits by the county, nor shall the grantee have any responsibility to avoid inductive interference or induced voltages in any such circuits. The grantee shall not be obligated to continue to maintain said poles or conduits for the use of the county after the time that the grantee has no further use therefor.
B.
The county shall install and maintain its telephone or telegraph circuits in accordance with Public Utilities Commission General Order 95, or other current standards set by the Public Utilities Commission for similar installations.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 152, 1959.)
16.38.270 - Franchise area—All facilities subject to franchise conditions.
All facilities erected, constructed, laid, operated or maintained by the grantee in highways, including services connected with the grantee's facilities, whether installed by the grantee or not, in the area described in and by virtue of the authority provided by the ordinance granting the franchise, prior to the effective date of said ordinance, except those maintained under prior right other than franchise, shall become subject to all the terms and conditions of such ordinance upon such effective date.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 132, 1959.)
16.38.280 - Attachment of facilities to bridges or other county structures.
A franchise does not give the grantee the right to attach any pipe, conduit or other facility to any bridge or other county structure. Such attachments shall be made only in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 16.74 of this code, as now existing or hereafter amended or superseded.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 153, 1959.)
16.38.290 - Authority to acquire grantee's works, property and rights.
The grantor and its successor in authority, including any city now existing or hereafter formed in the territory included in any franchise, shall have the right at any time during the term of the franchise, and after five years from the effective date of the ordinance granting the franchise, to acquire the works, property and rights of the grantee (if such grantee is not a public utility under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities Commission), or any portion thereof constructed, acquired or operated under the franchise upon making reasonable compensation therefor.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 126, 1959.)
16.38.300 - Highway facilities—Jurisdiction of cities or other public entities.
If any highway or portion thereof comes under the jurisdiction of any city or public entity, so long as the facilities of the grantee are maintained in such highway or such portion thereof under the authorization of the franchise, except for such rights as by law remain with the county, the city or public entity shall succeed to all rights reserved to the county by the franchise.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 122, 1959.)
16.38.310 - Highway facilities—State succeeds to all rights when.
A.
If any highway or portion thereof becomes a state highway, except for the right to continue to collect franchise payments and such other rights as by law remain with the county, the state shall succeed to all rights reserved to the county by the franchise; but this provision shall not preclude the grantee from receiving reimbursement for the relocation of its facilities if and to the extent otherwise lawfully entitled thereto.
B.
This section applies to any highway or portion thereof which becomes a state highway in which the grantee maintains its facilities under the authorization of the franchise at the time such highway or such portion thereof becomes a state highway, whether at such time it is under the jurisdiction of the county, or of a city or of any public entity.
C.
This section does not require any change of location in a state highway for a temporary purpose.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 121, 1959.)
16.38.320 - Construction, operation and maintenance regulations.
All facilities erected, constructed, laid, operated or maintained under the provisions of the franchise shall be erected, constructed, laid, operated or maintained in accordance with and conforming to all the ordinances, codes, rules and regulations now or hereafter adopted or prescribed by the board, and shall be of first class and standard material and subject to the approval of any duly authorized representative of the board unless otherwise provided in the ordinance granting the franchise. In case of public utilities subject to the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities Commission of the state of California, the rules, regulations and orders of the Public Utilities Commission shall govern whenever any conflict may exist between them and the ordinances, codes, rules and regulations adopted or prescribed by the board.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 137, 1959.)
16.38.330 - Completion of work—Extension of time permitted when.
Whenever the provisions of this Division 3, or the ordinance granting the franchise requires the grantee to take any action or perform and complete any work within a specified time, and the grantee is prevented from taking such action or performing or completing such work by reason of conditions or delays beyond the reasonable control of the grantee, the time for taking such action or performing or completing such work shall be extended by the time the grantee was so prevented. This section does not apply to the making of the annual payments required herein and in the ordinance granting the franchise.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 151, 1959.)
16.38.340 - Excavation permit—Prerequisite to commencement of work—Exceptions.
Where the provisions of Ordinance 3597, the highway permit ordinance codified in Division 1 of this Title 16, or the provisions of whatever superseding or supplementary ordinance shall be in force at the time, require the issuance of an excavation permit, the grantee shall not commence any excavation work under the franchise until it shall have obtained such permit, except in cases of emergency affecting public health, safety or welfare, or the preservation of life or property, in which case the grantee shall apply for such permit not later than the next business day.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 134, 1959.)
16.38.350 - Excavation permit—For pipelines carrying flammable substances—Issuance conditions.
A.
Prior to the issuance of any excavation permit for the construction or installation of any pipeline for the transmission of flammable liquids or gases, which are heavier than air, approval shall be obtained from the forester and firewarden of the county. Such approval shall be based on the determination that no undue fire hazard will be created to life or property in the areas through which the proposed pipeline will be located. To make such determination, consideration shall be given to:
1.
Type of commodity to be transmitted;
2.
Density of population or structural development in the area through which such pipeline will be located;
3.
Adequacy of water supplies for fire control purposes;
4.
Extent of available public fire protection facilities;
5.
Number and location of shut-off valves in line.
B.
Such review and approval shall be confined only to that pipeline or portion of a pipeline for which such excavation permit has been applied.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 154, 1959.)
16.38.360 - Highway facilities—Construction and repair procedures.
The work of erecting, constructing, laying, replacing, repairing or removing facilities authorized under the provisions of this Division 3 in, upon, over, under, along or across any highway shall be conducted with as little hindrance as practicable to the use of the highway for purpose of travel; and as soon as the erecting, constructing, laying, replacing, repairing or removing of any of said facilities is completed, all portions of the highway which have been excavated or otherwise injured thereby shall be placed in as good condition as the same was before erecting, constructing, laying, replacing, repairing or, removing of the facilities, to the satisfaction of the road commissioner; and the grantee shall be responsible to the county and shall save the county, its officers and employees, free and harmless from all damages or liability arising from any damage or injury suffered by any person by reason of any excavation or obstruction being improperly guarded during said work, or the failure of the grantee to properly perform, maintain or protect any phase of the work.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 138, 1959.)
16.38.370 - Mains and other facilities—Depth of installation.
Unless special circumstances make it impossible or not feasible and the road commissioner so finds:
A.
All mains laid under the franchise, except electrical conduits, shall be laid and maintained not less than 30 inches below the gutter grade unless the grantee files a written statement that no service connection will be made to any portion of the upper half of such main, in which case the main may be not less than 24 inches below the gutter grade.
B.
All other facilities, including electrical conduits and service connections laid under the franchise, shall be laid and maintained not less than 24 inches below the gutter grade.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 135, 1959.)
16.38.380 - Improvement of highway surface—Notice to grantee—Time for installation of facilities.
A.
The county reserves the right for itself, for all cities and public entities which are now or may be later established, to improve the surface of any highway over which the franchise is granted, upon written notice that the grantor intends to improve any such highway within the territory covered by the franchise, and requests that the grantee erect, install, lay or construct beneath the surface of the highway the facilities which at that time are known or believed by the grantee to be necessary or convenient to serve its needs and those of the public in the foreseeable future; the grantee shall commence such work on or before the date specified in such written notice and request, which date shall be not less than 30 days from receipt of such written notice and request, and diligently prosecute such work to completion.
B.
After the completion of such highway improvements by the grantor, the right of the grantee to lay or construct facilities in, under or through the improved surface of the highway or portion of the highway under the franchise shall be subject to such additional terms and conditions as the road commissioner may impose to minimize any damage to such improved surface.
C.
As to franchises granted for railroad tracks, the applicable rules, regulations and orders of the Public Utilities Commission shall govern whenever any conflict may exist between them and the terms and conditions which may be imposed upon the grantee by the road commissioner.
(Ord. 12420 § 11, 1981: Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 145, 1959.)
16.38.390 - Maintenance and protection of facilities following other improvements.
A.
If the county, city or public entity constructs or maintains any storm drain, sewer structure or other facility or improvement under or across any facility of the grantee maintained pursuant to this Division 3, the grantee shall provide, at no expense to the county, city or public entity, such support as shall be reasonably required to support, maintain and protect grantee's facility.
B.
This section shall not relieve any contractor of liability arising from violation of any law, ordinance or regulation, or from negligence which may proximately cause injuries to any of grantee's facilities.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 143, 1959.)
16.38.400 - Defective facilities in highways—Repair requirements and costs.
If any portion of any highway shall be damaged by reason of defective facilities laid or constructed under the franchise, the grantee shall, at its own expense, repair any such defect and put such highway in as good condition as it was before such damage was incurred, to the satisfaction of the road commissioner. If the grantee, within 10 days after receipt of written notice from the road commissioner instructing it to repair such damage, fails to commence to comply with such instructions, or, thereafter, fails diligently to prosecute such work to completion, then the road commissioner immediately may do whatever work is necessary to carry out said instructions at the cost and expense of the grantee, which cost and expense, by the acceptance of the franchise, the grantee agrees to pay upon demand. If such damage constitutes an immediate danger to public health or safety requiring the immediate repair thereof, the road commissioner, without notice, may repair such damage and the grantee agrees to pay the reasonable costs thereof upon demand.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 146, 1959.)
16.38.410 - Highway grade, width of location—County changes authorized.
The county reserves the right to change the grade, to change the width, or to alter or change the location of any highway over which the franchise is granted.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 139, 1959.)
16.38.420 - Relocation of facilities—Regulations generally.
If any of the facilities heretofore or hereafter erected, constructed, installed or maintained by the grantee pursuant to the franchise on, along, upon, over, in, under or across any highway are located in a manner which prevents or interferes with the change of grade, traffic needs, operation, maintenance, improvement, repair, construction, reconstruction, widening, alteration or relocation of the highway, the grantee shall relocate permanently or temporarily any such facility at no expense to the county, city or public entity upon receipt of a written request from the road commissioner to do so, and shall commence such work on or before the date specified in such written request, which date shall be not less than 30 days from receipt of such written request, and thereafter diligently prosecute such work to completion; provided, however, if such highway is subsequently constituted a state highway, thereafter and so long as such highway remains a state highway, no such change of location shall be required for a temporary purpose.
(Ord. 12420 § 9, 1981: Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 140, 1959.)
16.38.430 - Relocation of facilities—Liability determined separately.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Division 3, liability for the relocation of facilities necessitated by change of grade, traffic needs, operation, maintenance, improvement, repair, construction, reconstruction, widening, alteration or relocation of freeways shall be determined separately in each individual franchise.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 141, 1959.)
16.38.440 - Relocation of facilities—Following other authorized, conflicting installations—Conditions.
The county reserves the right for itself, for all cities and public entities which are now or may later be established, to lay, construct, repair, alter, relocate and maintain subsurface or other facilities or improvements of any type or description in a governmental but not proprietary capacity within the highways over which the franchise is granted. If the county or city or other public entity finds that the location or relocation of such facilities or improvements conflicts with the facilities laid, constructed or maintained under the franchise, whether such facilities were laid before or after the facilities of the county or such city or such public entity were laid, the grantee of such franchise shall, at no expense to the county or city or public entity, on or before the date specified in a written request from the road commissioner, which date shall be not less than 30 days after the receipt of such notice and request to do so, commence work to change the location, either permanently or temporarily, of all facilities so conflicting with such improvements to a permanent or temporary location in said highways to be approved by the road commissioner, and thereafter diligently prosecute such work to completion. If such highway is subsequently constituted a state highway, while it remains a state highway the rights of the state of California shall be as provided as in Section 680 of its Streets and Highways Code.
(Ord. 12420 § 10, 1981: Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 142, 1959.)
16.38.450 - Relocation of facilities—County to perform work when—Costs.
A.
If the grantee, after reasonable notice, fails or refuses to relocate permanently or temporarily its facilities located in, on, upon, along, under, over, across or above any highway, or to pave, surface, grade, repave, resurface or regrade as required pursuant to any provision of the franchise, the county, city or public entity may cause the work to be done, and shall keep an itemized account of the entire cost thereof, and the grantee shall hold harmless the county, its officers and employees from any liability which may arise or be claimed to arise from the moving, cutting or alteration of any of the grantee's facilities, or the turning on or off of water, oil or other liquid, gas or electricity.
B.
The grantee agrees to, and shall, reimburse the county, city or public entity for such cost within 30 days after presentation to the said grantee of an itemized account of such turning on.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 144, 1959.)
16.38.460 - Relocation of facilities—State freeway restrictions.
Nothing in this chapter shall require the grantee to relocate its facilities in a state freeway to any greater extent than otherwise obligated to do, if at all.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 155, 1959.)
16.38.470 - Abandoning facilities—Terms and conditions.
The road commissioner, upon such terms and conditions as he may see fit to impose, may give the grantee of the franchise permission to abandon, without removing, any facility laid, erected, constructed, operated or maintained under the franchise. The length of any such facility abandoned with such permission shall not be considered in calculating payments due under the franchise except for the time prior to the effective date of such permission. Nothing contained in the franchise shall be construed to permit the grantee any right to omit from its annual reports, if such reports are required, and from the calculation of its franchise payments the length of any abandoned facility of grantee except in the manner aforesaid. Unless such permission is granted, the grantee shall remove all abandoned facilities within 90 days after such abandonment, and shall restore the highway to its former state at the time such facilities were removed, as near as may be, so as not to impair its usefulness.
(Ord. 7468 Art. 1 § 150, 1959.)
16.38.480 - Abandoning facilities—Road commissioner authority.
Whenever in any ordinance heretofore adopted granting a franchise it is provided that the board of supervisors may give the grantee or assignee of the franchise permission to abandon in place without removing any facility laid, erected, constructed, operated or maintained under the franchise, the road commissioner also, upon such terms and conditions as he may see fit to impose, may grant such permission if he finds that such abandonment, subject to the terms and conditions imposed, if any, will not tend to injure the highway or pavement thereof. Such permission, by the road commissioner, shall have the same force and effect as permission by the board of supervisors.
(Ord. 7708 § 1, 1960.)
16.38.490 - Abandoning facilities—Effect of application for permission.
Application by the grantee or assignee of a franchise to the road commissioner for permission to abandon any such facility shall lie deemed an acceptance of the offer made by Sections 16.38.460 and 16.38.470 to amend the ordinance granting the franchise and such ordinance shall be deemed so amended.
(Ord. 7708 § 2, 1960.)
