Chapter 11.76 - UNAUTHORIZED DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
Sections:

11.76.010 - Responsibility for unauthorized discharge.
As soon as any person in charge of a facility or responsible for emergency response for a facility has knowledge of any confirmed or unconfirmed unauthorized discharge of a hazardous material, such person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery and containment and cleanup of such discharge and shall notify the director of the occurrence as required by this section.
A.
Confirmed Unauthorized Discharge.
1.
Recordable Unauthorized Discharge. Any recordable unauthorized discharge shall be contained and safely disposed of in an appropriate manner by permittee and such occurrence and the response thereto shall be recorded in the permittee's monitoring records. A "recordable unauthorized discharge" is any unauthorized discharge of a hazardous material which meets all of the following criteria:
a.
The discharge is from a primary containment to a secondary containment or to a rigid aboveground surface covering capable of containing the discharge until cleanup of the hazardous material is completed; and
b.
The permittee is able to adequately clean up the discharge before it escapes from such secondary containment or such aboveground surface, except that if the cleanup requires more than eight hours, it becomes a reportable discharge in accordance with subdivision 2 of this subsection;
c.
There is no increase in the hazard of fire or explosion, nor is there any production of a flammable or poisonous gas, nor is there any deterioration of such secondary containment or such rigid aboveground surface covering.
2.
Reportable Unauthorized Discharge. Any unauthorized discharge which escapes from the secondary containment, increases the hazard of fire or explosion, or causes any deterioration of the secondary containment of the underground storage tank must be reported to the director immediately. The reporting party shall provide information to the director relating to the ability of the permittee to contain and dispose of the hazardous material, the estimated time it will take to complete containment and disposal, and the degree of hazard created. The director may verify that the hazardous material is being contained and appropriately disposed of. The director, at any time upon a determination that the permittee is not adequately containing and disposing of such hazardous material, shall have the power and authority to undertake and direct an emergency response in order to protect the public health and/or safety.
B.
Unconfirmed Unauthorized Discharge.
1.
Indication of Loss in Inventory Records. Whenever a material balance or other inventory record, employed as a monitoring technique under the permit, indicates a loss of hazardous material, and no unauthorized discharge has been confirmed by other means, permittee shall have five working days to determine whether or not there has been an unauthorized discharge. If before the end of such period, it is determined that there has been no unauthorized discharge, an entry explaining the occurrence shall be made in permittee's monitoring records. Where permittee has not been able, within such period, to determine that there is deemed no unauthorized discharge, an unauthorized discharge is deemed confirmed and permittee shall proceed in accordance with Section 11.76.010 A2 above.
2.
Test Results. Whenever any test results suggest a possible unauthorized discharge, and no unauthorized discharge has been confirmed by other means, the permittee shall have five working days to retest. If second test results obtained within that period establish that there has been no unauthorized discharge, the results of both tests shall be recorded in permittee's monitoring records. If it has not been established within such period that there has been no unauthorized discharge, an unauthorized discharge is deemed confirmed and permittee shall proceed in accordance with Section 11.76.010 A2 above.
(Ord. 97-0016 § 34, 1997: Ord. 83-0208 § 1 (part), 1983: Ord. 83-0206U § 1 (part), 1983.)
11.76.020 - Cleanup responsibility.
Any person, firm or corporation responsible for storing the hazardous material shall institute and complete all actions necessary to remedy the effects of any unauthorized discharge, whether sudden or gradual, in accordance with the requirements of Article 5, Chapter 6.7 and Article 4, Chapter 6.75 of the California Health and Safety Code. The county shall undertake actions to remedy the effects of such unauthorized discharge itself only if it determines that it is reasonably necessary under the circumstances for the county to do so. The responsible party shall be liable to reimburse the county for all costs incurred by the county in remedying the effects of such unauthorized discharge, including the costs of fighting fires, to the extent allowed by law. This responsibility is not conditioned upon evidence of wilfulness or negligence of the party storing the hazardous material(s) in causing or allowing such discharge.
(Ord. 97-0016 § 35, 1997: Ord. 83-0208 § 1 (part), 1983: Ord. 83-0206U § 1 (part), 1983.)
11.76.030 - Indemnification.
The permittee shall indemnify, hold harmless and defend the county against any claim, cause of action, disability, loss, liability, damage, cost or expense, howsoever arising, which occurs by reason of an unauthorized discharge or containment and cleanup of an unauthorized discharge in connection with permittee's operations under this permit, except as arises from the county's sole wilful act or sole active negligence.
(Ord. 83-0208 § 1 (part), 1983: Ord. 83-0206U § 1 (part), 1983.)
11.76.040 - Financial responsibility.
Every owner and operator shall establish and maintain evidence of financial responsibility as provided by Article 3 of Chapter 6.75 of the California Health and Safety Code. Unless otherwise exempt by law, the owner or operator shall furnish evidence of such financial responsibility to the director.
(Ord. 97-0016 § 36, 1997.)
