Rule 17 - REINSTATEMENT AND RESTORATION
Rules:

17.01 - Reinstatement after separation.
A.
After approval by the director of personnel, any person who has been separated from county service without fault or delinquency may be reinstated by the appointing power within two years from the date of such separation, to any position held on an eligible basis prior to such separation, or to any other position to which a transfer, reassignment or voluntary reduction from that position would be authorized by these Rules. Within two years of the date of separation, former permanent employees may be reinstated to appropriate temporary or recurrent positions. Also within two years of the date of separation, former recurrent employees may be reinstated to appropriate temporary positions.
B.
Reinstatement of Retirees to a 120-day Assignment. After approval by the director of personnel, any retiree who has been separated from county service, without fault or delinquency, may be reinstated by the appointing power to an appropriate position, requiring special skills or knowledge, for a period not to exceed the greater of 120 working days or 960 hours in any one fiscal year. (Board of Supervisors Amendment adopted 4/23/92; Ord. 88-0020 § 1 (part), 1988: amended by Board Order No. 80 (part), 9/1/87.)
17.02 - Rights restored.
Upon reinstatement, all rights acquired by an employee prior to his separation from the service shall be restored, except as otherwise provided in Rule 12.01 and in the county Salary Ordinance. (See Title 6 of the Los Angeles County Code.) A former permanent employee reinstated to a temporary or recurrent position may have only those rights appropriate to the status to which the employee is reinstated. A former recurrent employee reinstated as a temporary may have only those rights appropriate to a temporary employee.
(Ord. 88-0020 § 1 (part), 1988.)
17.03 - Restoration.
After approval of the director of personnel, the appointing power may restore an employee at any time to any position previously held by virtue of an appointment from an eligible list, or to any position for which a transfer or reassignment would be authorized by these Rules, provided service has been continuous since holding such position, or that any break in service since holding such position has been followed by reinstatement or appointment from a reemployment list which resulted from a layoff or reduction in lieu of layoff.
(Ord. 88-0020 § 1 (part), 1988.)
17.04 - Restoration after subsequent appointment.
A.
An employee with permanent status shall be restored to the last prior position held on a permanent basis (or at the discretion of the appointing power to a position to which a transfer or reassignment from such prior position would be authorized by these Rules) without loss of seniority in the event that:
1.
Such employee's subsequent appointment to a permanent position, or the examination or eligible list from which such subsequent appointment was made, is held to be void or voidable by the court at any time;
2.
Such employee is released during a probationary period, released from a position to which the employee had been appointed on a temporary basis, or reduced in rank from a subsequent higher permanent position at any time.
B.
In either case, if the subsequent appointment was from a position in one department to a position in another department, then the restoration shall be to the nearest equivalent position in the new department (or at the discretion of the appointing power, to a position to which a transfer or reassignment from such equivalent position would be authorized by these Rules), unless both appointing powers concur in the employee's return to the old department.
C.
If, however, the new department does not have a position equivalent in rank to the one which the employee formerly held in the old department to which the employee can be reduced, then an employee who fails to successfully complete a probationary period shall have the right to be placed on an appropriate department reemployment list for his/her former department. When a vacancy occurs in the same or related lower class of position, the appointing power shall appoint the person highest on the list who is available before any other appointment may be made. The right to reemployment does not apply to an employee whose last performance rating in the old department was less than "competent," or for employees under the management appraisal and performance plan or performance-based pay plans rated "Needs Improvement Meeting Expectations," "Needs Improvement," "Failed to Meet Expectations," "Unsatisfactory Performance," or less than "fully meets expectations," as the case may be, provided it was on file with the former department prior to the date the employee's service began in the new department. By accepting the new position, the employee does not waive the right to appeal the performance evaluation from the old department.
(Ord. 2007-0061 § 1, 2007: § 2, Board of Supervisors Amendment adopted 10/10/96: § 2, Board of Supervisors Amendment adopted 9/29/88; Ord. 88-0020 § 1 (part), 1988.)
