ARTICLE III. - ZONING DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES

Sec. 34-111. - Establishment of districts.
In order to carry out the intent and purpose of this chapter, incorporated city limits are hereby divided into the following districts:
EXPAND
A25 Agricultural District
RR Rural Residential District
RD Rural Development District
R-1 Single-Family Residential District
MFR Multifamily Residential District
GC General Commercial District
HD Historic Overlay District
I Industrial District
AI Airport Overlay District
  (1)
Agricultural (A25) District. The purpose of this district is to provide for residents who are actively engaged in agricultural activities. This is a low-density residential district with the ability to pursue commercial and personal agricultural uses.
(2)
Rural Residential (RR) District. The purpose of this district is to provide for lower density residential and limited agricultural uses.
(3)
Rural Development (RD) District. This district is established to provide a medium density single-family residential area.
(4)
Single-Family Residential (R1) District. The purpose of this district is to allow higher density single-family residences where infrastructure exists to serve the higher density residential areas such as subdivisions and other developments.
(5)
Multifamily Residential (MFR) District. This district is a high-density residential area where infrastructure exists to serve the area.
(6)
General Commercial (GC) District. The purpose of this district is to allow the intensive commercial uses located in the business center of the city.
(7)
Historic Overlay (HD) District. The purpose of this district is to preserve and protect historic resources in the city.
(8)
Industrial (I) District. This district is established to provide appropriate locations for industrial operations.
(9)
Airport Overlay (AI) District. The purpose of this overlay district is to assure land use compatibility and public safety in areas relating to the airport.
(Res. of 10-12-2004(3), § 6.1)
Sec. 34-112. - Zoning district map.
The boundaries of zoning districts are shown upon the map designated as the official zoning district map. The zoning map and all notations, references and other information shown thereon are a part of this chapter and have the same force and effect as if the zoning district map and all the notations, references and other information shown thereon were fully set forth and described herein, which zoning district map is properly attested and is on file with the city clerk.
(Res. of 10-12-2004(3), § 6.2)
Sec. 34-113. - District boundaries.
(a)
The district boundaries shown on the zoning district map are generally intended to follow streets, alleys or lot lines; where the districts designated on said map are bounded by such street, alley or lot line, the centerline of the street, alley or lot line shall be the boundary of the district unless such boundary is otherwise indicated on the map. In all other cases, the district boundary line shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on the official zoning map.
(b)
When the boundary line of a district divides a lot or tract held in single ownership at the time of adoption of the resolution from which this chapter is derived, the boundary line may be allowed to extend a distance of not more than 50 feet to the least restrictive zoned district.
(Res. of 10-12-2004(3), § 6.3)
Secs. 34-114—34-176. - Reserved.
