Chapter 22 - NUISANCES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Nuisances, O.C.G.A. title 41.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 22-1—22-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DECLARED NUISANCES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 22-19. - Offensive deposits in public places.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, throw, place, or cause to be deposited, thrown or place, into or upon any public street, alley or sidewalk of the city, any paper, rag, shavings, trash, rubbish, chips, ashes, cuttings of vines, shrubbery or trees, filth, offal, rotten fruit, vegetable, dead bodies, liquids, or other things which are or may become offensive, or which may injure or damage any of the public streets, alleys, or sidewalks, or interfere with the free use and enjoyment of same.
(Ord. of 8-14-2018, § 10-1)
Sec. 22-20. - Sweeping trash onto streets, keeping sidewalks clean.
No person shall sweep any trash, dirt, filth, clay, manure or other objectionable matter from the sidewalks into the streets, nor shall any property owners or lessees permit any such matter to remain on the sidewalk in front of his property or on the space between the property line and the outer edge of the sidewalk.
(Ord. of 8-14-2018, § 10-2)
Secs. 22-21—22-43. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - NOISE

Sec. 22-44. - Excessive, unnecessary or unusually loud noises prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or continued any excessive, unnecessary or unusually loud noise or any noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others, within the limits of the city.
(Ord. of 8-14-2018, § 10-15)
Sec. 22-45. - Specific prohibitions enumerated.
The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises in violation of this article, but such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
(1)
Horns, signaling devices, etc. The sounding of any horn or signaling device on any vehicle on any street or public place of the city, except as a danger warning; the creation by means of any such signaling device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; the sounding of any such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time; the use of any signaling device except one operated by hand or electricity; the use of any horn, whistle or other device operated by engine exhaust; and the use of any such signaling device when traffic is for any reason held up.
(2)
Radios, phonographs, etc. The using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants or at any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for the persons who are in the room, vehicle or chamber in which such machine or device is operated and who are voluntary listeners thereto. The operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine or device in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from the building, structure or vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
(3)
Loudspeakers, amplifiers for advertising. The using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of the public to any building or structure.
(4)
Yelling, shouting, etc. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing on the public streets at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office, or in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence, or of any persons in the vicinity.
(5)
Animals, birds, etc. The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing frequent or long-continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose of any person in the vicinity.
(6)
Steam whistles. The blowing of any locomotive steam whistle or steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler, except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work, as a warning of fire or danger, or upon request of proper city authorities.
(7)
Exhausts. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat or motor vehicle, except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.
(8)
Defect in vehicle or load. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such manner as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.
(9)
Loading, unloading, opening boxes. The creation of a loud and excessive noise in connection with loading or unloading any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates and containers.
(10)
Construction or repairing of buildings. The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration or repair of any building other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays, except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of public health and safety, and then only with a permit from city hall, which permit may be granted for a period not to exceed three days or less while the emergency continues and which permit may be renewed for periods of three days or less while the emergency continues. If the building official should determine that the public health and safety will not be impaired by the erection, demolition, alteration or repair of any building or if he shall further determine that loss or inconvenience would result to any party in interest if such work were to be prohibited, he may grant permission for such work to be done within the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., upon application being made at the time the permit for the work is awarded or during the progress of the work.
(11)
Schools, courts, hospitals, medical clinics. The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, or court while the same are in use, or adjacent to any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the workings of such institution, or which disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the hospital, provided conspicuous signs are displayed in such streets indicating that the same is a school, hospital or court street.
(12)
Hawkers, peddlers. The shouting and crying of peddlers, hawkers and vendors, which disturbs the peace and quiet of the neighborhood.
(13)
Drums. The use of any drum or other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance, show or sale.
(14)
Metal rails, pillars and columns, transportation thereof. The transportation of rails, pillars or columns of iron, steel or other material over and along streets and other public places upon carts, drays, cars, trucks or in any other manner so loaded as to cause loud noises or as to disturb the peace and quiet of such streets or other public places.
(15)
Pile driver, hammers, etc. The operation between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of any pile driver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist or other appliance, the use of which is attended by loud or unusual noise.
(16)
Blowers. The operation of any noise-creating blower or power fan or any internal combustion engine, the operation of which causes noise due to the explosion of operating gasses or fluids, unless the noise from such blower or fan is muffled and such engine is equipped with a muffler device sufficient to deaden such noise.
(Ord. of 8-14-2018, § 10-16)
