ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 34-1. - Title.
An ordinance of the city regulating the location, height, bulk and size of buildings and other structures; the use of buildings, and land for business, industry, residence, public activities and other purposes; and for dividing the incorporated area into districts for such purposes and establishing boundaries; providing for a planning commission, defining its power and duties; the method of administration, amendment and enforcement; prescribing penalties for the violation of its provisions; and repealing conflicting resolutions.
(Res. of 10-12-2004(3), art. 1)
Sec. 34-2. - Purpose.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish minimum standards for the use of land and improvements in the city. The zoning regulations and districts herein established are designed to:
(1)
Lessen congestion in the streets;
(2)
Provide safety from fire, panic, and other dangers;
(3)
Promote health, and general welfare;
(4)
Provide adequate light and air;
(5)
Avoid undue concentration of the population;
(6)
Provide provisions for transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements;
(7)
Conserve the value of the economy;
(8)
Encourage the most appropriate use of land and structures;
(9)
Promote quality of life for all citizens;
(10)
Provide consistency with the land use element of the comprehensive plan.
(Res. of 10-12-2004(3), § 2.1)
Sec. 34-3. - Minimum requirements.
The requirements of these regulations are minimum permissible standards; and it is expected that developers and the respective decision-making authority will normally strive for quality developments that will exceed these minimum requirements.
(Res. of 10-12-2004(3), § 2.2)
Sec. 34-4. - Comprehensive plan is official policy concerning land use.
The comprehensive plan adopted by resolution of the city council is established as the official policy of the city concerning land uses. The incorporated areas of the city are divided into land use categories consistent with the future land use plan in the land use element of the comprehensive plan. The comprehensive plan does not alter or affect the existing zoning districts in the city, does not effectuate an amendment to the official zoning maps, and does not in itself permit or prohibit any existing land uses. The land use element of the comprehensive plan shall be updated on an as needed basis to reflect changes in land use and to discover any inconsistencies zoning changes have caused in the future land use map.
(Res. of 10-12-2004(3), § 2.3)
Sec. 34-5. - Land use element of comprehensive plan.
The land use element of the comprehensive plan shall be updated as needed or as required by law. This update shall be used to identify current uses of land, emerging growth patterns and any significant change in land use policy as identified by the future land use map of the comprehensive plan. This update shall also be used as policy in the city's consideration of proposed amendments to the zoning map or text of this chapter. All amendments to the city's comprehensive plan shall be in accordance with the minimum planning standards and procedures of the Georgia Planning Act.
(Res. of 10-12-2004(3), § 2.4)
Sec. 34-6. - Definitions
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Abutting means having a common border with, or being separated from such a common border by a right-of-way, alley or easement.
Accessory building means a building customarily incidental and subordinate to the main buildings. Accessory buildings are not considered to be the primary building on the site.
Accessory use means a use customarily incidental, appropriate, and subordinate to the principal use of land or buildings located upon the same premises.
Alley means a private or public thoroughfare that affords only a secondary means of access to abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
Alteration of building means any change in the supporting members of a building (such as bearing walls or partitions, beams, columns, and girders) except such changes as may be required for its safety; an addition to or reduction of a building; any change in use from that of one district classification to another; or a building from one location to another; or any change in the roof or the exterior walls.
Apartment. See Dwelling, multifamily.
Apartment, efficiency, means a dwelling unit consisting of not more than one habitable room, together with kitchen or kitchenette and sanitary facilities.
Area of special flood hazard means the land in the floodplain within a community subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
Basement means the area below the first floor level in a building, having not more than one-half of its height above grade.
Bed and breakfast means a structure occupied by its owners of record, wherein lodging or lodging and breakfast only are provided to guests for compensation. The dwelling unit in which the bed and breakfast takes place shall be the principal residence of the operators and said operators shall live in the structure when the bed and breakfast is in operation.
Boardinghouse means a building other than a hotel where, for compensation and by pre-arrangement, meals and/or lodging are provided for three or more guests, but not exceeding 20 persons in a residential zone.
Buffer area or buffer strip.
Berm means a mound of earth or the act of pushing earth into a mound. The mound is usually two to eight feet high and is used to shield, screen and buffer undesirable views and to separate incompatible land uses.
River corridor orfloodplain means the area along the course of any river corridor or floodplain to be maintained in a vegetative, undisturbed and natural condition.
Screen means a landscaped open area unoccupied by structures and facilities except as permitted by this chapter and/or in some instances as specified, a screen of shrubs, trees or similar plants at least eight feet in height and dense enough to establish interrupted vision from one side to the other. Both are established to separate different and possibly incompatible types of land use.
Building means any roofed structure designed, built, or intended for shelter, support, housing, protection, or enclosure of persons, animals, or property of any kind. The term "building" includes the term "structure."
Building height means the vertical distance of a building measured from the average elevation of the finished lot grade along the front of the building to the highest point of the building excluding chimneys or steeples.
Building line means the line, parallel to the street right-of-way line, which represents the distance a building or structure must be set back from a lot boundary line or a street right-of-way line or street centerline, equal to the depth of the front yard required for the zoning district in which the lot is located.
Building, principal, means a building or structure where the use of the building or structure is consistent with the use permitted in the zoning district in which the building or structure is located. In any residential zoned district, any structure containing a dwelling unit shall be defined to be the principal building of the lot or parcel.
Certificate of occupancy means the certificate issued by the building inspector certifying that the structure complies with the building codes adopted in section 8-19 and all of the inspection requirements of chapter 8.
Child care center means agencies, organizations or individuals which render service on a regular basis, with or without remuneration, in the form of providing daytime care, boarding, feeding, supervising, or tutoring to children who are not members of the family, foster children, or legal wards of the attendant, including day nurseries, kindergartens, nursery schools, and similar services. The term "child care center" does not include tax-supported public schools.
Child care facility. The number of children allowed in a child care facility is 19 or more. This facility shall be licensed by the state and located in general commercial zoned districts.
Group child care. The number of children allowed in a group child care facility is seven to 19. This child care group is required to be licensed by the state and is not considered a home occupation. These child care structures shall be located in limited or general commercial zoned districts.
Home child care. Home child care is limited to six or less children and shall be registered with the state. Child care homes shall be considered a home occupation and shall be in accordance with those regulations. Child care homes, however, shall be exempt from the 25 percent floor space requirement set forth in article II of this chapter. Also, child care homes are required to have a fenced yard of sufficient area and height to accommodate the maximum of six children, regardless of the number of children enrolled in the program.
Church means a building, structure or group of buildings in which persons regularly assemble for religious worship, intended primarily for purposes connected with such worship, or for propagating a particular form of religious belief.
Clinic means a facility where medical and dental patients, who are not normally lodged overnight, are admitted for examination and treatment by one or a group of physicians practicing activities invasive to the human body, either by penetrating the skin or through any orifice or through the use of colonics.
Club orlodge means buildings and facilities owned or operated by a corporation, association or other legally established group of persons for social, fraternal, civic, cultural, literary, political, educational or recreational purposes on a nonprofit basis operated for the benefit of its members and not open to the general public.
Common driveway means a driveway used by more than one dwelling or structure and at least 30 feet in width where any common use occurs. Common use occurs on those portions of a driveway that must be traveled by users of two dwellings for ingress and egress.
Comprehensive land use plan means a comprehensive, long-range plan intended to guide the growth and development of a community or region that typically includes inventory and analytic sections leading to recommendations for the community's future economic development, housing, recreation, transportation, community facilities, and land use, all related to the community's goals and objectives for these elements.
Conditional zoning means the imposition of conditions in the grant of a rezoning application which are in addition to or different from the regulations set forth in this chapter and which are related to the promotion of the public health, safety, morals or general welfare and designed to minimize the negative impact on surrounding lands. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, restrictions on land use, height, setbacks, operation times and other non-use requirements, physical improvements to the property and infrastructure serving the property.
Condominium means a building containing three or more individually-owned dwelling units and related, jointly owned, common areas as defined by laws of the state.
Convenience food store with self-service fuel sales means any retail establishment offering for sale automotive fuels, pre-packaged food products, beverages, household items, and other goods commonly associated with the same. Further, there shall be no automotive repairs done on-site.
Day nursery. See Child care center.
Deck means a roofless accessory attached or detached platform without exterior walls generally constructed of wood, which adjoins a residence. Rails or safety features shall not be deemed to be exterior walls.
Deed restrictions/private covenants means private stipulations, usually pertaining to residential subdivisions that govern lot size, minimum floor area, uses permitted and in some instances architectural design. These may be stricter or not as strict as provisions included in this chapter. In cases where private deed restrictions or covenants are not as strict as zoning regulations the zoning regulations shall be the governing standard.
Density means the overall intensity of land use for the total project. When referring to residential area, density is defined as the number of housing units permitted per acre in the respective zoning district involved in accordance with the terms of this chapter or as authorized under the development standards of this chapter. Unless otherwise stated, density figures are to be in terms of net acres, or the land devoted to residential use exclusive of streets or other public lands.
Developer means any person who acts in his own behalf or as the agent of any owner of property and engages in building, or an alteration of land, buildings, or structures.
Developments of regional impact (DRI) means public or private development that, because of its location, scale, land use type or public service demand, or any combination, could affect the growth, development and quality of life of the region. (Allow 30 days to process through Regional Development Center.)
District means a section of the city within which the zoning regulations are uniform.
Drainage means a general term applied to the storage or conveyance of surface or subsurface water from a given area either by gravity or by pumping.
Drive-in means a retail or service enterprise wherein service is provided to the consumer while the consumer remains inside a vehicle.
Duplex means a residential structure designed for two-family occupancy with each family in a separate dwelling unit, using separate cooking facilities.
Dwelling means a building or portion thereof which is designed or used for sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation purposes, including single-family, two-family, and multiple-family dwellings and manufactured housing, but not including hotels, motels, or boardinghouses.
Multifamily dwelling means a building either designed, constructed, altered, or used for three or more adjoining dwelling units, occupied by three or more families living independently of one another, with each dwelling unit having a party wall and/or party floor connecting it to at least one other dwelling unit in the building. This includes apartments, condominiums, or any other type of multifamily structure.
Single-family dwelling means a detached dwelling, containing not more than one dwelling unit, designed or occupied exclusively by a single family.
Two-family dwelling means a building designed, constructed, altered, or used for two adjoining dwelling units, joined by a common wall or common floor and occupied by two families living independently of each other, using two cooking and bathroom facilities. The term "two-family dwelling" includes the term "duplex."
Dwelling unit means a building or portion thereof providing complete living quarters for one or more persons living as a single housekeeping unit, using one cooking facility, excluding hotels, motels or boardinghouses.
Erosion and sedimentation control plan means a plan for the control of soil erosion and sediment resulting from land-disturbing activity.
Existing grade means the vertical location of the existing ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
Fabricating means the process of assembling, using standardized parts.
Family means an individual or two or more persons, occupying a single dwelling unit, related by blood, marriage or adoption, or a group of not more than three persons not related by blood or marriage, living together as a single housekeeping unit and using one common cooking and bathroom facility. The term "family" does not include any organizational or institutional groups such as those occupying a lodginghouse, hotel, club, fraternity or sorority house, etc.
Floor area means the total number of heated square feet of floor area in a building determined by horizontal measurements between the exterior faces of walls of the several floors of a structure; also, the gross leasable floor area for any business or industry based on interior dimensions.
Floor area ratio means the gross floor area of a building or structure on a lot divided by the total lot area; does not include area within parking structures.
EXPAND
Floor Area Ratio = Total Building Floor Area
Total Lot Area
  Frontage means the side of a lot abutting on a street.
Garage, mechanical/repair, means buildings and premises designed or used for the purpose of providing the services of maintenance, minor repair, washing, adjusting, equipping and/or major commercial repair of motor vehicles, provided that the body work and painting shall be conducted within fully enclosed buildings and provided further that the storage of junk, wrecked vehicles, dismantled parts or supplies shall not be visible beyond the premises. A mechanical garage that provides for the storage of vehicles for the purpose of salvaging parts for sale or repair shall be classified as a junkyard.
Garage, private, means an accessory building or portion of a principal building owned or operated by the occupants of the primary building used only for private storage of permitted motor vehicles.
Hardship.
(1)
The term "hardship" means a condition that shall be considered to exist only when one or more of the following apply to a particular piece of property and such condition has not been created by the applicant's own acts. The owner cannot comply with the provisions of this chapter without violating some other ordinance, resolution or section of this chapter:
a.
Exceptional or extraordinary conditions apply to the land, structure, or building which do not generally apply to other properties in the same vicinity, and result from the lot size or shape, topography or other circumstances over which the owner of the property has no control;
b.
That literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would deprive the owner of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties within the same district under the terms of this chapter;
c.
That the special conditions and circumstances do not result from the actions of the owner or previous owner of the property;
d.
That granting of the variance requested will not confer on the owner any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to other lands, structures, or buildings in the same district; and
e.
That the request is limited to the extent necessary to alleviate the unnecessary hardship and not as a convenience to the owner, nor to gain any advantage or interest over similarly zoned properties.
(2)
In no case shall a hardship be granted for any of the following situations or reasons:
a.
A condition created by the owner, including the result of an unwise investment decision or real estate transaction;
b.
Evidence that property could be sold at a higher price with a variance;
c.
Inability to sell the property;
d.
Height of the structure;
e.
Changing use of land or structures not allowed in the zoning district;
f.
An increase in the number of dwelling units or maximum nonresidential building floor area specified in the zoning district.
Heavy manufacturing means manufacturing establishments, other than those classified as light manufacturing, including those involving the conversion of raw materials into usable finished products, provided that manufacturing that will generate liquid waste from the manufacturing process or air pollutants shall comply with antipollution standards established by the state and county.
Home occupation means an occupation or profession for gain or support conducted entirely within a single family dwelling and which is carried on solely by members of the family residing on the premises and which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential dwelling purposes. The occupation/business may require access by the public.
Hospital means an institution providing primary health services and medical or surgical care to persons, primarily inpatients, suffering from illness, disease, injury, deformity and other abnormal physical or mental conditions; also, including, as an integral part of the institution, related facilities, such as laboratories, outpatient facilities, training facilities, medical offices, and staff residences. All hospitals shall be authorized by state law.
Hotel means a building in which overnight accommodations can be provided for ten or more individuals of the general public for compensation and in which provisions for cooking are made in a central kitchen and not in the individual rooms or suites and in which ingress and egress to and from all rooms are made through an inside lobby or office.
Industrial park means a tract of land subdivided and developed according to a comprehensive development plan in a manner which provides a park-like setting for industrial establishments.
Industrialized building is a term used only in the state. The term "industrialized building" replaces the now obsolete term "factory-built housing," and describes certain manufactured housing which is regulated by the state department of community affairs. State law defines an industrialized building as "any structure or component thereof which is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly on a building site and has been manufactured in such a manner that all parts or processes cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof." Industrialized buildings are constructed and regulated in accordance with the Industrialized Buildings Act, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-110 et seq. An industrialized building must meet all requirements of the district in which it is located. The term "industrialized building" includes the term "modular homes."
Infill means the development of new housing or other buildings on scattered vacant sites in a built-up area.
Institution means premises occupied by a nonprofit corporation or nonprofit establishment for public use.
Intermediate regional flood (IRF) means a 100-year frequency flood, as defined on flood hazard maps, which has a probability of occurring once every 100 years or having a one percent chance of occurring each year.
Junk means any scrap, waste, reclaimable material, or debris, including, but not limited to, junk vehicles, junk vehicle parts, discarded appliances, and other mechanicals, whether or not stored, for sale or in the process of being dismantled, destroyed, processed, salvaged, stored, baled, disposed, or other use or disposition.
Junk vehicle means any vehicle that cannot be moved by its own power or does not have an updated license plate.
Junkyard means a lot or parcel, whether enclosed or not, used for the collection, storage, keeping, sale, abandonment, or resale of junk, including scrap metal, rags, paper or other scrap materials, used lumber, salvage, house wrecking, and structural steel material and equipment, or for the dismantling, demolition or abandonment of three or more junk vehicles, or other machinery, appliances or parts of appliances.
Kennel means a facility for the boarding (overnight) of domestic animals, limited to five or more dogs and cats four months of age or older. Breeding and training of dogs and cats and the sale to the public of puppies and kittens is classified as a kennel activity.
Land area per dwelling unit means the amount of land in square feet required for each dwelling unit permitted on a zoning lot.
Land use plan means a professionally prepared and formally adopted document and map depicting the desirable future location of residential, commercial, public, and industrial land uses and thoroughfares.
Landscaping means the addition of lawns, trees, plants, shrubs or other natural and/or decorative features to land.
Light industry means a use engaged in the manufacture, predominately from previously prepared materials, of finished products or parts, including processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment, packaging, incidental storage, sales, and distribution of such products, but excluding basic industrial processing.
Light manufacturing means an establishment for production, processing, assembly, manufacturing, compounding, preparation, cleaning, servicing, testing, or repair of materials, goods or products; however, the manufacturing and production of any product which emits noxious noise, odor or fumes, bulk storage of flammable materials for resale, and other heavy manufacturing uses listed in the permitted use Table 34-179.1 shall not be permitted.
Lot means a non-subdivided parcel or portion of land varying in size, described as a single unit of property and held in single ownership by one person or in common ownership by more than one person. This land is or is intended to be occupied by a particular use or occupied or intended to be occupied by a building or group of buildings devoted to a particular use or interest; together with the customary accessory buildings and uses and open spaces belonging to same. This land has both lot area and lot dimensions equal to or greater than the lot width and area requirements established by this chapter for the zoning district in which such tract of land is located and for the uses proposed for the tract of land, having its principal frontage upon a city street, thoroughfare, state highway or a dedicated easement for ingress and egress on record in the office of the clerk of superior court. The term "lot" includes the term "plot," or "parcel," and shall mean the same as zoning lot; however, the term "lot" shall not be construed to mean land lot.
Lot, corner, means a lot having frontage on two or more public streets at their intersection.
Lot depth means the mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
Lot line.
Adjacent lot line means a lot or parcel of land sharing all or part of a common lot line with another parcel or lot.
Front lot line means the front line of an interior lot separating the lot from the frontage street right-of-way; across which the primary access to the property passes and which shall be used to identify the street address of the property in question. The front lot line of a corner lot shall be the lot line upon which the principal building entrance will front.
Rear lot line means the lot line generally opposite the lot line along the frontage of the lot and intersects the side lot lines. If the rear lot line is less than ten feet in length or if the lot comes to a point at the rear, the rear lot line shall be deemed to be a line parallel to the front line not less than ten feet long lying wholly within the lot farthest from the front lot line.
Side lot line means any property line not designated as front or rear.
Lot of record means an area designated as a separate and distinct lot or parcel of land, which has been lawfully recorded by subdivision plat or deed on the public records of the county, on or before the date of adoption of the original zoning resolution.
Manufactured home means a new or used structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length, or when erected on-site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this definitions except size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 as amended, 42 USC 5401 et seq.
Manufactured home community (mobile home park) means a lot, or parcel of land or place where three or more manufactured homes are parked for residential purposes, or where space is set aside and offered for rent for manufactured homes. Lots consist of appropriate and adequate community services, recreational facilities, utilities, streets and sidewalks provided by the developer.
Manufactured housing. Manufactured housing units are defined as single-family dwellings if all requirements, as set forth in section 34-178, are met.
Mini-warehouse means a building or portion thereof used for dead storage, mainly of the excess personal property of an individual or family, but also of small amounts of goods or merchandise for businesses or individuals. Mini-warehouses shall not include retail sale on the premises, commercial repair or other services, manufacturing or any commercial use.
Mobile home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length, or when erected on-site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein and built prior to June 15, 1976.
Modular home or building means a factory-fabricated single-family dwelling which is constructed in one or more sections and is manufactured in accordance with the Georgia Industrialized Building Act and the rules of the commissioner of community affairs. Each modular home must meet the standards of an industrialized building of the state department of community affairs and must bear the seal of approval as issued by the state commissioner of community affairs.
Motel means a building or group of buildings containing guest rooms, offered to the general public for compensation, having separate entrances for each room or suite of rooms, and for which automobile parking is provided for each room or suite of rooms. Motels are to be used primarily for automobile transients and including such terms as "auto court" and "motor lodge."
Nonconforming use means any building, structure, or land use which lawfully exists at the time of the adoption of the resolution from which this chapter is derived or subsequently amended thereto and which does not conform, after the passage of such resolution and/or amendments, with the use regulations of the district in which it is located.
Official zoning map means a map officially adopted by the governing body of a political jurisdiction that illustrates the various zoning districts of the jurisdiction.
Open space means that required portion of a lot at ground level, unoccupied by enclosed buildings and available to all occupants of the project. Open space shall not be devoted to driveways, setbacks or off-street parking, but shall be usable for green space, recreational use and other leisure activities normally carried on outdoors.
Owner means the person who is vested the fee simple title or record, or a vendee under contract or purchase agreement. If a sole proprietorship, the proprietor; if a partnership, all partners (general and limited); if a corporation, all officers, directors and persons holding at least ten percent of the outstanding shares; and any agent of the owner, including a developer. The term "owner" may also include a tenant, if chargeable under his lease for the maintenance of property.
Overlay means a zoning district that encompasses one or more underlying zones and that imposes additional requirements beyond those required by the underlying zone.
Parcel. SeeLot.
Person means any individual, firm, trust, partnership, or corporation, or any other legal entity capable of ownership.
Personal care home means a residence providing the protective care of residents who do not require chronic or convalescent medical or nursing care. Personal care involves responsibility for safety of the resident while inside the building and may include daily awareness by the management of the resident's functioning and whereabouts, making and reminding a resident of appointments, the ability and readiness for intervention in the event of a resident experiencing a crisis, supervision in the areas of nutrition and medication, and the actual provision of transient medical care.
Personal care home, congregate, means a home for adults, which offers care to 16 or more persons.
Personal care home, family, means a home for adults in a family-type residence, non-institutional in character and appearance, which offers care to two through six persons.
Personal care home, group, means a home for adult persons in a residence or other type building, non-institutional in character and appearance, which offers care to seven through 16 persons.
Planned unit development means an area to be planned and developed as a single entity, according to applicable standards and regulations and containing one or more structures as a single project. Planned developments may consist primarily of either commercial, industrial, residential or with incidental accessory activities, or they may contain some combination of those primary uses.
Planning commission means the city planning and zoning commission.
Plat, final, means a complete and exact subdivision plat prepared for official recording of that subdivision in accordance with the plat laws of the state.
Plat, preliminary, means a tentative subdivision plat, indicating approximate proposed layout of a subdivision submitted with supporting documentation as necessary for consideration and approval prior to preparation of the final plat.
Private deed restrictions or covenants. Private deed restrictions or covenants are imposed on land by private landowners. Private deed restrictions or covenants bind and restrict the land in the hands of presents owners and subsequent purchasers. Private deed restrictions or covenants are enforced only by the landowners involved and not by any county, city or other public agency.
Professional office means a structure wherein services derive from the practice of recognized profession, such as predominately administrative, professional or clerical operations, including, but not limited to, attorneys, medical, optical, audiology, accounting, tax preparation, real estate, stock broker, architect, engineer, manufacture representative, professional counseling, dental, investigative services, photography, insurance, contractor, land surveyor, telephone sales, political campaign, veterinary medicine, travel bureaus.
Recreational vehicle means a vehicle or portable structure transportable on a mobile chassis, designed to be used as a temporary dwelling. The term "recreational vehicle" includes travel trailers, motorized dwellings, pop-up campers, pickup campers, coaches, and other similar recreational equipment.
Recreational vehicle park means any lot or parcel of land upon which two or more recreational vehicle sites are located, established or maintained for occupancy by recreational vehicles of the general public as temporary living quarters for recreation or vacation purposes.
Remodeling means to construct an addition or alter the design or layout of a building or make substantial repairs or alterations so that a change or modification of the entrance facilities, toilet facilities, or vertical access facilities is achieved.
Restaurant means an establishment where food is sold for consumption on the premises. A snack bar or refreshment stand at a public or nonprofit community swimming pool, playground, or park operated solely for the convenience of patrons of the facility shall not be deemed a restaurant.
Salvage operation/salvage yard means a business, the principal activity of which is buying, selling, exchanging, storing, sorting, packing, or dismantling of waste, used or secondhand material or three or more inoperable vehicles or parts thereof to consumers for personal use with only incidental residual transfer on a non-retail basis. A commercial recycling operation or junkyard, as defined in this section, is engaged in salvage operations.
School means a facility where persons regularly assemble for the purpose of instruction or education, including any playgrounds, stadiums, or other structures and grounds used in conjunction therewith. The term "school" shall include, but not be limited to, public and private schools used for primary, secondary, or post-secondary education.
Secondary detached residence means a subordinate building on the same lot with the main building which is used, designed, or intended for dwelling purposes, such as guest houses and employee quarters, including tenant dwellings, but not including any dwelling which is rented, leased, or occupied by anyone other than the occupant of the main building or his guests, immediate family, or employees.
Service station means any building or land used primarily for the dispensing, servicing, or offering for sale at retail any automobile fuels, oils, grease, batteries, tires, or general automotive accessories and in connection with which is performed general automotive servicing as distinguished from automobile repairs, but where no part of the premises is used for the storage or dismantling of wrecked or junked vehicles.
Setback means a required open space on a lot or parcel of land upon which structures are to be separated from the boundary line of the lot on which they are located and erected except as permitted by this chapter and is the shortest distance measured by a perpendicular line from the lot line or centerline of a street, highway or road and the nearest load bearing wall of the principal building or structure on a lot. Load bearing walls do not include cornices, steps, open terraces, open entrance hoods, and other similar appurtenances which do not project more than six feet from the building. This area is bounded by property lines and setback lines as appropriate.
Setback line means the minimum required distance from the street right-of-way line or any other property line that the principal building must observe.
Setback line, front, means an open yard area extending between the side lot lines across the front of a lot, the depth of which is the required minimum horizontal distance between the front lot line and a line parallel thereto on the lot. Also see Yard, front.
Setback line, rear, means the interior boundary of the rear setback area (or rear yard), being a line equidistant from the rear property line and extending from the side property lines at the minimum depth specified by the appropriate zoning district requirements.
Setback line, side, means the interior boundary of a side setback area (or side yard), being a line equidistant from the appropriate side property lines and extending from the front setback line to the rear setback line at a minimum depth as specified by the appropriate zoning district requirements.
Sewage (central system) means a community sewage system, including collection and treatment facilities serving more than one lot in a subdivision, approved by the county health department.
Sewage (individual disposal system) means a septic tank disposal system or any other sewage treatment device for one lot as approved by the county health department.
Shopping center means two or more commercial establishments planned and managed as a single architecturally unified unit with off-street parking and loading facilities provided on the property.
Sign means any attached or freestanding outdoor advertising display of any surface, fabric or device bearing lettered, pictorial, or sculptured matter, for the purpose of conveying information, knowledge, idea to or attracting the attention of the public and which is placed in general view of the public.
Sign, accessory, means a professional or identification sign not exceeding 16 square feet in area, and which states the name or location of an incorporated or unincorporated community, public or private institution, or the name and meeting place of an official or civic body. An accessory sign shall not advertise a business activity or a product for sale or rent.
Sign, general advertisement, means any display, including billboards, flags, pennants, lights, signals, or structures, attached or freestanding, which advertises and directs attention to businesses, products, entertainment or services conducted, sold or offered at locations other than upon the premises where the sign is displayed, or any display or sign exceeding 200 square feet in area.
Sign, principal, means an attached, freestanding or structural sign pertaining to announcing or describing the principal uses of the premises upon which the sign is displayed or to the products sold, manufactured or assembled, services or entertainment available on the premises, or directing attention to a business, profession, or industry. The term "sign" shall not be deemed to include official court or government notices or the flag emblem or insignia of a nation, political unit, or school.
Site-built home means a single-family detached dwelling constructed on the building site from basic materials delivered to the site, and which is constructed in accordance with all requirements of the building codes as adopted by the city.
Special exception use means a use for a particular piece of property that may be allowed by the city council when specifically listed in and provided for by this chapter. A special exception use is subject to such restrictive conditions as in the opinion of the city council would be necessary to ensure that the use is not detrimental to surrounding property.
Storage area means property and/or buildings used for the permanent or temporary storage of inoperable vehicles, machinery or other equipment or materials awaiting salvage, restoration, or sale, but not including exterior displays of new or used merchandise in operable condition for retail or wholesale distribution, when fenced and provided it is not a junkyard.
Street means a public right-of-way, whether designated as an avenue, boulevard, road, highway, expressway, lane or other way, that is dedicated or devoted to public pedestrian or vehicular use by deed, plat, and/or prescription, which affords the principal means of access to abutting property. This chapter excludes Interstate 20.
Arterial streets are intended to provide higher travel speeds between or within communities or to and from collectors and expressways. Access is controlled so that only community-significant land use may have direct access to these streets.
Collector streets connect residential streets to the highway system's major and higher (minor) arterials to provide access to nonresidential uses and arterials. Collectors form barriers between neighborhoods and are designed for higher speeds and traffic volumes than are residential streets. Because non-congested traffic flow is necessary for their effective functioning, residential uses are prohibited access to collectors. Collectors are classified as major collectors and minor collectors.
Major collector. The primary function is to carry traffic for most major intra-urban trips over one mile, particularly during peak hours. These streets provide only limited direct access to adjacent land. This direct access is usually focused on major facilities, shopping centers or other significant traffic generators. Major collectors are usually designed with four travel lanes and may be either divided or undivided. On-street parking cannot be permitted.
Minor collector. The primary function is to carry traffic for short to medium (one-half to one mile) intra-urban trips and serves primarily local traffic. These strips receive traffic from residential streets and transmit it to major collectors and arterials. Minor collectors spaced to relieve excessive traffic volumes on local streets are commonly designed with two travel lanes.
Structure means anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a fixed location on or in the ground, or which is attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Structures include, but are not limited to, the following: site built buildings, industrialized buildings, manufactured homes, mobile homes, billboards, swimming pools, advertising signs, satellite dishes and fall-out shelters.
Subdivision means all divisions of a tract or parcel of land under common ownership into more than two lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose, immediate or future, of sale, legacy, or building development, and includes all divisions of land involving a new street or a change in existing streets, and includes subdivision of property more than once and, where appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided; provided, however, that the following are not included within this definition:
(1)
The combination or recombination of portions of previously-platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased and resultant lots are equal to the standards of the zoning district in which it is located.
(2)
The division of land into parcels of five acres or more where no new street is involved.
(3)
Any division for agricultural purposes.
Temporary use means a use established for a limited duration with the intent to discontinue such use upon the expiration of the time period.
Trailer, travel, means a vehicular portable structure designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation, and vacation uses, which is identified on the unit by the manufacturer as a "camper" or "travel" trailer.
Travel trailer park. See Recreational vehicle park.
Truck terminal means a building and premises catering primarily to trucks, which may include warehousing facilities, and may include the functions and services of a mechanical garage, but shall not include the storage of trucks or other vehicles for the purpose of using parts for sale or repair.
Undisturbed natural buffer (greenbelt) means a tract of land dedicated to the city in its natural undisturbed state where no vegetation can be removed or planted without a permit. No herbicides, pesticides, or other chemicals, either natural or manmade, can be used in this buffer.
Use, permitted, means those uses specifically listed in this chapter as uses permitted inherently, not to include uses herein defined as nonconforming uses.
Use, principal, means the principal purpose for which a lot or the main building thereon is designed, arranged, intended, occupied or maintained and for which it is or may be used, occupied or maintained.
Use, special, means uses that are permitted in a particular zoning district, but only under certain specified conditions. See Special exception use.
Variance means a deviation from of the strict terms of the zoning regulations granted by the city where such modification will not be contrary to the public interest, and where, owing to conditions unique to the individual property on which the variance is sought and not as a result of any intentional action on the part of the property owner, a literal enforcement of this chapter would result in unnecessary and undue hardship; provided, however, that no variance shall be granted which shall authorize a land use or lot size not otherwise permitted in a particular district.
Water system, individual, means a potable water system other than a public water system serving a single building, residence or other facility designed or used for human occupancy or congregation.
Water system, public, means a potable water supply system other than individual water systems owned by the city.
Yard means a space on the same lot with the principal building, open, unoccupied, and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky, except for porches, steps and walkways and accessory buildings are expressly permitted. Yards shall be delineated by the "setback" and "setback line" definitions.
Yard, front, means that area of a lot lying between the abutting street right-of-way line and the principal building (or front setback line) of the lot and extending across the front of a lot from side lot line to side lot line.
Yard, rear, means that area of a lot extending across the rear of a lot from side lot line to side lot line and lying between the rear lot line and the principal building (or rear setback line) on the lot and on the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
Yard, side, means that area of a lot between the side lot line and the principal building (or side setback line) on the lot extending from the front yard or front setback line (or front lot line where no front yard/setback line is required) to the rear yard or rear setback line (or rear lot line where no rear yard/setback line is required).
Yard sale means a one to two day sale of common household items from residential lots. Also known as a garage sale, carport sale or rummage sale.
Zoning means the delineation of districts and the establishment of regulations governing the use, placement, spacing, and size of land and buildings.
Zoning administrator means the city clerk of the City of Mount Zion, Georgia.
Zoning map means the legally adopted "Zoning Districts Map of the City of Mt. Zion, Georgia."
(Res. of 10-12-2004(3), art. 3)
Sec. 34-7. - Use of land.
No land shall be used except for a purpose permitted in the district in which it is located.
(Res. of 10-12-2004(3), § 4.1)
Sec. 34-8. - Use of buildings.
No building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, moved, structurally altered or used, except for a use permitted in the district in which such building or structure is located.
(1)
Location of buildings. Every building hereafter erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered shall be located on lots as herein defined, except as approved by the planning commission in the form of a variance.
(2)
Height of buildings.
a.
No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered to exceed the height limit herein established for the district in which it is located, except for the following:
EXPAND
Chimneys Public Monuments
Church spires Tanks
Fire Towers Water Towers
Flag Poles Silos
  b.
Public and semi-public service buildings, hospitals, institutions and schools may be erected to a height not to exceed 100 feet; churches and temples may be erected to a height not exceeding 75 feet, provided the required side yard and rear yards shall be increased by at least one foot for each one foot of additional building height above the height regulations for the district in which the building is located.
(3)
Dimensional regulations. No building or use shall be erected, converted, enlarged, moved or structurally altered except in conformity with the minimum space requirements (i.e., the lot area, floor area, building height, etc.) for the district in which such building is located.
(4)
Temporary buildings. Temporary buildings shall not be permitted in any district except when they are used in conjunction with construction work or pending completion of a permanent building. Such building shall be used for a period not to exceed one year and shall be removed when the construction of the permanent building is completed. Construction of the permanent building is completed at the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
(Res. of 10-12-2004(3), § 4.2)
Sec. 34-9. - Interpretation and application.
In interpreting and applying this chapter, the requirements contained herein are declared to be the minimum requirements necessary to carry out the purpose of this chapter. Except as hereinafter provided, this chapter shall not be deemed to interfere with, abrogate, annul or otherwise affect in any manner whatsoever any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties. Whenever the provisions of this chapter impose greater restrictions upon the use of land or buildings, or upon the height of buildings, or require a larger percentage of a lot to be left unoccupied than the provisions of other ordinances, rules, regulations, permits or any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties, then the provisions of this chapter shall govern.
(Res. of 10-12-2004(3), § 4.3)
Sec. 34-10. - Zoning affects all land and buildings.
No buildings, structures or land shall be used or occupied, and no building, structure or part thereof shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, enlarged or structurally altered, unless in conformity with the regulations of this chapter.
(Res. of 10-12-2004(3), § 4.4)
Sec. 34-11. - Principal building per lot.
Unless provided for elsewhere in this chapter, there shall be no more than one principal building or structure upon any lot in any residential district.
(Res. of 10-12-2004(3), § 4.5)
Sec. 34-12. - Required open space may not be used by another building.
No part of any yard, other open space, or off-street parking or loading space required in connection with any building, structure, or use by this chapter shall be considered to be part of a required yard, other open space or off-street parking or loading space for any other building or structure.
(Res. of 10-12-2004(3), § 4.6)
Sec. 34-13. - Reduction of yards or lot areas.
Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, no lot existing at the time of passage of the resolution from which this chapter is derived shall be reduced, divided or changed so as to produce a tract of land which does not comply with the minimum dimension or area requirements of this chapter for the district in which it is located, unless said reduction or division is necessary to provide land that is needed and accepted for public use.
(Res. of 10-12-2004(3), § 4.7)
Secs. 34-14—34-55. - Reserved.
