ARTICLE X. - C-2 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT

Sec. 10.01. - Statement of purpose.
The purpose of the C-2 General Business District is to provide areas for development that permit a wider range of business and entertainment activities than that permitted in the neighborhood business district. The permitted uses would serve not only nearby residential areas, but also people further away. This district is intended for types of businesses and services usually found in major shopping centers and central business districts at the juncture of principal streets. These uses would generate larger volumes of vehicular traffic, would need more off-street parking and loading, and would require more planning to integrate such districts with adjacent residential areas.
Sec. 10.02. - Permitted uses.
Permitted uses in the C-2 district are as follows:
(a)
Any retail or service establishment.
(b)
Wholesale stores, storage buildings, warehouses, distributing plants, freezers and lockers.
(c)
Commercial greenhouses and nurseries.
(d)
Adult entertainment establishments provided all requirements of the city's adult entertainment ordinance are met.
(e)
Indoor shooting ranges provided all applicable federal, state and local government requirements are met.
(f)
Place of worship.
(g)
Clubs and fraternal organizations operating not for profit.
(h)
Hospitals, clinics, sanitariums, nursing homes, rest homes, residences for aged persons and orphanages, group homes and halfway houses.
(i)
Nursery schools, kindergartens or day care facilities provided all state licensing requirements are met.
(j)
Mortuaries.
Sec. 10.03. - Conditional uses.
Conditional uses in the C-2 district are as follows:
(a)
Mini-warehouses.
Sec. 10.04. - Restrictions.
The following restrictions shall apply to all businesses covered by this article:
(1)
No manufactured or mobile homes shall be used for commercial purposes except for manufactured home sales offices.
(2)
No buildings constructed under this article shall have a metal facade fronting any public road.
Sec. 10.05. - Area, height, bulk and placement requirements.
Area, height, bulk and placement requirements in the C-2 district are as follows:
EXPAND
Minimum lot size
Well and septic 1.5 acres
Water and septic 0.75 acres
Water and sewer No requirement
Lot width at setback
Well and septic 150'
Water and septic 100'
Water and sewer 80'
Minimum building setback
Front 35'
Rear 10'
Side 10'
Firewall 0'
No firewall 10'
Maximum building height 50'
  * Each lot shall have, at a minimum, a 30-foot-wide access to a public road.
This height limitation shall not apply to grain elevators, silos, windmills, elevator legs, cooling towers, water towers, chimneys and smokestacks, or spires on places of worship.
Sec. 10.06. - Protective screening.
Protective screening for C-2 districts adjacent to or across the street (with the exception of arterial or collector roads) from residential zoning districts shall be in compliance with section 3.12 of this ordinance.
Sec. 10.07. - Commercial design standards.
See Article XVIII of this ordinance for commercial design standards.
