ARTICLE XVIII. - COMMERCIAL DESIGN STANDARDS

Sec. 18.01. - Statement of purpose.
Design standards for commercial development established in this article are intended to visually indicate proximity to downtown by implementing design criteria that are related to the historic commercial and industrial styles present in town, to maintain the character of the rural highway experience with informal architecture, to require building setbacks and landscaping while allowing for flexibility in design, and to re-establish, promote, and preserve important elements of the rural landscape.
Sec. 18.02. - Applicability of standards.
The design standards for commercial development shall be applicable to commercial zones C-1 and C-2.
Sec. 18.03. - Procedural requirements for approval of permit.
At the time of submission of building plans for plan review for building permit approval, the applicant shall submit detailed architectural drawings demonstrating compliance with these design standards. No plans shall be accepted without drawings in sufficient detail to allow community development and planning staff to assess compliance. Within ten business days, the planning and development director, or his/her designee shall review the architectural drawings and determine if the proposed design complies with the standards of this section and section 16.05.
If the proposed design does not meet the standards set forth herein, the planning and development director or designee shall submit to the applicant in writing via certified mail with return receipt the standards with which the proposed design does not comply. The applicant shall have ten business days from receipt of the notification to resubmit architectural drawings demonstrating compliance with the standards. Failure to resubmit architectural drawings within the specified time period will result in denial of the application for a building permit. The applicant shall have the right to appeal the decision of the planning and development director, or his/her designee, to the planning commission only after the applicant has resubmitted architectural drawings in accordance with the process above and the planning and development director, or his/her designee, has determined the revised drawings do not comply with the design standards.
Sec. 18.04. - Permitted uses.
All permitted and conditional uses in the C-1 and C-2 districts are subject to the standards of this article and shall be permitted in compliance with the standards of this article.
Sec. 18.05. - Design standards.
The goals of the design standards are to encourage an informal character of the rural highway experience in corridors of the City of Leesburg, to preserve the context and character of the City of Leesburg, and to encourage creativity and high quality design and construction. In order to implement the above design concepts, new commercial development shall meet the following design standards as applicable:
(a)
Building orientation.
1.
Buildings shall be oriented towards the commercial corridor it abuts.
2.
Buildings shall be oriented in a manner that clearly demarcates and allows pedestrian entry and access into the building.
(b)
Massing.
1.
Buildings over 8,000 gross square feet shall be "broken up" so as to visually resemble multiple buildings rather than one large "box." Figure 18.01(A) illustrates a possible arrangement for buildings over 8,000 square feet. This figure and others contained in this section are for illustrative purposes only provided to assist the applicant in achieving compliance with these regulations. They are not intended to constitute actual required configurations or regulations.
2.
The massing of buildings shall be varied to add interest to the structure. This shall be achieved by varying the horizontal and vertical planes of the exterior walls and varying the height of distinct elements. Figure 18.01(B) illustrates desirable versus undesirable massing elements.
Figure 18.01(B) Desirable versus Undesirable Massing Elements
(c)
Rhythm.
1.
Openings, such as windows and doors, materials and textures, and architectural features shall be used to visually "break up" the walls.
2.
No blank facades are permitted for facades facing a public right-of-way. Buildings shall be designed such that similar façade materials and detailing is used on all facades visible from a public right-of-way. All building facades facing a public right of way shall have glazed areas or areas of glazed appearance and openings constituting at least 20 percent and no more than 75 percent of the facade area. The planning department is authorized to allow a variance up to five percent of the required glazed, glazed appearing, and opening façade area upon a finding that:
(i)
Strict compliance with this section is not feasible due to technical or architectural details associated with the particular project: and
(ii)
An alternative plan has been presented which will provide equivalent protection of the public interests set forth in this section.
(d)
Materials.
1.
External materials shall consist of one or two primary materials and textures. Required external wall materials shall consist of brick, wood siding (weatherboard or board and batten), cementitious fiberboard siding, cast concrete block with texture, or non-synthetic stucco.
2.
Metal buildings are not authorized unless all sides facing the public right-of-way are covered in a masonry type veneer. Buildings shall be designed such that similar façade materials and detailing is used on all facades visible from the public right-of-way.
(e)
Other architectural features.
1.
The incorporation of other architectural features to assure compatibility and to maintain the character of an area shall be required. Other architectural features shall include porches, transoms, and awnings.
