ARTICLE IX. - C-1 NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT

Sec. 9.01. - Statement of purpose.
The C-1 Neighborhood Business District established in this article is intended to permit retail business, office, and service uses that are needed to serve adjacent residential areas. In order to promote such business development so far as is possible and appropriate in each area, uses are prohibited which would create hazards, offensive and loud noises, vibration, smoke, glare, heavy truck traffic, or late hours of operation. The intent of this district is also to encourage the concentration of local business areas in locations proposed in the future land use plan to the mutual advantage of both consumers and merchants and thereby promote the best use of land at certain strategic locations and avoid the continuance of encouraging marginal, strip business development along city/county roads.
Sec. 9.02. - Permitted uses.
All permitted uses in the C-1 district are subject to the restrictions set forth in section 9.05 of this ordinance.
(1)
Barber or beauty shops and similar uses.
(2)
Custom dress making and tailoring establishments and similar uses.
(3)
Personal service establishment.
(4)
Eating or drinking places.
(5)
Laundry, dry cleaning, coin laundry.
(6)
Business, professional, or governmental office designed to attract and serve customers or client on premises.
(7)
Household appliance repair shop without outdoor storage, display, or business operations of any type.
(8)
Retail store for food, drugs, clothing, etc., with no outdoor storage, display, or business operations of any type.
(9)
Contractor's office with no outdoor storage, display, or business operations of any type.
(10)
Veterinarian offices provided there are no outdoor kennels. Runs designed for animal exercise are allowed as long as the animals are kept inside at night.
(11)
Post office.
(12)
Medical and/or dental clinics.
(13)
Other uses similar to the above, subject to the restrictions set forth in section 9.05 of this ordinance.
(14)
Temporary trailer for emergency construction and repair of buildings.
(15)
Nursery schools, kindergartens or day care facilities provided all state licensing requirements are met.
(16)
Places of worship
Sec. 9.03. - Conditional uses.
All conditional uses in the C-1 district are subject to the restrictions set forth in section 9.05 of this ordinance.
(1)
Bed and breakfast inn.
(2)
Horticulture sales with outdoor display.
Sec. 9.04. - Protective screening.
Protective screening for C-1 districts adjacent to or across the street (with the exception of arterial or collector roads) from residential zoning districts shall be in compliance with section 3.12 of this ordinance.
Sec. 9.05. - Restrictions.
The following restrictions shall apply to all permitted and conditional business covered by this article:
(1)
All outdoor business operations shall be subject to the following restrictions:
a.
There shall be no outdoor storage or display of any kind.
b.
Eating and drinking establishments are allowed to have tables outside. There shall be no more than ten tables, or up to 25 percent of the number of indoor tables, whichever number is less.
c.
Convenience stores may have up to two fuel pumps and as many as eight propane tanks stored in a cage outside.
d.
No business or activity, indoor or outdoor, shall be conducted in a manner which violates section 16-19 of the Leesburg City Code, nor shall any business activities, indoor or outdoor, cause decibel levels as taken in nearby residential neighborhoods to be such that they violate the restrictions set forth for that neighborhood in the nuisance ordinance, set forth in chapter 16, article III, of the Leesburg City Code.
(2)
Retail businesses shall have no more than 7,000 square feet of gross floor area.
(3)
No business operations shall be conducted between the hours or 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. with the exception of normal business opening and closing activities (i.e., cleaning, restocking, etc.). Nor shall any establishment be open to the public during those hours.
(4)
Unless specifically covered by this article, all other sections of this ordinance shall apply to all establishments.
(5)
Manufactured or mobile homes are not to be used as retail, office, etc.
(6)
Buildings constructed under this article shall not have a metal facade fronting any public road.
Sec. 9.06. - Area, height, bulk and placement requirements.
Area, height, bulk and placement requirements in the C-1 district are as follows:
EXPAND
Minimum lot size
Well and septic 1.5 acres
Water and septic 0.75 acres
Water and sewer No requirement
Lot width at minimum setback
Well and septic 150'
Water and septic 100'
Water and sewer 80'
Minimum building setback
Front 35'
Rear 10'
Side 10'
Firewall 0'
No firewall 10'
Maximum building height 50'
  * Each lot shall have, at a minimum, a 30-foot-wide access to a public road.
This height limitation shall not apply to grain elevators, silos, windmills, elevator legs, cooling towers, water towers, chimneys and smokestacks, or spires on places of worship.
Sec. 9.07. - Commercial design standards.
See Article XVIII for commercial design standards.
