ARTICLE XIII. - I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 13.01. - Statement of purpose.
The I-1 Light Industrial District is intended to permit certain firms, which are of a light manufacturing character to locate in planned areas of the city. Firms that utilize substantial quantities of water in manufacturing are not permitted in this district. Industrial firms in this district do not necessarily require rail frontage.
Sec. 13.02. - Permitted uses.
Permitted uses in the I-1 district are as follows:
(a)
Wholesale bakeries, baking plants, etc.
(b)
Bottling or packaging of cleaning compounds, polishes, etc.
(c)
Building equipment, building materials, lumber, sand, gravel storage yards and yards for contracting equipment, maintenance or operating equipment of public agencies or public utilities, or materials or equipment of similar nature.
(d)
Carpet manufacturing.
(e)
Carpenter and cabinet making shops.
(f)
Cold storage plants.
(g)
Dental, surgical and optical goods manufacturing.
(h)
Electronic manufacturing and assembly plants.
(i)
Electric motors and generators manufacturing.
(j)
Research and testing laboratories.
(k)
Pharmaceutical products manufacturing.
(l)
Printing, engraving and bookbinding shops.
(m)
Soft drink bottling establishments.
(n)
Tool, die, gauge and machine shops.
(o)
Processed agricultural products other than meat, poultry or animal products.
(p)
Textile and clothing manufacturing.
(q)
Natural gas and petroleum products storage and sales.
(r)
Plastic product manufacturing, but not including the processing of the raw materials (no actual plastic making).
(s)
Warehouse, storage and transfer, electric and gas service buildings and yards, public utility buildings, telephone exchange buildings and substations, gas regulator stations.
(t)
Electrical, glazing, heating, painting, paper hanging, plumbing, roofing or ventilation contractor's establishments including outside storage yards.
(u)
Moving or storage offices and warehouse.
(v)
Publicly owned buildings, public utility buildings and service yards including storage yards.
Sec. 13.03. - Area, height, bulk and placement requirements.
Area, height, bulk and placement requirements in the I-1 district are as follows:
EXPAND
Minimum lot size 3 acres
Lot width at setback 225'
Minimum building setback
Front 75'
Side 20'
Rear 50'
  * Each lot shall have, at a minimum, a 30-foot-wide access to a public road.
Sec. 13.04. - Protective screening.
Protective screening for I-1 districts adjacent to or across the street (with the exception of arterial or collector roads) from residential zoning districts shall be in compliance with section 3.12 of this ordinance.
