Chapter 8 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 8-1. - Self-inspection by plumbers, utility contractors.
The city is exempted from the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26(d), relating to the self-inspection of certain water and sewer lines, and such provisions shall not be applicable in the city.
(Code 2003, § 14-1)
Secs. 8-2—8-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CONSTRUCTION CODES[2]

Sec. 8-21. - Adopted.
(a)
The following codes, as now or hereafter amended, including administration chapters and appendices also contained in such codes, are hereby adopted by reference and shall be amended by later additions as required by O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25, and shall be enforced by the city through an intergovernmental agreement with the county:
(1)
International Building Code (ICC);
(2)
National Electrical Code (NFPA);
(3)
International Fuel Gas Code (ICC);
(4)
International Mechanical Code (ICC);
(5)
International Plumbing Code (ICC);
(6)
International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings (ICC);
(7)
International Energy Conservation Code (ICC); and
(8)
International Fire Code.
(b)
Official copies of such codes, and the administrative chapters and appendices of such codes, are on file in the office of the chief building official of the county.
(Code 1980, § 6-104; Code 2003, § 14-31; Ord. of 9-17-1982, § 1)
Sec. 8-22. - Compliance.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the construction or erection of any building, whether commercial, business or residential, unless such construction is accomplished in strict compliance with the various construction codes adopted by this article.
(Code 2003, § 14-32)
Sec. 8-23. - Enforcement and designation of administrator.
The chief of police of the city or the chief building official of the county, or his designee, acting with the authority for the city, is hereby appointed to administer and through an intergovernmental agreement implement and enforce the provisions of this article. When reference is made to the duties of certain officials named in the various construction codes adopted by this article, the designated city official shall be deemed to be the responsible official for the enforcement of such codes.
(Code 2003, § 14-33)
Sec. 8-24. - Penalty for violation.
(a)
Any person violating any provision of the various construction codes adopted by this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-13.
(b)
A conviction for violating any provision of the various construction codes adopted by this article shall result in the automatic suspension of the business license of the offending contractor. The license may be reinstated by an application to the city council upon a showing of good cause.
(Code 2003, § 14-34)
Sec. 8-25. - Permit and inspection fees.
Permit and inspection fees and any other charges imposed or due under the various construction codes adopted by this article shall be as provided in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county building inspection department.
(Code 2003, § 14-35)
Sec. 8-26. - Public utilities.
(a)
No public utility may furnish temporary electrical, water or gas connection, for construction purposes, unless the contractor has been issued a construction permit by the county building inspection department.
(b)
No public utility may furnish permanent electrical, water or gas connections until the contractor has been issued a certificate of occupancy by the county building inspection department.
(c)
No public utility may furnish power to a mobile home site until the owner has been issued either a building permit or a certificate of occupancy by the county building inspection department.
(Code 2003, § 14-36)
Sec. 8-27. - Water supply and sewage disposal facilities.
(a)
Building permits will not be issued until plans for water supply and sewage disposal have been approved by the county board of health.
(b)
Certificates of occupancy will not be issued until the completed water supply and sewage disposal facilities have been approved by the county board of health.
(Code 2003, § 14-37)
State Law reference— Regulations for septic tanks in unincorporated areas, conformity prerequisite to building permit, O.C.G.A. § 31-3-5.l.
Secs. 8-28—8-57. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - UNFIT DWELLINGS, BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES

Sec. 8-58. - Adoption of regulations; definitions.
(a)
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 41-2-9(b), the ordinance from which this article is derived is adopted based upon a finding by the city council, that dwelling, building or structure conditions of the character described in O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7 exist within any residential or commercial zoning district or within 500 feet of those zoning districts in the incorporated areas of the city, and the ordinance from which this article is derived is adopted pursuant thereto.
(b)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Closing means securing and causing a dwelling, building or structure to be vacated.
Drug crime means an act which is a violation of O.C.G.A. § 16-13-20 et seq. known as the Georgia Controlled Substances Act.
Dwellings, buildings or structures means any building or structure or part thereof used and occupied for human habitation or commercial, industrial, or business uses, or intended to be so used, and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith, and also includes any building or structure of any design.
Owner means the holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record.
Parties in interest means persons in possession of said property and all individuals, associations, and corporations who have interest of record in the city where the property is located in a dwelling, building, or structure, including executors, administrators, guardians, and trustees.
Public authority means any housing authority or any officer who is in charge of any department or branch of the government of the city or county relating to health, fire, or building regulations or to other activities concerning dwellings, buildings, or structures in the city or county.
Public officer means the officer or officers who are authorized pursuant to this article to exercise the powers prescribed by this article, or any agent of such officer or officers.
Repair means closing a dwelling, building, or structure for the cleaning or removal of debris, trash, or other materials present and accumulated which create a health or safety hazard in or about any dwelling, building, or structure.
Resident means any person residing in the city.
(Res. of 11-4-2008, § 1(14-51))
Sec. 8-59. - Designation of public officer.
The primary responsibility and authority for the enforcement of the provisions of this article shall be vested in both the chief of police, or such chief's duly authorized representative, and/or the county building inspection department, or such department's duly authorized representative, who, for the purposes of this article, shall be deemed the public officer as more particularly defined in section 8-58.
(Res. of 11-4-2008, § 1(14-52))
Sec. 8-60. - Powers and duties of public officer.
The public officer is hereby authorized to exercise the following powers and duties to carry out and effectuate the purpose of this article, as follows:
(1)
To investigate the dwelling conditions in the city in order to determine which dwellings, buildings, or structures therein are unfit for human habitation, or are unfit for current commercial, industrial, or business use, or are vacant, dilapidated, and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes;
(2)
To administer oath and affirmations, to examine witnesses, and to receive evidence;
(3)
To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations; provided, however, that such entry shall be made in such manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the person in possession;
(4)
To appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents, and employees as he deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this article; and
(5)
To delegate any of his functions and powers under this article to such officers and agents as he may designate from time to time.
(Res. of 11-4-2008, § 1(14-53))
Sec. 8-61. - Defects constituting an unfit dwelling, building or structure.
(a)
The public officer may determine, under existing ordinances, that a dwelling, building, or structure is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use if he finds that conditions exist in such building, dwelling, or structure which are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety, or morals of the occupants of such dwelling, building, or structure; of the occupants of neighborhood dwellings, buildings, or structures; or of other residents in the city. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1)
Defects therein increasing the hazards of fire, accidents or other calamities;
(2)
Lack of adequate ventilation, light, or sanitary facilities;
(3)
Dilapidation;
(4)
Disrepair;
(5)
Structural defects;
(6)
Uncleanliness;
(7)
Exclusive of the foundation, if 33 percent or more of damage or deterioration of the supporting member or members, or 50 percent of the damage or deterioration of the non-supporting enclosing or outside walls or coverings is present;
(8)
Improperly distributed loads upon the floors or roofs in which the same are overloaded, or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe;
(9)
Previous damage by fire, wind, vandalism, or other cause;
(10)
Decayed, unsafe, unsanitary, or other such conditions likely to cause sickness or disease to occupants of such dwelling, building, or structure, or to the occupants of neighborhood dwellings, buildings, or structures;
(11)
Inadequate means of ingress and egress, such as insufficient stairways, elevators, or fire escapes, so as to cause a danger to occupants or residents;
(12)
Conditions which are otherwise unsafe, unsanitary, or dangerous to the health, morals, safety, or general welfare of the occupants or occupants of neighborhood dwellings, buildings, or structures, or other residents of the city;
(13)
Dilapidation or disrepair to such an extent that portions of the dwelling, building, or structure may fall or cave in; and
(14)
Buildings existing in violation of any provision of any code previously adopted by the city, including, but not limited to, any building code and any fire prevention code, previously adopted.
(b)
The public officer shall also be authorized to determine, under existing ordinances, that a dwelling, building, or structure is vacant, dilapidated, and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes upon personal observation by the public officer or upon the report of a law enforcement agency and evidence of drug crimes being committed at the location of such dwelling, building, or structure.
(Res. of 11-4-2008, § 1(14-54))
Sec. 8-62. - Petition; notice; hearing.
(a)
Whenever a request is filed with the public officer by a public authority, or by at least three residents of the city, alleging that any dwelling, building, or structure is unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use, or whenever it appears to the public officer on his own motion that any dwelling, building, or structure is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use, or is vacant, dilapidated, and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes, the public officer shall, if his preliminary investigation discloses a basis for such charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of, and any parties in interest in, such dwelling, building, or structure, a complaint stating the charges in that respect and containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the public officer or his designated agent at a place within the county not less than ten nor more than 30 days after the date of service of said complaint; that the owner, and any party in interest, shall be given the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint; and that the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the public officer.
(b)
If, after such notice and hearing, the public officer determines that the dwelling, building, or structure under consideration is unfit for human habitation, or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use, or is vacant, dilapidated, or being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes, the public officer shall state in writing her findings of fact in support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an order as follows:
(1)
If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the said dwelling, building or structure can be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner or parties in interest within the time specified in the order, to repair, alter, or improve such dwelling, building, or structure so as to render it fit for human habitation or for current commercial, industrial, or business use or to vacate and close the dwelling, building, or structure as a human habitation; or
(2)
If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the said dwelling, building, or structure cannot be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner or parties in interest within the time specified in the order, to remove or demolish such dwelling, building, or structure.
(c)
In no event shall the public officer, or the city council, require removal or demolition of any dwelling, building, or structure, except upon a finding that the cost of repair, alteration, or improvement thereof exceeds one-half the value such dwelling, building, or structure will have when repaired to satisfy the minimum requirements of this article.
(d)
If the owner or parties in interest fail to comply with an order to vacate and close or demolish the dwelling, building, or structure, the public officer may cause such dwelling, building, or structure to be repaired, altered, or improved, or to be vacated and closed or demolished. In addition, the public officer may cause to be posted on the main entrance of any dwelling, building, or structure so closed a placard with the following words:
This building is unfit for human habitation or commercial, industrial, or business use. The use or occupation of this building for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use is prohibited and unlawful.
Such placard shall bear the date posted, the street number of the dwelling, building, or structure involved, and be signed by the public officer or such officer's duly authorized agent. It shall thereafter be unlawful for such placard to be mutilated or removed or for such dwelling, building, or structure to be occupied until the required corrective action is taken.
(e)
If the owner fails to comply with any order to remove or demolish the dwelling, building, or structure, the public officer may cause such dwelling, building, or structure to be removed or demolished.
(f)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (c) and (d) of this section, the public officer shall not be authorized to undertake the actions authorized in subsections (c) and (d) of this section until such time as the city council shall have by ordinance ordered the public officer to proceed to effectuate the purpose of this article, and the state statutes authorizing this article, with respect to the particular property which the public officer shall have found to be unfit for human habitation or unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use, and said property shall be described in the ordinance.
(g)
The public officer may, upon written request of the owner or parties in interest, grant an extension of time within which to comply with any order entered pursuant to this section upon a showing of a good faith effort to comply with said order.
(Res. of 11-4-2008, § 1(14-55))
Sec. 8-63. - Extensions of time.
The city council may, in its discretion, grant an extension of time within which to comply with any order pursuant to this article, which extension shall be for a definite term and shall be in writing.
(Res. of 11-4-2008, § 1(14-56))
Sec. 8-64. - Costs constituting lien on property; filing; sale of materials.
The amount of the cost of such vacating and closing or removal or demolition by the public officer shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred. Said lien shall attach to the real property upon the payment of all costs of demolition by the city council and the filing of an itemized statement of the total sum of said costs by the public officer in the office of the city clerk on a lien docket maintained by said clerk for such purposes. If the dwelling, building, or structure is removed or demolished by the public officer, he shall sell the materials of such dwellings, buildings, or structures and shall credit the proceeds of such sale against the cost of the removal or demolition, and any balance remaining shall be deposited in the superior court by the public officer, shall be secured in such manner as may be directed by such court, and shall be disbursed by such court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree of such court.
(Res. of 11-4-2008, § 1(14-57))
Sec. 8-65. - Procedure for collection of amount due on lien.
The collection of any amount due on the liens referred to in section 8-64 shall be enforced in the following manner:
(1)
The owner or parties in interest shall be allowed to satisfy the amount due on such lien by paying to the city council, within 30 days after the perfection of said lien, a sum of money equal to 25 percent of the total amount due and by further paying to the city council the remaining balance on such lien, together with interest at the rate of seven percent per annum, in three equal annual payments, each of which shall become due and payable on the anniversary date of the initial payment made as hereinabove provided.
(2)
Should the property upon which such lien is perfected be sold, transferred, or conveyed by the owner or parties in interest at any time prior to the termination of said three-year period, then the entire balance on such lien shall be due and payable to the city council at that time.
(3)
Should the amount due on such lien, or any portion thereof, remain unpaid after the passage of said three-year period, or upon the occurrence of the contingency provided for in subsection (2) of this section, the city council may enforce the collection due on such lien for alteration, repair, removal, or demolition of dwellings, buildings, or structures in the same manner as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-358 and other applicable state statutes. This procedure shall be subject to the right of redemption by any person having any right, title, or interest in, or lien upon, said property, all as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-4-40 et seq.
(Res. of 11-4-2008, § 1(14-58))
Sec. 8-66. - Service of notice and orders issued by public officer.
(a)
Complaints, notices, or orders issued pursuant to this article shall, in all cases, be served upon each person in possession of such property, each owner, and each party in interest; and the return of service signed by the public officer, or an affidavit of service executed by any citizen of the state, reciting that a copy of such complaint, notice, or order was served upon each person in possession of such property, each owner, and each party in interest, personally or by leaving such copy at the place of his residence, which shall be sufficient service as to the service of such person in possession, owner, or party in interest.
(b)
If any of the owners or parties in interest shall reside outside of the county, service shall be effected by causing a copy of such complaint, notice or orders to be served upon such parties by the sheriff or any lawful deputy of the county of the residence of such parties, or such service may be made by any citizen; and the return of such sheriff or lawful deputy, or the affidavit of such citizen, that such parties were served, either personally or by leaving a copy of the complaint, notice or orders at the residence of the person to be served, shall be conclusive of such service.
(c)
Nonresidents of the state shall be served by publishing the same once a week for two successive weeks in the legal organ for the county. A copy of such complaint, notice or order shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by the complaint, notice, or order. Where the address of such nonresident is known, a copy of such complaint, notice, or order shall be mailed to such nonresident by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested.
(d)
In the event that either the owner or any party in interest is a minor, or an insane person, or a person laboring under disabilities, the guardian or other personal representative of such person shall be served, and if such guardian or personal representative resides outside the county, or is a nonresident of the state, he shall be served as provided for in subsection (c) of this section or in this subsection in such cases. If such minor or insane person has no guardian or personal representative, or in the event such minor or insane person lives outside the county, or is a nonresident of the state, service shall be perfected by serving such minor or insane person personally or by leaving a copy of such complaint, notice, or order at the place of his residence which shall be sufficient evidence as to the service of such person; in the case of other persons who live outside the county, or who are not residents of the state, service shall be perfected by serving the judge of the probate court of the county, who shall stand in the place of and protect the rights of such minor or insane person or appoint a guardian ad litem for such person.
(e)
In the event that the whereabouts of any owner or any party in interest is unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by the public officer in the exercise of reasonable diligence, and the public officer shall make an affidavit to that effect, then the service of such complaint, notice, or order upon such person shall be made in the same manner as provided in subsection (c) of this section, or service may be perfected upon any person, firm, or corporation holding itself out as an agent for the property involved.
(f)
A copy of such complaint, notice, and order shall also be filed in the office of the clerk of superior court of the county, where notices of lis pendens are filed, and shall have the same force and effect as other lis pendens notices as provided by law. Any such complaint, notice, or order or appropriate lis pendens notice may contain a statement to the effect that a lien may arise against the described property and that an itemized statement of such lien is maintained on a lien docket maintained by the city clerk.
(Res. of 11-4-2008, § 1(14-59))
Sec. 8-67. - Temporary injunction restraining public officer from carrying out provisions.
As authorized by O.C.G.A. § 41-2-13, any person affected by an order issued by the public officer may petition to the superior court of the county for an injunction restraining the public officer from carrying out the provisions of the order, and the superior court may, upon such petition, issue a temporary injunction restraining the public officer, pending the final disposition of the matter; provided, however, that such person shall present such petition to the court within 15 days of the posting and service of the order of the public officer. De novo hearings shall be had by the superior court on petitions within 20 days of the filing thereof. The superior court shall hear and determine the issues raised and shall enter such final order or decree as law and justice may require; provided, however, that it shall not be necessary to file bond in any amount before obtaining a temporary injunction pursuant to this section.
(Res. of 11-4-2008, § 1(14-60))
Sec. 8-68. - Eminent domain.
Nothing in this article shall be construed as preventing the owner of any property from receiving just compensation for the taking of such property by the power of eminent domain under the laws of the state, or permitting any property to be condemned or destroyed except in accordance with the police power of the state.
(Res. of 11-4-2008, § 1(14-61))
Sec. 8-69. - Use of revenues, grants, and donations to repair, close, or demolish unfit dwellings, buildings, or structures.
The city council is authorized to make such appropriations from its revenues as it may deem necessary or appropriate and may accept and apply for and utilize grants or donations to assist it in carrying out the provisions of this article.
(Res. of 11-4-2008, § 1(14-63))
Sec. 8-70. - Applicability.
The powers and authority granted hereunder shall be in addition to and supplemental of any other powers and authority granted to the city council and its agents by any state statute or city ordinance.
(Res. of 11-4-2008, § 1(14-64))
