ARTICLE II. - DEFINITIONS

Sec. 16-21. - Use of words.
For the purpose of these regulations, the following shall apply to the use of all words:
(1)
When appropriate to the context, words used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural the singular; words used in the present tense shall include the future tense, and vice versa.
(2)
Words in the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
(3)
The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary.
(4)
The word "may" is permissive.
(5)
Use of the word "and" is inclusive and requires that all of the component phrases so connected must be present or fulfilled for sufficiency. The word "or" may allow more than one component phrase to be present or fulfilled, as is implied by the common term "and/or".
Sec. 16-22. - Interpretation of words and phrases.
The following shall control the interpretation of words and phrases as used in these regulations:
(1)
Words and phrases defined in this article shall be interpreted as defined herein without regard to other meanings in common or ordinary use, unless the context of the word indicates otherwise.
(2)
Words or phrases not defined herein shall be interpreted as defined in the separate codes that are a part hereof, as applicable to the use of the word within the context of these regulations.
(3)
Words not defined herein or in the separate codes or any other applicable code, regulation, or ordinance of Baldwin County shall be construed to have the meaning given by common and ordinary use, and shall be interpreted within the context of the sentence, section, and article in which they occur.
( Ord. of 12-3-2019(2) )
Sec. 16-23. - Definitions of words and phrases.
Certain words or phrases in these regulations are defined for their use herein as follows:
Access drive: A private drive or way giving access from a public road to land abutting the right-of-way thereof; a vehicular entrance to or exit from such abutting property to a public road.
Administrator: The individual designated by the board of commissioners charged with the administration of these regulations; currently, the code enforcement administrator.
Advertising device: A sign erected on a lot which directs attention to a business, a commodity, a person, a service or an organization offered elsewhere than on the lot on which erected.
Agricultural industry: The use of land and structures for the processing of agricultural and forest products, and related operations, including dairy and milk products and by-products production; chick hatchery; sawmill or planing mill for lumber and forest products and by-products processing and production; primary point for livestock, field and forest product collection, sales, and shipping; trade in odor-producing goods of rural origin such as hides, skins, raw furs, livestock, poultry, fish, and other animals and animal products.
Airport: A tract of land that is maintained for the landing and takeoff of airplanes, including facilities for the shelter, parking, supply and repair of airplanes.
Alley or service drive: A minor, permanent, public service-way which is used primarily for vehicular service access to the back or the side for properties otherwise abutting on a street.
Applicant: A person, either the owner or the bona fide representative of the owner of land or structures governed by these regulations, who seeks authority to use, develop, construct upon or otherwise enjoy the use of property through any of the procedures established under these regulations.
Arterial street: A street which is used primarily for fast and heavy traffic flow, is of considerable continuity, and is used as a traffic artery for inter-connection among large areas. These streets are designated to have a right-of-way width of 100 feet and are designated on the comprehensive plan.
Back slope: The slope (gradient) of a drainage ditch from the bottom of the ditch to or toward the closest right-of-way of a road.
Base flood: The flood which has a one (1%) percent probability of occurring in any calendar year (i.e., the 100-year frequency flood).
Base flood elevation: The highest water surface elevation anticipated at any given point during the base flood.
Block: A piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public streets, other than alleys.
Board of commissioners: The Board of Commissioners of Baldwin County, Georgia.
Buildable lot of record: A lot or parcel of land which existed as a single parcel of ownership, recorded as such in its entirety and with present boundaries with the clerk of superior court prior to the adoption and effective date of these regulations.
Building setback line: A line across a lot parallel to a street right-of-way or other property line establishing the minimum open space to be provided between any principal building and the street or other property line. All building setback lines shall be at least as restrictive as the corresponding minimum yard setbacks required in Special Use Restrictions. On corner lots, the minimum required front yard setback shall be provided all along all abutting public streets.
Centerline: The succession of mid-points between the identifiable limits of any improvements within the right-of-way of a road.
Certificate of occupancy: Authorization issued by the county for a building, land-disturbing activity, or use to be occupied or operated. The certificate is issued provided a building, or use is in compliance with these regulations or other regulations or ordinances.
Clearing: The removal of trees or other vegetation, but not including grubbing activities.
Clearing and grubbing permit: Authorization issued by the county to commence clearing of trees and vegetation, as well as the removal of stumps, on a site.
Clearing permit: Authorization issued by the county to commence the clearing of trees and vegetation on a site.
Clerk of Superior Court: The Clerk of Superior Court of Baldwin County, Georgia.
Collector street: A street which carries traffic from activity centers on local streets to arterial streets. The streets are designated to have a right-of-way width of 80 feet and are designated on the comprehensive plan.
Commercial: Any use involving in whole or in part the storage and/or display of merchandise or materials for the purpose of wholesale or retail sale; any use involving the rendering of a personal service.
Comprehensive plan: A plan summarizing and illustrating the adopted goals and objectives of the board of commissioners regarding the future location and character of anticipated land uses, transportation, and other public facilities in Baldwin County. The term "comprehensive plan" includes component or functional plans for the county, including but not limited to a plan for land use (i.e., land use plan) or a plan for transportation facilities, and includes the classification of streets and thoroughfares. Until such a plan has been officially adopted by Baldwin County, the current policies of Baldwin County and uses in effect shall provide the plan elements required for compliance herein.
Condominium: A form of property ownership in which the buildings or portions of the buildings, whether residential or nonresidential in use are owned by individuals separate from the lands which surround the buildings, said lands being held in common ownership by the owners of the several buildings.
County: Baldwin County, Georgia.
County: The unincorporated area of Baldwin County, Georgia.
County board of health: The Board of Health of Baldwin County, Georgia.
County building official: The person appointed, employed, or otherwise designated by the Baldwin County Board of Commissioners as the county building official, now the code enforcement administrator.
County commission: The Baldwin County Board of Commissioners.
County health officer: The person appointed, employed or otherwise designated as the County Sanitarian by the Baldwin County Board of Health.
County manager: The person appointed, employed, or otherwise designated as the county's chief administrative employee by the Baldwin County Board of Commissioners; the Baldwin County Clerk/Administrator.
County public works superintendent: The person appointed, employed or otherwise designated by the Baldwin County Board of Commissioners as the county public works superintendent.
Cross drain: A device, usually constructed of reinforced concrete or consisting of concrete or corrugated aluminum pipe, whose function is to transfer or drain surface water from one side of a roadway to the other, and located beneath the surface of the roadway.
Cross drain, size opening: The interior vertical dimension, usually the diameter, of a cross drain.
Cul-de-sac: A street having one end open to traffic and being permanently terminated within the development by a vehicular turnaround. For the purpose of designation, a cul-de-sac street shall be interpreted to begin at the intersection of two (2) or more streets nearest to the vehicular turnaround.
Developer: Any person, individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, estate, trust, or any other group or combination acting as a unit who directs the undertaking or proposes to undertake development activities as herein defined, whether the development involves the subdivision of the land for sale to individual users, the construction of buildings or other improvements on land under single ownership, or both.
Development:
(1)
(verb) The performance of all activities associated with the conversion of land or the expansion or replacement of an existing use to any new use intended for human operation, occupancy or habitation, other than for agricultural purposes devoted strictly to the cultivation of land, dairying or animal husbandry. Such activities include land- disturbance (clearing and grubbing land of vegetation and stumps, and grading) and construction of improvements such as, but not limited to, streets, driveways or parking areas, water or sewer mains, stormwater drainage facilities, sidewalks or other structures permanently placed on or in the property.
(2)
(noun) Where appropriate to the context, the term "development" also may be used to denote a specific subdivision or project which is a single entity or intended to be constructed as an interrelated whole, whether simultaneously or in phases.
Development permit: Authorization issued by the county permitting clearing, grubbing, grading, or construction of storm drainage facilities, access drives, streets, parking or other improvements exclusive of buildings.
Development plans: Those detailed plans showing the layout and design, site work and construction activities proposed for a project (other than architectural building plans) and including the preliminary plat or site plan (as applicable), grading plan, erosion and sediment control plan, buffer and landscape plan, and construction drawings for streets, stormwater drainage facilities, sanitary sewers, water supply facilities and other site improvements. These plans must be prepared by professionals as required by the administrator.
Director: See "development administrator."
Drainage improvements: Those facilities and structures intended to control and direct the stormwaters and other surface water across a property, including, but not limited to, swales and ditches, cross drains and other piping systems, catchbasins, detention ponds, and velocity dissipation devices.
Driveway: A vehicular access way in private ownership, other than a private street, which provides access primarily to only one property, or to no more than two single-family residences from property abutting a public roadway to said roadway.
Dwelling: A building designed for dwelling purposes. The term "dwelling" or any combination thereof shall not be deemed to include hotel, rooming or boarding house, motel, clubhouse, hospital or other accommodations used for transient occupancy.
Dwelling unit: One or more rooms in a residential building or in a mixed-use building, which are arranged, designed, used or intended for use by one or more persons living together and maintaining a common household and which include lawful cooking space and lawful sanitary facilities reserved for the occupants thereof.
Easement: Recorded authorization for a specified purpose by a property owner for the use of any designated part of the real property by another entity. (i.e., slope, utility, access)
Extensive business use: The use of land and structures for trade and services which are of low-to-moderate employment intensity, deal in large or bulky goods and equipment requiring considerable indoor or outdoor space or large and specialized equipment for display, handling, storage, or service, and generate significant truck traffic, including:
(1)
Wholesale trade and warehousing of goods sold at retail (but excluding hides, skins, raw furs, livestock, living poultry, or other odor-producing animal products); sales and storage of lumber, metal and wood fencing, ornamental grill work, and building, electrical heating, plumbing, welding, and similar contractors and industrial supplies (including sale of sand and gravel but excluding sales of asphalt and concrete from batch plant or transit-mix plant); sales and tank storage of bulk fuel or motor oil, gasoline, heating, and illuminating gas, and the like (but not the refining or processing thereof), and sales and storage of coal; cold storage services; sale and service of barber/beauty and restaurant/hotel food service supplies and equipment; sale and services of medical supplies and equipment; catering services, amusement and vending machines sales and service; uniform supply service; laundry plant (without individual patron service desk); manufacture, sale, and service of electric and neon signs and advertising structures; and monument sales (but not manufacture).
(2)
New and used motor vehicle (of ¾ ton or less rated capacity) and small nonvehicular engines and equipment sales, rental, and such services as repair, reconditioning, painting, body and fender work, upholstering and seat covering, and tire retreading and recapping; motor vehicle (of whatever size), mobile home, travel or other trailer, marine craft, and small aircraft, and small aircraft sales and rental (but not servicing as above) and exterminating, fumigating, septic tank pumping, furnace cleaning, well drilling and like services.
(3)
Sales and rental maintenance (not involving heavy metal working) for motor vehicles of greater than ¾ ton rated capacity and for large transportation, communications, utilities, industrial, commercial, agricultural, or contractors equipment.
(4)
Sale, storage and sorting (but not disassembly or processing) of junk, waste, discarded or salvaged equipment, machinery, vehicles, or other nonputrescible materials.
Extractive industry: The use of land and structures for the preparation, distribution, and processing of dust-producing mineral products such as gypsum, lime, abrasives, cement, fertilizer, plaster, crushed stone, kaolin, monuments, sand, gravel and soil.
Fee simple: A form of property ownership in which the buildings and surrounding lands are owned by the same person.
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA): The federal agency which administers the National Flood Insurance Program. This agency prepares, revises and distributes the maps and studies referenced in these regulations.
Filling station: The use of land and structure for services which primarily involve the retail sale of gasoline and related vehicular fuel and additives, oil and related lubricants and additives and minor accessories, batteries, packaged supplies, tires, tubes and the like and minor services such as lubrication, engine adjustments, minor parts adjustments, repair, replacement, polishing, tire and tube balancing, repair, and replacement, washing, waxing, and the like for individual passenger vehicles and other vehicles of ¾ ton or less rated capacity, but excluding steam cleaning, spray painting, engine overhaul, overnight vehicular storage, commercial parking, wrecker operation, and vehicular repairs where such repair includes metal bumping, grinding, or hammering or other noisy operations, or removing the head of engines.
Final plat: A finished drawing of a subdivision showing completely and accurately all legal and boundary information and certifications necessary for recording which complies with these regulations.
Flood or flooding: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas.
Flood boundary and floodway map: The official map, issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the floodways are shown and the areas of special flood hazard have been defined.
Flood hazard area: See "Floodplain."
Flood insurance rate map (FIRM): An official map of a community on which the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the applicable risk premium zones.
Flood insurance study: The official report provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the flood boundary and floodway map, and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
Floodplain: Those lands subject to flooding, which have at least a one-percent probability of flooding occurrence in any calendar year (i.e., the 100-year frequency or base flood).
Floodway: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
Freeboord: The distance between the base flood elevation and the top of a stormwater detention structure.
Front slope: The slope (gradient) of a drainage ditch from the shoulder of a roadway to the bottom of the ditch.
Funeral home: The use of land or structures for the preparation of the dead for burial or cremation, for the viewing of the body, and for conducting observances before burial or cremation, and including cremation and burial.
General business: The use of land or structures for sales and services which deal in goods transportable by land or passenger automobile, cater to a local resident clientele and involve:
(1)
Sales and services not involving vehicular drive-in, and frequent and regular use to local residents;
(1)
Offices of medical services not involving resident human or animal patients;
(3)
Offices of business services, but excluding on-site stock storage, sales, or rental of retail goods, and the warehousing, maintenance, rental, sales, and storage of vehicles and equipment.
General industry: The use of land and structures for manufacturing involving indoor and outdoor industrial operations which are characterized by some emissions, but are not inherently offensive, dangerous, or hazardous to abutting property or operations or to the general public— including brick, tile, or terra cotta manufacture; furniture, feed, flour, or other mill; manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging or treatment of bakery goods, beverages, candy, dairy products, feed, flour and food products; laundry plant (steam or wet wash); draying, barging, freight, or trucking yard or terminal; manufacture of nongaseous or nontoxic or nonnoxious chemicals; manufacture of concrete products (but not manufacture of cement); fabrication plant, foundry, machine shop, or metal working plant for light nonferrous metals (not involving the use of machines for stamping, pressing, or punching weighing in excess of five tons; blacksmith shop; educational or trade schools in which the above activities are taught or performed.
Georgia DOT: The department of transportation of the State of Georgia.
Grading: The movement, removal or addition of earth on a site by the use of mechanical equipment.
Grading permit: Authorization issued by the county to commence grading on a site, and may include installation of attendant stormwater drainage facilities.
Group quarters: The use of land and structures for human occupancy involving group occupancy predominantly by unrelated individuals in rooming and boardinghouses, membership and religious group lodginghouses, residence halls, or dormitories; residential hotels, motels, and tourist courts; or retirement, rest, or nursing home, orphanage, or nursery or day care center.
Grubbing: The removal of stumps or roots from a property.
Health department: The Environmental Health Services Division of the Georgia Department of Human Resources for Baldwin County.
Individual septic tank: A general term referring to a means of sewage disposal, other than a public or community system, serving buildings or structures designed or used for human occupancy, congregation, or employment.
Indoor activity use: The use of land and structures for generally quiet, predominantly indoor activities to include:
(1)
Activities of a public service, religious, cultural, or educational nature including auditoriums, exhibit halls, gymnasia, theatres (except drive-in outdoor types), libraries, art galleries, spas, health clubs, museums, skating rinks, or other recreation centers; hospitals for in-patient treatment and schools of general or special education.
(2)
Small offices to provide professional and like services. This shall not include any retail sales or display of merchandise for sale and includes only small office sites that include less than 5,000 square feet of floor space specifically designed for office purposes.
Industrial use: Any use of land or structures involving the manufacturing and/or processing of any material.
Jog, road: The physical condition created when the center-line of a road, or two roads having approximately the same horizontal alignment, intersects the centerline of another road at more than one location.
Jurisdictional control: The primary responsibility for regulatory control by a unit of government.
Land-disturbance permit: Any permit, other than a building permit, issued by the county that authorizes clearing, grubbing, or grading activities on a site or portion of a site. Said permit may be a clearing, clearing and grubbing, grading, or a development permit as defined and authorized herein.
Letter of credit: is defined as an engagement by a bank made at the request of a customer that the issuing bank will honor drafts or other demands for payment made by Baldwin County, Georgia, or its assigns, upon compliance with the conditions specified in the credit.
A letter of credit may, in the discretion of the administrator, be used in lieu of a surety bond wherever such a bond is required by this code and the amount of the required bond is less than $100,000, provided that:
(1)
The letter is clear irrevocable, and unconditional;
(2)
Is issued by a bank, which must be domiciled in this state and either be a bank chartered by the State of Georgia or a national bank which is a member of the Federal Reserve System;
(3)
Said bank must be acceptable to the administrator;
(4)
Must provide that it is presentable and payable within the State of Georgia;
(5)
Must provide that jurisdiction and venue of disputes concerning the letter of credit be vested in the Superior Court of Baldwin County, Georgia.
(6)
Must be made on conditions which insure compliance with the land use code of Baldwin County;
(7)
Must be provided in conformity with any other requirements established by the administrator.
Light industry: The use of land and structures for industrial purposes and manufacturing, limited to predominantly indoor industrial activities involving only moderate quantities and sizes of production materials and finished products and involving those operations only which generate no significant particulate or gaseous emissions which could create harmful or unpleasant effects outside the immediate area of activity, including operations such as power, light, or steam generation using natural gas as fuel; assembly, binding, bottling, ceramic firing, compounding, engraving, fabricating, freezing, optical goods, grinding, packaging, printing, physical processing, research, storage, or testing but not involving large mills or machines for grinding, stamping, punching or pressing metals or planning or sawing of lumber or kilns fired by other than gas or electricity from previously manufactured components or previously prepared materials, and the like.
Local street: A street used primarily for access to abutting properties or developments, serving to carry traffic to collector streets or arterial streets. Local streets comprise all streets not classified and designated as an arterial or collector street on the comprehensive plan.
Lot: A portion of a subdivision, or any other parcel of land, intended as a unit for transfer of ownership or for development or both. In determining the area and dimensions of a lot, no part of the right-of-way of a public street may be included.
Lot, corner: a lot abutting upon two (2) or more public streets at their intersection.
Lot, double frontage A lot, other than a corner lot, abutting upon two or more public streets.
Lot, interior: A lot other than a corner lot.
Lot of record: A lot whose legal boundaries are shown on an instrument or plat that has been recorded by the Clerk of Superior Court of Baldwin County.
Major thoroughfare: Any public street, existing or proposed, which is an arterial or collector street.
Mean sea level: The average height of the sea for all stages of the tide. It is used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain. For purposes of these regulations, the term is synonymous with national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD).
Mining: The use of land and structures for the excavation of minerals, rock, dimension stone, sand, gravel, top soil or fill dirt for purposes of removal from the site on which extracted; (not including the preparation of a site for nonextractive use).
Nonconforming use: Any lawful use, whether of a building or other structure or of a tract of land, which does not conform to the regulations of this code, either on the effective date of this code or as a result of any subsequent amendment thereto.
Outdoor activity use: The use of land and structures for passive or active outdoor activities characterized by neither inherently hazardous types nor significantly high levels of emissions, including:
(1)
Kennels, pet-boarding, schooling, or hospitalization, horseback riding stables;
(2)
Cemeteries, mausoleums, memorial gardens;
(3)
Golf and country clubs, golf courses, golf driving ranges;
(4)
Playgrounds, playfields, swimming pools, tennis courts, archery courses, miniature golf courses, trampolines or other novelty areas;
(5)
Arboretum, botanical gardens, ornamental parks, historical areas, monuments or sculptures.
Outdoor amusement use: The use of land and structures for outdoor activities characterized by significant levels of traffic, hazards, or emissions, including amusement parks, ampitheaters, ballparks, carnivals, stadiums, fairgrounds, drive-in theatres; auto, go-cart, or similar racetracks or drags; dog or similar competitive courses; rifle or other gun firing ranges.
Owner: A person having the sole, or not less than a majority, fee simple interest in real property, or a majority interest through any other form of ownership.
Pedestrian way: An easement within a block dedicated to public use, intended primarily for pedestrians and from which motor-propelled vehicles are excluded.
Person: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal organization, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate, or other group or combination acting singly or collectively for a common purpose, and the duly authorized agents thereof.
Planning commission: The Baldwin County Planning Commission.
Plat: A finished drawing of a tract or land prepared from an actual survey in accordance with Georgia Law.
Preliminary plat: A drawing which shows the perimeter boundary, topography, lotting arrangements, street layout, and other features of a proposed subdivision, as specified in these regulations.
Project: A principal building or structure, or group of buildings or structures, planned and designed as an interdependent unit together with all accessory uses or structures, utilities, drainage, access, and circulation facilities, whether built in whole or in phases. Examples include: a principal building on a lot; a residential subdivision; a multifamily development; a shopping center or an office park.
Public: Any land or building owned, used, or maintained by a federal, state, county or municipal government or their agencies; accessible to, supported or shared by all members of the community.
Public road: A road or road right-of-way which is owned or maintained by a unit of government or an authorized agency thereof. As to county, public roadways are only those which have been so designated on the official county road map.
Public sanitary sewerage: A sanitary system for the collection and treatment of water-borne wastes, and which is operated by a local unit of government or approved for operation by the local government.
Qualified surveyor: A person licensed by the State of Georgia to perform the duties of a land surveyor.
Record drawing: A plat or other drawing based on a field survey which shows existing features or components and horizontal or vertical information (grades or location of improvements).
Registered engineer: A person licensed by the State of Georgia to perform the duties of an engineer.
Residential: A building or portion thereof containing or designed to contain space for human dwelling.
Responsible party: In the context of enforcement procedures, a person (as defined above) who is alleged to have committed, caused, continued or created a violation of the terms, requirements, regulations, or provisions of these regulations whether as a direct act, through lack of action or responsible party may be the owner of a premises where violation has occurred; an occupant whether through ownership, lease or other tenancy; a contractor, builder or developer; an agent of or person otherwise acting on behalf of the aforementioned parties; or other person acting in violation of these regulations.
Restaurant: The use of land and structures for on-premises sale and consumption of food and beverages.
Right-of-way: A strip of land over which the county has a right, by ownership, useage, or easement, to construct a public street, sidewalk or to use for public utilities.
Road: See "Street, public."
Roadway: The paved portion of a street from back of curb to back of curb (or edge to edge of pavement for streets not having curbs) but excluding driveway aprons, bridges, and large single and multi-cell culverts which in an hydrologic sense can be considered to function as a bridge.
Sheet flow: Diffused water running overland to a defined watercourse.
Shoulder: That part of a road which extends from either edge of the travel or wearing surface to a drainage ditch.
Site development plans: See "Development plans."
Site work: Development activity to prepare a property for construction of buildings or finished structures, including clearing, grubbing, grading, and installation of soil sedimentation and erosion control facilities.
Sketch plat: A drawing which shows the overall concept of a proposed development, including lots and streets in a subdivision or the general location of buildings and improvements for a multifamily or nonresidential project, and which may be drawn to approximate dimensions in a freehand style.
Special industry: The use of land and structures for manufacturing activity involving industrial operations which customarily produce significant levels or emissions or are offensive, hazardous, or dangerous by nature including treatment of trash, garbage, offal, dead animals, and sewage, including incinerating, dumping, composting, digention, filtration, flocculation, sedimentation, chemical precipitation, ovidation, and reduction; operation of a landfill; cooking, distillation, incineration, and chemical precipitation, ovidation and reduction; cooking, distillation, incineration, and chemical processing of plastics and animal and vegetable products, including but not limited to brewery, distillery, flavor or syrup extract, glue, paper, pulp, paint, plastic, shellac, turpentine, or varnish manufacture; leather, tanning, wool scouring and cleaning, cotton textile sizing, or corrosive or noxious chemicals, including, but not limited to acids, acetylene, ammonia, chlorine, and bleaching compounds; production or processing of coal, coal tar petroleum, or asphalt products, including but not limited to coke, illuminating gas, petroleum, asphalt, linoleum, oilcloth, or roofing materials manufacture; power, light, or steam generation, using coal as fuel; smelting, reduction, refining and alloying of metallic ores, including, but not limited to, blast, open hearth, or electrical furnaces, or explosive products, including, but not limited to, dynamite and commercial explosive, TNT, and military explosives and fireworks; production of materials by nuclear fission, nuclear plant for production of electric power, light, or steam or for particulate bombardment of materials; machining, working, stamping, punching, processing or pressing of metal requiring hammer mills, rolling mills, drop forges, metal grinding machines, automatic screw processing of junk, waste, discarded or salvaged materials, machinery, or equipment, including automobile or other wrecking or dismantling; trade or vocational schools in which the above activities are taught or performed.
Stabilize: To establish an enduring soil cover of vegetation and/or mulch or other acceptable ground cover for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the transport of sediment by wind, water, ice, or gravity.
Street, half: A street having one-half (½) of the minimum required right-of-way or pavement width.
Street, private: A vehicular access way similar to and having the same function as a public street, providing access to more than one property, but held in private ownership (as distinct from a "driveway").
Street, public: Right-of-way dedicated to and accepted by the county for vehicular traffic or over which the county may hold a prescriptive easement for public access, and including designated, numbered US and state highways. For purposes of most of these regulations, the term "public street" shall be limited to those which afford or could afford a direct means of vehicular access to abutting property, and exclude limited access roadways which abut a property but from which direct access may not be allowed under any circumstances.
Structure: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires permanent location on the ground or attached to something having a permanent location on or in the ground, and having a height in excess of 12 inches. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to something on the ground.
Subdivide: (verb) The division or redivision of a lot, tract or parcel, regardless of its existing or future use, into two or more lots, tracts or parcels. The term "subdivision" shall mean the act or process of dividing property.
Subdivider: A person who subdivides or causes land to be subdivided. Any person, individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, estate, trust, or any other group or combination acting as a unit dividing or proposing to divide land so as to constitute a subdivision as herein defined, including an agent of the subdivider.
Subdivision: (noun) Where appropriate to the context, the term "subdivision" may refer to the aggregate of all lots held in common ownership at the time of division.
Subdivision, major: Any division or redivision of a lot, tract or parcel, regardless of its existing or future use, into more than five lots abutting upon an existing public street, or any division of a lot, tract or parcel involving the dedication of a new public street pursuant to these regulations.
Subdivision, minor: Any division or redivision of a lot, tract, or parcel, regardless of its existing future use, into five or fewer lots abutting upon an existing public street and meeting the standards set forth in Article V of these regulations.
Surety bond: An agreement in which one person accepts legal liability for another's performance of a contract or obligation.
Tie point: The point of reference of a boundary survey. Said point of reference shall be an established, monumented position which can be identified or relocated from maps, plats, or other documents on public record.
Tourist services: The use of land and structures for services and trade which cater to a specialized clientele, deal in specialized services, and are of otherwise independent or unique characteristics, including tourist information centers, souvenir/curio/gift shops, hunting/fishing/boating/camping supply shops, ambulance or other emergency services, establishments for rental or en-route servicing, (but not sales), of passenger motor vehicles, other vehicles of ¾ ton or less rated capacity, self-haul equipment, travel trailers, pick-up campers, pleasure boats, and similar and related travel or recreational equipment, and the like.
Truck stop: The use of land and structures for the rental and servicing of and en-route sales of fuel, lubricants, minor accessories, and the like, primarily to vehicles of greater than ¾ ton capacity but no sales of such vehicles.
Use: The purpose for which a building or other structure or a tract of land is designed, arranged, intended, maintained, or occupied; the activity, occupation, business, or operation carried on, or intended to be carried on, in a building or other structure or on a tract of land.
Utility tower: A structure typically higher than its surroundings that may stand alone or be attached to another structure, and used generally for broadcast, communications, or observation.
Water supply central: A water supply system, including pumps and distribution lines and other facilities appurtenant thereto, serving or designed to serve more than two buildings or structures used or designed to be used for human occupancy.
Watercourse: A channel with a defined bed and banks, including lakes, ponds and marshes.
Wearing surface: That portion of a road that is designed and improved for the purpose of conveying vehicles.
Wheeled houses: Recreational vehicle, park model (trailer type RV designed to provide temporary accommodations for recreation, camping or seasonal use) brought to a home site on wheels.
Zoning ordinance: The adopted zoning ordinance of the City of Milledgeville, as amended from time to time.
Zoological park: The use of land and structures for the keeping for purposes of exhibition of any native or exotic animal species.
( Ord. of 12-3-2019(2) )
Secs. 16-24—16-30. - Reserved.
