Chapter 34 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Traffic and vehicles, ch. 54.
State Law reference— Criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.; limitation on home rule powers of municipal corporations with respect to duplication of state criminal offenses, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 34-1—34-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DISORDERLY CONDUCT

Sec. 34-31. - Prohibited acts.
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any of the following acts within the county:
(1)
To be or appear in an intoxicated condition which condition is made manifest by boisterousness, by indecent condition or act, or by vulgar, profane, loud, or unbecoming language:
a.
In any public place;
b.
Within the curtilage of any private residence not his own other than by invitation of the owner or lawful occupant; or
c.
Within such proximity to the public place or curtilage of any private residence to disturb the comfort, repose, safety or peace of the inhabitants therein.
(2)
To use profane, obscene or vulgar language, to commit any act of public indecency, to fire any gun or pistol, to fight, quarrel in a public manner, or any other act of disorder upon the public streets or public buildings within the county;
(3)
Engage in indecent or disorderly conduct when such conduct is made manifest by loud, vulgar, or profane language or in conduct which is in contravention of the lawful direction of any law enforcement officer;
(4)
In any public place;
(5)
Within the curtilage of any private residence not his own other than by invitation of the owner or lawful occupant;
(6)
Within such proximity to the public place or curtilage of any private residence to disturb the comfort, repose, safety or peace of the inhabitants therein; or
(7)
Engage in disorderly conduct when such conduct is made manifest by loud, vulgar, or profane noise created by mechanical, electrical, or artificial device sufficient to disturb the peace, repose, health, or safety of the inhabitants or occupants of any public building or private residence.
(Ord. of 3-15-1989, § 1)
Sec. 34-32. - Violation; penalty.
Any person found guilty of any the acts in this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Ord. of 3-15-1989, § 2)
Secs. 34-33—34-49. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PAWNBROKERS

Sec. 34-50. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to enact a policy governing the prescribed form and method of reporting that information required by law to be provided by pawnbrokers within the unincorporated limits of the county. There is currently available software which would enable the computerization of the information being provided, with possible future use of electronic transmission of the data and/or internet access, all to insure faster, more accurate, more efficient, and more useable information being available to law enforcement in the county without any unreasonable burden being placed on those holding pawnshop licenses.
(Ord. of 11-19-2002, § 1)
Sec. 34-51. - Article regulations supplemental to state law.
Pawnbrokers are presently regulated in part by O.C.G.A. title 44, ch. 12, art. 3, part 5 (Pawnbrokers), being O.C.G.A. §§ 44-12-130—44-12-138, inclusive. The provisions of this article are in addition to, and cumulative with, said Official Code of Georgia Annotated code sections and this article is specifically authorized and provided for in said article and as otherwise provided in O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20.
(Ord. of 11-19-2002, § 2)
Sec. 34-52. - Reporting requirements.
In addition to the records required to be kept by said Official Code of Georgia Annotated code sections, every pawnbroker doing business in the unincorporated areas of the county shall make a report to the county sheriff, in such form and manner as may be prescribed by the sheriff, or his designated agent, of all property pledged, received, traded, bartered, bought or otherwise acquired by the pawnbroker. The form and manner of the report may include the required use of specific computer software or of software fully compatible with that required, and may include the requirement of data transmittal by disk, all to be as prescribed by said sheriff or designee. These reports shall be submitted to the sheriff at such time and in such manner as directed by him, but in no event on less than a weekly basis. The information required herein shall be input by the pawnbroker on a daily basis prior to 8:00 p.m. of that day in the event that a cumulative report may be required prior to the normal weekly reporting period or in the event that the current weekly reporting period is changed to a more frequent reporting period. The reports shall include all information required by state statute and shall include: the name and address of the pawnbroker; time and date of transaction; serial number of pawn tickets; amount paid or advanced; full description of articles with sufficient information to identify each of such articles, including kind, style, material, color, design, kind and number of precious metals or gemstones, if any, and all identifying names, marks and numbers; and a description of the person pledging, selling or pawning, including name, address, color, weight, and height. insufficient, or inaccurate, reports shall be rejected, and any pawnbroker, or employee thereof, making an insufficient or inaccurate report shall be guilty of an offense punishable according to the provisions herein.
(Ord. of 11-19-2002, § 3)
Sec. 34-53. - Violations; penalties.
(a)
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any portion of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, in the magistrates court of the county, shall be punished by fine of not less than $100.00 nor more than $1,000.00, or up to 60 days imprisonment, or both. Each day the violation continues shall be a separate offense. However, this section shall not preclude the county from choosing to seek civil redress in a court of competent jurisdiction in addition to the criminal prosecution, in being the intent of the county to have both the civil and criminal rights of prosecution in this area.
(b)
In the sound discretion of the board of commissioners, upon recommendation by the sheriff, any pawnbroker in violation of this article may have his license revoked.
(Ord. of 11-19-2002, § 4)
Sec. 34-54. - Enforcement.
Enforcement of this article shall be the responsibility of the person so designated by the county sheriff or his designee. Any person authorized to enforce this article shall be empowered to enter any property, upon reasonable cause, at reasonable times in order to inspect the records provided for herein and by state statute and to inspect any and all property pledged, received, traded, bartered, bought, or otherwise acquired by the pawnbroker to ensure compliance with this article and all applicable local and state regulations regarding the operation of such a business.
(Ord. of 11-19-2002, § 5)
Secs. 34-55—34-74. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - WATERCRAFT

Sec. 34-75. - Prohibition of certain watercraft on Lake Sinclair.
The operation of any of the following vessels on Lake Sinclair shall be prohibited:
(1)
The operation of any vessel, specifically including a houseboat, with a marine toilet, galley, or sleeping quarters;
(2)
Any motorized vessel greater than 30 feet six inches in length; provided, however, that this subsection shall not apply to:
a.
Law enforcement, scientific research, or dam operation and maintenance craft; or
b.
A vessel not greater than 40 feet in length used for conducting group tours on behalf of the owner or operator of a REAP certified by the department of community affairs under O.C.G.A. § 52-8-192 if the same vessel was lawfully operated on the lake by such REAP owner or operator under former provisions of this subsection as such existed immediately prior to June 1, 2008; in addition, such vessel may be replaced by the same REAP owner or operator but only by one vessel at a time and only if each such predecessor vessel has been retired from lawfully operating on the lake and the replacement vessel does not exceed 40 feet in length;
(3)
Any vessel equipped with any type of bypass mechanism that reduces or eliminates the effectiveness of the muffler or baffler system required by O.C.G.A. § 52-7-10;
(4)
The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to sailboats less than 27 feet in length and less than 8.5 feet in width; or
(5)
Any vessel in violation of this section which was located in Baldwin County in Lake Sinclair prior to June 17, 2008, and which had been returned for taxes as having been sited in Baldwin County shall not be in violation of this section unless the same is removed from Lake Sinclair for a period exceeding six months. After being removed from Lake Sinclair for a period exceeding six months, this section shall apply to any such vessel.
(Ord. of 6-17-2008)
