ARTICLE VII. - MANUFACTURED HOME PARK REGULATION

Sec. 16-81. - Name.
[This article shall be cited as the Baldwin County Manufactured Home Park Regulation.]
( Ord. of 12-3-2019(2) )
Sec. 16-82. - Purpose.
This article is enacted pursuant to the authority contained in the Constitution of the State of Georgia for the purposes provided therein and to encourage economically sound and stable land development, provide high standards of development and desirable living environments, assure proper health and safety compliance, and to further the general public welfare, health and safety.
( Ord. of 12-3-2019(2) )
Sec. 16-83. - Definitions.
Commission means the Baldwin County Board of Commissioners of their designated representative(s).
Manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and normally includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; and is constructed in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act, 42 U.S.C. 5401—5445, as amended and as thereafter redesignated.
Manufactured home park, herein abbreviated as MHP, is a parcel of land under single ownership on which more than three manufactured homes are located for the purpose of residential use and does not include sales, or manufacturer storage of said units.
Wheeled house means a recreational vehicle, park model (trailer type RV designed to provide temporary accommodations for recreation, camping or seasonal use) brought to a home site on wheels.
( Ord. of 12-3-2019(2) )
Sec. 16-84. - Applicability.
Any tract of land under single ownership on which more than three structures are located for the purpose of residential use shall be subject to this ordinance; unless the structures comply with industrialized building requirements of the department of community affairs for single family residences or the lot size for each residence exceeds 60,000 square feet. Three or more mobile homes on the original parcel shall not be considered a mobile home park, if all of the mobile home owners are related to the original parcel owner.
( Ord. of 12-3-2019(2) ; Ord. of 8-17-2021 )
Sec. 16-85. - Application.
Any person desiring to construct or alter in any manner a MHP within the limits of Baldwin County shall make application for doing same to the Board of Commissioners of Baldwin County or to the individual or commission designated by it (herein referred to as the commission).
(a)
Pre-application. Prior to filing a formal application for a MHP the applicant is encouraged to confer with county officials in order to provide for review of the general character of the proposed development, location, size, and the requirements of this and related county ordinances.
(b)
Development plan. The developer shall submit to the building department, or such department as directed by the county manager, and application in letter form with six copies which shall set out all information required herein and shall show proposed compliance with all requirements herein and shall also include the following:
(1)
Name and address of the applicant.
(2)
Name and address of the owner of the land.
(3)
Name and address of the proposed operator.
(4)
The number of spaces proposed to be provided.
(5)
The acreage of land to be utilized.
(6)
Proposed water/sewer service and fire protection for the project proposed compliance with all other federal, state and county requirements such as soil and sedimentation control regulations.
(7)
The application shall be accompanied by seven copies of a plat of the land to be utilized. The plats shall show the following:
a.
Bearing and distances for all property lines.
b.
Names and right-of-way widths for all streets bounding the property.
c.
Name and addresses of all surrounding property owners, in accordance with county tax records.
d.
Distance to nearest public water mains and sewer lines.
e.
Scale (not smaller than 1 inch = 100 feet)
f.
North arrow.
g.
Name and registration number of surveyor or engineer.
h.
Existing topographic conditions including, where necessary, contour intervals of not less than five feet.
i.
The location of existing and proposed streets, parking areas, lot locations, buffer zones, utility locations and drainage easements.
j.
The location of any flood zone within the property limits;
k.
A summary of acres, dwelling units, and gross density in compliance with this article.
(c)
Approval. The commission shall have 30 days in which to review the application to ensure compliance with the requirements herein. Not more than 30 days after the applicant has complied with all requirements, the code enforcement officer may disapprove, approve or approve with modifications the application. Disapproval must be based upon noncompliance with this article and the items of noncompliance noted.
Guarantee in lieu of completed improvements: No new or extended manufactured home park shall be given final approval or permits issued until one of the following conditions shall have been met.
(1)
All roads, right-of-way and drainage facilities and other improvements are designed and constructed consistent with the provisions of this regulation and so approved by the county; or
(2)
The county commission shall have accepted a surety bond in an amount equal to one and one-half times the estimated cost of all required road, right-of-way, and drainage facility or other improvements, so that if the builder defaults, the required improvements may be made by the county commission without using public funds therefor. The county commission shall determine the estimated cost of required improvements.
( Ord. of 12-3-2019(2) )
Sec. 16-86. - Minimum development standards.
(a)
Minimum size of park. MHPS shall have a minimum size of five acres and a maximum size of ten acres.
Recommendation: The newly appointed land use committee to address MHPs larger than ten acres as a priority.
(b)
Minimum setback of units from adjacent properties.
(1)
Setback from state/federal highway: 150 feet;
(2)
Setback from county roadway: 100 feet;
(3)
Setback from adjacent property: minimum of 30 feet, but in no event closer than 100 feet from an adjacent residence;
(4)
Setback from right-of-way of interior streets: 20 feet;
(5)
Setback from adjacent units: 20 feet end to end and 30 feet side to side.
(c)
Streets. Streets within MHPs shall be privately owned, constructed, and maintained. Streets shall be constructed in accordance with the standards attached hereto as section 16-88 and shall provide direct accessibility to each lot and residential unit. No lot or unit shall be accessible except by way of an internal street. Internal streets shall have a minimum of a 40 foot right-of-way and a minimum of 20 feet of paved surface.
(d)
Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided at the minimum rate of two spaces for each home space. Such parking shall be conveniently located to the home space for which it is so provided and shall be provided as part of the lot space, with each parking space to be not less than ten feet by 20 feet.
(e)
Density. The maximum density of a development shall be two dwelling units per gross acre. Not less than 50 percent of the area of the development shall be devoted to open space and not less than 30 percent of the lot area shall be devoted to green space. Open space is all area not covered by paving or units.
(f)
Lot space. Each home shall be located on an individual lot. Each lot shall front on an interior private street for not less than 40 feet. Each lot shall be not less than 50 feet wide and 80 feet deep. Each lot within the MHP shall have an area of not less than 5,000 square feet with a minimum width at all points of 50 feet. Each space shall have all corners clearly marked. Each space shall have the parking areas required herein and in addition shall have a concrete deck or landing with a minimum size of at least 100 square feet which shall be convenient to the entrance to the home. In no event shall the home and parking areas cover more than one-third of the space of the individual lot.
(g)
Illumination. Street lighting shall be provided not less than every 250 feet to insure the safe movement of pedestrians and vehicles at night. Such lighting shall not create a direct glare into surrounding residential areas.
(h)
Landscaping. A buffer strip at least 20 feet wide shall be located adjacent to each exterior property line of the MHP and shall not be included within any individual home lot. This strip shall be densely planted with evergreen trees and hedge-type shrubs designed to provide full screening of the MHP.
(i)
Unit requirement. No structure shall be used as a residence in a MHP unless it has been constructed at least in conformity with the requirements of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development under 42 U.S.C. section 5401, et seq., currently meets all fire and safety requirements of said standards, and has more than 499 square feet of living area. All manufactured homes and wheeled houses located in MHPs must be fitted with skirting/underpinning that completely encloses the undercarriage and must be of brick, masonry, concrete, vinyl siding, or siding of like of similar character to the unit. All residences located in existing MHPs shall meet the underskirting requirements within 24 months of the adoption of the ordinance from which this article derives.
(j)
Refuse disposal. One refuse collection station shall be provided for each twenty spaces or fraction thereof and shall be located not more than 250 feet from any home in the park, easily accessible to the homes it serves, and shall be emptied and the waste properly disposed of by the operator not less than weekly; or the owner/developer shall provide weekly pick-up refuse at each residential dwelling.
(k)
Common use green areas. A minimum of ten percent of the total area of the park shall be set aside and designated for common use and recreational areas and shall be accessible to all units and in one composite tract.
(l)
Water/sewer/fire protection provision. When any proposed MHP is within 2,500 feet of existing public water and/or sewer service, the developer shall provide a proposal for the extension of said service to said MHP and to each individual unit in the MHP with individual metering of each unit by the public body providing the water and/or sewer service. The requirement for connection to a public sewerage system shall be waived if the developer can show that the costs for such connection exceed the costs for individual septic systems. County shall have the option to participate in the provision of such public sewerage connection and to require such connection if the cost to the developer does not exceed the cost of such individual systems. The developer shall provide fire hydrants in the MHP so that each unit is within 500 feet of a hydrant. A master meter for the park maybe allowed so long as there is no resale of water; i.e. metering and sale of water by the developer. The requirement for fire hydrants may be waived by the code enforcement administrator for parks with less than 10 lots in the event such requirements would constitute and undue hardship.
(m)
Mail/unit numbering. The developer shall provide and maintain in a convenient, central location mail receptacles approved by the U.S. Postal Service for each unit. Each unit shall be given a lot number or letter or combination designation. The designation of each lot shall be posted on or directly adjacent to that lot in such a way as to be clearly visible from the interior street, and in such manner, and of such size so that any lot may be readily located in the event of an emergency.
( Ord. of 12-3-2019(2) )
Sec. 16-87. - Legal status provisions.
(a)
Severability. It is intended that the provisions of this article be severable and should any portion be declared invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration shall not affect the validity of the article as a whole or portion thereof which are not specifically declared to be invalid or unconstitutional.
(b)
Repeal of conflicting ordinances. All resolutions or parts of resolutions in conflict with this article are herewith repealed. Whenever the provisions of this resolution and those of some other resolution or statute apply to the same subject matter, that resolution requiring the highest, or more strict, standard shall govern.
(c)
Effective date. These provisions shall take effect and shall be in force from and after February, 1990. The use of any property in Baldwin County as a MHP without first obtaining the permit required herein and without complying with all of the requirements herein shall constitute violations of this article and shall be punished as provided herein. The requirements herein shall not apply to a MHP presently existing, but shall apply to any expansion or extension of same. Existing parks shall comply with codes in force when constructed and shall comply with all required safety and health codes. It shall be the policy of Baldwin County to encourage the upgrading of all existing pars to compliance with the requirements herein to further the safety, health and welfare of residents in MHPs. In the event such upgrades would be impossible due to limitations in existing acreage or like requirements that would place an undue hardship upon the owner of an existing park, such requirements may be waived by the code enforcement administrator upon such showing and consistent with guidelines developed by said administrator for that purpose.
(d)
Penalty clause. Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this article shall be tried in the applicable court of Baldwin County, and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine not less than $100,000 [sic] and costs, imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed 30 days. Each day's violation of any provision of this resolution shall be a separate and distinct offense and shall be punished accordingly.
( Ord. of 12-3-2019(2) )
Sec. 16-88. - Specifications for street construction for mobile home parks.
(a)
Subgrade Top 6" to be compacted to 100% of Density. Base Course to be Class "A" or "B", sand clay or crushed run stone; thickness to be Minimum 6" Compacted to 100% of Density.
(b)
Surfacing can be Triple Surface Treatment Stone size 5, 7 and 89 Stone, or Asphaltic Concrete using "E" or "F" Mix Minimum thickness 2".
( Ord. of 12-3-2019(2) )
Secs. 16-89—16-90. - Reserved.
