ARTICLE VIII. - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATION AND PENALTY

Sec. 16-91. - Administration and enforcement.
Administrator. These regulations shall be administered, interpreted and enforced by the administrator, or designee. All other ordinances or regulations referenced herein, such as fire prevention and life safety codes, health, water, and sewer regulations, shall be administered by the directors of the departments responsible for such regulations, as established by the board of commissioners.
( Ord. of 12-3-2019(2) )
Sec. 16-92. - Administrator authorized to suspend work, permit, issue summonses and direct corrective measures.
In any case in which activities are undertaken in violation of these regulations, not in compliance with the provisions of a permit issued under the authorization of these regulations, or without authorization of a permit which would otherwise be required, the administrator is hereby authorized to suspend or invalidate such permits, order that all unauthorized or improper work be stopped, direct correction of deficiencies, issue summonses to any court of competent jurisdiction, or take any other legal or other administrative action appropriate to the severity of the violation and degree of threat to the public health, safety, and welfare.
(a)
Penalty by fine or imprisonment. Any responsible party or other persons convicted by a court of competent jurisdiction of violating any provision of these regulations shall be guilty of violating a duly adopted ordinance of the county and shall be punished either by a fine not to exceed $500.00, or by imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, or both. The owner of any lands or parts thereof, where anything in violation of these regulations shall be placed or shall exist, and each responsible party or other person assisting in the commission of any such violation, shall be guilty of a separate offense.
(b)
Court empowered to fine or imprison. The court shall have the power and authority to place any person found guilty of violation of these regulations on probation and to suspend or modify any fine or sentence. As a condition of said suspension, the court may require payment of restitution or impose any other punishment allowed by law.
(c)
Other legal remedies. In any case in which any land is, or is proposed to be, used or activities are undertaken in violation of these regulations or any amendment thereto adopted by the board of commissioners, the county, in addition to other remedies provided by law, may petition for a restraining order, injunction, abatement, or to take any other appropriate legal action or proceeding through a court of competent jurisdiction to prevent, restrain, or abate such unlawful use or activity.
( Ord. of 12-3-2019(2) )
Secs. 16-93—16-100. - Reserved.
