ARTICLE E. - RELIGIOUS AND CHARITABLE SOLICITING

Sec. 9-4-81. - Permit required.
Any nonprofit person, firm, association, corporation or organization desiring to solicit or canvass upon public areas or to call from house to house in the city for the purpose of raising funds or seeking donations for any religious, charitable or eleemosynary organization shall register with, and obtain a written permit from the chief of police.
(Ord. No. 92-05, § 1(a), 3-10-92)
Sec. 9-4-82. - Application for permit.
(a)
Any nonprofit person, firm, association, corporation or organization desiring a permit to solicit or canvass upon public areas or to call from house to house in the city shall file, on a form to be supplied by the chief of police, an application stating the following:
(1)
Name of applicant;
(2)
Permanent residence address;
(3)
Name, address and telephone number of employer, firm, corporation or organization represented;
(4)
Names and address of all persons assisting in the solicitation, canvassing or calling from house to house in the city; and
(5)
Nature of any merchandise, wares, goods or any similar items to be sold or offered for sale or given away in conjunction with the solicitation, canvassing or calling from house to house in the city.
(b)
Proof of tax-exempt status shall be required when registering with the chief of police.
(Ord. No. 92-05, § 1(b), 3-10-92)
Sec. 9-4-83. - Nonprofit organization, defined.
No organization shall be considered a nonprofit organization within the meaning of this article except a tax-exempt organization within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code or the Georgia Income Tax Law as such code and such law are now or hereafter amended.
Sec. 9-4-84. - Use of streets.
(a)
Solicitation, canvassing and collecting is expressly prohibited in public streets, or from occupants of vehicles on public rights-of-way.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person issued a permit under the provisions of this article to conduct any business transaction in any area which is within 35 feet of any street, alley, road or highway.
(Ord. No. 92-05, § 1(c), 3-10-92)
Sec. 9-4-85. - Issuance of permit; identity card.
Upon proper registration with and payment of such administrative fee as fixed from time to time by the mayor and council to the chief of police, a written permit shall be issued to be valid for a period of seven days from the date of issuance. A permit shall not be issued more frequently than every six months. In addition, an identifying letter shall be issued by the city and a photograph made which must be carried by all persons while engaged in solicitation, or canvassing upon public areas or calling from house to house in the city.
(Code 1987, § 9-4-85; Ord. No. 88-09, 11-8-88; Ord. No. 92-05, § 1(d), 3-10-92)
Sec. 9-4-86. - Regulations governing activities.
Solicitation or canvassing upon public areas or calling from house to house in the city shall be subject to the following regulations:
(1)
All solicitation, calling or canvassing from house to house in the city shall only occur between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time or 9:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time.
(2)
The number of solicitors or canvassers or callers from house to house in the city for any single firm, corporation or organization shall not exceed five in number at any one time.
(3)
Immediately prior to any solicitation of funds within the city, each solicitor, canvasser or caller shall present his or her identity card, issued by the chief of police, to each person solicited and request each person solicited to read such identity card. Each solicitor or canvasser must inform each person solicited, in clear language, of the nature and purpose of the solicitation, and name and home or national office headquarters of the firm, corporation or organization represented. Each solicitor, canvasser or caller must inform each person solicited as to any minimum donation required for the acceptance of any merchandise, wares, good or any similar items given by each solicitor, canvasser or called prior to such acceptance by each person solicited.
(Code 1987, § 9-4-86; Ord. No. 88-09, 11-8-88; Ord. No. 92-05, § 1(e), 3-10-92)
Sec. 9-4-87. - Prohibited acts.
It shall be unlawful for a solicitor, canvasser or caller to do any of the following:
(1)
To falsely represent, directly or by implication, that funds being solicited are on behalf of any person, firm, corporation, association or organization other than such registered with the chief of police;
(2)
To solicit, canvass or call without the express prior permission of any occupant or property owner at any residence, apartment complex, or shopping mall where there is posted a sign forbidding such activity;
(3)
To remain on private premises after being asked to leave the premises; or
(4)
To continue solicitation after being refused upon public areas; such action shall constitute harassment.
(Ord. No. 92-05, § 1(f), 3-10-92)
Sec. 9-4-88. - Penalty.
Any person, firm, corporation or organization violating any of the provisions of this article shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in section 1-1-8 of this Code.
Secs. 9-4-89—9-4-110. - Reserved.
