Chapter 28 - PARKS AND RECREATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— State parks, O.C.G.A. § 12-3-1 et seq.; establishment of recreation systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-1 et seq.; recreation boards, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-5; Georgia state games commission, O.C.G.A. § 50-12-40 et seq.; authority to provide parks, recreation areas, programs and facilities, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(5).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 28-1—28-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR BEAR CREEK RESERVOIR

Sec. 28-31. - Hours of operation.
(a)
The Bear Creek Reservoir is open for public access according to the following schedule:
EXPAND
March
Wednesday 6:00 a.m.—6:00 p.m.
Saturday 6:00 a.m.—6:00 p.m.
Sunday 6:00 a.m.—6:00 p.m.
April through September
Wednesday 6:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m.
Saturday 6:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m.
Sunday 6:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m.
October through November
Wednesday 6:00 a.m.—6:00 p.m.
Saturday 6:00 a.m.—6:00 p.m.
Sunday 6:00 a.m.—6:00 p.m.
Holidays
Memorial Day 6:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m.
July 4 th 6:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m.
Labor Day 6:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m.
  (b)
The county is authorized to operate the boat ramp facilities and adjacent areas during said hours and dates of operation and on other dates but within normal hours of operation, as determined by the county in its sole discretion, for special events and holidays.
(c)
The county shall report to the Upper Oconee Basin Water Authority (referred to in this article as the authority) on an annual basis its operating schedule, including special events.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any persons other than authorized employees of the authority and the county while on active duty to be present on the Bear Creek Reservoir property at any time Bear Creek Reservoir is not open for public access with the exception of adjacent property owners who have purchased a yearly pass for their boat from the authority or its representative.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 1)
Sec. 28-32. - Entrance fees and permits.
(a)
The entrance fee shall be reviewed and adopted annually by the authority. Said entrance fee may be changed if deemed appropriate without notice by the authority. It shall be unlawful to enter the Bear Creek Reservoir without first securing the appropriate permit.
(b)
Persons who are bank fishing from permitted areas of the Bear Creek Reservoir shall not be required to pay any entrance fee.
(c)
All persons under the age of 16 years must be accompanied by an adult at all times while on the Bear Creek Reservoir property.
(d)
Only those persons who have paid the appropriate entrance fees and obtained the proper permits shall be allowed to access the Bear Creek Reservoir facilities. General public access may be made only thought the entrance gates adjacent to State Route 330. The authority has the discretion to limit the total number of boats on the Bear Creek Reservoir waters during any period of time. Persons other than adjacent landowners shall check in at the designated site location and present proper identification in the form of a driver's license or other government-issued identification that contains a driver's license and tag number (description of the person, a photograph of the person, and the person's date of birth). Upon checking in, a person shall receive a permit which must be maintained in the person's possession at all times while the person is on the authority's property. Persons using the Bear Creek Reservoir facilities shall maintain proper identification in their possession at all times while on the authority's property and shall present their identification and permit upon request from any personnel of the authority or the department of natural resources.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 2)
Sec. 28-33. - Licenses.
All persons using the Bear Creek Reservoir facilities shall comply with all the fishing and boating licensing requirements of the state department of natural resources and rules/regulations posted on site by JCPR.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 3)
Sec. 28-34. - Boat permits for adjacent landowners.
Adjacent landowners owning property contiguous to Bear Creek Reservoir may obtain a permit from the authority upon the payment of the fee currently charged by the authority. The fee for the boat permit shall be reviewed and adopted annually by the authority. The fee may be changed by the authority without notice. All permits issued by the authority are nontransferable. All permits issued by the authority shall expire by their own terms at the end of the calendar year in which they are issued.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 4)
Sec. 28-35. - Littering.
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Litter means any discarded or abandoned refuse, rubbish, junk, or other waste material or dead animals.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, deposit, throw, or leave or to cause to permit the dumping, placing, throwing, or leaving of litter on any portion of the Bear Creek Reservoir.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 5)
Sec. 28-36. - Abandoned property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon any personal property (including, but not limited to, vehicles) on the authority's property. Any personal property left on the authority's property for a period of 24 hours or more, or at any time after a posted closure hour in a public use area of the authority's property, shall be presumed to be abandoned.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 6)
Sec. 28-37. - Pollutants and other waste.
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or place any sewage, galley waste, garbage, refuse, and/or pollutants into the Bear Creek Reservoir waters and/or on the authority's property from any vessel or watercraft.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 7)
Sec. 28-38. - Defacement and destruction of property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, damage, or destroy any property owned by the authority.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 8)
Sec. 28-39. - Parking.
(a)
Persons using the Bear Creek Reservoir facilities may park vehicles only in designated parking areas. Vehicles parked in areas other than designated parking areas shall be towed at the vehicle owner's expense.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle on the authority's property unless said vehicle has been authorized to park in areas designated for recreation.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 9)
Sec. 28-40. - Operation of vehicles.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle in an area other than the authorized roadways.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle in a manner contrary to posted regulations and applicable federal, state, and local laws and ordinances.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 10)
Sec. 28-41. - Boating.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to operate a boat with a gasoline engine on Bear Creek Reservoir. It shall be unlawful to operate a boat greater than 20 feet in length on Bear Creek Reservoir.
(b)
All boat operators shall comply with all rules and regulations of the state department of natural resources regarding boat registration and display of validation decals.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any boat operator to travel within 50 feet of the authority's water intake tower. It shall be unlawful for any boat operator to enter any restricted or prohibited areas of Bear Creek Reservoir.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vessel for a fee or profit on the Bear Creek Reservoir waters and/or the authority's property.
(e)
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vessel in a careless, negligent, or reckless manner or in any manner that endangers any person (including the operator and occupants of the vessel) or property.
(f)
All vessels while in use on the Bear Creek Reservoir waters shall have all safety equipment, including without limitation personal flotation devices, on board in compliance with U.S. Coast Guard boating safety requirements and in compliance with boating safety laws issued and enforced by the state. The failure of any person operating a vessel on the Bear Creek Reservoir waters to comply with the above requirements shall be a violation of this article.
(g)
It shall be unlawful for any person to use any vessel on Bear Creek Reservoir waters for overnight occupancy or as a place of habitation or residence.
(h)
It shall be unlawful for any person to use water skis, parasails, ski kites, or any similar devices while on the authority's property.
(i)
It shall be unlawful for any person to place any vessel on the authority's property unless said vessel is either in actual operation or is moored or stored in an area designated and approved by the authority.
(j)
It shall be unlawful for any person to place any floating or stationary mooring facilities on, adjacent to, or interfering with a buoy, channel marker, or other navigational aid.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 11)
Sec. 28-42. - Aircraft.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any aircraft on the authority's property.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 12)
Sec. 28-43. - Swimming.
It shall be unlawful for any person to swim, dive, snorkel, or scuba dive in Bear Creek Reservoir.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 13)
Sec. 28-44. - Fishing.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in bank fishing from the boat ramps located on the authority's property or from any area other than areas designated for bank fishing by the authority.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 14)
Sec. 28-45. - Camping and picnicking.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to camp or engage in any camping activities unless it is done in an area specifically designated for camping by the authority.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to picnic or engage in any related day-use activity in any area other than areas specifically designated for such activities by the authority.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 15)
Sec. 28-46. - Fires.
(a)
All fires shall be confined to those areas specifically designated by the authority, and shall at all times be contained in fireplaces, grills, or other similar facilities designated for this purpose. Fires shall not be left unattended and shall be extinguished completely prior to the departure from the authority's property of the person making or utilizing the fire. Any violation of this subsection shall be a violation of this article.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any material that produces toxic fumes when burned, including, but not limited to, tires, plastic, and treated wood products.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of any lighted smoking materials, matches, or other burning material in an improper manner.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 16)
Sec. 28-47. - Hunting and trapping.
It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt or trap game on the property of the authority unless that person has been issued an emergency permit to hunt or trap game in order to control overpopulation. All federal, state, and local laws and ordinances governing hunting and trapping game shall apply to the authority's property.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 17)
Sec. 28-48. - Containers.
It shall be unlawful for any person to possess a glass or Styrofoam container on the Bear Creek Reservoir property.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 18)
Sec. 28-49. - Excessive noise.
It shall be unlawful for any person on the authority's property to make or cause to be made any noise which unreasonably disturbs other persons.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 19)
Sec. 28-50. - Animals.
It shall be unlawful for any person to bring any animal (with the exception of any service animal) on the Bear Creek Reservoir property.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 20)
Sec. 28-51. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 14-002, § 1, adopted May 19, 2014, repealed § 28-51 which pertained to firearms and derived from an ordinance adopted Aug. 3, 2009, art. 1, § 21.
Sec. 28-52. - Drugs and alcohol.
It shall be unlawful for any person to possess any alcohol, drugs, or any controlled substance (except for a legally prescribed drug) on the Bear Creek Reservoir property.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 22)
Sec. 28-53. - Release of plants and animals.
It shall be unlawful for any person to release any amphibians, reptiles, or plants on the Bear Creek Reservoir property.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 23)
Sec. 28-54. - Use of authority property.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to cut or gather any trees or parts or trees or to remove any wood from the authority's property.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to gather any dead wood on the authority's property for use as firewood.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to pump or remove any water from the Bear Creek Reservoir.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any person to use the authority's property and/or the Bear Creek Reservoir waters for agricultural purposes unless such use is pursuant to and in compliance with the terms and conditions of a lease, license, or other written agreement signed by the authority.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 24)
Sec. 28-55. - Use of authority property for special events.
The use of the authority's property for any special events shall be arranged through the county parks and recreation department in compliance with the reservoir management plan.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 25)
Sec. 28-56. - Occupation of authority property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy the land, buildings, vessels, or other facilities located on the authority's property as a fulltime or parttime residence.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 26)
Sec. 28-57. - Structures and improvements.
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, place, or cause to exist any structure or improvement (including, but not limited to, roads, trails, docks, signs, and landscape features) of any kind under, upon, in, or over the authority's property unless such structure or improvement has been authorized by a permit, lease, license, or other written agreement that has been issued by or executed by the authority and such structure or improvement complies with the terms and conditions of such permit, lease, license, or written agreement.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 27)
Sec. 28-58. - Advertising.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, distribute, or utilize any billboards, signs, markers, audio devices (other than personal audio devices used with headphones and at a reasonable volume), handbills, circulars, posters, or any other advertisement without the prior written permission of the reservoir manager.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 28)
Sec. 28-59. - Commercial activity.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any commercial activity on the authority's property.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 29)
Sec. 28-60. - Interference with county or authority employees.
It shall be unlawful for any person to forcibly assault, resist, oppose, impede, intimidate, or interfere with any county official, agent, or employee of the authority engaged in the lawful performance of his official duties. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with a lawful order issued by a county official or an employee of the authority who is engaged in the lawful performance of his official duties.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 1, § 30)
Sec. 28-61. - Penalty.
(a)
The rules and regulations of the Upper Oconee Basin Water Authority, as such exist from time to time, are incorporated herein by reference and made a hereof. A violation of the rules and regulations of the Upper Oconee Basin Water Authority, as such exist from time to time, shall be considered a violation of this article.
(b)
Prosecutions for violations of this article shall be commenced by the completion, signing and service of a citation by any agent of the county who is authorized by the board of commissioners, from time to time, to issue citations or by any agent of the Upper Oconee Basin Water Authority who is authorized by the authority, from time to time, to issue citations.
(c)
Any person violating any provisions of this article, as such exists from time to time, shall be guilty of violating a duly adopted ordinance of the county, and upon conviction of such violation shall be punishable as a misdemeanor, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60, subject to a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 and subject to imprisonment for no more than 60 days or both, except as otherwise provided by general law, or by subsequent amendment of O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60. O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq. shall govern the trial of any violation of this article, and any violation of this article may be tried upon citation as contemplated by O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63. Each day during which the violation or failure or refusal to comply continues shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. of 8-3-2009, art. 2, §§ 1—3)
