ARTICLE III. - WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1986 Ga. Laws, page 5473, which created a water and sewerage authority in the county. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Water Resources Center, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-1 et seq.; Waterwell Standards Act of 1985, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-120 et seq.; dumping certain wastes in storm or sanitary sewers prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-2; adoption of ordinances, rules and regulations relating to payment for street improvements and construction of water, gas and sewer connections, payment of costs of connections, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-7; code of ethics for members of boards, commissions and authorities, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-3; authority to provide for the development, storage treatment, purification, and distribution of water, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(7); authority to provide stormwater, sewage collection and disposal systems, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(6).

Sec. 1. - Short title.
This act [article] may be cited as the "Jackson County Water and Sewerage Authority Act."
Sec. 2. - Jackson County Water and Sewerage Authority.
(a)
There is created a body corporate and politic, to be known as the "Jackson County Water and Sewerage Authority," which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation by that name, style and title. Said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, bring and defend actions, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts, except that the authority or the trustee acting under the trust indenture shall in no event be liable for any torts committed by any of the officers, agents and employees. The authority is granted the same exceptions and exclusions from taxes as are now granted to cities and counties for the operation of facilities similar to facilities to be operated by the authority as provided under the provisions of this act [article].
(b)
The authority shall consist of five members. The board of commissioners of Jackson County shall appoint the members of the authority, each of whom shall reside in Jackson County. The board of commissioners of Jackson County shall appoint two of the initial members for initial terms of three years, two of the initial members for initial terms of two years, and one initial member for an initial term of one year, with subsequent appointments for terms of office of three years. After having served nine consecutive years, authority members shall not be reappointed without at least one year of inactive status. Vacancies shall be filled for an unexpired term by the board of commissioners of Jackson County. Any authority member who is convicted of a felony shall be removed from the authority upon the date of conviction, regardless of appeal processes. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum and a majority may act for the authority in any matter. No vacancy shall impair the power of the authority to act. The authority shall elect one of its members as chairman and another member as vice-chairman. It shall also elect a secretary and treasurer who does not necessarily have to be a member of the authority and who, if not a member, shall have no voting rights. The members of the authority shall serve without compensation; however, it is expressly understood that they shall be reimbursed for all actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties. The authority may make rules and regulations and adopt bylaws for its own government. It shall have perpetual existence.
Sec. 3. - Definitions.
(a)
As used in this act [article], the term:
(1)
"Authority" means the Jackson County Water and Sewerage Authority created in section 2 of this act [article].
(2)
"Cost of the project" means and embraces the cost of construction; the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements and franchises acquired; the cost of all machinery and equipment; financing charges; interest prior to and during construction; cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal and legal expenses and of plans and specifications and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project; administrative expenses; and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing authorized in this act [article] and the construction of any project, the placing of same in operation and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes specified in this paragraph [subsection] shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act [article] for such project.
(3)
"Project" means and includes the acquisition, construction and equipping of water facilities for obtaining one or more sources of water supply; the treatment of water and the distribution and sale of water to users and consumers, including, but not limited to, the State of Georgia and counties and municipalities for the purpose of resale within the territorial boundaries of the project area, and additions and improvements to, and extensions of, such facilities, and the operation and maintenance of same so as to assure an adequate water system; the acquisition, construction and equipping of sewerage facilities useful and necessary for the gathering of waste matter; and the treatment of sewerage of any and every type, including, but not limited to, the acquisition and construction of treatment plants, ponds and lagoons within the territorial boundaries of the project area, and additions and improvements to, and extensions of, such facilities, and the operation and maintenance of same so as to assure an adequate sewerage system. Said water facilities and said sewerage facilities, at the discretion of the authority, may be combined at any time as one revenue-producing undertaking and operated and maintained as such.
(4)
"Revenue bonds, bonds" and "obligations" mean revenue bonds as defined and provided for in O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 82, art. 3 [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.], known as the "Revenue Bond Law," and such type of obligations may be issued by the authority as authorized under said article and any amendments thereto, and, in addition, shall also mean obligations of the authority, the issuance of which are specifically provided for in this act [article].
(b)
Any project shall be deemed self-liquidating if, in the judgment of the authority, the revenue and earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom, and all facilities used in connection therewith, will be sufficient to pay the cost of operating, maintaining, repairing, improving and extending the project and to pay the principal of, and interest on, the revenue bonds which may be issued to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of such project or projects.
Sec. 4. - Powers.
The authority is authorized:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure;
(2)
To acquire, by purchase, lease or otherwise, and to hold, lease and dispose of, real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(3)
To acquire in its own name, by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real property, rights or easements therein, or franchises necessary for its corporate purposes and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue, and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use or disposition of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority, the authority having no power to accept and pay for any property condemned under this act [article], except from the funds provided under the authority of this act [article]. In any proceedings to condemn, such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the suit, action or proceedings as may be just to the authority and to the owners of the property to be condemned, and no property shall be acquired under the provisions of this act [article] upon which any lien or other encumbrance exists unless, at the time such property is acquired, a sufficient sum of money is deposited in trust to pay and redeem the fair value of such lien or encumbrance;
(4)
To appoint, select and employ officers, agents and employees, including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and to fix their respective compensation;
(5)
To make contracts and leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be constructed or acquired or which are constructed or acquired by any other persons, firms or corporations; and any and all persons, firms and corporations, the state, and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions or agencies of the state are authorized to enter into contracts, leases or agreements with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable. Without limiting the generality of the above, authority is specifically granted to municipal corporations, counties and other political subdivisions and to the authority to enter into contracts, lease agreements or other undertakings relative to the furnishing of services and facilities by the authority to such municipal corporations, counties and political subdivisions for terms not exceeding 50 years;
(6)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate and manage projects, as defined in section 3 of this act [article], the cost of any such project to be paid, in whole or in part, from the proceeds of revenue bonds or other funds of the authority or from such proceeds or other funds and any grant from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof or from the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(6.1)
To operate, manage, administrate or provide related services for projects constructed or acquired by other persons, firms or corporations;
(7)
To make loans with, and accept loans and grants of money or materials or property of any kind from, the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may impose;
(8)
To make loans with, and accept loans and grants of money or materials or property of any kind from, the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or such agency or instrumentality or political subdivision may impose;
(9)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes, to execute evidences of such indebtedness, to secure the same, to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(10)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, including the power to make short-term loans and to approve, execute and deliver appropriate evidence of any such indebtedness, which is not in conflict with the constitution and laws of this state; and
(11)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this act [article].
(1999 Ga. Laws, page 3549)
Sec. 5. - Financing projects[—Generally].
The authority, or any authority or body which may succeed to the powers, duties and liabilities vested in the authority created by this act [article], is authorized at one time, or from time to time, to borrow money for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost, as defined in section 3 of this act [article], of any one or more projects and to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable bonds for that purpose. The principal and interest of such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund provided for in this act [article] for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 30 years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority, and may be redeemable before maturity, at the option of the authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds. The interest rate or rates to be borne by any bonds and the time of payment of such interest shall be fixed, and, with respect to any interest rate which floats in response to a variable, the method of calculation shall be fixed by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds. Any bonds issued by the authority shall be exempt from all laws of the State of Georgia governing usury or prescribing or limiting interest rates to be borne by bonds or other obligations.
Sec. 6. - Same—Form; denomination; registration; place of payment.
The authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company inside or outside the state. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the authority may determine; and provision may be made for registration, conversion and exchangeability privileges, rights of redemption and conditions as the resolution or resolutions authorizing the issuance of such bonds may provide.
Sec. 7. - Same—Signatures; seal.
All such bonds shall be signed by the chairman of the authority and attested by the secretary and treasurer of the authority, the official seal of the authority shall be affixed thereto, and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the facsimile signatures of the chairman, and the secretary and treasurer of the authority. Any coupon may bear the facsimile signatures of such persons and any bond may be signed, sealed and attested on behalf of the authority by such person as shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office at the actual time of the execution of such bonds, although, at the date of such bonds, such person may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office. In case any officer whose signature appears on any coupon ceases to be such officer before delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes, the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery.
Sec. 8. - Same—Negotiability; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act [article] shall have, and are declared to have, all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the laws of the state. Such bonds are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose, and said bonds and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation within the state.
Sec. 9. - Same—Sale; proceeds.
The authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interest of the authority; and the proceeds derived from the sale of such bonds shall be used solely for the purpose provided in the proceedings authorizing the issuance of such bonds.
Sec. 10. - Same—Interim; receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim certificates or temporary bonds, with or without coupons exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
Sec. 11. - Same—Replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The authority may also provide for the replacement of any bond or any coupon which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
Sec. 12. - Same—Conditions precedent to issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things than those proceedings, conditions or things which are specified or required by this act [article]. In the discretion of the authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this act [article] shall become effectively immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted; and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the authority by a majority of its members.
Sec. 13. - Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act [article] shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of Jackson County or a pledge of the faith and credit of said county, but such bonds shall be payable solely from the fund thereinafter provided for and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly or contingently obligate said county to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatsoever therefor or to make any appropriation for their payment. All such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section.
Sec. 14. - Trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the authority, any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company inside or outside the state. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues and earnings to be received by the authority. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair and insurance of the project and the custody, safeguarding and application of all moneys; may provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the authority; and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depository and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
Sec. 15. - To whom proceeds of bonds shall be paid.
The authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who, or any agency, bank or trust company which, shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes hereof, subject to such resolutions as this act [article], and such resolution or trust indenture, may provide.
Sec. 16. - Sinking fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the authority to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or the trust instrument may provide, and such funds so pledged, from whatever source received, which pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture into a sinking fund which shall be pledged to, and charged with, the payment of: (1) the interest of the bonds as the same shall fall due; (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due; (3) any premium upon bonds acquired by redemption, payment or otherwise; (4) the necessary charges of the paying agent or agents for paying principal and interest; and (5) any investment fees or charges. The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be maintained as a trust account for the benefit of all revenue bonds, without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or the trust indenture, any surplus moneys in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds, and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be canceled and shall not be reissued, printed and delivered.
Sec. 17. - Remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act [article], or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia or granted under this act [article] or under such resolution or trust indenture and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this act [article] or by such resolution or trust indenture to be performed by the authority or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
Sec. 18. - Refunding bonds.
The authority is authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of bonds of the authority for the purpose of funding or refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act [article] and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and premiums, if any. The issuance of such funding or refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof and the duties of the authority in respect to the same shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this act [article], insofar as the same may be applicable.
Sec. 19. - Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this act [article] or any suit or action against such authority shall be brought in the superior court of Jackson County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this act [article] shall likewise be brought in said court, which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
Sec. 20. - Validation.
Bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 82, art. 3 [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.], known as the "Revenue Bond Law." The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action the State of Georgia or any municipality, county, authority, political subdivision or instrumentality of the State of Georgia which has contracted with the authority for the services and facilities of the project for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated. The state or such municipality, county, authority, political subdivision or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts adjudicated as a part of the basis of the security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The bonds, when validated, and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds and the security for the payment thereof and interest thereon and against the authority issuing the same, the state, and any municipality, county, authority, political subdivision or instrumentality, if a party to the validation proceedings, contracting with the Jackson County Water and Sewerage Authority.
Sec. 21. - Interest of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties or existence of the authority or of its officers, employees or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency or authority will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds, nor will the state so compete with the authority. The provisions of this act [article] shall be for the benefit of the authority and the holders of any such bonds, and, upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions of this act [article], shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
Sec. 22. - Moneys received considered trust funds.
All moneys received pursuant to the authority of this act [article], whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as proceeds of short-term loans, as grants or other contributions, or as revenues, income, fees and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this act [article].
Sec. 23. - Tort immunity.
The authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as Jackson County; and the officers, agents and employees of the authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents and employees of Jackson County when in the performance of their public duties or work of the county.
Sec. 24. - Rates, charges and revenues; use.
The authority is authorized to prescribe and revise, from time to time, and collect rates, fees, tolls and charges for the services, facilities or commodities furnished and, in anticipation of the collection of the revenues and income of such undertakings or projects, to issue revenue bonds as provided in this act [article] to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, equipment, betterment or extension of a water system, a sewerage system or a combined water and sewerage system, and to pledge to the punctual payment of said bonds and interest thereon all or any part of the revenues and income of such undertakings or projects, including the revenues of improvements, betterments or extensions thereto thereafter made.
Sec. 25. - Rules and regulations for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed under the provisions of this act [article], including the basis on which water and service facilities, sewerage service and facilities, or both, shall be furnished.
Sec. 26. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The foregoing sections of this act [article] shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized thereby and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing. This act [article] does not in any way take from Jackson County or any other municipality located therein or any adjoining county the authority to own, operate and maintain a water system, a sewerage system, or a combined water and sewerage system, or to issue revenue bonds as is provided by O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 82, art. 3 [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.], known as the "Revenue Bond Law."
Sec. 27. - Liberal construction of act [article].
This act [article], being for the welfare of various political subdivisions of the State of Georgia and their inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes of this act [article].
Sec. 28. - Purpose of the authority.
Without limiting the generality of any provisions of this act [article], the general purpose of the authority is declared to be that of acquiring, equipping, constructing, maintaining and operating adequate water supply, treatment and distribution facilities and sewerage collection, treatment and distribution facilities; making such facilities and the services thereof available to public and private consumers and users located in Jackson County and their environs, including municipalities inside and outside said county, and to adjoining counties; extending and improving such facilities; and doing all things deemed by the authority necessary, convenient and desirable for and incident to the efficient and proper development and operation for such type of undertakings.
Sec. 29. - Tax exempt status of authority.
The properties of the authority, both real and personal, are declared to be public properties used for the benefit and welfare of the people of the State of Georgia, and not for purposes of private or corporate benefit and income, and such properties and the authority shall be exempt from all taxes and special assessments of any city or county or the state or any political subdivisions thereof.
Sec. 30. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act [article] are repealed.
