Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as the "Code of Ordinances, City of Fitzgerald, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1966, § 1-1)
State Law reference— Authority to adopt ordinances for regulation of matters for which no provision has been made by general law, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20; duty to codify ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19; home rule for municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions; rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the mayor and council.
Aldermen. The word "aldermen" shall mean the council of the city.
Charter. The word "Charter" shall mean the Charter Laws of the city.
City. The words "the city" or "this city" shall mean the City of Fitzgerald, Georgia.
Computation of time. Unless otherwise specifically provided, the time within which an act is required to be done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last; except that the last day shall be excluded if it is Sunday or a legal holiday.
County. The words "the county" or "this county" shall mean the County of Ben Hill, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department or other officer of the city to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize such department head or officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision specify otherwise.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provisions imposed by this Code, the provisions imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
Joint authority. Whenever a joint authority is given to three (3) or more persons or officers, it shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of them.
Mayor and council; council; city council. The words "the mayor and council," "the council" or "city council" shall mean the Mayor and Council of the City of Fitzgerald.
Month. The word "month" shall mean a calendar month.
Number. The singular number shall include the plural and the plural number shall include the singular.
Oath. The word "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
Officials or officers. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments or other municipal agents by title only, such reference shall be read as though followed by the words "of the City of Fitzgerald, Georgia."
Or, and. "Or" may read "and" and "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
Owner. The word "owner" applied to real estate shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint interest or other fee interest in the whole or a part of such real estate.
Person. The word "person" shall include firms, partnerships, associations, organizations and bodies politic and corporate, as well as natural persons.
Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" shall mean next before and next after, respectively.
Signature or subscription shall include a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The words "the state" or "this state" shall mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" shall be construed to include streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public ways in the city and shall include all parts thereof constituting the designated right-of-way.
Week. The word "week" shall mean seven (7) days.
Year. The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
(Code 1966, § 1-2)
State Law reference— Construction of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections, editor's notes.
(a)
The catchlines of sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of the section nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
Editor's notes throughout the Code occur for the user's benefit, serve as clarification, and are nonsubstantive.
(Code 1966, § 1-3)
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding for violation of such ordinance pending at the time of the repeal.
(Code 1966, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional, invalid or unenforceable by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality, invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
(Code 1966, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-6. - Amendments to Code.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to the ordinances contained in this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time as this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code by the mayor and council.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _______ of the Code of Ordinances, City of Fitzgerald, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: _______." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
If a new section is to be added to the Code, the following language may be used: "That the Code of Ordinances, City of Fitzgerald, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered _______, which said section reads as follows: _______." The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, with reference to the subject matter, as the case may be.
(Code 1966, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-7. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any part or portion of this Code or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof or to alter or tamper with the Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented.
(Code 1966, § 1-7)
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying, or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-8. - General penalty.
Anyone violating or failing to comply with any provision of this Code or committing any act or omission to act declared to be a misdemeanor or unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, shall be punished by fine of not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00) or imprisonment and/or labor on public works not exceeding sixty (60) days, or both such fine and imprisonment and/or labor, in the discretion of the court.
(Code 1966, § 1-8)
State Law reference— Maximum penalties that may be imposed by municipalities, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-35-6, 36-32-1; alternative sentences by municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-5; additional penalties and bond in certain criminal and traffic cases, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; authority to impose community service as punishment, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-1.
Cross reference— Court, Ch. 9.
Sec. 1-9. - Ordinances saved from repeal.
Nothing contained in this Code, or in the ordinance adopting this Code, shall be construed as repealing or otherwise affecting the business license ordinance of the city, as amended, or any other ordinance pertaining to licensing any zoning ordinance, any subdivision ordinance, any ordinance setting fees or rates for any city-required permit or license, any ordinance granting a franchise and any ordinance of a temporary nature.
(Code 1966, § 17-1)
