ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-92. - Duties and responsibilities of officers.
Each officer shall perform all duties required of the office by state law, the act establishing the board of commissioners, or county ordinance, and such other duties not in conflict therewith as may be required by the county manager or the board of commissioners.
Sec. 2-93. - Officers' bonds.
(a)
Each elected district commissioner shall be required to post an indemnification bond in the amount of $25,000.00. The chairperson of the board of commissioners for the county shall be required to post an indemnification bond in the amount of $25,000.00. The county manager shall be required to post an indemnification bond in the amount of $25,000.00.
(b)
Such indemnification bonds shall indemnify the county against any loss or damage for failure of the elected official to faithfully perform his duties as prescribed by law.
(Res. No. 2005-05, 1-20-2005)
Sec. 2-94. - Open records officer and alternate open records officer.
(a)
The Lumpkin County Clerk shall be the primary Open Records Officer and all open records requests received by any Lumpkin County government activity shall be hand delivered to said officer immediately upon receipt by any other Lumpkin County entity, to include constitutional officers, but such delivery must be completed prior to 10:00 a.m. of the business day following the day on which said request was initially delivered;
(b)
The open records officer shall be responsible only for recording the open records request, providing an initial response to the requesting party, and for directing the request to the appropriate party, agency or governmental entity with responsibility for maintenance of such records - the office or entity maintaining such records shall have the primary responsibility for replying to the request, with a copy to the open records officer;
(c)
Any constitutional officer may elect to assume sole responsibility of all open records requests directed to said office, but such election must be made in writing and such officer then will be held responsible for any costs arising therefrom;
(d)
The Deputy Lumpkin County Clerk shall be the alternate open records officer and may at any time receive and act on all open records requests provided to the open records officer.
(Res. No. 2012-32, 6-19-2012)
Editor's note— Res. No. 2012-32, adopted June 19, 2012, added provisions that were not specifically amendatory. At the editor's discretion, said provisions were included as § 2-94.
Secs. 2-95—2-114. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - INDEMNIFICATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES

Sec. 2-116. - Legal defense provided for county personnel.
Whenever any claim is made or proceeding is brought against any person as defined in section 2-117, asserting personal liability for damages arising out of the performance of his duties or in any way connected therewith, whether based on negligence, violation of contract rights or violation of civil, constitutional, common law or other statutory rights, whether federal, state or local, the county shall, upon such person's written request, provide for his defense unless otherwise limited by the terms of this article, expressly subject, however, to such person's delivering notice in writing of any claim or proceeding against such person to the board of commissioners within five days after the person has been notified in writing or has been served with process, of a proceeding being made against such person.
(Res. No. 81-12, § 3, 9-2-1981)
Sec. 2-117. - Applicability.
Persons covered in this division are defined as the board of commissioners; all constitutionally elected officers and their appointees and employees; all members of county commissions, authorities and boards; the county public works director; the county road department superintendent; and all road department employees.
(Res. No. 81-12, § 1, 9-2-1981; Res. No. 2001-33, 6-21-2001)
Sec. 2-118. - Exceptions.
It shall be the policy of the county to refuse to provide for the defense of a claim or proceeding or pay any civil judgment rendered against any such person, under the following circumstances:
(1)
The act or omission did not arise out of and in the course of such person's employment.
(2)
The person acted or failed to act because of actual or intentional misconduct, fraud, corruption or malice.
(3)
The proceeding is a criminal prosecution.
(4)
The person acts or fails to act as a result of, or at a time when, his own self-indulgence substantially impaired his judgment (as, for example, an officer or employee who causes damage or injury while intoxicated or under influence of drugs while on the job).
(5)
Any act by such person who would constitute the misappropriation of county property or conduct which would result in financial benefit or unjust enrichment of such person.
(6)
Any occurrence resulting from the willful refusal to obey a direct order or instruction by such person's superior or supervisor.
(7)
The person acts or fails to act, except in emergencies or the existence of extenuating circumstances, directly contrary to the advice of the county attorney.
(8)
Any claim or proceeding brought by the county or for its benefit.
(Res. No. 81-12, § 4, 9-2-1981)
Sec. 2-119. - County to make determination regarding provision of legal defense.
The determination that a defense shall not be afforded pursuant to the provisions of section 2-118 shall be made by the board of commissioners of the county.
(Res. No. 81-12, § 5, 9-2-1981)
Sec. 2-120. - Referral of claim to county attorney; procedure when two or more employees are subject of claim.
(a)
Upon approval of the defense of a claim or proceeding against a person, the claim or proceeding shall be referred to the county attorney for disposition. In the event the county attorney declines representation because of a conflict or other valid legal basis, the board of commissioners shall select and engage special counsel. If special counsel is engaged by the board of commissioners of the county, the amount of compensation shall be agreed upon at the time of engagement.
(b)
In the event two or more employees are involved, and the interest of one employee or group of employees conflicts with the interest of another employee or group of employees, then and in such event, the board of commissioners shall specify which employee or group of employees shall be represented by the county attorney and shall authorize the other employees or groups of employees to employ counsel at the expense of the county; provided, however, that the selection and compensation of such other counsel shall be subject to the prior approval of the board of commissioners.
(Res. No. 81-12, § 6, 9-2-1981)
Sec. 2-121. - Payment of claims by county; limitations.
(a)
Where defense of a claim or proceeding against an employee is provided by this article, all final judgments awarded in courts of competent jurisdiction against employees in proceedings to which this article applies or any amount payable under any settlement of such proceeding or of claims in accordance with the resolution may be paid, at the discretion of the board of commissioners, by the county as hereinafter provided. All compromises of claims or proceedings governed by this article shall be submitted to the board of commissioners for its prior approval.
(b)
Any settlement of any claim or the payment of any final judgment shall be limited to $50,000.00 plus any attendant legal expenses previously authorized, no part of which shall be for the payment of punitive or exemplary damages and any such claim or judgment shall be paid upon the condition that the claimants unconditionally releases all persons charged and the county. The sum of $50,000.00 shall represent the total amount payable for any one event or occurrence, no matter how many claimants there may be and notwithstanding the number of persons against whom a claim is made or proceeding brought.
(Res. No. 81-12, § 7, 9-2-1981)
Sec. 2-122. - Authority to purchase liability insurance for claims against employees.
(a)
The board of commissioners shall have the discretion to purchase policies of liability insurance or contracts of indemnification, from time to time, insuring or indemnifying the persons defined herein against personal liability for damages arising out of the performance of their duties or in any way connected therewith.
(b)
The board of commissioners shall consider the annual cost of such policies, the frequency of claims, and such other similar circumstances so as to determine the utility of maintaining such policies in force and effect and his election to purchase such coverage or to discontinue same shall be at his sole discretion. In the event liability insurance or contracts of indemnification are provided pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-33-1, the proceeds of such insurance or contract of indemnification shall be first applied to any claim or proceeding and the payments provided by this article from the county funds shall not be applied except to the extent the maximum payment established in section 2-121(b) shall exceed the amount of coverage under liability insurance or contracts of indemnification.
(Res. No. 81-12, § 8, 9-2-1981)
Sec. 2-123. - No waiver of immunity or limitation of rights intended.
Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to constitute any waiver by the county of the governmental immunity afforded it under state law. Nothing contained herein shall be interpreted in any way to reduce or eliminate the rights of any person against any other party.
(Res. No. 81-12, § 9, 9-2-1981)
Secs. 2-124—2-144. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - COUNTY MANAGER

Sec. 2-145. - Appointment; qualifications; compensation; vacancies in office.
Pursuant to the legislative act creating the board of commissioners (2001 Ga. Laws (Act No. 142), page 4272), the county shall employ a county manager having the qualifications specified in the Act. The compensation of the county manager shall be as provided from time to time by the board of commissioners.
(Res. No. 2012-48, exh. A, 8-21-2012)
Sec. 2-146. - Duties of county manager.
The county manager shall be responsible to the board of commissioners for the administration of all county affairs placed in his charge by and under the legislative act creating the board of commissioners (2001 Ga. Laws (Act No. 142), page 4272) and this Code. The duties of the county manager shall include, but not by way of limitation, the following:
(1)
To supervise the administration of the affairs of the county and to see that the ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the board of commissioners and the laws of the state are faithfully executed and enforced;
(2)
To employ and remove all department heads of the county under the jurisdiction of the board of commissioners and staff employees of the county manager pursuant to policies established by the board, except for the county attorney, county auditor, and members of all the boards, commissions, and authorities who shall be appointed and removed by the board of commissioners pursuant to law or county ordinance;
(3)
To exercise managerial authority and supervision over the county manager's staff and all department heads under the jurisdiction of the board of commissioners;
(4)
To require reports from heads of departments and other employees entrusted with administrative duties or exercising discretion. The county manager shall have at all times the authority to examine all books and records of every officer and department of the county under the jurisdiction of the board of commissioners;
(5)
To attend all meetings of the board of commissioners with a right to take part in the discussions, but having no vote; and to prepare an agenda for each meeting of both new and unresolved business that includes issues recommended by individual commissioners;
(6)
To recommend to the board of commissioners for adoption such measures as the county manager may deem necessary or expedient;
(7)
To supervise the performance of all contracts made by any person, company, or corporation with the county for work done for the board of commissioners;
(8)
To submit to the board of commissioners for approval, prior to July 31 of each year, a proposed operating budget for the next fiscal year showing budget revenues and expenditures during the preceding fiscal year; appropriations and estimated revenue and recommended expenditures for the next fiscal year; recommended tax levies; and such other information and data as may be considered necessary by the board of commissioners;
(9)
To keep the board of commissioners fully advised as to the financial condition and needs of the county;
(10)
To make or cause to be made a full written report to the board of commissioners each month showing the operations and expenditures of each department of the county government for the preceding month;
(11)
To delegate purely administrative duties to department heads or subordinates in the county government whose work the county manager shall supervise and direct; provided, however, that the delegation or assignment of duties to subordinates shall not relieve the county manager from responsibility for administration of such position;
(12)
To appoint and employ the clerk of the board of commissioners of the county and to assign such additional duties of such position as the county manager deems appropriate;
(13)
To perform such other duties as may from time to time be required by the board of commissioners; and
(14)
To cooperate with elected and appointed county officers in management of the county's affairs.
Sec. 2-147. - Removal from office.
The board of commissioners may remove the county manager from office in accordance with the procedure provided in the county manager's employment contract with the county.
Secs. 2-148—2-177. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - COUNTY ATTORNEY

Sec. 2-178. - Procedure for employing outside legal counsel.
Having determined that there exists no formal policy for selecting and engaging outside legal counsel to represent the county, its constitutional officers, agents and employees, the board of commissioners finds as follows:
(1)
In all legal matters it shall be a primary responsibility of all personnel to protect the attorney-client privilege. No legal matters shall be discussed by the board except in a properly called executive session. Each board member, agent and employee shall ensure that legal matters are protected from inadvertent disclosure by email or otherwise.
(2)
The county attorney shall have the primary responsibility for representing the county. Within the general representation of the county, the board of commissioners shall be the primary client of the county attorney, and all conflict issues shall be so resolved.
(3)
It is recognized that the county attorney will, from time to time, determine that outside counsel is required to properly represent the county due to the special nature of the matter under consideration, the size of the task, conflicts, and time constraints and for other reasons.
(4)
When the legal matter in question is covered by any insurance policy such that the insurer appoints counsel, the appointed counsel will be the primary counsel for the county in that matter. The board of commissioners, however, reserve the right to engage additional counsel as they may direct.
(5)
When time allows, the county attorney, county manager and finance director, with initial guidance from the board of commissioners, shall issue a request for qualification or a request for proposal to selected qualified counsel. Responders shall be interviewed or otherwise reduced to no more than three recommended applicants with the final choice made by the board of commissioners. This will be the anticipated selection process for bond attorneys.
(6)
The board may, from time to time, direct that a request for quotation (RFQ) be issued for various types of legal matters for the purpose of preparing a "recommended list" of attorneys for such matters as the board deems appropriate.
(7)
When any legal matter involves litigation or a threat of litigation, a timely response may require coordination with potential outside counsel, and the rendering of opinions. The county attorney shall coordinate all such matters with the county manager, and will provide periodic notice to the board. Such notice may be by email of information to be reviewed at the county manager's office when necessary to protect the attorney-client privilege. When matters are of lower sensitivity (notice of filed documents, ante litem notice and other public documents) copies will normally be disseminated to all board members.
(8)
All engagement of outside counsel will be reviewed at a called meeting or at the next regular meeting of the board in executive session. The board will approve at that time the engagement of counsel or will direct alternative engagement of counsel, subject to any cost of work done by engaged counsel.
(Res. No. 2008-17, exh. A, 4-17-2008)
Secs. 2-179—2-209. - Reserved.
