ARTICLE V. - TEMPORARY USES

Sec. 27-5.1.1. - Requirements.
All temporary uses shall submit a sketch plan for review, and upon approval shall be issued a temporary permit. Temporary structures and vehicles must remain out of the road right-of-way. Adequate parking shall be provided and parking may not be so arranged that vehicles are forced to back into traffic on the primary access street. Staff may require necessary documents or plans to verify the temporary use. The uses listed in this chapter are not a complete list and staff will determine the proper category of a temporary use not listed. Temporary uses, their location, duration, and conditions applicable thereto, are as follows:
1.
Fairs, carnivals, festivals, and outdoor concerts. Temporary uses with less than 500 attendees per day shall be located in an area where there are less than ten residential dwellings within a 500-foot radius of the center of the proposed temporary use area as determined by the planning director. Uses with 501—999 attendees per day shall be located in an area where there are less than ten residential dwellings within a 750-foot radius of the center of the proposed temporary use area as determined by the planning director. Uses with 1,000 or more attendees per day shall locate in an area where there are less than ten residential dwellings within a 1,000-foot radius of the center of the proposed temporary use area as determined by the planning director and shall be required to have direct access from a collector or arterial road. Maximum length of stay shall be 15 days for fairs and carnivals and three days for festivals and concerts. Extensions of the temporary permit may be considered by staff.
Operations for such uses shall cease at a time which is necessary to comply with the Lumpkin County Use of Sound Amplifying Equipment Ordinance unless consent agreements have been obtained or a variance has been granted according to the provisions found in that ordinance.
Off-street parking shall be provided at the rate of one space for every three attendees and all parking areas shall be roped off.
2.
Religious tent meetings. Religious meetings in a tent or other temporary structure shall not exceed 30 consecutive days per permit. Extensions of the temporary permit may be considered by staff. The tent or structure shall not be closer than 400 feet to any residential dwelling. Uses with more than 1,000 attendees per day must have direct access from a collector or arterial road.
Off-street parking shall be provided at the rate of one space for every three attendees and all parking areas shall be roped off.
Operations for such uses shall cease at a time which is necessary to comply with the Lumpkin County Use of Sound Amplifying Equipment Ordinance unless consent agreements have been obtained or a variance has been granted according to the provisions found in that ordinance.
3.
Mobile food services. Mobile food service vendors are required to obtain an annual land use permit prior to operation on private property and must have a Department of Public Health (DPH) approval in order to request such a permit. Mobile food service vendors may operate on private property daily, but must not remain overnight unless they are part of a multi-day event. Multi-day events may be no longer than three days.
Mobile food service vendors may sell food from multiple locations, to include developed industrial or commercial properties with the permission of the business owners or in public parks with the permission of the parks and recreation department.
Applicants must submit a sketch plan detailing where the mobile food service vendor will operate on the property. They must have written consent from property owner(s) to do business at their location and can only operate during the property's normal business hours. They may also conduct sales while parked on public property in the event of a temporary street closing for a county-sponsored or neighborhood event such as a street festival or fair. Otherwise, they may not use a public road right-of-way to serve customers.
Mobile food services may not be the primary or principal use at a lot. Under these regulations they are considered a temporary use.
(Res. No. 2022-20, 5-3-2022)
