ARTICLE III. - SEWERS[4]
Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Municipal authority to provide sewerage collection and disposal systems, Ga. Const. 1983, art. IX, sec. II, par. III(a)(6); acquisition, construction, etc., of municipal water and sewerage systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-5.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 21-66. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
BOD (denoting biochemical oxygen demand) shall mean the quantity oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five days at 20 degrees Celsius, expressed in milligrams per liter.
Building drain shall mean that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
Building sewer shall mean the extension from the building drain to the public sewer or other place of disposal.
Combined sewer shall mean a sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
Garbage shall mean solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
Industrial wastes shall mean the liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
Natural outlet shall mean any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface water or groundwater.
pH shall mean the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
Properly shredded garbage shall mean the wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any dimension.
Public sewer shall mean a sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
Sanitary sewer shall mean a sewer which carries sewage and to which stormwater, surface water and groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
Sewage shall mean a combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such groundwater, surface water and stormwater as may be present.
Sewage treatment plant shall mean any arrangement of devices and structures used for treating sewage.
Sewage works shall mean all facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of sewage.
Sewer shall mean a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
Slug shall mean any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
Storm drain (sometimes termed "storm sewer") shall mean a sewer which carries stormwater and surface water and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
Superintendent shall mean the superintendent of water and gas of the city or his authorized deputy, agent or representative.
Suspended solids shall mean solids that either float on the surface of, or are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by laboratory filtering.
Watercourse shall mean a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. I, §§ 1—22, 11-18-71)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 21-67. - Penalties for violation.
(a)
Any person found to be violating any provision of this article, except section 21-71 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
(b)
Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided for in subsection (a) of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be punished in accordance with section 1-14.
(c)
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city by reason of such violation.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. VIII, §§ 1—3, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-68. - Right of entry for inspection, enforcement.
The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this article. The superintendent or his representatives shall have no authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. VII, § 1, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-69. - Observation of safety rules; liability.
(a)
While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in section 21-68, the superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to such city employees.
(b)
The city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in section 21-148.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. VII, § 2, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-70. - Right of entry on easements.
The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying within such easement. All entry and subsequent work if any, on such easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. VII, § 3, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-71. - Malicious mischief.
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. VI, § 1, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-72. - Objectionable wastes prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. II, § 1, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-73. - Discharge of untreated wastes.
It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. II, § 2, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-74. - Construction of disposal facilities restricted.
Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. II, § 3, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-75. - Connection to public sewers.
The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city, is hereby required at his expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this article, within 90 days after date of official notice to do so, provided that such public sewer is within 200 feet of the property line. All connections to the public sewer system shall be made conforming to the following requirements:
(1)
Building sewer. The sewer pipe material shall be of either cast iron, soil pipe, service weight or heavier; ABS or PVC DWV Schedule 40 or heavier plastic pipe. Joints shall be watertight and root resistant.
(2)
Depth of house sewers. No sewer, except cast iron, shall be laid with less than 18 inches of cover. All sewers laid beneath driveways must be of sufficient depth to prevent injury from reasonably anticipated driveway loads but in no case shall there be less than three feet of cover if the sewer is of other than cast iron. Sewers that must be installed above-ground to cross a stream or ravine or other terrain features shall be of a substantial material and supported on piers not subject to deterioration and shall be of such quality as to resist damage by refuse washing past.
(3)
Sewer or drain in filled ground. When a building sewer or building drain is installed in filled or unstable ground it shall be of service weight or heavier cast iron bell and spigot or hubless cast iron with cast iron couplings.
(4)
Existing building sewers and drains. Existing building sewers and drains may be used in connection with new building sewer and drainage systems only when found by examination and test to conform to the new system in quality of material prescribed by this article.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. II, § 4, 11-18-71; Ord. No. 402, § 4, 11-11-82)
Sec. 21-76. - Requirements for the disposal of septic tank waste by private haulers.
(a)
General provisions. It is the intent of this section that service be provided for the disposal of septage in the Thomson Waste Water Treatment Plant to the extent that the disposal of the septage does not interfere with the proper operation and maintenance or the ability of the treatment plant to meet its permit. Waste haulers will bear the responsibility to prove the origin of the waste being hauled for disposal. This can be done by producing a manifest, work order, invoice or other form with customer's phone number and signed by the customer which indicates the type of waste and the location from which it was removed. Loads will not be accepted for disposal unless the desired information is indicated on the form.
(b)
Hours of service. Waste will be received for disposal at the waste water treatment plant Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m. If there is a requirement to dispose of waste outside these normal hours, a request shall be made in advance and with the understanding that an additional surcharge (overtime fee) will be added as shown in section 21-76(c) below for each truck of septage emptied after normal hours. Every effort will be made to comply with reasonable requests made by septage haulers.
(c)
Billing. For billing purposes, waste hauled by septic tank haulers shall be divided into three classes:
Class A: Any load which contains domestic septage from single and multifamily residences, portable toilets and commercial sources only.
Class B: Any load which contains commercial septage from grease traps in whole or in part.
Class C: Any load which contains industrial septage from waste generated as a result of an industrial process in whole or in part.
Disposal fees for the above indicated classes of waste shall be at such rates as adopted by the City of Thomson, including surcharge and penalties, as adopted and billed in such manner as determined by the City of Thomson.
Industrial waste as defined above must be pre-approved for disposal. Analyses must be performed which indicate the contents of the waste before delivery to the waste water treatment plant. Approval will be granted or denied on a case by case basis. These analyses may be performed by any qualified laboratory and the cost will be the responsibility of the waste generator or the waste hauler and not the City of Thomson.
Note 1: A $15.00 surcharge shall be added to either of the above classes for each truck of septage emptied after normal hours.
Note 2: A $10.00 surcharge shall be added to either of the above classes for each truck of septage which originated in whole or in part from outside McDuffie County sources.
Billing Example: Septage truck for Class A only waste disposal from outside McDuffie County after normal hours.
EXPAND
Class A = $10.00
Outside county =  10.00
After hours =  15.00
TOTAL BILLING =  35.00
  Fees for septic truck haulers shall be billed on a monthly basis and are due no later than ten days from the billing date indicated on billing invoice. Late payment shall result in a 20 percent penalty added to the total billing.
(Ord. No. 472, §§ I—III, 4-8-93; Ord. No. 518, § 1, 5-8-03)
Editor's note— Provisions enacted by §§ I—III of Ord. No. 472 adopted April 8, 1993, have been included herein at the discretion of the editor as § 21-76.
Secs. 21-77—21-95. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL

Sec. 21-96. - When permitted.
Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the provisions of section 21-84, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this division.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. III, § 1, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-97. - Permit required, application, fee.
Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary by the superintendent. A permit and inspection fee as set by the mayor and council from time to time shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. III, § 2, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-98. - Inspection.
A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the superintendent. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 24 hours of the receipt of notice by the superintendent.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. III, § 3, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-99. - Specifications.
The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the department of public health of the state. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than 40,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. III, § 4, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-100. - Sanitary maintenance.
The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. III, § 6, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-101. - Additional requirements.
No statement contained in this division shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the health officer.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. III, § 7, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-102. - Abandonment, connection to public sewer.
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in section 21-99, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this article, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. III, § 5, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-103. - Connection public sewer; closure of private system.
When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be connected to such sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bankrun gravel or dirt.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. III, § 8, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-104. - Toilets.
It shall be unlawful to keep or maintain a surface toilet in the city. It shall be unlawful to maintain or keep an unsanitary or offensive toilet in the city.
(Ord. No. 389, § 34, 1-8-81)
Secs. 21-105—21-115. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 5.

Sec. 21-116. - Permit required.
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the superintendent.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. IV, § 1, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-117. - Classification of permits; application, fee.
There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: (a) for residential and commercial service, and (b) for service to establishments producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the superintendent. A permit and inspection fee as set by the mayor and council from time to time shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. IV, § 2, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-118. - Cost of installation.
All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. IV, § 3, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-119. - Separate, independent connections.
A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every building; except where one building stands at the rear of another or an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. IV, § 4, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-120. - Use of old sewers.
Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the superintendent, to meet all requirements of this article.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. IV, § 5, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-121. - Technical requirements.
The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. IV, § 6, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-122. - Point of connection; means to assist discharge.
Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building sewer.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. IV, § 7, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-123. - Discharge of surface runoff, groundwater prohibited.
No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. IV, § 8, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-124. - Connection to public sewer.
The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the superintendent before installation.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. IV, § 9, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-125. - Notice for inspection, supervision of connection.
The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the superintendent or his representative.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. IV, § 10, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-126. - Excavations.
All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. IV, § 11, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-127. - Clean-out tees.
(a)
All new homes, or buildings of every description which have connections with the city sewage system shall be required to have a clean-out tee five feet or less from the building in the sewer line brought up to the ground level, or extended to the back of the house or building where it must be easily accessible to anyone desiring to clean out such line.
(b)
All existing sewer lines or outlets in homes or businesses or other buildings must have clean-out tees installed five feet or less from the building or extended to any easy accessible place for anyone desiring to clean out a sewer line. Such clean-out tees must be installed in order to clean out any line, and no line may be cleaned out by breaking such line.
(c)
Any lateral line found to be leaking or with an opening which allows surface water or leaking water or liquid from any source to enter the sewage system must be repaired by the property owner or other person responsible for such property within 30 days after notice from the city. If property owner fails to comply with this section, the city shall discontinue sewage and water service to such property until such repairs are made.
(d)
This section shall apply to all owners and all plumbers and contractors and builders, in addition to the requirements of present plumbing codes under which they may be working.
(e)
Upon conviction for violation of the terms of this section any owner or plumber or contractor or builder shall be subject to punishment in accordance with section 1-14 and any owner shall be subject to having his sewer service disconnected; and any plumber or contractor or builder shall be subject to having his license revoked.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. IV, § 12, 11-18-71; Ord. No. 315, § 1, 3-9-72; Ord. No. 435, 6-11-87)
Secs. 21-128—21-140. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS

Sec. 21-141. - Unpolluted drainage—Prohibited into sanitary sewers.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. V, § 1, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-142. - Same—Use of storm, combined sewers, natural outlets.
Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the superintendent. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. V, § 2, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-143. - Prohibited wastes into public sewers.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
(1)
Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas.
(2)
Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including but not limited to cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the public sewer.
(3)
Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works.
(4)
Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. V, § 3, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-144. - Restricted wastes.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of the superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The substances coming under this section are:
(1)
Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150 degrees Fahrenheit (65 degrees Celsius).
(2)
Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 degrees and 150 degrees Fahrenheit (0 and 65 degrees Celsius).
(3)
Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the superintendent.
(4)
Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes, or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
(5)
Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established by the superintendent for such materials.
(6)
Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be established by the superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
(7)
Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the superintendent in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
(8)
Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
(9)
Materials which exert or cause:
a.
Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
b.
Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to; dye wastes and vegetable tanning solutions).
c.
Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment works.
d.
Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting slugs.
(10)
Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. V, § 4, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-145. - Options available to superintendent.
(a)
If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in section 21-144, and which in the judgment of the superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the superintendent may:
(1)
Reject the wastes;
(2)
Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the public sewers;
(3)
Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
(4)
Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of section 21-150.
(b)
If the superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the superintendent, and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. V, § 5, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-146. - Interceptors.
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the superintendent, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. V, § 6, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-147. - Maintenance of pretreatment facilities.
Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his expense.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. V, § 7, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-148. - Control manhole.
When required by the superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. V, § 8, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-149. - Measurements, tests, analyses.
All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this division shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples taken at such control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of the premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH's are determined from periodic grab samples.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. V, § 9, 11-18-71)
Sec. 21-150. - Special agreements, arrangements.
No statement contained in this division shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the industrial concern.
(Ord. No. 313, Art. V, § 10, 11-18-71)
Secs. 21-151—21-170. - Reserved.
