Chapter 4 - ANIMALS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Authority to regulate, license or prohibit the keeping or running at large of animals, § 1.02(o).
Cross reference— Collection of dead animals, § 16-8.
State Law reference— Municipal authority to exercise animal control, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3(a)(3); animals generally, O.C.G.A. Title 4.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 4-1. - Bird sanctuary.
(a)
The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the city is hereby designated as a bird sanctuary.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to shoot or molest in any manner any bird or wild fowl or to rob bird nests or wild fowl nests. Provided, however, if starlings or similar birds are found to be congregating in such numbers in a particular locality that they constitute a nuisance or a menace to health or property in the opinion of the proper health authorities of the city, such health authorities shall meet with representatives of the Audubon Society, bird club, garden club or humane society, or as many of such clubs as are found to exist in the city after having given at least three days actual notice of the time and place of said meeting to the representatives of such clubs.
(c)
If as a result of such meeting no satisfactory alternative is found to abate such nuisance, then such birds may be destroyed in such numbers and in such manner as is deemed advisable by health authorities under the supervision of the chief of police.
(d)
Anyone violating the provisions of this section shall be punished in accordance with section 1-14.
(Ord. No. 283, 2-10-65)
Sec. 4-2. - Running at large.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any horse, mule, ass, cow, hog, dog, or other animal, used or fit either for food or labor, to run at large within the limits of the city, beyond the premises of its owner or manager.
(b)
Any person who shall be found guilty of a violation of the provisions of this section shall be punished in accordance with section 1-14.
(Ord. No. 126, §§ 1, 2, 2-10-25)
Sec. 4-3. - Rabies control.
To prevent the spread of rabies and to control and regulate matters pertaining to dogs O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1 et seq., the Rabies Control law, is adopted and incorporated into this section as if fully printed herein.
(Ord. No. 365, § 3, 9-14-78)
Secs. 4-4—4-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ANIMAL CONTROL ORDINANCE
DIVISION 1. - ORGANIZATIONAL MATTERS

Sec. 4-26. - Title and purpose of this article.
(a)
Title. This article shall be known as the City of Thomson Animal Control Ordinance.
(b)
Purpose. The purpose of this article is to:
(1)
Protect the people of the City of Thomson from dangerous or uncontrolled animals; and
(2)
Supplement, not supercede the state rabies control statutes or the City of Thomson Dangerous Dog Ordinance.
(3)
Repeal all ordinances in conflict herewith.
(Ord. No. 525, 11-11-04)
Sec. 4-27. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this article the following terms, phrases, words, and their derivations shall have the meaning defined herein, unless the context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended. Words used in the present tense include the future and past tense, words in the plural number include the singular number, words in the singular number include the plural number, and words in the masculine gender include the feminine gender.
Animal. Every vertebrate non-human species of animal, wild or domestic, male or female, including but not limited to dogs and cats.
Animal control officer. A city employee, representative or agent so designated by the City of Thomson as a dog warden. All City of Thomson Police Officers are designated as animal control officers.
Animal shelter. Any premises designated by McDuffie County for the purpose of impounding and caring for all animals found running at large or otherwise subject to impounding in accordance with the provisions of this article or any other county ordinance or directive or state law.
At large. An animal shall be deemed to be at large when it is off the property of its owner and not under the restraint of a competent person.
Cat. A domestic feline.
City. The City of Thomson.
County. County of McDuffie.
Dog. A domestic canine.
Identified animal. An animal with an identification tag, tattoo, or other marking on which is described the owner's name, address, and telephone number.
Owner. Any person, group of persons, firm, association, partnership, corporation, or other entity owning, keeping, having charge of, sheltering, feeding, harboring, or taking care of any animal. The owner is responsible for the care, actions, and behavior of his animals.
Public nuisance animal. Any animal that unreasonably annoys humans, endanger the life or health of domestic animals or persons, or substantially interferes with the rights of citizens, other than its owner, to enjoyment of life or property. The term shall include, but is not limited to, any animal that:
Is repeatedly at large;
Damages the property of anyone other than its owner;
Molests or intimidates pedestrians or passersby;
Chases vehicles;
Excessively makes disturbing noises, including, but not limited to, continued or repeated howling, barking, whining, or other utterances causing unreasonable annoyance, disturbance, or discomfort to neighbors or others in close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
Causes unsanitary conditions in enclosures or surroundings where the animal is kept or harbored due to the neglect of the animal's owner;
Is offensive or dangerous to the public health, safety, or welfare;
Attacks other domestic animals; or
Has been found by the animal control committee, after notice to its owner and a hearing to be a public nuisance animal by virtue of being a menace to the public health, welfare, or safety.
Restraint. An animal is under restraint within the meaning of this article if it is:
(a)
Controlled by means of a chain, leash, or other like device;
(b)
On or within a vehicle being driven or parked;
(c)
Within a secure enclosure; or
(d)
Within the property limits of its owner or keeper.
(Ord. No. 525, 11-11-04)
Sec. 4-28. - Animal control committee.
There is created by the dangerous dog ordinance an animal control committee which shall have the rights duties and privileges to act under this article.
(Ord. No. 525, 11-11-04)
Secs. 4-29—4-40. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LOST OR STRAY ANIMALS

Sec. 4-41. - Dog and cat identification.
Every owner of a dog or cat found within the city shall provide the same with an identification tag, tattoo, or other marking or device on which is inscribed the dog or cat owner's name, address, and telephone number.
(Ord. No. 525, 11-11-04)
Sec. 4-42. - Impoundment.
Any domestic animal which appears, in the sole discretion of the animal control officer, to be lost, stray, unwanted, or in imminent danger may be impounded by an animal control officer. If the animal is identified, the animal may be confined in the animal shelter in a humane manner. If the animal is not identified, the officer may remove the animal to the animal shelter or proceed to have the animal destroyed in a humane manner.
(Ord. No. 525, 11-11-04)
Sec. 4-43. - Injured, sick, or diseased animals.
When the owner of an injured, sick, or diseased animal can be located, it shall be his responsibility to provide veterinary care for the animal or have the animal humanely euthanized. If the owner cannot be located, the injured, sick, or diseased animal may be destroyed under the direction of the animal control officer in a humane manner.
(Ord. No. 525, 11-11-04)
Secs. 4-44—4-60. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - ANIMALS CREATING A NUISANCE

Sec. 4-61. - Animal at large creating a nuisance.
The owner of an animal shall not permit the animal to be a public nuisance as defined in section 4-27. If, after investigation of a written complaint, as required under division 4, below, the animal control officer determines that an animal is creating or has created a public nuisance, the animal control officer may orally notify the owner of the nuisance animal and may instruct the owner to remedy the nuisance, issue the owner a written warning from the animal control officer instructing the owner to remedy the nuisance or charge the owner with a violation of this section.
(Ord. No. 525, 11-11-04)
Sec. 4-62. - Capture and transport of animal creating nuisance.
If following an investigation of a written complaint regarding a public nuisance animal, the animal control officer is unable to determine ownership of an animal creating a nuisance, the animal control officer may capture and transport the animal to the animal control shelter. It shall be presumed that such animal is unwanted in such instance. Said presumption may be rebutted by its owner redeeming the animal in compliance with this article. The animal control officer is not required to attempt to locate owners of unidentified animals before impounding, sheltering or humanely destroying the unidentified animal.
(Ord. No. 525, 11-11-04)
Secs. 4-63—4-80. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - REPORTS, COMPLAINS AND INVESTIGATIONS

Sec. 4-81. - Emergency complaints.
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 4-62 above, any person may in the case of an emergency make a verbal complaint through the city police department or directly to the animal control officer or the director or his designee, as appropriate, of a violation of division 3. Such verbal complaint shall, as soon as practicable after response to the emergency, be confirmed by the complainant in writing on a standard incident report completed by the complaining party.
(Ord. No. 525, 11-11-04)
Sec. 4-82. - Verbal reports.
Any person may make a verbal report to the city of a violation of division 2 of this article, or of an animal which appears to be lost, stray, unwanted, or in imminent danger. All such reports may be made by telephone to the city police department or in person to an animal control officer or appropriate designee under this article.
(Ord. No. 525, 11-11-04)
Sec. 4-83. - Written complaints.
Any person may make a complaint to the city of a violation of division 3 of this article. All such complaints shall be written and shall be on a form prescribed by the city police department. The form complaint shall require the signature of the person making the complaint.
(Ord. No. 525, 11-11-04)
Sec. 4-84. - Investigations.
The animal control officer upon complaint of a violation shall conduct such investigation as he shall deem appropriate in determining whether such violation has occurred and whether impoundment of an animal is appropriate or required under the provisions of this article. Investigations may include but are not limited to, the interviewing of witnesses and taking of written statements, inspection of premises where an animal is owned or held, reasonable examination of a person or property to determine if injury or damage has been inflicted by an animal under the provisions of division 3, reasonable examination of an animal being investigated, and such other steps as shall be determined to be necessary or appropriate in carrying out investigations of violations of this article.
(Ord. No. 525, 11-11-04)
Secs. 4-85—4-100. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 4-101. - Penalties.
(a)
Misdemeanor. Any person violating any of the provisions of this article may be found guilty of a misdemeanor and punished accordingly. For a continuing violation, each day's violation shall be deemed to be a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 525, 11-11-04)
Secs. 4-102—4-110. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 4-111. - Interference with enforcement of ordinance.
No person shall interfere with, hinder, or molest the animal control officer or any agents or employees of the animal control officer in their performance of any duties under this article, nor seek to release any animal in the custody of the same or of the animal shelter unless otherwise specifically authorized by law. The penalty for a violation of this section shall be as set forth in division 5 above.
(Ord. No. 525, 11-11-04)
