ARTICLE VI. - UNDERGROUND UTILITY DAMAGE PREVENTION

Sec. 21-231. - Short title.
This article may be cited as the Underground Utility Damage Prevention Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 404, § 1, 2-10-83)
Sec. 21-232. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Damage shall mean the substantial weakening of structural or lateral support of an underground utility, penetration or destruction of any protective coating, housing or other protective device of an underground utility, and the partial or complete severance of an underground utility.
Demolish or demolition shall mean any operation by which a structure or mass of material is wrecked, razed, rendered, moved or removed by means of any tools, equipment or discharge of explosives.
Excavate or excavation shall mean an operation for the purpose of the movement or removal of earth, rock or other materials in or on the ground by use of mechanized equipment or by discharge of explosives, and including auguring, backfilling, digging, ditching, drilling, grading, plowing-in, pulling-in, ripping, scraping, trenching and tunneling, but not including the tilling of soil for agricultural purposes.
Mechanized equipment shall mean equipment operated by means of mechanical power including trenchers, bulldozers, power shovels, augers, backhoes, scrapers, drills, cable and pipe plows and other equipment used for plowing-in or pulling-in cable or pipe.
Operator shall mean any person who owns or operates a utility.
Utility shall mean any line, system or facility used for producing, storing, conveying, transmitting or distributing communication, electricity, gas, petroleum, petroleum products, hazardous liquids, water, steam or sewerage.
Working day shall mean every day, except Saturday, Sunday and national and legal state holidays.
(Ord. No. 404, § 2, 2-10-83)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 21-233. - Civil penalties.
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be subject to a civil penalty of not to exceed $1,000.00 for each such violation. Actions to recover the penalty provided for in this section shall be brought by the city's attorney at the request of any person in the city in which the cause, or some part thereof, arose or in which the defendant has its principal place of business or resides. All penalties recovered in any such actions shall be paid into the general fund of the city. This article does not affect any civil remedies for personal injury or property damage except as otherwise specifically provided for in this article.
(Ord. No. 404, § 11, 2-10-83)
Sec. 21-234. - Compliance with article.
A permit issued pursuant to law authorizing excavation or demolition operations shall not be deemed to relieve a person from the responsibility for complying with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 404, § 3, 2-10-83)
Sec. 21-235. - Duty to identify underground utilities.
Except as provided in section 21-239, no person may excavate in a street, highway, public space, a private easement of an operator or near the location of a utility installed on the premises of a customer served by such utility, or demolish a building, without having first ascertained in the manner prescribed in this article the location of all underground utilities in the area that would be affected by the proposed excavation or demolition.
(Ord. No. 404, § 4, 2-10-83)
Sec. 21-236. - Filing requirements of utility operators.
(a)
No later than January 10, 1983, each operator having underground utilities in this city or in areas served by utilities of this city shall file with the city clerk a list containing the name of every city, village, township, and section within the township in the county in which it has underground utilities (including those utilities that have been abandoned in place by the operator but not yet physically removed), the name of the operator and the name, title, address and telephone number of its representative designated to receive the written or telephonic notice of intent required by section 21-237.
(b)
Changes in any of the information contained in the list filed under subsection (a) of this section shall be filed by the operator with the city clerk within five working days of the change.
(Ord. No. 404, § 5, 2-10-83)
Sec. 21-237. - Notice of intent to excavate or demolish.
(a)
Except as provided in section 21-239, before commencing any excavation or demolition operation designated in section 21-235, each person responsible for such excavation or demolition shall serve written or telephonic notice of intent to excavate or demolish at least three, but not more than ten, full working days on each operator which has filed a list required by section 21-236 indicating that it has underground utilities located in the proposed area of excavation or demolition.
(b)
The written or telephonic notice required by subsection (a) of this section must contain the name, address and telephone number of the person filing the notice of intent, and, if different, the person responsible for the excavation or demolition, the starting date, anticipated duration, and type of excavation or demolition operation to be conducted, the location of the proposed excavation or demolition, and whether or not explosives are to be used.
(c)
If the notification required by this section is made by telephone, an adequate record of such notification shall be maintained by the operators notified to document compliance with the requirements of this article.
(Ord. No. 404, § 6, 2-10-83)
Sec. 21-238. - Response to notice of intent to excavate or demolish.
(a)
Each operator or designated representative notified in accordance with section 21-237 shall, not less than two working days in advance of the proposed excavation or demolition (unless a shorter period is provided by agreement between the person responsible for the excavation or demolition and the operator or designated representative), supply, by use of maps when appropriate, the following information to the person responsible for the excavation or demolition:
(1)
The approximate location and description of all of its underground utilities which may be damaged as a result of the excavation or demolition.
(2)
The location and description of all utility markers indicating the approximate location of the underground utilities.
(3)
Any other information that would assist that person in locating and thereby avoiding damage to the underground utilities including providing adequate temporary markings indicating the approximate location of the underground utility in locations where permanent utility markers do not exist.
(b)
For purposes of this section the approximate location of underground utilities is defined as a strip of land at least three feet wide but not wider than the width of the utility plus 1½ feet on either side of the utility.
(Ord. No. 404, § 7, 2-10-83)
Sec. 21-239. - Emergency excavation or demolition.
Compliance with the notice requirements of section 21-237 is not required of persons responsible for emergency excavation or demolition to ameliorate an imminent danger to life, health or property, provided however, that such persons give, as soon as practicable, oral notice of the emergency excavation or demolition to each operator having underground utilities located in the area where such excavation or demolition is to be performed and requests emergency assistance from each operator so identified in locating and providing immediate protection to its underground utilities. An imminent danger to life, health or property exists whenever there is a substantial likelihood that loss of life, health, or property will result before the procedures under sections 21-237 and 21-238 can be fully complied with.
(Ord. No. 404, § 8, 2-10-83)
Sec. 21-240. - Precautions to avoid damage.
In addition to the notification requirements of section 21-236, each person responsible for any excavation or demolition operation designated in section 21-235 shall:
(1)
Plan the excavation or demolition to avoid damage to or minimize interference with underground utilities in and near the construction area.
(2)
Maintain a clearance between an underground utility and the cutting edge or point of any mechanized equipment, taking into account the known limit of control of such cutting edge or point, as may be reasonably necessary to avoid damage to such utility.
(3)
Provide such support for underground utilities in and near the construction area, including during backfill operations, as may be reasonably necessary for the protection of such utilities.
(Ord. No. 404, § 9, 2-10-83)
Sec. 21-241. - Excavation or demolition damage.
(a)
Except as provided by subsection (b) of this section, each person responsible for any excavation or demolition operation designated in section 21-235 that results in any damage to an underground utility shall, immediately upon discovery of such damage, notify the operator of such utility of the location and nature of the damage and shall allow the operator reasonable time to accomplish necessary repairs before completing the excavation or demolition in the immediate area of such utility.
(b)
Each person responsible for any excavation or demolition operations designated in section 21-235 that results in damage to an underground utility permitting the escape of any flammable, toxic or corrosive gas or liquid shall, immediately upon discovery of such damage, notify the operator, police and fire departments, and take any other action as may be reasonably necessary, to protect persons and property and to minimize the hazards until arrival of the operator's personnel or police and fire departments.
(Ord. No. 404, § 10, 2-10-83)
Secs. 21-242—21-260. - Reserved.
