Chapter 8 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 5; emergency management, ch. 7.
State Law reference— Authority to provide police and fire protection, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3(1); The Uniform Act for the Application of Building and Fire Related Codes to Existing Buildings, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-200; providing of fire escapes by building owners, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-50; obstruction or hindering of firefighters, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-24.1; regulation of fire and other hazards to persons and property generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-1 et seq.; local fire departments generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-2 et seq.; authority to enact ordinances or fire and life safety codes, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-4; firefighter standards and training, O.C.G.A. § 25-4-2 et seq.; mutual aid resource pacts, O.C.G.A. § 25-6-1; Georgia Fire Academy Act, O.C.G.A. § 25-7-1 et seq.; blasting standards act of 1978, O.C.G.A. § 25-8-1 et seq.; blasting near underground gas pipes and facilities, O.C.G.A. § 25-9-2; regulation of fireworks, O.C.G.A. § 25-10-1 et seq.; electronic security systems installed and serviced by counties or municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-12.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 8-1—8-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FIRE DEPARTMENT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Officers and employees, § 2-46 et seq.; personnel, ch. 13.
State Law reference— Local fire departments generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 8-26. - Workers' compensation coverage.
Volunteer firefighters who are members of the fire department providing services to the residents and taxpayers of the city are hereby extended coverage for workers' compensation in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 34-9-1 et seq.
(Ord. No. 408, § 1, 9-8-83)
Sec. 8-27. - Fire protection outside city limits.
(a)
All industrial or manufacturing firms located outside the city limits, but within the county, which desire fire protection and other services from the city fire department for buildings, property, etc., shall file a registration form provided by the city clerk or the chief of the fire department and pay the corresponding registration fee as set by the mayor and council.
(b)
Nothing in this section shall imply or allow the furnishing of fire protection to buildings located outside the city limits which are used for or in conjunction with residential purposes.
(c)
The fire protection outlined in this section shall be limited to such vehicles, persons and other resources as the city may possess for the purpose of fire protection, fire prevention and firefighting at the time such assistance is requested. The city shall in no way be responsible for the failure of the firemen to respond, nor the failure of the fire engine or other vehicles to operate properly, nor the failure of the fire department to answer the call because of another call from a firm outside the city limits at the same time.
(Ord. No. 369, §§ 2—4, 9-14-78)
State Law reference— Operation of fire departments within municipalities or counties, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-5; mutual aid resource pacts, O.C.G.A. § 25-6-1 et seq.
Secs. 8-28—8-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FIRE PREVENTION CODE[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Municipal authority to adopt fire codes, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-4.

Sec. 8-51. - Adoption.
There is hereby adopted by the city, for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire and explosion, that certain code known as the Standard Fire Prevention Code, as adopted by the department of community affairs, being particularly the latest edition thereof and the whole thereof, save and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, of which code not less than three copies have been and now are filed in the office of the city clerk and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length in this section, and the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the city.
(Ord. No. 386, § 1, 10-9-80; Ord. No. 464, § 1, 2-13-92)
Sec. 8-52. - Penalties.
(a)
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the code adopted by this article or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken or shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the chief of the fire department shall upon conviction be punished in accordance with section 1-14. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when not otherwise specified, each day that the prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Ord. No. 386, § 9, 10-9-80)
Sec. 8-53. - Definitions.
(a)
Wherever the word "municipality" is used in the fire prevention code adopted by this article, it shall be held to mean the City of Thomson.
(b)
Wherever the term "corporation counsel" is used in the fire prevention code, it shall be held to mean the city attorney.
(c)
Wherever the term "chief of the bureau of fire prevention" is used in the fire prevention code, it shall be held to mean the chief of the fire department.
(Ord. No. 386, § 3, 10-9-80)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 8-54. - Duties of the chief of the fire department.
(a)
The fire department code shall be enforced by the chief of the fire department.
(b)
The chief of the fire department may detail such members of the fire department as inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary.
(c)
A report of prevention activities shall be made annually and transmitted to the city council; it shall contain all proceedings under this article, with such statistics as the chief of the fire department may wish to include therein. The chief of the fire department shall also recommend any amendments to the code adopted by this article which, in his judgment, shall be desirable.
(Ord. No. 386, § 2, 10-9-80)
Sec. 8-55. - Storage of explosives, blasting agents.
The limits referred to in section 12.5b of the fire prevention code adopted in this article, in which storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited, are hereby established as the city.
(Ord. No. 386, § 4, 10-9-80)
Sec. 8-56. - Installation of aboveground tanks.
The limits as referred to in section 16.22 of the fire prevention code adopted by this article, in which installation of outside aboveground tanks are prohibited, are hereby established as the city.
(Ord. No. 386, § 5, 10-9-80)
Sec. 8-57. - Modifications.
The chief of the fire department shall have power to modify any of the provisions of the fire prevention code adopted by this article upon application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his duly authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code, provided that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. The particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the chief of the fire department thereon shall be entered upon the records of the department and a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
(Ord. No. 386, § 6, 10-9-80)
Sec. 8-58. - Appeals.
Whenever the chief of the fire department shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the code adopted by this article do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision of the chief of the fire department to the city council within 30 days from the date of the decision appealed.
(Ord. No. 386, § 7, 10-9-80)
Sec. 8-59. - New materials, processes or occupancies requiring permits.
The city council and the chief of the fire department shall act as a committee to determine and specify, after giving affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes or occupancies, which shall require permits, in addition to those now enumerated in the code adopted by this article. The chief of the fire department shall post list in a conspicuous place in his office, and distribute copies thereof to interested persons.
(Ord. No. 386, § 8, 10-9-80)
