PART I - CHARTER[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the Charter of the city adopted by the Legislature on March 15, 1973, being 1973 Ga. Laws (Act No. 49), page 2132, effective the same date. Amendments to the Charter are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision derives unchanged from the 1973 Charter. A uniform system of punctuation and capitalization has been used. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation and material in brackets [ ] has been added for clarity.

ARTICLE I. - CHARTER, CORPORATE POWERS AND CITY LIMITS

Section 1.01. - Reincorporation.
This act shall constitute the whole charter of the City of Thomson, Georgia, repealing and replacing the charter as provided by an act approved August 19, 1927 (Ga. Laws 1927, p. 1631), as amended, except certain provisions relating to the corporate boundaries of the City of Thomson and annexation thereto. The City of Thomson, Georgia, in the County of McDuffie, and the inhabitants thereof, shall continue to be a body politic and corporate under the name and style of the "City of Thomson, Georgia," and by that name shall have perpetual succession, may contract and be contracted with, may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, in all of the courts of law and equity, and in all actions whatsoever, and may have and use a common seal and change it at pleasure.
Section 1.02. - Corporate powers.
The corporate powers of the city, to be exercised by the mayor and council, include the following:
(a)
To levy and to provide for the assessment, valuation, revaluation and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation for state and county purposes and to contract with any city, county or other governmental and political subdivision for the ministerial acts of billing and collection of city ad valorem taxes or other fees, assessments or taxes, as the mayor and council may by resolution authorize.
(b)
To levy and to provide for the collection of license fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades and professions.
(c)
To appropriate and borrow money, to provide for payment of the debts of the city, and to authorize the expenditure of money for any municipal purpose, or for matters of national or state interest, and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized under this Charter or the general laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issues by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken. Whenever the city shall desire to create a bonded debt for the purpose of carrying into effect any of the powers and provisions of this Charter, it shall have the right and authority to do so when authorized by a majority of the qualified voters of the city voting in an election.
(d)
To acquire, dispose of and hold in trust or otherwise any real, personal or mixed property, inside or outside the city.
(e)
To condemn property, inside or outside of the corporate boundaries of the city, for present or future use, and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the mayor and council, under Code section 36-202 [now repealed], or under other applicable public acts.
(f)
To acquire, construct, operate, distribute, sell and dispose of public utilities, including, but not limited to, a waterworks system, sewerage system, a natural gas system, an electrical power system and a community antenna television system, both inside and outside the corporate limits, subject to the provisions of applicable general law. For water, gas and electricity furnished, and for all sewerage and sanitary service rendered, said city may prescribe the charges, rates, fares, fees, regulations and standards and conditions of service to be provided, and shall have a lien against any property of the persons served. Said lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and with the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes.
(g)
To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services, but not limited to those stated above, not to exceed periods of thirty (30) years. The mayor and council may prescribe the rates, fares, regulations, and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with laws of the State of Georgia, or the regulations of the public service commission or any other state or federal agency having jurisdiction in such matters.
(h)
To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation and maintenance of public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewerage treatment, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, conservational, athletic, curative, correctional, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities; and any other public improvements, inside or outside the corporate boundaries of the city, and to regulate the use thereof. Property may be acquired for such purposes by condemnation under Code section 36-202 [now repealed] or other applicable public acts.
(i)
To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(j)
To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse and to provide power and authority to take all necessary and proper means for keeping the city limits free from garbage, trash and filth. Charges or fees may be imposed to cover the costs of such services, which, if unpaid, shall constitute a debt which shall be subject to a lien against any property of the persons served, which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner, and under the same remedies, as a lien for city property taxes.
(k)
To define, regulate and prohibit any act, practice, conduct or use of property which is detrimental, or likely to be detrimental to the health, morals, safety, security, peace, convenience or general welfare of inhabitants of the city.
(l)
To define a nuisance in the city and to provide for its abatement. The recorder of the city shall have jurisdiction of all nuisance abatement proceedings in the city. The city may provide by ordinance for any building, structure, or condition maintained in violation of any valid law of this state or any valid ordinance of the city to be adjudged a nuisance and for its abatement at the owner's expense upon his failure or refusal to abate the same within ten days after written notice from the city to do so and after an opportunity to be heard on same.
(m)
To establish minimum standards for, and to regulate building construction and repair, electrical wiring and equipment, gas installation and equipment, plumbing, and housing for the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards. The provisions of this subsection shall not be construed to authorize the establishment of standards for, or the regulation of the electrical wiring and equipment by or for a utility rendering communication services and required by it to be utilized in the rendition of its duty authorized service to the public.
(n)
To provide that persons given jail sentences in the recorder's [municipal] court shall work out such sentences in any public works or on the public streets of the city as provided by ordinance; or the mayor and council may provide for the commitment of city prisoners to any county work camp, or other governmental agency or jail, by agreement with the appropriate county or governmental officers.
(o)
To regulate, license, tax, or prohibit the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same in violation of any ordinance or lawful orders; also to provide for their disposition by sale, gift, or humane destruction, when not redeemed as provided by ordinance; to provide punishment for violation of any ordinance enacted hereunder.
(p)
To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in amounts prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate and rent parking spaces in public ways for the use of such vehicles, or any other reasonable regulations as may be prescribed by ordinance.
(q)
To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the cost for any public improvements.
(r)
To provide that upon conviction of the violation of any ordinance, rule, regulation or order, the offender may be punished within limitations prescribed by the mayor and council in such ordinance, rule, regulation or order, but not exceeding the limitation prescribed by this Charter or state law.
(s)
To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, morals and general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; and to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this Charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully enumerated herein; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under the constitution or general laws of the State of Georgia. No enumeration of particular powers in this act shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers; but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to cities under the constitution or applicable laws of the state.
(t)
To levy taxes and to make appropriations for the purpose of advertising said city and its advantages and resources so as to bring new capital and commercial, manufacturing and other enterprises into the city; and to levy taxes and to make payment from the general revenues and funds of the city for the support of public hospitals and libraries.
(u)
To regulate and control public streets, public alleys and ways; and, in the discretion of the mayor and council, to alter, open or close public streets and public alleys and ways by ordinance.
(v)
To contract with any state department or agency or any other political subdivision for joint services or the exchange of services; and to contract with such agencies or subdivisions for the joint use of facilities or equipment; and to contract with any such agency or subdivision to perform any service or execute any project in which the municipality has an interest.
(w)
To authorize the providing for surety bonds for employees, said bonds to be payable to the city, with premiums payable by the city, when necessary or proper.
(x)
To exercise the power of arrest through duly appointed policemen.
(y)
To provide and maintain a system of pensions and retirement for officers and employees of the city.
(z)
To adopt by ordinance a plan or plans for the zoning of the city, in the interest of public health, safety, order, convenience, comfort, aesthetics, prosperity, and general welfare, and for the purpose of regulating the location of trades, industries, apartment houses, dwellings, or other uses of property; or for the purpose of regulating the height and location of the buildings, fences or other structures; or for the purpose of regulating the alignment of buildings or other structures near street frontages; or for the purpose of preserving buildings, structures or areas having national, regional, state or local historic significance; or for the purpose of maintaining or improving the aesthetic appearance of any buildings, structures or areas. The zoning regulations may be based upon any one or more of the purposes above described. The city may be divided into such number of zones or districts, and such districts may be of such shape and area as the mayor and councilmen of said city shall deem best to accomplish the purposes of the zoning regulations.
Section 1.03. - Ordinances.
All ordinances, by-laws, rules, and regulations, now in force in said city, not inconsistent with this act, are hereby declared valid and of force until amended or repealed by the mayor and council of said city.
Section 1.04. - Construction.
The powers of the city shall be construed liberally and in favor of the city. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers in this Charter shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general power of the city as stated in this Charter. It is the intention hereof to grant the city full power and right to exercise all governmental authority necessary for the effective operation and conduct of the city within its corporate limits and to conduct all its affairs.
Section 1.05. - Corporate limits.
The corporate limits of the City of Thomson shall include all of the following property and territory:
(a)
All of the territory lying and being within three-fourths (¾) of one mile from the official center of the City of Thomson, as specified and described in a resolution of the mayor and council of the City of Thomson, adopted on the 14th day of May, 1970, described as follows:
"The Mayor and Council hereby designates and recognizes the official center of the City of Thomson, as specified and provided in the Georgia Laws of 1927, page 1639 [1927 Ga. Laws, p. 1639], as being located and situated at the Southwest corner of the property of Knox Investment Company (MCLELLAN'S STORE, FORMERLY THE KNOX HOTEL PROPERTY) at the point where the sidewalk on the east side of Main Street intersects with the north side of the sidewalk which parallels Journal Street; with a marker-disc to be placed on said spot, said marker to be not less than 12 inches in diameter."
(b)
Also, all of the territory described in three acts of the General Assembly of Georgia, wherein certain territory was annexed to and made a part of the City of Thomson, to wit;
An Act approved February 26, 1959 (Ga. Laws 1959, p. 2067).
An Act approved February 21, 1964 (Ga. Laws 1964, p. 2196).
An Act approved March 4, 1966 (Ga. Laws 1966, p. 3007).
(c)
Also, all of the territory described in twenty-one (21) ordinances of the City of Thomson, duly adopted by the mayor and council in accordance with the statutes of the State of Georgia, said ordinances, with date of adoption being as follows:
No. 224 - April 17, 1952;
No. 228 - March 12, 1953;
No. 231 - August 13, 1953;
No. 233 - November 12, 1953;
No. 236 - March 12, 1954;
No. 239 - November 11, 1954;
No. 246 - September 8, 1955;
No. 250 - May 17, 1956;
No. 254 - April 11, 1957;
No. 256 - September 12, 1957;
No. 297 - October 30, 1969;
No. 300 - August 14, 1969;
No. 303 - August 14, 1969;
No. 306 - April 9, 1970;
No. 309 - April 22, 1971;
No. 310 - June 10, 1971;
No. 311 - June 10, 1971;
No. 317 - May 11, 1972;
No. 320 - August 14, 1972;
No. 321 - August 14, 1972;
No. 322 - October 12, 1972.
Editor's note— All annexations of the city completed after the adoption of the 1973 Charter are not listed in this section but copies of such annexation ordinances are on file and available in the city clerk's office.
ARTICLE II. - CITY GOVERNMENT

Section 2.01. - Establishment of city government.
The corporate governmental powers of the City of Thomson shall be vested in a mayor and five councilmen to be known as the "Mayor and Council of the City of Thomson." The mayor and council shall be elected and shall exercise their powers in such manner as prescribed by this Charter, the Constitution, and applicable general laws of the State of Georgia, or if not prescribed, in such manner as prescribed by the duly established ordinances of the City of Thomson.
(1978 Ga. Laws (Act No. 956), page 2132)
Section 2.02. - Qualifications for mayor and councilmen.
To be eligible for the office of mayor or councilman, elected or appointed, a person must be at least 21 years of age, and must meet the requirements of a qualified voter of said city, as prescribed by state law, and must have been a bona fide resident of the City of Thomson for at least one year next preceding the election in which he offers as a candidate; provided, however, that beginning with the election of councilmen in 1978 and continuing thereafter, a candidate for councilman shall have been a resident of the district from which he offers as a candidate for a period of at least 60 days prior to the date on which he officially qualifies as a candidate.
(1978 Ga. Laws (Act No. 956), page 2132)
Section 2.03. - Election of mayor and councilmen.
(a)
Those persons presently elected to office shall continue to serve until the second Thursday in January, 1979, or until their successors are duly elected and qualified as hereinafter provided.
(b)
The City of Thomson will be divided into two districts for the purpose of electing councilmen. The Northern District will consist of all that part of the city that lies north of a line beginning at the western end of Hickory Hill Drive, then east along Hickory Hill Drive to Lumpkin Street, then east along Lumpkin Street to Gordon Street, then east along Gordon Street to Holt Street, then east along Holt Street to White Oak Street, then east along White Oak Street to the city limits and then generally northeast along the city limits to the easternmost intersection of the city limits and Highway 223. The Southern District shall consist of the remainder of the city, being all that part that lies south of the Northern District.
(c)
The governing body of the City of Thomson shall continue to consist of a mayor and five-member council. At the December, 1978, general election, two council seats will be elected from the Northern District and three from the Southern District. Each candidate will be required to live in the district from which he is elected and he shall be elected solely by the voters who reside in such district. The mayor will be elected at said December, 1978, general election by all of the voters of the city and may reside anywhere within the city. Candidates for the council shall designate the district in which they are offering as a candidate. The council shall be elected by plurality vote such that the two candidates running in the Northern District who get the highest number of votes will be elected to the council from said district and the three candidates from the Southern District who get the highest number of votes will be elected to the council from said district, and the candidate for mayor who gets the highest number of votes shall be elected mayor.
(1978 Ga. Laws (Act No. 956), page 2132)
Section 2.04. - Terms of office.
The terms of office for mayor and councilmen shall begin on the second Thursday in January following their respective election, and shall continue for four years and until their successors are elected and qualified, except as provided in section 2.03 hereof.
Editor's note— The provisions of this section and of section 2.03(a) of the Charter have been superseded by later state law found in O.C.G.A. § 21-3-1 et seq. The Georgia Municipal Election Code.
State Law reference— State election laws to take precedence over conflicting municipal charter provisions, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-14.
Section 2.05. - City council.
The governing body of said city shall be composed of a mayor and five councilmen, in which is vested all corporate, legislative and other powers of the city, except as otherwise provided in this act. The mayor and council shall hold regular public meetings at a stated time and place as provided by ordinance. The mayor and council shall meet in special session on call of either the mayor, or the mayor pro-tem and two councilmen, and notice of which has been served on the other members personally or left at their residence at least twelve hours in advance of the meeting. Alternatively, or in addition thereto, notice of a special session may be given by telephoning the other members. If this method is used, the first order of business in the special session shall be to enter upon the minutes of the meeting an oath or an affidavit by the mayor, or the mayor pro-tem and two councilmen calling the special session, attested to by the city clerk or by another member of the council, or any person authorized to administer oaths. Said oath or affidavit must contain a statement that each councilman was either notified personally by telephone by the person making the oath or affidavit or was not capable of being so notified by reason of lack of knowledge of his whereabouts, or his absence from the state.
Any person who is found guilty of false swearing, as defined by Code section 26-2402 [O.C.G.A. § 16-10-71], as it now exists or may hereafter be amended, in the above proceeding shall be punished as provided by law. Any action taken in a special session which was called by a person later found guilty of false-swearing regarding the telephone notice of any member shall be void, unless ratified unanimously at a regular council meeting held after said person is found guilty. A ratification of action taken in such a special session by the mayor and council prior to a conviction for false swearing shall not be effective. Any liability to the city arising from action taken by the mayor and council pursuant to a special session in which telephone notice is given, and in which the person calling the meeting is found guilty of false swearing shall result in several liability for the person so convicted. Such notice of a special meeting shall not be required and shall be considered waived if the mayor and all council are present when the special meeting is called or convened. Only the business stated in the written call or stated as being the purpose in the oath or affidavit required in special sessions convened under the telephone notice provision of this charter may be transacted at a special meeting, except by unanimous consent of all members of the council. The mayor and council shall exercise its powers in public meetings. Four members, which may include three councilmen and the mayor or mayor pro tem, shall constitute a quorum. The council may adopt rules and by-laws, by ordinance, to govern the conduct of its business; including procedures and penalties for compelling the attendance of absent members. The mayor and council may provide by ordinance for punishment for contemptuous behavior conducted in their presence.
Section 2.06. - Mayor as presiding officer.
The mayor shall preside at meetings of the council; shall have the right to vote in the matter of the election or appointment of all city officers or employees, but on all other matters shall have a vote only in the case of a tie vote by councilmen; shall have veto power, and the mayor shall have four days after meetings of the council in which to file with the clerk in writing this dissent, but the council may at the same meeting or any subsequent meeting, within 30 days, pass any such ordinance, order or resolution, notwithstanding the veto, by a vote of four-fifths of the total number of councilmen to be taken by ayes and nays, and entered upon the minutes; shall be the chief executive officer of the city; shall sign ordinances and resolutions on their final passage; may obtain short term loans in the name of the city when authorized by the council to do so; shall sign deeds, bonds, and contracts when authorized by the council to do so; and shall perform such other duties imposed by this Charter and duly adopted ordinances.
Section 2.07. - Mayor pro tem.
At the first regular meeting, and after the newly elected councilmen have taken office following each regular election, the council shall elect from its membership a mayor pro tem for a term of two years. Upon the council's failure to elect a mayor pro tem at said first regular meeting, the incumbent councilman who received the highest number of votes, when last elected, shall be declared mayor pro tem. The mayor pro tem shall perform the duties of the mayor during his absence from the city or his disability.
Section 2.08. - Vacancy in office of mayor or councilman.
A vacancy shall exist if the mayor or a councilman resigns; dies; moves his residence from the district from which elected or, in the case of the mayor, from the city; or is absent from four consecutive regular meetings of the governing authority, except if granted a leave of absence by the council and such leave of absence is entered on the minutes; or if he is adjudged incompetent; or is convicted of malfeasance in office or of a felony.
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of a member of the council from any cause other than the expiration of a term of office, the vacancy shall be filled in the following manner:
If the vacancy occurs within twelve (12) months of the expiration of the term, the vacancy shall be filled by the mayor and council appointing a qualified person to serve out the unexpired term of office. If the vacancy occurs within thirty days prior to the regular city election, the vacancy shall be filled at such regular election.
If the vacancy occurs at any other time not provided for above, the vacancy shall be filled by a special election pursuant to a call of a special election as provided by this Charter; provided, however, that the vacancy shall be filled by plurality vote. At no time shall there be more than one councilman so appointed holding office; and if a vacancy occurs on the council with one member so appointed on the council, a special election shall be held within a period of 45 days after the office becomes vacant pursuant to a call of a special election as provided by this Charter; however, if a special election is called pursuant to this Charter, the vacancy previously filled by appointment as well as the existing vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired terms in a special election; provided, however, that the vacancies shall be filled by plurality vote with the candidates getting the highest number of votes filling the said vacancies.
In the event a vacancy should occur in the office of mayor, a special election shall be called and held in the manner prescribed by Code Title 34A [O.C.G.A. § 21-3-1 et seq.], the Georgia Municipal Election Code, as it now exists or may hereafter be amended, so long as the vacancy occurs at least six (6) months prior to the regular expiration date of the term; provided, however, that the mayor elected at the special election shall be elected by plurality vote. If the vacancy occurs within six (6) months of the expiration date of the term, the mayor pro tem shall serve until the expiration date and shall be authorized during said period to exercise all of the powers of the mayor hereinbefore or hereinafter provided.
(1978 Ga. Laws (Act No. 956), page 2132)
Section 2.09. - Compensation and expenses.
The salary of the mayor shall be $8,000.00 per annum, and the salary of each city councilman shall be $5,000.00 per annum. Each councilman and the mayor, when authorized by the mayor and councilmen, and upon the presentation of itemized vouchers, shall receive their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of office.
(Ord. No. 437, § 1, 1-14-88; Ord. No. 485, § 1, 9-7-95; Ord. No. 520, § 1, 9-4-03; Ord. No. 561, § 1, 2-11-16 )
State Law reference— Conditions and requirements governing increases for elective members of governing body, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.
Section 2.10. - City clerk.
The mayor and council shall appoint a city clerk who shall serve at their pleasure and who shall be ex officio treasurer. He shall be responsible for keeping and preserving the city seal and all records of the council; attending meetings of the council and keeping a journal of its proceedings at such meetings, including the names of members present and absent, the vote of each member on each question, each motion considered, and the text of each resolution or ordinance considered; preparing and certifying copies of official records in his office, for which fees may be prescribed by ordinance; and performing such other duties as may be required by the council or mayor.
The mayor and council shall require the clerk-treasurer, before entering upon the discharge of his duties, to give good and sufficient bond in the amount to be decided by the mayor and council, but not less than $25,000, said bond payable to the City of Thomson, for the faithful performance of his duties and to secure against corruption, malfeasance, misappropriations or unlawful expenditures. Said surety bond shall be obtained from a surety company licensed to do business in the State of Georgia and approved by the mayor and council, and the premium thereon shall be paid by the city.
Section 2.11. - City legislation.
Any action of the council having a regulatory or penal effect or required to be done by ordinance under this act, shall be done only by ordinance. Each resolution and ordinance shall be in written form before being introduced. The affirmative vote of at least three members of the council shall be required to pass any resolution or ordinance. After adoption of ordinances, the city clerk shall number ordinances consecutively, in the order of their final adoption, and shall copy them into a permanent record book used solely for this purpose. The city clerk shall do likewise for resolutions, using a separate series of numbers and a separate record book. The original copies of all ordinances, resolutions, and motions shall be filed and preserved by the city clerk.
Section 2.12. - Readings.
No ordinance, except in the case of an emergency which shall be stated in the ordinance, shall be approved and adopted until it shall have been read at two consecutive meetings not less than seven days apart, and one of which readings must be at a regular monthly meeting.
ARTICLE III. - ORGANIZATION AND PERSONNEL

Section 3.01. - Organization.
The city government shall continue as presently organized, unless and until otherwise provided by ordinance. The mayor and council, by such ordinance, may establish, abolish, merge or consolidate officers, positions of employment, departments and agencies of the city; may provide that the same person shall fill a number of offices and positions of employment, and may transfer or change the functions and duties of offices, positions of employment, department and agencies of the city.
Section 3.02. - Administrative duties of mayor.
The mayor shall be the executive head of the city government, responsible for the efficient and orderly administration of the city's affairs. He shall be responsible for the enforcement of laws, rules, and regulations, ordinances and franchises in the city. He may conduct inquiries and investigations into the conduct of the city's affairs and shall have such powers and duties as may be provided by ordinance not inconsistent with this Charter.
Section 3.03. - City attorney.
The mayor and council shall appoint a city attorney, together with such assistant city attorneys as may be authorized by ordinance. The city attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a part; may be the prosecuting officer in the recorder's [municipal] court; shall attend the meetings of the council as directed; and shall advise the council, mayor, and other officers and employees of the city, concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs. Said city attorney shall be paid an annual salary to be fixed by the mayor and council not to exceed the salary paid a councilman, and in addition shall be paid reasonable compensation, as may be agreed upon between the mayor and council, for all extraordinary legal services rendered.
Section 3.04. - Oath of office.
Before a person takes any office in the city government, he shall take the following oath or affirmation before an officer of the state authorized to administer oaths:
"I swear that I will faithfully and impartially uphold the Constitution of this State and of the United States, and will demean myself as Mayor (or Councilman, as the case may be) during my continuance in office. I have not, in order to influence my election to this office, directly or indirectly promised my vote or support to any person or officer in the said government of the City of Thomson, nor for any other office. I will not knowingly permit my vote in the election or appointment of any persons to a position in said government to be influenced by fear, favor or the hope of reward, but in all things pertaining to my office I will be governed by what in my judgment is for the public good and for the best interest of said city, so help me God."
Section 3.05. - Political activity prohibited.
No officer or employee of the city, other than the mayor and councilmen, shall continue in the employment of the city after becoming a candidate for nomination of election to any city office. Any council member, other than the mayor, who runs for the office of mayor must resign from the council prior to qualifying to run for said office of mayor.
Section 3.06. - Suspension by mayor.
All officers and employees of the city shall, at all times, be subject to suspension for cause by the mayor, in his discretion, but such suspension shall be reported within ten (10) days to the city council for action on their part, and unless such charges by the mayor be sustained by said council, the suspended officer or employee shall be reinstated.
Section 3.07. - Suspension, removal from office, authority of city council.
All officers and employees of the city shall, at all times, be subject to the jurisdiction of the city council and amenable to its discipline, and said city council, in their discretion and without a hearing, shall have the power to suspend or remove, with or without pay, any of said officers or employees by a majority vote of the whole body for any cause that may seem just and proper.
Section 3.08. - City planning and renewal.
The council may create and establish a planning commission pursuant to the provisions of general law as they now exist or as they may hereinafter be amended.
ARTICLE IV. - FISCAL ADMINISTRATION

Section 4.01. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the city government shall begin on the first day of January and shall end on the thirty-first day of December of each year, but a different fiscal year may be fixed by ordinance for the entire city government or for any utility. Said fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for fiscal accounting and reporting of every office, department, agency and activity of the city government, unless otherwise prohibited by law.
Section 4.02. - Mayor to submit annual budget.
On or before a date fixed by the council, but not later than forty-five days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor shall submit a proposed operating budget for the next fiscal year to the council, showing separately for the general funds, each utility, and each other fund the following:
(a)
The revenue and expenditure during the preceding fiscal year,
(b)
Appropriations and estimated revenue and recommended expenditures for the next fiscal year,
(c)
A comparative statement of the assets, liabilities, reserves and surplus at the end of the preceding fiscal year, and estimated assets, liabilities, reserves and surplus at the end of the current fiscal year, and
(d)
Such other information and data as may be considered necessary by the mayor and council.
Section 4.03. - Action by council on budget.
Before the beginning of the ensuing fiscal year, the council shall adopt the mayor's budget, with such modifications as the council considers necessary or desirable. Appropriations need not be in more detail than a lump sum for each department, office, and agency unless otherwise directed by the council. The council shall not make any appropriations in excess of estimated revenue, except to provide for an actual emergency threatening the health, property, or lives, safety or general welfare of the inhabitants of the city, provided the council unanimously agrees that there is such an emergency.
Section 4.04. - Additional appropriations.
The council may make appropriations in addition to those contained in the current operating budgets, at any regular or special meeting called for such purpose, but any such additional appropriations may be made for any public purpose only from an existing unappropriated surplus.
Section 4.05. - Lapse of appropriations.
All unencumbered balances of appropriations in the current operating budget at the end of the fiscal year shall lapse into the unappropriated surplus or reserves of the fund or funds from which such appropriations were made.
Section 4.06. - Capital improvements budget.
(a)
On or before a date fixed by the council but not later than forty-five days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor shall submit to the council a proposed capital improvements budget with his recommendations as to the means of financing such improvements. The council shall have the power to accept, with or without amendments, or reject the proposed program and proposed means of financing. The council shall not authorize an expenditure for the construction of any building, structure, work or improvement, unless the appropriations for such projects are included in the capital improvements budget, except to meet a public emergency threatening the lives, health or property of inhabitants, when passed by four-fifths vote of the membership of the council. Such capital improvements budget may be revised and extended each year with regard to the capital improvements still pending on or in the process of construction or acquisition.
(b)
Before the beginning of the ensuing fiscal year, the council shall adopt the proposed capital improvements budget, with such modifications as the council considers necessary or desirable. No appropriation provided for in the capital improvements budget shall lapse until the purpose for which the appropriation was made shall have been accomplished or abandoned, provided, the mayor may submit amendments to the capital improvements budget at any time during the fiscal year. Any such amendments to the capital improvements budget shall become effective only upon adoption by a majority vote of the council.
Section 4.07. - Sale of city property.
The mayor and council shall have the power and authority to sell, lease, trade or convey any property of the city for such consideration as the mayor and council shall deem equitable and just for the city, as follows:
(a)
Any personal property which the mayor and council may deem to be obsolete, surplus, or unusable and having a fair market value not exceeding $500.00 as determined by the council, may be sold and conveyed by the mayor and council at any time without any advertisement, or with such advertisement as they may deem necessary. Any personal property having a fair market value exceeding $500.00 shall be advertised in order to be sold and shall be advertised and sold in the same way and manner as provided in paragraph (b) of this section for the sale of real property. Personal property traded in on property of a like kind need not be advertised in order to be traded.
(b)
Any real property which the mayor and council may deem to be of no use to the city may be sold at public outcry before the courthouse door in McDuffie County between the legal hours of sale to the highest bidder, under such terms as the mayor and council may feel to be proper, after advertisement in the "McDuffie Progress" for not less than two weeks nor more than four weeks, immediately preceding the date fixed for the sale, in the discretion of the mayor and council. After such sale the mayor and council shall have one hour within which to reject the high bid, and declare the sale to be void and of no effect, if they deem said bid to be insufficient to cover the value of said real property.
(c)
The foregoing provisions shall not apply to any real property which has been or may be hereafter given or conveyed to the City of Thomson by the State of Georgia or any of its agencies. As to any property which has been or may be conveyed to the City of Thomson by the State of Georgia or any of its agencies, the mayor and council shall have the right and authority to cede, grant, sell, convey or give such property to any agency of the state, federal or county governments if such real property, in the discretion of the mayor and council, is of no use to the city, and the city stands to benefit by any such conveyance.
Section 4.08. - Annual audit.
The mayor and council shall employ a certified public accountant to make an annual audit of all financial books and records of the city. The accountant shall file his report with the mayor and council and shall prepare a summary of the report which shall be furnished or made available to the mayor and every councilman.
Section 4.09. - Publication of financial statement.
As soon as practicable after the close of the fiscal year, but within six months after the close thereof, the mayor and council shall cause to be published in a local newspaper, a statement of financial condition which shall contain a statement of revenues and expenditures showing all municipal accounts as of the close of the preceding fiscal year. Such statement of financial condition shall be prepared so as to fairly represent the general financial condition of the city as of the close of the preceding fiscal year.
Section 4.10. - Property taxes.
All property subject to taxation for state or county purposes, assessed as of January 1, in each year, shall be returned for taxes each year on or before April 1. If such return is not made, the mayor and council are authorized to assess a penalty of not more than ten percent (10%) of the taxes due on said property. Taxes shall become past due or delinquent if not paid on or before December 20th, of each year. The council may provide by ordinance for an independent city assessment as provided by law or may elect to use the county assessment for the year in which city taxes are to be levied as provided by Georgia Law. If an independent city assessment is made, a board of equalization, consisting of three freeholders of the city appointed by the mayor and council, with compensation fixed by ordinance, shall hear appeals of taxpayers taken within ten days after the city clerk has sent a notice, by ordinary mail, of a new or increased assessment; provided that such notice shall not be required, nor may appeals be taken, in the case of initial city assessments that are the same as county assessments. Except as otherwise provided in this section, appeals involving city property assessments may be taken as now or as may hereafter be provided by general law.
Section 4.11. - Tax levy.
The council shall be authorized to levy an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government, providing governmental services, and for any other public purposes as determined by the council in its discretion. The council is also authorized to provide for sufficient levy to pay principal and interest on general obligations. Said city is hereby authorized to levy taxes in excess of the limits prescribed by Georgia Code Sections 92-4101 through 92-4104 [now repealed] and the City of Thomson is hereby exempted from the provisions of Georgia Code sections 92-4101 through 92-4104 [now repealed], inclusive.
Section 4.12. - Tax due date and tax bills.
The city shall send tax bills to taxpayers, showing the assessed valuations, amount of taxes due, tax due dates and information as to delinquency dates and penalties. Failure to send tax bills shall not, however, invalidate any tax. Property taxes shall become delinquent if not paid on or before December 20 of each year, which time may be changed by ordinance, at which time a penalty of ten percent (10%) in addition to a fi. fa. charge may be added, and thereafter such taxes shall be subject to interest at the rate of nine percent (9%) per annum, from the due date until paid. On and after the date when such taxes become delinquent, the tax records of the city shall have the force and effect of a judgment of a court of record. Said city shall have the right, power and authority to provide by ordinance for the return of all real and personal property for taxation and to provide for the compelling of such return; and to provide penalties for failure to do so, after due notice and hearing to be prescribed by the mayor and council, for the current or any previous year, not in any conflict with any limitation prescribed by the laws of Georgia; and to prescribe the time or times when said taxes shall be due and payable.
Editor's note— With respect to state law concerning the rate of interest on past due taxes see O.C.G.A. § 48-2-40 which establishes a rate of one percent per month for delinquent taxes.
Section 4.13. - Collection of delinquent taxes.
The mayor and council may provide by ordinance for the collection of delinquent taxes by fi. fa. issued by the city clerk and executed by the chief of police under the same procedure provided by laws governing execution of such process from the superior court, or by the use of any other available legal processes and remedies. A lien shall exist against all property on which city property taxes are levied, as of the assessment day of January 1 of each year, which shall be superior to all other liens except that it shall have equal dignity with those for federal, state or county taxes.
Section 4.14. - Transfer of executions.
The clerk of the City of Thomson shall be authorized to transfer and assign any fi. fa. or execution issued for street, sewer, or any other assessment in the same manner, upon the same terms, and to the same effect, and thereby vest the purchaser or transferee, with the same rights as in cases of sales or transfers of tax fi. fas. as now provided by law; and in all sales of property hereafter made under execution in behalf of the city for the collection of street, sewer and other assessments, the owner or owners, as the case may be, are authorized to redeem same within the same time and on compliance with the same terms and payment of the same premium, interest and cost, as in cases of redemption of property where sold under state or county ad valorem tax fi. fa. as the same now exists, or as may from time to time be provided by law.
Section 4.15. - Special assessments.
The council may assess all or part of the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening, or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, sewers or other utility mains and appurtenances, against the abutting property owners, under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by ordinance. Such special assessments shall become delinquent thirty days after their due dates, and may thereupon be subject, in addition to fi. fa. charges, to a penalty of ten percent (10%) and shall thereafter be subject to interest at the rate of nine percent (9%) per annum from due date until paid. A lien for such amount plus fi. fa. charges, interest and penalties, shall exist against the abutting property superior to all other liens, except that it shall be of equal dignity with liens for county and city property taxes, and said lien shall be enforceable by the same procedures and under the same remedies as provided in this article for city property taxes.
ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Municipal Election Code, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-1 et seq.

Section 5.01. - Regular elections.
Time for holding and taking office. The regular election for mayor and councilmen shall be held on the first Wednesday in December of 1978 and on the first Wednesday in December every four years thereafter. Officials elected at any regular election shall take office on the second Thursday in January next following such election.
(1978 Ga. Laws (Act No. 956), page 2132)
Editor's note— The provisions of this section of the Charter have been superseded by later state law found in O.C.G.A. § 21-3-1 et seq. The Georgia Municipal Election Code.
State Law reference— State election laws to take precedence over conflicting municipal charter provisions, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-14.
Section 5.02. - Qualification of candidates.
Any person desiring to become a candidate in any regular election, shall file written notice of his candidacy with the municipal superintendent not less than fifteen (15) days nor more than forty-five (45) days, as provided by ordinance, prior to the date fixed for the holding of any such election. Written notice of candidacy for any special election shall be filed with said superintendent not less than ten (10) nor more than thirty (30) days, as provided by ordinance, prior to the date fixed for the holding of any such election. His notice of candidacy shall be accompanied by such qualification fee, if any, as may be required by ordinance.
Section 5.03. - Qualification of electors.
Any person meeting the qualifications of an elector for members of the General Assembly under state law who has been a bona fide resident of the City of Thomson for at least 90 days next preceding the election in which he desires to vote, shall be qualified to register as an elector in any city election held under this Charter.
Section 5.04. - Applicability of general laws.
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, the election of all officials of the City of Thomson where provision is made for election by the qualified voters thereof, shall be conducted as to special or general elections in conformity so far as applicable with the provisions of Code Title 34A [O.C.G.A. § 21-3-1 et seq.], the Georgia Municipal Election Code, as it now exists or may hereafter be amended. Whenever any time period established by said Code Title is altered so as to change or supersede any time period provided herein, it shall be considered that said periods herein shall be correspondingly changed so as to avoid any conflict between this Charter and the general law.
Section 5.05. - Time of election. Polls.
The polls shall be opened from 7:00 o'clock a.m. to 7:00 o'clock p.m.
Section 5.06. - Place of elections.
The polling place or places for holding elections shall be prescribed by the mayor and council and shall be published in the election notice; provided, however, any change in a polling place shall be affected as provided by Code section 34A-604 [O.C.G.A. § 21-3-163], as it now exists or may hereafter be amended.
Section 5.07. - Voter registration.
In all elections held in the City of Thomson, whether special or general elections, the voters, in addition to the qualifications already prescribed, shall be registered as may be prescribed by ordinance.
Section 5.08. - Rules.
The mayor and council are hereby authorized to enact by ordinance such additional rules consistent with this Charter and general laws as are deemed necessary for the conduct of elections.
Section 5.09. - Absentee ballots.
The mayor and council in its discretion is authorized to provide by ordinance for absentee ballots for any city election.
Section 5.10. - Call for elections.
Any call for an election which is required to be made by the laws of this state shall be made by the mayor and council.
ARTICLE VI. - RECORDER'S COURT [MUNICIPAL COURT][3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— All courts in the state which have jurisdiction over the violation of municipal ordinances shall be deemed to mean "a municipal court … and when such terms [recorder's court] refer to a court of a municipal corporation … the term `municipal court' is inserted in lieu thereof" per O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1.
State Law reference— Establishment and jurisdiction of municipal courts, Ga. Const. art. 6, sec. 1, par. 1; municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.

Section 6.01. - Creation.
There is hereby established a court to be known as the "recorder's court," City of Thomson, which shall have jurisdiction and authority to try offenses against laws and ordinances of said city and to punish for a violation of same. Such court shall have the power to enforce its judgments by the imposition of such penalties as may be provided by law; to punish witnesses for nonattendance, and to punish also any person who may counsel or advise, aid, encourage, or persuade another whose testimony is desired or material in any proceeding before said court, to go or move beyond the reach of the process of the court; to try all offenses within the territorial limits of the City of Thomson constituting traffic cases which under the laws of Georgia are placed within the jurisdiction of municipal or police courts to the extent of and in accordance with the provisions of such laws and all laws subsequently enacted amendatory thereof; to establish bail and recognizances to insure the presence of those charged with violations and to prescribe the condition of forfeiture of the same; and to administer oaths and to perform all other acts necessary and proper to the conduct of said court. The presiding officer of such court shall be known as the recorder. Said court shall be convened at such times as designated by ordinance or at such times as deemed necessary to keep current the dockets thereof. The court shall sit at a place designated by the mayor and council.
Section 6.02. - Recorder.
(a)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as recorder unless he shall have attained the age of 21 years, shall not have been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude and shall be qualified to vote in McDuffie County. The recorder shall be appointed by the mayor and council, and shall serve at their discretion. The compensation of the recorder shall be fixed by the mayor and council. Nothing herein shall disqualify the mayor or any councilman from serving as recorder or recorder pro tem.
(b)
The recorder pro tem shall serve in the absence of the recorder, shall have the same qualifications as the recorder, and shall be appointed by the mayor and council.
(c)
Before entering on duties of his office, the recorder or recorder pro tem shall take an oath before an officer duly authorized to administer oaths in this state, that he will truly, honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of his office to the best of his ability without fear, favor or partiality. This oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the meeting of the mayor and council.
Section 6.03. - Jurisdiction.
The recorder shall have power to impose fines, costs and forfeitures, for the violation of any law or ordinance of the City of Thomson passed in accordance with this Charter, for each offense in an amount not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for the violation of any ordinance, or the maximum amount as provided by the Official Code of Georgia Annotated for the violation of any law of the State of Georgia, to imprison offenders for a period of not more than sixty (60) days, or at labor on the roads and streets or other public works of said city for not more than sixty (60) days; and the said recorder shall have the power and authority to impose any one or more of these punishments when he shall find that the facts of the case so justify. Said recorder shall not have the authority to inflict a greater punishment for contempt than to impose a fine of three hundred dollars ($300.00) or such amount as may be provided by the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, whichever amount is greater; or imprisonment not exceeding twenty (20) days, or any combination of the two. He shall be to all intents and purposes a magistrate, so far as to enable him to issue warrants for offenses committed within the limits of the City of Thomson which warrants may be executed by an officer of said city, and to commit the offenders to jail or admit them to bail in bailable cases for their appearance at the next term of court of competent jurisdiction to be held in said city. The recorder's court shall also have concurrent jurisdiction with that of the magistrate over offenses against the criminal laws of the state committed within the corporate limits. Except as may be herein otherwise specified, the recorder is vested with all of the jurisdiction and powers as to the entire area within the corporate limits of the City of Thomson. The recorder's court is specifically invested with all jurisdiction and powers throughout the entire area within the corporate limits granted by state laws generally to mayors, recorders, police courts, and particularly such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances. Said recorder is hereby authorized to administer oaths.
(Ord. No. 463, 10-10-91)
Section 6.04. - Right of appeal.
The right of appeal and procedures pertaining to appeal bonds to the superior court of McDuffie County from the recorder's court shall lie in the same manner and under the same procedure as generally prescribed for appeals and appeal bonds from the court of ordinary. An appeal to the superior court shall be a de novo proceeding.
Section 6.05. - Court cost.
In all cases in the recorder's court of the City of Thomson the costs incurred and allowable herein may be computed under the provisions of the laws of the State of Georgia fixing costs in the justice of peace courts of said state, or the mayor and council may establish a schedule of fees to defray costs of operation and the city shall be entitled to reimbursement of the costs, meals, transportation and caretaking of prisoners bound over to the superior court for violations of state law. The mayor and council may also provide a uniform scale of costs of the clerk and police officers of said city for all services in the arrest and prosecution of offenders in the recorder's court and in the issuance and collection of tax and other executions; and for their collection and payment into the city treasury. The recorder is hereby authorized to issue subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses to said recorder's court, and to issue such other processes as may be necessary for the proper administration of said court.
Section 6.06. - Rules for court.
With the approval of the mayor and council, the recorder shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the business of said court; provided, however, that the mayor and council may adopt in part or in toto the rules and regulations relative to the procedures employed in the operation of the superior courts under the general laws of the State of Georgia.
ARTICLE VII. - SEVERABILITY

Section 7.01. - Severability.
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this act shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases of this act, which shall remain of full force and effect, as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional was not originally a part hereof. The general assembly hereby declares that it would have passed the remaining parts of this act if it had known that such part or parts hereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
ARTICLE VIII. - REPEALER

Section 8.01. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act are hereby repealed.
