ARTICLE II. - DEFINITIONS

2-1. - Definitions.
For the purpose of these Regulations, the following words, terms, phrases shall have the meaning given in this section. Words used in the present tense include the future; words used in the singular include the plural; words used in the plural include the singular. The word "shall" is always mandatory, while the word "may" is discretionary. The interpretation of the County Commission shall be final as to the meaning of any definition, statement, requirement, symbol, and/or abbreviation used in connection with these Regulations and/or application thereof.
a.
Agent, Authorized. A person in whom the owner of a property authorizes to develop or record his property.
b.
Agent Reviewing. Individual or officer authorized in these regulations to review plats as stipulated in the review process.
c.
Building Setback Line (minimum). A line beyond which no foundation, wall or part of the structure of any building shall project. With the exception of roof overhang, and the subsurface portion of footings, provided, however, that such overhand and footings do not encroach upon the adjacent property or right-of-way.
d.
County Administrator. The official who is employed by the county for the purpose of directing county operations.
e.
Construction Standards. The current edition of printed specifications and standard drawings governing construction within the County. (See [Section 14-1 of this] Appendix.)
f.
Community Water System. A public water system, which serves at least 15 service connections, used by yearround residents or regularly serves at least 25 yearround residents.
g.
Comprehensive Land Use Plan. The land use plan of Grady County developed in accordance with the Georgia Planning Act of 1989, which may include a thoroughfare plan, general land use plan, street and road classification plan and other maps, data and descriptive matter for the physical planned development of the County or any portion thereof, including any amendments, extensions or additions thereto.
h.
Easement. A grant by the owner of land for the use of such land for a specific purpose or purposes. For a Court ordered easements see Article IX, variance procedures.
i.
Flood Hazard Area. The channel and relatively flat area adjoining the channel of a natural stream, river, or body of water subject to flooding during major storm events. Specifically, such designation shall refer to 1) those areas within the County identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) as being subject to flooding and delineated on the Flood Hazard Boundary Maps or Flood Insurance Rate maps, or 2) particular areas of the County which, based on actual observation of flooding or engineering studies, have been designated as local flood hazard areas by the Board of Commissioners.
j.
Floodways. The natural channel and the portion of the floodplain along the channel which must be retained solely for the passage of floodwaters to prevent an increase in flood heights upstream. Water travels at a high velocity in the floodway.
k.
Land Disturbing Activity. Any land change which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movements of sediments into State waters, or onto lands within the State, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transportation and filling of land.
l.
Lot. An undivided portion of land, which is designated as a distinct and separate tract, and identified by a tract number, or lot number on an approved plat, properly recorded which is or may in the future be offered for sale, conveyance, transfer, or improvement.
m.
Lot, Flag. A lot having very narrow frontage on a public road. Flag lots are not allowed in major subdivisions. The minimum road frontage requirement is thirty (30) feet on a flag lot.
n.
Lot, Line. A line of record bounding a lot that divided one lot from another lot or from a public or private street or any public space.
o.
Lot Width. The horizontal distance between the sidelines of a lot measured at right angles to its depth along a straight line parallel to the front lot line.
p.
Original Parent Tract. A unit of land, which the owner holds under single or unified ownership, or the owner holds a controlling interest on the effective date of this ordinance, where all land abutting said tract is separately owned by others not related to or associated by business partnerships with the owner.
q.
Planning Commission. Grady County Planning Commission appointed by the Grady County Board of Commissioners. The Grady County Planning Commission shall be appointed by the Grady County Board of Commissioners and shall have such specific powers and authorities as the Grady County Board of Commissioners shall declare by resolution and are contained within the Code of Ordinances. The Board of Commissioners reserves the right to expand or diminish the duties, rights and responsibilities of the Planning Commission hereunder by resolution. The Grady County Board of Commissioners shall serve, as the Grady County Planning Commission under this Ordinance if the Planning Commission shall fail to act or for any reason shall become inactive.
r.
Planned Unit Development (PUD). A large single parcel of land planned to include open space and a variety of housing types, which would also permit other land uses, including multifamily structures, churches, schools and commercial activities.
s.
Point of Beginning (POB). A real identifiable point on the subject boundary.
t.
Point of Commencement (POC). A real identifiable point not located on the subject boundary.
u.
Remaining Acreage. The residual un-platted land remaining after division of an original parent tract into lots. Said remaining acreage is not an approved lot and is not part of a newly created subdivision. Furthermore, remaining acreage must meet current Grady County Health Department standards or be served by public or community sanitary sewer and water, before being developed.
v.
Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Plan. A plan for the control of soil and erosion and sediment resulting from a land disturbing activity mandated by the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act.
w.
Subdivider. Any firm, person, corporation, association, or partnership, or any agency thereof, who undertakes, or proposes to undertake the subdivision of land, so as to constitute a subdivision, as herein defined.
x.
Subdivision. All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, or building development, and includes all division of land involving a new street or a change in existing streets, and includes re-subdivision.
y.
Subdivision, Administrative. The division of a tract of land, by a particular owner, into not more than four (4) lots, for which there are no roadway, drainage, or other required improvements; where each lot has frontage on a maintained public street; where there is adequate provision for potable water supply and wastewater management for each lot; and where the resultant lots comply with the standards of these regulations.
z.
Subdivision, Exempt. Any division of land that is exempt from all or part of these regulations; refer to [Section] 3-18 [of this Appendix] for details.
aa.
Subdivision, Family. A subdivision approved for an immediate member of a particular family. Immediate family is defined as grandparent, parent including stepparent, grandchild, brother, sister, spouse, and child including stepchild.
bb.
Subdivision, Minor. The division of a tract of land into more than four (4) lots (meets the Grady County Health Department's Rules and Regulations for on Site Sewage Management Systems Chapter 290-5-26) for which there are no roadway, drainage or other required improvements; where each lot has frontage on a maintained public street, where there is adequate provision for potable water supply and wastewater management for each lot; and where the resultant lots comply with standards of these regulations.
cc.
Subdivision, Major. The division of a tract of land for which there are drainage or other improvements required; where roadway construction by the owner is necessary to provide frontage to each lot; where there is adequate provision for potable water supply and wastewater management for each lot; and where the resultant lots comply with the standards of the regulation.
dd.
Street means a public right-of-way dedicated for vehicular traffic by the general public whether designated as a highway, street, road, avenue, lane, or circle.
1.
Major Streets and Highways are those, which are used primarily for fast or heavy traffic and include all Federal and State roads.
2.
Collector or Feeder Streets are those which carry traffic from minor or access street to the major system of arterial streets and highways and promise a traffic potential greater than that of minor streets.
3.
Residential Streets are those which are used primarily for access to the abutting properties.
4.
Cul-de-Sacs are short, minor streets with only one end open to vehicular traffic and being permanently terminated at the other end by a vehicle turnaround.
5.
Marginal Access Streets are minor streets which are generally parallel and adjacent to arterial streets and highways, and which provide access to abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
6.
Alleys or Service Drives are minor ways, which are used primarily for vehicular service access to the rear or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
