ARTICLE VII. - MAJOR SUBDIVISION PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS

7-1. - General.
The owner or his authorized agent shall provide public improvements as required be these regulations and by applicable county specifications and requirements, however, nothing herein shall prohibit the County, at its option and in the best interest of the County, from participating in the provision of public improvements in accordance with applicable county policy and codes.
7-2. - Streets.
The owner shall provide paved streets and improved right-of-way in accordance with these regulations.
7-3. - Street name signs.
The owner shall install street name signs specified by the County prior to the final plat approval.
7-4. - Traffic control signs.
All traffic control signs shall be installed by the County and the cost thereof paid by the owner prior to final acceptance of streets.
7-5. - Monuments.
The owner shall provide and set a minimum of⅝ inch rebar with a minimum of 18 inches long, and identifiable cap stamped with the land surveyor's registration number. The top of each monument shall be set at each street corner and lot corner and at all points where the street lines intersect the exterior boundary of the subdivision, at points of curvature in each street and at every exterior corner or point of curvature of the exterior boundary, except where such corners lie within a stream meander, in which case reference monuments shall be placed on the bank of the stream. The top of the monument shall be marked in such a manner that will be properly and accurately identify the location. In situations where an 18 inches rebar cannon be set, at the terminus point of a line, alternative monumentation may be placed using professional judgment.
7-6. - Storm drainage.
An adequate drainage system, including necessary ditches, curbs, gutters, pipes, culverts, street drains, drip inlets, bridges, and other improvements shall be provided for the conducting of all surface water through the subdivision.
Drains and cross drains shall be provided to accommodate all-natural water courses, as well as water flowing from the site and shall extend beyond the roadway shoulders sufficiently to protect the embankment slopes.
Pipe sizes and slopes shall be determined by acceptable engineering calculations and shall provide for not less than a ten (10) year return frequency storm. In no case shall cross drains be less than eighteen (18) inches in diameter and side drains less than fifteen (15) inches in diameter.
7-7. - Installation of utilities and drainage.
After grading is completed and approved and before any base is applied, all of the underground work - electric distribution system, water mains, gas mains, sewer mains, and all service connections shall be installed completely and approved throughout the length of the road and across the flat section.
