Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Counties a body corporate and politic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ I; county officers, Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ III; home rule for counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I; supplementary powers, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III; county a body corporate, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-3; organization of county government, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20 et seq.; matters over which county commission has jurisdiction, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.1; grants of state fund to counties, O.C.G.A. § 36-17-1.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Enactment of ordinances.
(a)
Every proposed nonemergency ordinance, before its introduction, must be reduced to writing and a copy thereof filed with the clerk of the board of commissioners not less than 24 hours prior to the meeting at which such ordinance is to be proposed for adoption. Copies shall be immediately prepared and distributed by the clerk to each member of the board of commissioners of the county and to the county attorney.
(b)
Every ordinance shall embrace but one subject which shall be clearly expressed in the title, except ordinances making appropriations or authorizing the contracting of indebtedness or issuance of bonds or other evidence of debt.
(c)
Ordinances making appropriations or authorizing the contracting of indebtedness or the issuance of bonds or other obligations and appropriating money to be raised thereby shall be confined to those subjects, respectively. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the board of commissioners of the county from authorizing, in and by the same ordinance, the making of one public improvement and the issuance of bonds therefor.
(d)
No ordinance or section thereof will be revised or amended by its title or section number only, but the new ordinance shall contain the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended.
(e)
The reading, paraphrasing or summary of any proposed ordinance shall not be required.
(f)
The adoption of any proposed ordinance shall be by majority vote of the total of all board of commission members.
(g)
Voting upon the passage of all ordinances shall be taken by "ayes" and "nays" and, unless the vote be unanimous, the names of commissioners voting for and against each proposed ordinance or amendment shall be entered upon the minutes.
(h)
Upon motion duly adopted, the board of commissioners may provide for a public hearing prior to the adoption of any ordinance. A notice of intent to hold any such public hearing shall be advertised in the official legal gazette for the county at least two weeks prior to the meeting at which such proposed ordinance will be introduced. Such notice shall contain a subject matter summary and specify the date, time and place such ordinance will be proposed for adoption.
(Code 1994, § 2-1)
State Law reference— Board of commissioners authorized to adopt ordinances for the governing and policing of the unincorporated areas of the county, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(a).
Sec. 2-2. - Access to private property by county officials.
Duly authorized agents or employees of the county, and/or agents or employees of constitutional officers holding county office pursuant to the powers delegated to the county to provide police and emergency services for the general welfare of the citizens of the county, shall have access, at all times, to and through the premises and private property of a resident of the county for purposes of the delivery of services provided by county, including, but not limited to, public safety and investigative services, fire protection and control, trash and garbage removal, road and bridge repairs, emergency medical services and animal control services.
(Code 1994, § 2-2; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 1)
Sec. 2-3. - Workers' compensation.
(a)
All elected officials, volunteer firefighters, members of the volunteer deputy sheriff's corps, official members of the county special deputies, and the county fire and rescue squad shall be considered as employees for the purpose of providing workers' compensation insurance benefits.
(b)
An official copy of the policy providing workers' compensation benefits for county employees is on file in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners.
(Code 1994, § 2-3; Res. of 10-5-1982; Res. of 2-15-1983)
State Law reference— Workers' compensation, O.C.G.A. § 34-9-1 et seq.
Secs. 2-4—2-24. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Official names of county governing authorities, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20; powers and duties of county commissioners, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.1.

Sec. 2-25. - Meetings.
(a)
The board of commissioners shall hold regular meetings on the first Tuesday of each month at 9:00 a.m., and third Tuesday of each month at 6:00 p.m., unless otherwise ordered by the board. The board reserves the right to designate the first meeting of the month as a workshop meeting instead of a business meeting.
(b)
Any member of the board of commissioners may request the chair to call a special meeting. Due notice of such meetings shall be in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d).
(c)
Meetings shall be held in the commissioners' chamber, which, as of January 1, 2020, shall be located at 33 17th Avenue, Northwest, Cairo, Georgia, unless otherwise designated by the board of commissioners.
(Code 1994, § 2-26; Ord. of 1-1-2020)
State Law reference— Meetings to be open to public, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1; due notice requirements for other than regular meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d); excluded proceedings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-3.
Sec. 2-26. - Duty of members to attend meetings.
It shall be the duty of each member of the board of commissioners to attend each meeting of the board unless he is prevented by some unavoidable circumstance.
(Code 1994, § 2-27)
Sec. 2-27. - Rules of procedure.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this section, Robert's Rules of Order, newly revised, shall be adhered to in all meetings of the board of commissioners. All meetings shall be conducted in a business like, orderly manner. There shall be a written agenda prepared prior to each board meeting. Persons who desire to address the members of the board at a meeting shall be required to notify the clerk of the board before 5:00 p.m. on the Friday prior to the date of the meeting. Each person who desires to address the board shall be limited in his remarks to three minutes in duration. The chairperson of the board of commissioners retains the discretion to recognize any person attending a county commission meeting.
(b)
Any three members shall constitute a quorum at any regular or special meeting of the board.
(c)
All commissioners shall have one vote each.
(d)
If the chairperson is absent from a meeting, the vice-chairperson shall preside.
(e)
An affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the board entitled to vote and present shall be sufficient to permit the conduct of all business except that for which a larger vote has been mandated by these ordinances.
(Code 1994, § 2-28; Ord. of 4-7-1998, § 1)
Secs. 2-28—2-57. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-58. - Work performed by county employees on private property for citizens.
(a)
All work performed by county employees on private property that is not directly related to the maintenance and service of public roadways shall be permitted only upon the majority vote of the board of commissioners.
(b)
All work performed by county employees that is done principally for the benefit of citizens, whether required by law or upon authorization of the board of commissioners shall, be reimbursed by the citizen. The amount paid by the citizen for the service shall be established by the board of commissioners and shall be consistent with costs incurred in providing the service required.
(c)
All situations in which county employees are required to enter upon private lands excluding emergency medical services that relate to potential health hazards or emergencies shall be certified as necessary by the county health department or a designee of the health department.
(Code 1994, § 2-51; Ord. of 3-2-1999, § 1)
Sec. 2-59. - Personnel policies and procedures manual.
Regulations pertaining to county employees on such subjects as employment policy, employee benefits, holidays, and leaves of absence, travel and employee appraisals are contained in the county personnel policies and procedures manual which is compiled and published separately by the county. An official copy of such manual is on file in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners.
Secs. 2-60—2-76. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— County manager authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.

Sec. 2-77. - Position created.
There is hereby created the office of county administrator of the county. The county administrator shall be appointed by a majority vote of the board of commissioners. In addition to the duties contained herein, the county administrator shall assume all such other duties as assigned by the board from time to time and as contained in any job description for the position as may be adopted by the board and as same may be amended.
(Code 1994, § 2-61)
Sec. 2-78. - Qualifications.
The county administrator shall be appointed in the manner provided for by the board of commissioners to serve at the pleasure of the board or upon such terms and conditions as the board may provide in a contract with the county administrator recorded on the minutes of the board of commissioners pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-10-1.
(Code 1994, § 2-62; Ord. of 1-5-2021)
Sec. 2-79. - Duties.
The chairperson of the board of commissioners shall continue to be the chief executive officer of the county and the board shall continue to be the executive entity of the county. It shall be the duty of the board to set overall executive policy and procedures for the county. The county administrator shall be the chief administrative officer of the county and head of the administrative branch of county government. The county administrator shall be responsible to the board for the proper and efficient administration of all affairs of the county over which the manager has jurisdiction. It shall be the duty of the county administrator to:
(1)
Recommend to the board of commissioners the hiring, termination or suspension of all department heads in accordance with the ordinances, policies and rules adopted by the board and all officers and employees of the county under the jurisdiction of the board; provided, however, the county attorney and the outside auditor shall be appointed and removed solely by the action of the board.
(2)
Supervise the administration of the affairs of the county and to see that all ordinances, resolutions, regulations and policies of the board are faithfully executed and enforced.
(3)
Exercise administrative control over all departments or divisions of the county government under the jurisdiction of the board.
(4)
Act as budget officer and submit, subject to requirements established by the board, an annual budget for consideration and adoption by the board of commissioners.
(5)
Keep the board fully advised as to the financial condition and needs of the county.
(6)
Supervise and direct the official conduct of all county officers and department heads appointed by the administrator.
(7)
Attend all meetings of the board with the right to enter into discussion, provided the administrator shall have no vote.
(8)
Be the chief purchasing agent for the county and shall implement policies and procedures adopted by the board for procurement of all supplies and materials.
(9)
Administer the construction and maintenance of all roads and bridges under the jurisdiction of the county, subject to limitations and restrictions as provided herein and as may be hereinafter adopted by the board of commissioners.
(Code 1994, § 2-63; Ord. of 6-5-2001, § 1)
Sec. 2-80. - Additional responsibilities, modification of duties.
The board of commissioners shall have full authority to assign additional responsibilities to the county administrator or to restrict or modify the responsibilities previously assigned. The modifications in responsibilities as contemplated herein may be established by the board by ordinance, written directives to the county administrator, modification of job descriptions or by such other method as may be determined by the board consistent with good management practices.
(Code 1994, § 2-64)
Sec. 2-81. - Term of office.
The county administrator shall be appointed in the manner provided for by the board of commissioners to serve at the pleasure of the board or upon such terms and conditions as the board may provide in a contract with the county administrator recorded on the minutes of the board of commissioners pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-10-1.
(Code 1994, § 2-65; Ord. of 1-5-2021)
Sec. 2-82. - Bond.
The county administrator shall be required to execute and deliver a good and sufficient bond payable to the county, such bond to be approved by the board of commissioners and conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of the county administrator. The amount of the bond shall be determined from time to time by the board and the cost of procurement of the bonds shall be the responsibility of the county. The bond shall be delivered to the board within five days of the county administrator assuming the duties of office and shall be filed by the chairperson of the board in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county.
(Code 1994, § 2-66)
Sec. 2-83. - Compliance with all applicable laws, policies, etc.
All actions of the county administrator shall be taken and performed consistent with and in compliance with all federal and state laws, local ordinances and policies and directives as may be established by the board of commissioners.
(Code 1994, § 2-67)
