Chapter 30 - SOLID WASTE AND SCRAP TIRE MANAGEMENT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authorization to provide garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III; Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; local and regional solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; hazardous waste disposal, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-61 et seq.; Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40; transporting garbage or waste across state or county boundaries pursuant to contract, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-16; Resource Recovery Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-63-1 et seq.; littering highways; O.C.G.A. § 40-6-249.

Sec. 30-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
Commercial solid waste means as the term "commercial purpose" is defined in O.C.G.A. § 16-7-51 and means all types of solid waste generated by stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses and other non-manufacturing activities, excluding residential and industrial wastes.
Disposal facility means as such term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-8-22 and means any facility or location where the final deposition of solid waste occurs and includes, but is not limited to, landfilling and solid waste thermal treatment technology facilities.
Dump means as such term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 16-7-51 and means to throw, discard, place, deposit, discharge, bury, burn, or dispose of a substance.
Egregious litter means as such term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 16-7-51 and means all litter, as such term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 16-7-42(1), exceeding ten pounds in weight or 15 cubic feet in volume; any discarded or abandoned substance in any weight or volume if biomedical waste, hazardous waste, or a hazardous substance; or any substance or material dumped for commercial purposes.
Household garbage means as such term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 16-7-47(a) and means animal, vegetable, and fruit refuse matter and other refuse matter ordinarily generated as byproducts of a household or restaurant, such as tin cans, bottles, paper, cardboard, plastics, and wrapping or packaging materials.
Industrial solid waste means as such term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-8-22 and means solid waste generated by manufacturing or industrial processes or operations. Such waste includes, but is not limited to, waste resulting from the following manufacturing processes: electric power generation; fertilizer and agricultural chemicals; food and related products and by-products; inorganic chemicals; iron and steel products; leather and leather products; nonferrous metal and foundry products; organic chemicals; plastics and resins; pulp and paper; rubber and miscellaneous plastic products; stone, glass, clay, and concrete products; textiles; transportation equipment; and water treatment. The term "industrial solid" does not include mining waste or oil and gas waste.
Inert waste means wastes that will not or are not likely to cause production of leachate of environmental concern. Such waste is limited to earth and earth-like products, concrete, cured asphalt, rock, bricks, yard trimmings, stumps, limbs, and leaves. The term "inert waste" excludes industrial and demolition waste not specifically listed.
Litter means as such term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 16-7-42 and means all discarded sand, gravel, slag, brickbats, rubbish, waste material, tin cans, refuse, garbage, trash, debris, dead animals or other discarded materials of every kind and description which are not waste as such term is defined in this chapter.
Municipal solid waste means as such term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-8-22 and means any solid waste derived from households, including garbage, trash, and sanitary waste in septic tanks and means solid waste from single-family and multifamily residences, hotels and motels, bunkhouses, campgrounds, picnic grounds, and day use recreation areas. The term "municipal solid waste" includes yard trimmings and commercial solid waste, but does not include solid waste from mining, agricultural, or silvicultural operations or industrial processes or operations.
Open dump means such term is as defined in section 391-3-4-.19(2) of the Georgia Rules for Solid Waste Management and means a disposal facility at which solid waste from one or more sources is left to decompose, burn or to otherwise create a threat to human health or the environment.
Person means as such term is defined in section 391-3-4-.01 of the Georgia Rules for Solid Waste Management and means the State of Georgia or any other state or agency or institution thereof, and any municipality, county, political subdivision, public or private corporation, solid waste authority, special district empowered to engage in solid waste management activities, individual, partnership, association or other entity in the state or any other state. The term "person" also includes any officer or governing or managing body of any municipality, political subdivision, solid waste authority, special district empowered to engage in solid waste activities, or public or private corporation in this state or any other state. The term "person" also includes employees, departments, and agencies of the federal government.
Public or private property means as such term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 16-7-42 and means the right-of-way of any road or highway; any body of water or watercourse or the shores or beaches thereof; any park, playground, building, refuge, or conservation or recreation area; and residential or farm properties, timberlands, or forests.
Recovered material processing facility means as such term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-18-22 and means a facility engaged solely in the storage, processing, and resale or reuse of recovered materials. The term "recovered material processing facility" shall not include a solid waste handling facility; provided, however, any solid waste generated by such facility shall be subject to all applicable laws and regulations relating to such solid waste.
Recovered materials means as such term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-18-22 and means those materials which have known use, reuse, or recycling potential; can be feasibly used, reused or recycled; and have been diverted or removed from the solid waste stream for sale, use, reuse or recycling, whether or not requiring subsequent separation and processing.
Retail tire dealer means as such term is defined in section 391-3-4-.19(2) of the Georgia Rules for Solid Waste Management and means a person actively engaged in the business of selling new replacement tires.
Scrap tire means as such term is defined in section 391-3-4-.19(2) of the Georgia Rules for Solid Waste Management and means a tire that is no longer suitable for its original intended purpose because of wear, damage, or defect.
Scrap tire carrier means as such term is defined in section 391-3-4-.01 of the Georgia Rules for Solid Waste Management and means any person engaged in picking up or transporting scrap tires not otherwise exempted in the Georgia Rules for Solid Waste Management for the purpose of removal to a scrap tire processor, end user, or disposal facility.
Scrap tire generator means as such term is defined in section 391-3-4-.19 (2) of the Georgia Rules for Solid Waste Management and means any person who generates scrap tires. Generators may include, but are not limited to, retail tire dealers, retreaders, scrap tire processors, automobile dealers, private company vehicle maintenance shops, garages, service stations, and city, county, and state governments.
Scrap tire processor means as such term is defined in section 391-3-4-.19(2) of the Georgia Rules for Solid Waste Management and means any person who is approved by the environmental protection division to receive scrap tires from scrap tire generators or scrap tire carriers for the purpose of scrap tire processing.
Scrap tire sorter means as such term is defined in section 391-3-4-.19(2) of the Georgia Rules for Solid Waste Management and means any person, other than the original scrap tire generator, who handles mixed tires by separating used tires and retreadable casings from scrap tires.
Solid waste means as such term is defined in section 391-3.4-01 of the Georgia Rules for Solid Waste Management means any garbage or refuse; sludge from a wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility; and other discarded material including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material resulting from industrial, commercial, mining, and agricultural operations and from community activities, but does not include recovered materials; solid or dissolved materials in domestic sewage; solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or industrial discharges that are point sources
Solid waste handling means as such term is defined in section 391-3-4-.01 of the Georgia Rules for Solid Waste Management and means the storage, collection, transportation, treatment, utilization, processing, or disposal of solid waste, or any combination of such activities.
Yard trimmings means as such term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-8-22 and means leaves, brush, grass clippings, shrub and tree prunings, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals, and vegetative matter resulting from landscaping development and maintenance other than mining, agricultural, and silvicultural operations.
(Ord. of 9-7-2004(1), § I)
Sec. 30-2. - Waste disposal; general.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, interfere, harass or otherwise obstruct the performance of any officer in the official performance of the duties as provided in this chapter.
(b)
The owner or occupant of any premises shall be responsible for the sanitary handling and disposal of all litter, waste, scrap tires, and municipal, commercial or industrial solid waste on the premises used or occupied by such person.
(c)
It shall be unlawful to dump, open dump, or permit the dumping of litter, waste, scrap tires, municipal, commercial, or industrial solid waste or recyclables at any place in the county, including, and without limitations, in or on any public highway, road, street, alley, or thoroughfare, including any portion of the right-of-way thereof, any public or private property in the county or any waters in the county unless such litter or waste is authorized by the county board of commissioners.
(1)
The property is designated by the board of commissioners or its duly designated agent for the disposal of litter, waste, municipal, commercial or industrial solid waste, scrap tires or recovered materials and the person is authorized to use such property;
(2)
The litter, waste, municipal, commercial or industrial solid waste, recyclables or scrap tires is placed into a receptacle or container installed specifically for such property; and
(3)
The property has a valid solid waste handling permit issued by the state environmental protection division (EPD) when required.
(d)
All persons defined as scrap tire generators, scrap tire carriers, scrap tire processors, including scrap tire sorters, and retail tire dealers shall be subject to rules as defined in chapter 391-3-4 et seq., of the Georgia Rules for Solid Waste Management and handle scrap tires in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq. and the Georgia Rules for Solid Waste Management, chapter 391-3-4 et seq. applicable to solid waste.
(Ord. of 9-7-2004(1), § II)
Sec. 30-3. - Handbills, circulars, advertisements.
It shall be unlawful to place, throw down, deposit or leave any circular, dodger, advertising matter, or other written or printed commercial, business or mercantile information, either on paper or other material used for advertising or information purposes, on any of the public areas, roads, rights-of-way, or garbage bin receptacle sites, except within the refuse containers or garbage bins provided for garbage collection, or on any private property located within the county, except with the permission of the owner or legal occupant thereof; provided, however, as to private property, this section shall not apply to the normal and usual delivery of daily newspapers by the carrier thereof.
(Ord. of 9-7-2004(1), § III)
Sec. 30-4. - Transporting solid waste and litter.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to drive or operate a vehicle in the county hauling hazardous commercial or industrial solid waste that leaks, flows freely or spills from said vehicle.
(b)
No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the county that is not so constructed, loaded, covered, or securely fastened so as to prevent any load, contents, litter, or other such waste or materials from being blown, scattered, leaked, spilt, or in any manner deposited in or upon any highway, road, street, or thoroughfare, including any portion of the right-of-way thereof, sidewalk, other motor vehicles, pedestrians, or other public place, or upon private property within the county. However, this section shall not prohibit the necessary and permitted spreading of any substance in public road maintenance or public road construction operations.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for a business or private person engaged in waste hauling or transportation for hire from businesses or private residences to a county landfill or lawfully permitted dump site to dispose of materials as solid waste that have been intentionally sorted as recyclables by the business or private residence rather than placing the materials in the location designated by the county or appropriate authority for said recyclables.
(Ord. of 9-7-2004(1), § IV)
Sec. 30-5. - Regulation of all solid waste or litter containers and receptacles.
(a)
All solid waste or litter containers or receptacles and their surrounding area shall be maintained in as sanitary a manner as is reasonably possible consistent with its use for solid waste and litter disposal.
(b)
Persons using solid waste and litter containers, or receptacles shall deposit only authorized household garbage, authorized solid waste and authorized refuse in the appropriate container or receptacle.
(c)
No person shall deposit a scrap tire in any container or receptacle unless authorized by the owner of the receptacle or the county board of commissioners or his designee.
(d)
No person shall deposit any burning or smoldering material in such container or receptacle or set fire to the contents of any such container or receptacle.
(e)
No person shall deposit large non-compatible articles in containers or receptacles such as, but not limited to, stoves, refrigerators, bedsprings, automobile parts, boat parts, large tree limbs or air conditioning units, except containers or receptacles designated for that purpose only.
(f)
No person shall deposit any flammable or explosive materials in any such container or receptacle.
(g)
No dead animals shall be deposited in any such container or receptacle, except containers or receptacles, designed for such purpose and so designated by the county board of commissioners.
(h)
No person shall willfully damage or alter the location of any such container or receptacle without the written consent of the county board of commissioners.
(i)
No salvage or scavenging operations shall be conducted in or around such containers or receptacles except by written consent of the county board of commissioners.
(j)
No person shall indiscriminately scatter or disperse the contents of any containers or receptacles.
(k)
No person shall deposit solid waste, litter or liquid of any kind at any county solid waste collection and recycling center into county owned receptacles or containers designated for the collection of recovered materials. Only authorized materials such as glass, aluminum, newspaper, cardboard, plastic, and tin or other accepted material may be deposited in the appropriate container designated for said material.
(Ord. of 9-7-2004(1), § V)
Sec. 30-6. - Accumulation.
(a)
No owner or occupant of any such property shall bury or burn litter or waste without prior authorization and written consent from the applicable regulatory agency, including, but not limited to, the United States Environmental Protection Agency, the state environmental protection division and/or the state forestry commission. Nothing in this provision shall authorize or be construed to permit the burial or burning of any material which is otherwise prohibited by state and/or federal law.
(b)
No owner or occupant of any property shall cause, suffer or allow the accumulation, on his premises, of garbage, litter or waste where such material creates or causes a health hazard to neighbors or other citizens, or which is unsightly or emits foul or obnoxious odors.
(c)
The conduct described in subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall constitute a separate violation of this chapter for each day the garbage, litter or waste material remains or continues to unlawfully pollute, contaminate or burn on such premises.
(Ord. of 9-7-2004(1), § VI)
Sec. 30-7. - Violations and penalties.
(a)
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any portion of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, in the county magistrate court, shall be punished according to section 1-12 for the following violations:
(1)
County dumpster/littering violations.
a.
Retrieving items.
b.
Allowing child to retrieve items.
c.
Dumping unauthorized material (building material, stoves, furniture, etc.).
d.
Use of dumpster by out of county person.
e.
Dumping garbage on ground.
f.
Setting fire to dumpster.
In addition to fines, 25 percent mandatory surcharges are added. A person may retrieve their own items; however, they should contact the sheriff's department for assistance in order to prevent injury.
(2)
In the sound discretion of the judge of the court with jurisdiction on any offense, the person may also be directed to pick up and remove from any public street or highway and/or other public right-of-way for a distance not to exceed one mile, any litter the person has deposited and any and all litter deposited thereon by anyone else prior to the date of execution of sentence (as provided in O.C.G.A. § 16-7-43(b.2)).
(3)
In the sound discretion of the judge of the court with jurisdiction, the person may be directed to pick up and remove from any public beach, public park, private right-of-way, or with the prior permission of the legal owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property, any private property upon which it can be established by competent evidence that the person has deposited litter, any and all litter deposited thereon by anyone prior to the date of execution of sentence (as provided in O.C.G.A. § 16-7-43(b.3)).
(b)
The court may order the person to repair or restore property damaged, or pay damages resulting from such violations, or perform public service related to the repair or restoration of property damaged by the violation (as provided in O.C.G.A. § 16-7-53(d)).
(c)
In case of an open dump or improper solid waste, litter or waste disposal site, the property owner, contractor, developer, builder or other person responsible for the property shall cause the property to be cleaned and to come into full compliance with this chapter. The county shall not be responsible for any costs of cleanup or remediation.
(d)
The expenses incurred by the county for cleanup, enforcement of violations and penalties shall be chargeable to the violator, including, but not limited to, court costs, filing fees, special investigations, mutual aid assistance from other agencies and other costs necessary for the reasonable enforcement of this chapter.
(e)
In addition to actions filed by county for violations of this chapter, any state or federal agency may independently file separate or concurrent charges within their respective applicable authority and seek conviction within a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. of 9-7-2004(1), § VII)
Sec. 30-8. - Enforcement.
(a)
Enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the county board of commissioners, the environmental education and enforcement officer or his designee, and/or the county sheriff's office.
(b)
Any person authorized to enforce this chapter shall be empowered to enter any property, upon reasonable cause, at reasonable or necessary times in order to properly inspect for violations of this chapter, subject to the condition that to allow entry onto private property for inspection, the alleged violation of this chapter must be visible from a public road or right-of-way, or upon said person having received a valid complaint alleging a violation of this chapter, or by a judge's order upon said person having received information/allegations that constitute reasonable suspicion that a serious unlawful act or threat to the health and safety of the community and/or the environment has occurred or is about to occur.
(c)
Appeals for the violation of this chapter may be made to the county magistrate court, or higher court if the person so chooses. The person always has the right to consult his attorney at any time before the hearing is scheduled for court.
(Ord. of 9-7-2004(1), § VIII)
Sec. 30-9. - Civil remedies and abatement of nuisance.
(a)
In the event that any person violates any provision of this chapter, the county or other appropriate authority may, in addition to other remedies, institute an action for injunction, cleanup or stop work orders, mandamus, irreversible damage fines, lien on property or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such unlawful acts or to correct or abate any such violation (as provided in O.C.G.A. §§ 16-7-52, 16-7-53). In addition, the county may immediately revoke or suspend any and all business, building, development or any and all other county-issued permits related to the property involved with the violation until such time that compliance is met, or until the ruling of a court of competent jurisdiction is obtained, at which time respective permits maybe reissued.
(b)
Upon finding evidence, a written notice of violation may be issued at the discretion of the enforcing officer in lieu of a citation. In the absence of corrective action or in the event that a second violation occurs, the evidence constituting the notice of violation may be submitted as evidence for consideration as a first offense before a court with competent jurisdiction and the pending case treated as a second offense by the court as defined in section 30-7(a)(2).
(c)
If a person is found guilty of a violation of the provisions of this chapter, the court and/or the board of commissioners may cause written notice to be given, or incorporate into the court order to the violator instructing that person to properly address any provision still remaining in violation of this chapter for which said violator is convicted. Such notice shall be by personal service and in the event the violator cannot be so served, then by registered mail sent to the violator's last-known address.
(d)
Upon failure, neglect or refusal of any person so notified to properly address said provisions within 20 days after receipt of notice as provided in this section, the board of commissioners is hereby authorized and empowered to cause the cleanup, removal or disposal of, including, but not limited to, any litter, or any type of waste as defined in this chapter, dumped, deposited, thrown, or left on public or private property in violation of the chapter on behalf of the county. The expenses incurred by the county shall be chargeable to the violator. The board of commissioners and/or the court shall send a statement of the amount due for said expenses by registered mail.
(e)
When the full amount of such charges is not paid by the violator within 30 days after receipt of said statement as provided for in this section, the board of commissioners shall cause to be recorded in the execution docket a sworn statement showing the cost and expense incurred by the county, the dates of county action, the location of the property for which action was taken, and the name of the person to be charged for the expenses incurred. The recordation of such statement shall constitute a lien on the personal and real property of the person to be charged and shall remain in full force and effect until final payment is received in full, including accrued interest from the date of recording and any and all costs. Such amount as shall constitute final payment shall be subject to collection in the manner fixed by law for the collection of taxes.
(f)
This section shall apply with full force and effect regardless of the provisions of any order of the court in which the violator was convicted. This section should not be construed as an excuse for failure on the part of the violator to perform any cleanup ordered by the court, nor shall it be considered as a mitigating factor in any contempt action against a violator who has failed to obey the order of the court.
(Ord. of 9-7-2004(1), § IX)
Sec. 30-10. - Evidence of violations.
(a)
Whenever litter, or any type of waste as defined in this chapter, is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped by any person or from any motor vehicle, boat, airplane, or other conveyance in violation of this chapter, it shall be prima facie evidence that said person or the operator of the conveyance has violated this chapter.
(b)
Whenever any litter, or any type of waste as defined in this chapter, which is dumped, deposited, thrown, or left on public or private property in violation of the chapter is discovered to contain any article, including, but not limited to, letters, bills, publications, or other writings which display the name of a person thereon in such a manner as to indicate that the article belongs or belonged to such person, it shall be a rebuttable presumption that such person has violated this chapter.
(Ord. of 9-7-2004(1), § X)
Sec. 30-11. - Yard trimmings.
Yard trimmings shall not be placed in or mixed with solid waste. Yard trimmings shall not be disposed at any solid waste disposal facility having liners and leachate collection systems or requiring vertical expansion within the county. Yard trimmings shall be sorted and stockpiled or chipped, composted, used as mulch or otherwise beneficially reused or recycled to the maximum extent feasible. Any yard trimmings to be collected by any entity other than the property owner shall be sorted and stored in such a manner as to facilitate collection, composting, or other handling.
(Ord. of 9-7-2004(1), § XI)
Sec. 30-12. - Recycling.
The county board of commissioners hereby finds that it is in the best interest of citizens of the county, in order to promote the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the county, to recycle as many waste materials as possible in order to reduce the accumulation of litter and garbage and solid waste materials which must be properly disposed of; therefore, it is the policy of the county board of commissioners to encourage recycling whenever practicable.
(Ord. of 9-7-2004(1), § XII)
