Chapter 62 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Nuisances, § 34-31 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 62-1. - Trash.
Fallen limbs, trees, cut limbs, cut trees and trash of this category shall be cut by the property owner into lengths of not more than four feet. Other trash, which shall include yard wastes, weeds, grass, trimmings, leaves, brush and pine straw, must be bagged. All trash and cuttings shall be placed as near as possible to the street or sidewalk right-of-way adjacent to the property owner's property but not so as to get into the street or block the sidewalk. At no time shall trash be placed in gutters, drains, walkways, or alleys or streets of the city.
(Ord. of 5-24-76, § 1)
Sec. 62-2. - Disposal of building debris.
Any building debris such as plaster, roofing, concrete, boards, brickbats and other such rubbish resulting from repairs, remodeling or construction of any building or private property will not be removed by the city. The owner of the premises shall be required or responsible to haul away and dispose of all such debris, including stumps, trees and limbs.
(Ord. of 5-24-76, § 2)
Secs. 62-3—62-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LITTER CONTROL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40.

Sec. 62-36. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Litter means all discarded sand, gravel, slag, brickbats, rubbish, waste material, tin cans, refuse, garbage, trash, debris, dead animals, or other discarded materials of every kind and description.
Public or private property means the right-of-way of any road or highway; any body of water or watercourse or the shores thereof; any park, playground, building, refuge, or conservation or recreation area; and any vacant areas, commercial, industrial, residential or farm properties, timberlands, or forests.
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 62-37. - Penalty for violation.
Any person convicted of a violation of a provision of this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-11.
Sec. 62-38. - Dumping or depositing of litter.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, deposit, throw or leave, or to cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing or leaving of litter on any public or private property in this city, or any waters in this city, unless the litter is placed into a litter receptacle or container installed or placed on such property and specifically designated for the use of the general public, or the property is designated by the state or by any of its agencies or by the city for the disposal of litter and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to use such property. The provisions of this subsection shall not be read or construed to prohibit the owner or renter of any private property, nor any person acting with the consent of such owner or renter, from dumping, depositing, placing, throwing or leaving of litter upon such property or in any private receptacle or container maintained by the owner or renter of such private property for the sole and exclusive use of the household or business of such owner or renter.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, deposit, throw or leave, or to cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing or leaving of litter on any private property in this city, in any litter receptacle thereon, or any waters in this city, unless the person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property or such person has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in such lawful possession.
(Code 1980, § 9-1-7)
Sec. 62-39. - Prima facie evidence; rebuttable presumption.
(a)
Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor vehicle, boat, airplane or other conveyance in violation of section 62-38, it shall be prima facie evidence that the operator of the conveyance has violated section 62-38.
(b)
Except as provided in subsection (a) of this section, whenever any litter that is dumped, deposited, thrown or left on public or private property in violation of section 62-38 is discovered to contain any articles, including but not limited to letters, bills, publications or other writings that display the name of a person thereon in such a manner as to indicate that the articles belong or belonged to such person, it shall be a rebuttable presumption that such person has violated section 62-38.
Sec. 62-40. - Duties of business owners, occupants.
(a)
Generally. The owner or occupant of any store or other place of business located within the city shall exercise reasonable diligence at all times to keep his premises clean of wastepaper, wrapping paper, paper napkins, cartons, package containers, and other used or waste materials thrown or left on those premises by his customers, and to take reasonable measures to prevent them from drifting or blowing to adjoining premises.
(b)
Receptacles. Receptacles of sufficient size and number shall be placed on the premises accessible to the customers of the business where the articles of waste generated at such business may be disposed.
(c)
Signs. Each business establishment shall place upon its premises, in a conspicuous place in close proximity to the receptacle required by subsection (b) of this section, a sign, which shall in essence convey to its customers a request that they use such receptacle for the disposal of waste material.
Sec. 62-41. - Duty of customers.
It shall be unlawful for any customer going upon the premises of another to in any manner dispose of wastepaper, wrapping paper, paper napkins, cartons, package containers and other used or waste materials except in receptacles provided for such purpose.
