ARTICLE V. - WELLHEAD PROTECTION

Sec. 34-221. - Short title and purpose.
(a)
This article shall be known as the "Wellhead Protection Ordinance".
(b)
The purpose of this article is to insure the provision of a safe and sanitary drinking water supply for the city by the establishment of wellhead protection zones surrounding the wellheads for all wells which are the supply sources for the city water system and by the designation and regulation of property uses and conditions which may be maintained within such zones.
(Ord. of 10-11-99, § 1)
Sec. 34-222. - Definitions.
When used in this article the following words and phrases shall have the meanings given in this section:
Hazardous waste or material. Any waste or material which, because of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics, may:
(1)
Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
(2)
Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or to the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or otherwise managed.
Sanitary landfill. A disposal site where solid wastes, including putrescent wastes, or hazardous wastes, are disposed of on land by placing earth cover thereon.
Wellhead. The upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports, seals, valves, and other attachments.
(Ord. of 10-11-99, § 2)
Sec. 34-223. - Establishment of wellhead protection zone.
There is hereby established a use district to be known as a wellhead protection zone, identified and described as all the area within a circle, the center of which is the center of any city water supply wellhead and the radius of which is 100 feet.
(Ord. of 10-11-99, § 3)
Sec. 34-224. - Permitted uses.
The following uses shall be permitted within wellhead protection zones:
(1)
Any use permitted within existing agricultural or single-family residential districts, except that the minimum residential lot size for a lot, any portion of which lies within the wellhead protection zone, shall not be less than one acre; and
(2)
Any other open land use where any building located on the property is incidental and accessory to the primary open land use.
(Ord. of 10-11-99, § 4)
Sec. 34-225. - Prohibited uses.
The following uses or conditions shall be and are hereby prohibited within wellhead protection zones, whether or not such use or condition may otherwise be ordinarily included as a part of a use permitted under section 34-224 of this article:
(1)
Surface use or storage of hazardous material, expressly including commercial use of agricultural pesticides;
(2)
Septic tanks or drain fields appurtenant thereto;
(3)
Impervious surfaces other than roofs of buildings, and streets, driveways, and walks serving buildings permitted under section 34-224 of this article;
(4)
Sanitary landfills;
(5)
Hazardous waste disposal sites;
(6)
Stormwater infiltration basins;
(7)
Underground storage tanks;
(8)
Sanitary sewer lines within 150 feet of a wellhead.
(Ord. of 10-11-99, § 5)
Sec. 34-226. - Administration.
The policies and procedures for administration of any wellhead protection zone established under this article, including, without limitation, those applicable to nonconforming uses, exceptions, enforcement, and penalties, shall be the same as provided in the existing zoning ordinance for the City of Vienna, as the same is presently enacted or may, from time to time, be amended.
(Ord. of 10-11-99, § 6)
Secs. 34-227—34-250. - Reserved.
