Chapter 50 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Nuisances, § 34-31 et seq.; law enforcement, ch. 46.

Sec. 50-1. - Disorderly conduct.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the city to violate any of the following subsections of this section:
(1)
Any person who shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby any person is placed in danger of safety of his life, limb or health;
(2)
Any person who shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby the property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged;
(3)
Any person who shall cause, provoke or engage in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another;
(4)
Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others for the purpose or with the intent to engage in gaming;
(5)
Any person who shall frequent any public place with intent to obtain money from other persons by illegal and fraudulent schemes, tricks, artifices or devices;
(6)
Any person who assembles for the purpose of engaging in any fraudulent scheme, device or trick, to obtain any valuable thing in any place or from any person in the city, or who shall aid or abet therein;
(7)
Any person who shall use fighting words directed towards any person who becomes outraged and thus creates a turmoil;
(8)
Any person who shall by acts of violence interfere with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation; or
(9)
Any person who shall congregate with another or others in or on any public way so as to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuses to clear such public way when ordered by the city police or other lawful authority.
(b)
Any person who shall violate subsection (a) of this section may be charged with the offense of disorderly conduct and, on conviction thereof, may be found guilty of disorderly conduct.
(Code 1980, § 9-1-1)
Sec. 50-2. - Posting signs on poles without consent.
It shall be unlawful for any person to post or display in or upon any bridge any sign or advertisement, or to post or display upon any telegraph, telephone or electric company's pole, or upon any public property or the private property of any person any bills, signs or advertisements without the consent in writing of the owner of the property.
(Code 1980, § 9-1-4)
Sec. 50-3. - Weapons; discharge in city.
It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearms, including air rifles, in the city limits.
(Code 1980, § 9-1-5)
Sec. 50-4. - Bicycles.
It shall be unlawful to ride any bicycle on any sidewalk within the central business district as designated on the official zoning map.
(Code 1980, § 9-1-6)
Cross reference— Streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 66; traffic and vehicles, ch. 74.
Sec. 50-5. - Public indecency.
(a)
Authority to enact prohibitions by ordinances. Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 16-6-8(e) the Mayor and City Council of the City of Vienna, Georgia, does hereby act to prohibit public indecency as defined in O.C.G.A. § 16-6-8, together with manner of dress.
(b)
Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in any public place, which includes but is not limited to, all areas owned by or controlled by any governmental entity and those areas zoned as C-1, C-2, I-1, and I-2 or to be visible while in such public places within the corporate limits of the City of Vienna wearing pants, skirts, shorts, or any other garment of clothing which exposes any portion of a person's mammalia, genitals, pubic area, or buttocks or allows any other display of the skin or garments not intended for public display in a lewd and obscene fashion.
(c)
Punishment for violation of ordinance. Any person violating subsection (b) of this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $105.00 and not more than $362.00, and shall be subject to not less than eight or more than 24 hours of community service.
(Ord. of 7-27-09(2))
