ARTICLE VII. - ILLICIT DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS

Sec. 26-261. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
"Accidental discharge" means a discharge prohibited by this article which occurs by chance and without planning or consideration prior to occurrence.
"Peach County Separate Storm Sewer System" means any facility designed or used for collecting and/or conveying stormwater, including but not limited to any roads with drainage systems, highways, county streets, curbs, gutters, inlets, catch basins, piped storm drains, pumping facilities, structural stormwater controls, ditches, swales, natural and man-made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures which are:
• Owned or maintained by Peach County;
• Not a combined sewer; and
• Not part of a publicly-owned treatment works.
"Clean Water Act" means the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
"Construction activity" means activities subject to the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act or NPDES general construction permits. These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance. Such activities include, but are not limited to, clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
"Hazardous materials" means any material, including any substance, waste, or combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety, property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of, or otherwise managed.
"Illicit discharge" means either of the following:
Any pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which allows an illicit discharge to enter the storm drain system including but not limited to any conveyances which allow any non-stormwater discharge including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain system and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency; or
Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps, or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
"Industrial activity" means activities subject to NPDES Industrial Permits as defined in 40 CFR, Section 122.26(b)(14).
"National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Stormwater Discharge Permit" means a permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority delegated pursuant to 33 USC § 1342(b) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or general area-wide basis.
"Non-stormwater discharge" means any discharge to the storm drain system that is not composed entirely of stormwater.
"Person" means any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, city, county or other political subdivision of the state, any interstate body, or any other legal entity.
"Pollutant" means anything that causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects, ordinances, and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
"Pollution" means the contamination or other alternation of any water's physical, chemical, or biological properties, including change in temperature, taste, color, turbidity, or odor of such waters or the discharge of any liquid, gaseous, solid, radioactive, or other substance into any such waters as will or is likely to create a nuisance or render such waters harmful, detrimental, or injurious to the public health, safety, or welfare or to domestic, commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational, or other legitimate beneficial uses, or to livestock, wild animals, birds, fish or other aquatic life.
"Premises" means any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
"State waters" means any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface and subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the State which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation.
"Stormwater runoff" or "stormwater" means any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of water from any form of natural precipitation and resulting from precipitation.
"Structural stormwater control" means a structural stormwater management facility or device that controls stormwater runoff and changes the characteristics of that runoff including, but not limited to, the quantity and quality, the period of release, or the velocity of flow.
(Ord. of 1-10-06, § 1)
Sec. 26-262. - General provisions.
(a)
Purpose and intent. The purpose of this article is to provide for the health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of Peach County through the regulation of non-stormwater discharges to the Peach County separate storm sewer system to the maximum extent practicable as required by federal law. This article establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the Peach County separate storm sewer system in order to comply with requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit process. The objectives of this article are:
(1)
Regulate the contribution of pollutants to the Peach County separate storm sewer system by any user;
(2)
Prohibit illicit connections and illegal discharges to the Peach County separate storm sewer system;
(3)
Control discharge to the Peach County separate storm sewer system of spills, dumping, or disposal of materials other than stormwater;
(4)
To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance, and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this article.
(b)
Applicability. This article shall apply to all water entering the Peach County separate storm sewer system generated on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by the county administrator or his/her designee.
(c)
Compatibility with other regulations. This article is not intended to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any other ordinance, rule, or regulation, statute, or other provision of law. The requirements of this article should be considered minimum requirements, and where any provision of this article imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule, or regulation, or other provision of law, whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher protective standards for human health or the environment shall be considered to take precedence.
(d)
Severability. If the provisions of any article, section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision, or clause of this article shall be judged invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such order of judgment shall not affect or invalidate the remainder of any article, section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision, or clause of this article.
(e)
Responsibility for administration. The county administrator or his/her designee shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 1-10-06, § 2)
Sec. 26-263. - Violations, enforcement, and penalties.
(a)
Violations. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this article. Any person who has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this article, may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in this section or may be restrained by injunction or otherwise abated in a manner provided by law.
(b)
Notice of violation. Whenever the county administrator or his/her designee finds that a person has violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this article, the county administrator or his/her designee shall order compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible person.
The notice of violation shall contain:
(1)
The name and address of the owner or applicant;
(2)
The address when available or a description of the building, structure, or land upon which the violation is occurring;
(3)
A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
(4)
A description of the remedial measures necessary to bring the development activity into compliance with this ordinance and a time schedule for the completion of such remedial action; and
(5)
A statement of the penalty or penalties that shall or may be assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed.
Such notice may require without limitation:
a.
The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
b.
The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
c.
That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and desist;
d.
The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
e.
Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs; and
f.
The implementation of pollution prevention practices.
(c)
Appeal of notice of violation. Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of the county administrator or his/her designee. The notice of appeal must be received by the county administrator or his/her designee within 15 days from the date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the Peach County Board of Commissioners shall take place within 30 days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The decision of the Peach County Board of Commissioners shall be final.
(d)
Enforcement measures after appeal. If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth in the notice of violation, or in the event of an appeal, within 30 days of the Peach County Board of Commissioners' ruling upholding the decision of the county administrator, then the county administrator or his/her designee shall enter upon the subject private property and is authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent, or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the government agency or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth above.
(e)
Cost of abatement of the violation. Within 30 days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative costs. The notification will include copies of all invoices paid by the county, and a log of all hours spent by county personnel. If the amount due is not paid within 30 days of receipt of the notification, the charges shall become a special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the assessment.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall become liable to Peach County by reason of such violation.
(f)
Violations deemed a public nuisance. In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided in article II of this chapter, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this article is deemed a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the violator's expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
(g)
Prosecution in magistrate court. Any person that has violated or continues to violate this article shall be liable to prosecution to the fullest extent of the law, and shall be subject to a criminal penalty of $1,000.00 per violation per day and/or imprisonment for a period of time not to exceed six months per violation. Each day a violation continues, after notification thereof, shall be deemed a separate offense under this article.
The county may recover all attorney's fees, court costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement of this article, including sampling and monitoring expenses.
(h)
Remedies not exclusive. The remedies listed in this article are not exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable federal, state, or local law, and it is within the discretion of the county administrator or his/her designee to seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. of 1-10-06, § 3)
Sec. 26-264. - Prohibitions.
(a)
Prohibition of illicit discharges. No person shall throw, drain, or otherwise discharge or cause to throw, drain, run, or allow to seep or otherwise be discharged into the Peach County separate storm sewer system any materials, including but not limited to pollutants or waters containing any pollutants, other than stormwater. The commencement, conduct, or continuance of any illicit discharge to the Peach County separate storm sewer system is prohibited.
The following are exempt from the prohibition provision above:
(1)
Water line flushing performed by a government agency, other potable water sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising groundwater, groundwater infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped groundwater, foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs, non-commercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wetland flows, and any other water source not containing pollutants.
(2)
Discharges or flows from fire fighting, and other discharges specified in writing by the county administrator or his/her designee as being necessary to protect public health and safety; provided, however, if the county administrator or his/her designee finds that any exemptions previously granted are causing adverse impacts to water quality, then the county administrator or his/her designee shall have the authority to rescind such exemption and regulate the discharge under the provisions of this article.
The prohibition shall not apply to any non-stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under the authority of the state and the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted by the county for any discharge to the Peach County separate storm sewer system.
(b)
Prohibition of illicit connections. The construction, connection, use, maintenance, or continued existence of any illicit connection to the Peach County separate storm sewer system is prohibited.
(1)
This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of connection.
(2)
A person is considered to be in violation of this article if the person connects a line conveying sewage to the Peach County separate storm sewer system, or allows such a connection to continue.
(3)
Improper connections in violation of this article must be disconnected and redirected, if necessary, to the sanitary sewer system upon directive of the county administrator or his/her designee and the Peach County Stormwater Department.
(Ord. of 1-10-06, § 4)
Sec. 26-265. - Industrial or construction activity discharges.
Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the county administrator or his/her designee prior to the allowing of discharges to the Peach County separate storm sewer system.
(Ord. of 1-10-06, § 5)
Sec. 26-266. - Monitoring of discharges.
(a)
Applicability. This section applies to all facilities that have stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity, including construction activity.
(b)
Access to facilities. The county administrator or his/her designee shall be permitted to enter and inspect facilities subject to regulation under this article as often as may be necessary to determine compliance with this article.
(1)
If a discharger has security measures in force which require proper identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the discharger shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access to the county administrator or his/her designee.
(2)
Facility operators shall allow the county administrator or his/her designee ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater, and the performance of any additional duties as defined by state and federal law.
(3)
The county administrator or his/her designee shall have the right to set up on any permitted facility such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the county administrator or his/her designee to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the facility's stormwater discharge.
(4)
The county administrator or his/her designee has the right to require the discharger to install monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
(5)
Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the owner at the written or oral request of the county administrator or his/her designee and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be born by the owner.
(6)
Unreasonable delays in allowing the county administrator or his/her designee access to a permitted facility is a violation of a stormwater discharge permit and of this article. A person who is the operator of a facility with a NPDES permit to discharge stormwater associated with industrial activity commits an offense if the person denies the authorized enforcement agency reasonable access to the permitted facility for the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by this article.
(7)
If the county administrator or his/her designee has been refused access to any part of the premises from which stormwater is discharged, and he/she is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this article, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this article or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety, and welfare of the community, then the county administrator or his/her designee may seek issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. of 1-10-06, § 6)
Sec. 26-267. - Notification of accidental discharges and spills.
Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants discharging into stormwater, the Peach County separate storm sewer system, state waters, or waters of the United States, said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of hazardous materials, said person shall immediately notify emergency response agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services.
In the event of a release of non-hazardous materials, said person shall notify the authorized enforcement agency in person or by phone, facsimile, or in person no later than the next business day of the nature, quantity, and time of occurrence of the discharge. Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to the county administrator or his/her designee within three business days of the phone or in person notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three years.
In either case, such person shall also take immediate steps to ensure no recurrence of the discharge or spill.
(Ord. of 1-10-06, § 7)
Secs. 26-268—26-325. - Reserved.
