Chapter 30 - MANUFACTURED HOMES AND TRAILERS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14, § 14-1; dangerous and unfit buildings or structures, § 26-36 et seq.; planning, ch. 34; traffic and vehicles, ch. 46; vegetation, ch. 50.
State Law reference— Classification of mobile homes as a separate class of property for ad valorem property tax purposes, Ga. Const. art. 7, sec. 1, par. 3; The Uniform Standards Code for Manufactured Homes Act, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-130 et seq.; regulations for septic tanks or individual sewerage management systems in unincorporated areas; conformity prerequisite to building permit, O.C.G.A. § 31-3-5.1; registration and licensing of dealers, manufacturers and persons transporting mobile homes, O.C.G.A. § 40-2-38; removal of transportable housing from lands subject to writ of possession, O.C.G.A. § 44-7-59; ad valorem taxation of mobile homes, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-440 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 30-1—30-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PERMITS; STANDARDS FOR INSTALLATION OF PRE-OWNED MANUFACTURED HOMES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. of 10-12-2010, repealed the former Art. II, §§ 30-26—30-34, and enacted a new Art. II as set out herein. The former Art. II pertained to permits and derived from Res. of 12-20-71. See also the Code Comparative Table.

Sec. 30-26. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, or phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section.
Applicant means any person seeking to install a pre-owned manufactured home in the unincorporated area of Peach County.
Building inspector means the person appointed, employed, or otherwise designated as the director of planning, permits and inspections; the county building official or any of his or her assistants.
Certificate of occupancy means a document issued by the building inspector certifying that a pre-owned manufactured home is in compliance with applicable requirements set forth by this article, and indicating it to be in a condition suitable for residential occupancy.
Guarantee of condition bond means a surety bond to guarantee that the affidavit and photographs required by subsection 30-28(1)a. and b. of this article reasonably portray or represent the existing condition of the pre-owned manufactured home proposed for relocation. In lieu of the bond, a cash deposit may be deposited with the county.
Install means to construct a foundation system and to place or erect a manufactured home on such foundation system. Such term includes, without limitation, supporting, blocking, leveling, securing, or anchoring such manufactured home and connecting multiple or expandable sections of such manufactured home.
Jurisdiction means the unincorporated areas of Peach County, Georgia.
Manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401 et seq.
Pre-owned manufactured home means any manufactured home that has been previously used as a residential dwelling and has been titled.
(Ord. of 10-12-2010)
Sec. 30-27. - Conditions.
All pre-owned manufactured homes located in the jurisdiction shall bear a label certifying it was constructed in compliance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401 et seq. (the HUD Code) and shall be installed in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 8-2-160 et seq.
(Ord. of 10-12-2010)
Sec. 30-28. - Permitting, inspection, certificate of occupancy and fees.
A permit shall be required to locate a pre-owned manufactured home in the jurisdiction. All permits shall be issued within 30 days of receipt of all items listed in subsections (1)a.—d. of this section.
(1)
Permit. To obtain a permit, applicants shall provide to the building inspector:
a.
An affidavit signed by the applicant that the pre-owned manufactured home meets health and safety standards required by this Act;
b.
Photographs of the interior and exterior of the pre-owned manufactured home providing evidence that home meets the minimum health and safety standards of section 30-29 of this article;
c.
A $150.00 refundable guarantee of condition bond or $150.00 refundable cash deposit; and
d.
The permit and inspection fee required by subsection (4) of this section.
(2)
Inspection. Upon receipt of a permit, applicants may relocate the manufactured home on a residential site for the purposes of inspection. Applicant shall arrange for an inspection to be held once the installation of the manufactured home is complete.
(3)
Certificate of occupancy. A certificate of occupancy shall be issued to the applicant at such time that the building inspector certifies that the requirements of this article have been met.
(4)
Fee. A permit and inspection fee shall be charged to the applicant to cover the cost to the county to process the permit application and inspect the pre-owned manufactured home. Such fee shall cover the initial inspection and one follow up inspection and will be based upon the assessed value of the home.
(5)
Alternative inspection. At the request of the applicant, the building inspector may, at his or her discretion, inspect a pre-owned manufactured home prior to its being relocated if the home is then located at another site within the county.
(Ord. of 10-12-2010)
Sec. 30-29. - Minimum health and safety standards.
All pre-owned manufactured homes shall comply with the following before being issued a certificate of occupancy by the building inspector:
(1)
HUD Code. Every pre-owned manufactured home locate din the jurisdiction shall be in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act; 42 U.S.C. 5401-5445 (the HUD Code) and shall not have been altered in such a way that the home no longer meets the HUD Code.
(2)
Interior condition. Every floor, interior wall, and ceiling of a pre-owned manufactured home shall be in sound condition. Doors and windows shall be operable, watertight and in good working condition. The floor system shall be in sound condition and free of warping, holes, water damage, or deterioration.
(3)
Exterior condition. The exterior of all pre-owned manufactured homes shall be free of loose or rotting boards or timbers and any other conditions that might admit rain or moisture to the interior portions of the walls or to occupied spaces. The exterior siding shall be free of rot and rust. Roofs shall be structurally sound and have no obvious defects that might admit rain or cause moisture to collect on the interior portion of the home.
(4)
Sanitary facilities. Every plumbing fixture, water, and waste pipe of a pre-owned manufactured home shall be in a sanitary working condition when properly connected, and shall be free from leaks and obstructions. Each home shall contain a kitchen sink. Each bathroom shall contain a lavatory and water closet. At least one bathroom shall contain a tub and/or shower facilities. Each of these fixtures shall be checked upon being connected to ensure they are in good working condition.
(Ord. of 10-12-2010)
Sec. 30-30. - Repealer.
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this article are repealed, except that nothing in this article shall be construed to permit the location of manufactured homes in areas where they are not authorized by applicable zoning and land use regulations.
(Ord. of 10-12-2010)
Sec. 30-31. - Severability.
Should any provision of this article be rendered invalid by a court of law, the remaining provisions shall continue in force and effect until amended or repealed by action of the county board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 10-12-2010)
Sec. 30-32. - Effectivity.
This article shall become effective on October 12, 2010.
(Ord. of 10-12-2010)
