ARTICLE VIII. - LIMITATION ON ENGINE IDLING[11]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (11) ---
Cross reference— Traffic and vehicles, ch. 46.

Sec. 26-326. - Findings and purpose.
The Peach County Board of Commissioners finds that:
(1)
Air pollution is a major public health concern in Middle Georgia. Currently, Bibb County and part of Monroe County are designated as non-attainment for the one-hour federal ozone standard, as well as the more stringent state ozone standard. Air pollution can cause or aggravate lung illnesses such as acute respiratory infections, asthma, chronic bronchitis, emphysema, and lung cancer. In addition to health impacts, air pollution imposes significant economic costs and negative impacts on our quality of life.
(2)
Exhaust from vehicles (both on- and off-road) is a substantial source of ozone precursors in the Middle Georgia region. Vehicle exhaust is also a source of carbon monoxide, particulate matter, toxic air contaminants, and greenhouse gases. Although new engines have become cleaner due to improved emission control technologies, the slow turnover in their inventory and the number of miles/hours these vehicles idle each year is hindering progress in improving regional air quality.
(3)
Public agencies can play an important role in improving air quality by limiting the amount of time engines are allowed to idle within their jurisdiction. Public agencies have the responsibility to lead the effort to improve air quality by adopting ordinances that are cost effective in reducing ozone precursor emissions and toxic air contaminants.
(4)
Under this article, a limitation on diesel engine idling is established by the Peach County Board of Commissioners to discourage the idling of engines in unincorporated Peach County.
(Ord. of 7-11-06(5))
Sec. 26-327. - Definitions.
[The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:]
"Driver" means any person who drives, operates, or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
"Emergency" means a sudden, urgent, usually unforeseen, occurrence.
"Equipment operator" means any person who is in actual physical control of a piece of off-road equipment.
"Gross vehicle weight rating" means the weight specified by the manufacturer as the loaded weight of a single vehicle.
"Heavy-duty vehicle" means any on-road motor vehicle with a manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating greater than 14,000 pounds.
"Idling" means the engine is running while the vehicle is stationary or the piece of off-road equipment is not performing work.
"Medium-duty vehicle" means any on-road motor vehicle with a manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating of 6,001—14,000 pounds.
"Official traffic control device" means any sign, signal, marking, or device, placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic, but does not include islands, curbs, traffic barriers, speed humps, speed bumps, or other roadway design features.
"Official traffic control signal" means any device, whether manually, electrically, or mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and proceed and which is erected by authority of a public body or official having jurisdiction.
"Off-road equipment" means all non-road equipment with a horsepower rating of 50 or greater.
"Transport refrigeration unit" or "TRU" means a refrigeration system powered by an engine designed to control the environment of temperature sensitive cargo. A TRU is a piece of off-road equipment regardless of its horsepower rating.
"Vehicle" means any on-road, self-propelled vehicle that is required to be registered and have a license plate by the department of motor vehicles.
"Vehicle/equipment owner" means the registered owner, lessee, licensee, or bailee of any heavy- or medium-duty vehicle or piece of off-road equipment who operates or directs the operation of any such vehicle or equipment on either a for-hire or not-for-hire basis.
(Ord. of 7-11-06(5))
Sec. 26-328. - Applicability.
There is hereby established an ordinance to be known as the "Limitation on engine idling" that applies to the operation of all diesel fueled vehicles regardless of gross vehicle weight rating, all heavy-duty diesel operated vehicles, all off-road diesel-powered equipment regardless of horsepower rating, and all off-road diesel powered equipment. Additionally, this ordinance applies to TRU engines as specified in section 26-327.
(Ord. of 7-11-06(5))
Sec. 26-329. - Idling limitation.
(a)
A driver of a vehicle:
(1)
Must turn off the engine upon stopping at a destination; and
(2)
Must not cause or allow an engine to idle at any location for more than five consecutive minutes.
(b)
An equipment operator of an off-road piece of equipment must not cause or allow an off-road piece of equipment to idle at any location for more than five consecutive minutes.
(c)
An equipment operator of a TRU must not cause or allow a TRU to operate within 1,000 feet of a residential area or school, unless the cargo will be loaded or has been unloaded within 45 minutes.
(Ord. of 7-11-06(5))
Sec. 26-330. - Exemptions.
This chapter does not apply to a vehicle or piece of equipment for the period or periods during which:
(1)
Idling is necessary while stopped:
a.
For an official traffic control device;
b.
For an official traffic control signal;
c.
For traffic conditions over which the driver has no control, including, but not limited to: Stopped in a line of traffic, stopped at a railroad crossing, or stopped at a construction zone; or
d.
At the direction of a peace officer;
(2)
Idling is necessary to ascertain that the vehicle and/or the off-road equipment is in safe operating condition and equipped as required by all provisions of law, and all equipment is in good working order, either as part of the daily vehicle inspection, or as otherwise needed;
(3)
Idling is necessary for testing, servicing, repairing, or diagnostic purposes;
(4)
Idling is necessary, for a period not to exceed five minutes or as recommended by the manufacturer to cool down a turbo-charged heavy-duty vehicle before turning the engine off;
(5)
Idling is necessary to accomplish work for which the vehicle/equipment was designed, other than transporting goods, for example: Operating a lift, crane, pump, drill, hoist, ready mixed concrete mixer vehicle, or other auxiliary equipment other than a heater or air conditioner;
(6)
Idling is necessary to operate a lift or other piece of equipment designed to ensure safe loading and unloading of goods and people;
(7)
Idling is necessary to operate defrosters, heaters, air conditioners, or other equipment to prevent a safety or health emergency.
(8)
Idling is necessary solely to recharge a battery or other energy storage unit of a hybrid electric vehicle/equipment; or
(9)
Idling is necessary to operate equipment that runs intermittently.
(Ord. of 7-11-06(5))
Sec. 26-331. - Relationship to other laws.
Nothing in this article allows idling in excess of other applicable laws, including, but not limited to any local ordinance or requirement as stringent as, or more stringent than this article.
(Ord. of 7-11-06(5))
Sec. 26-332. - Penalties.
Any individual violating this article, upon conviction, shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation or imprisonment not exceed 60 days, or both.
(Ord. of 7-11-06(5))
Sec. 26-333. - Enforcement.
This article may be enforced by the Peach County Sheriffs Office and the Peach County Marshal.
(Ord. of 7-11-06(5))
Sec. 26-334. - Effective date.
The provisions of this article shall be effective upon adoption by the Peach County Board of Commissioners [July 11, 2006].
(Ord. of 7-11-06(5))
Secs. 26-335—26-350. - Reserved.
