ARTICLE IV. - NOISE REGULATIONS[6]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Provisions adopted by an ordinance adopted Sept. 8, 1987, have been included herein at the discretion of the editor as Art. IV, §§ 26-101—26-110.

Sec. 26-101. - Policy.
It is the public policy of Peach County to prevent excessive sound and vibration which may jeopardize the health, welfare and safety of its citizens or degrade the quality of human life.
(Ord. of 9-8-87, § I)
Sec. 26-102. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the term:
Motor vehicles means any and all self-propelled vehicles as defined in the Georgia Motor Vehicle Code, specifically including but not limited to automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, minibikes, recreational vehicles, trail bikes and go carts.
Noise means any sound which endangers or injures the safety or health of humans or animals, which annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of normal sensitivities or endangers or injures real or personal property.
Person means any human being, corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization and any other group acting as a unit as well as an individual.
Real property boundary shall mean an imaginary line along the ground surface and its vertical extension which separates the real property owned by one person from that owned by another person but not including the intra-building real property divisions.
Sound shall mean an oscillation in pressure, particle displacement, particle velocity or other physical parameter, in a medium with internal forces that cause compression and rarefaction of that medium.
Vibration shall mean an oscillatory motion of solid bodies of deterministic or random nature described by displacement, velocity, or acceleration with respect to a given reference point.
(Ord. of 9-8-87, § II)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 26-103. - Loud, unnecessary or excessive noise prohibited.
No person may continue or cause to be made or continued any loud, unnecessary or excessive noise which unreasonably interferes with the comfort and repose of others within Peach County, Georgia.
(Ord. of 9-8-87, § III)
Sec. 26-104. - Violations of article.
It shall be unlawful, except as expressly permitted herein, to make, cause or allow the making of any noise or sound which violates the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 9-8-87, § IV)
Sec. 26-105. - General noise restrictions.
It shall be a violation of this article if between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Sunday through Thursday and 11:00 p.m. Friday night and Saturday night and 9:00 a.m. Saturday and Sunday if any noise regulated or prohibited under the provisions of this section is readily audible in another home, residence, apartment or building in which the usual openings, such as windows and doors are closed. The person or persons causing the noise or the owner, lessee, or other person in control of the property from which the noise is emanating shall be deemed to be violating this section.
(Ord. of 9-8-87, § V)
Sec. 26-106. - Specific acts declared violations.
In addition to the general prohibitions set out above, the following specific acts are declared to be in violation of this article:
(a)
Horns and signaling devices. The sounding of any horn or signaling device on any motor vehicle on any street or public place in the county, continuously and/or incessantly for a period in excess of 60 seconds, except as a danger warning.
(b)
Radios, televisions, loudspeakers, musical instruments and similar amplified devices. The operating or playing of any radio, musical instrument, or similar device which produces or reproduces sound on the public rights-of-way in such a manner as to be plainly audible to any person other than the operator of the device or occupants of the operator's motor vehicle. Also, the playing of any radio, phonograph or other musical instrument or similar device in such a manner or with such volume as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office, hospital or in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence or any persons in the vicinity except this section shall not apply to schools of music between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
(c)
Voices. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any hospital, dwelling, hotel or other type residence or any persons in the vicinity. In the case of noise emanating from a residence or apartment, the owner, lessee, rentor or other person deemed to be in any control of the home, apartment or building shall be deemed to be responsible.
(d)
Animals. The owning, possessing or harboring of any animal which frequently, or for continued duration, howls, barks, meows, squawks, or makes other sounds which create excessive or unnecessary noise across a residential or commercial boundary line. For the purposes of this article, barking dog shall mean a dog that barks, bays, cries, howls or makes any other noise continuously, and/or incessantly for a period of ten minutes, or barks intermittently for one-half hour or more to the disturbance of any person at any time, day or night, regardless of whether the dog is physically situated in or upon private property; provided, however, that a dog shall not be deemed a barking dog if at the time the dog is barking or making any other noise a person is trespassing or threatening to trespass upon property in or upon which the dog is situated.
(e)
Adequate mufflers or sound-dissipative devices. No person shall operate or cause to be operated any motor vehicle or motorcycle not equipped by a muffler in proper working order and in constant operation. No person shall remove or render inoperable or cause to be removed or rendered inoperable any muffler or sound-dissipative device on a motor vehicle or motorcycle other than for purposes of maintenance, repair and replacement.
(f)
Construction work. The erection, including excavation, demolition, alteration or repair of any building in any residential district or section other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on weekdays except in the cases of urgent necessity and then only when a permit has been obtained from the office of the county commissioners. If the county zoning officer determines that the public health and safety will not be impaired by the erection, demolition, alteration or repair of any building or the excavation thereof and if he shall further deem that loss or inconvenience would result to any party at interest, then the office of the county commissioners may grant permission for such work to be done between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. upon application being made at the time the permit for work is awarded or during the progress of the work.
(Ord. of 9-8-87, § VI)
Sec. 26-107. - Exemptions.
There are exempted from the provisions of this article the following:
(a)
Domestic power tools, lawnmowers and agricultural equipment when operated with a muffler between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., on weekdays and 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on weekends and holidays.
(b)
Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicles when responding to an emergency.
(c)
Noises made by persons having obtained a parade, concert, or construction permit from the county.
(d)
Any noise resulting from activities of a temporary duration for which a special permit has been granted pursuant to this article and which conforms to the conditions and limits stated thereon.
(e)
Aircraft related noises associated with aircraft while in flight and while under the jurisdiction of the Federal Aviation Administration or the Department of Defense.
(f)
Any vehicle of the state or county while engaged upon necessary public business.
(g)
Excavation or repair of bridges, streets or highways by or on behalf of the county or state nor shall the same apply to work performed by public utility companies.
(h)
The reasonable use of amplifiers or loud speakers in the course of public address which are non-commercial in character.
(Ord. of 9-8-87, § VII)
Sec. 26-108. - Special permits.
Any person desiring release from any provision of this article may apply for a special permit to cause or create a noise which would otherwise be in violation of this article. Applications for a special permit shall be made in writing to the office of the county commissioners. The permit may be granted to the applicant upon a showing of the following:
(1)
Additional time is necessary for the applicant to alter or modify the sound producing activity in order to comply with the provisions of this article; or
(2)
The activity, operation or noise source will be of a temporary duration and cannot be done in a manner that would comply with the provisions of this article; and
(3)
No reasonable alternative is available to the applicant.
Any permit granted pursuant to this section shall contain thereon all conditions upon which said permit has been granted including but not limited to the effective date, time of day, location, or equipment limitation; provided, however, that no special permit shall be issued for a period in excess of 15 consecutive days. Any special permit granted hereunder may be renewed upon application to the office of the county commissioners upon a showing that the reasons for which the permit was granted still exists.
(Ord. of 9-8-87, § VIII)
Sec. 26-109. - Enforcement.
The zoning enforcement officer and all law enforcement personnel shall be responsible for the enforcement of the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 9-8-87, § IX)
Sec. 26-110. - Penalties.
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined no less than $25.00 and no more than $500.00; provided, however, that in the case of a violation involving noise caused by a motor vehicle, the person charged with a violation may be granted a period of ten days in which to correct the source of the sound.
(Ord. of 9-8-87, § X)
Secs. 26-111—26-126. - Reserved.
