PART I - RELATED LAWS
ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1964 Ga. Laws, page 2627 which created a board of commissioners for the county. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets. The section number designations of the original act have been retained. Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20 the words "of roads and revenues" have been stricken from the name of the governing authority. A final judgment and decree entered November 16, 1979, by the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Georgia, Macon Division, in civil action number 76-137-MAC implemented a reapportionment plan which provided for the election of five members of the board of commissioners. A copy of the final judgment and decree is on file in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners.
Code reference—Board of commissioners, § 2-26 et seq.

Section 1. - [Creation; membership.]
There is hereby created a board of commissioners for Peach County to be composed of five (5) members. One member shall be a resident of the City of Fort Valley, one member shall be a resident of Peach County outside the City of Fort Valley, and one member shall be from the county at large. The aforesaid offices shall be designated as posts numbers 1, 2 and 3, respectively. The members shall be elected by the voters of the entire county.
Section 2. - [Elections; frequency; officers.]
The first election for members of the board created in this Act shall be held at the general election in November, 1964. The members elected shall take office January 1, 1965, for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified. Future elections shall be held every four years at the general election, and future successors shall likewise be elected for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified. Such successors shall take office on the first day of January immediately following their election. The members of the board shall elect a chairperson of the board who shall preside at meetings. The board is authorized to elect a vice-chairman in the event such is deemed advisable. The chairperson of the board shall be compensated in the amount of $600.00 per month payable monthly from the funds of Peach County. The members, other than the chairperson, shall be compensated in an amount of $500.00 per month payable monthly from the funds of Peach County.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2979; 1984 Ga. Laws, page 4289; 1989 Ga. Laws, page 4876; Act No. 118(H.B. 930), 4-9-99)
Editor's note— Act No. 118(H.B. 930) shall become effective on January 1, 2000.
Section 2A. - [Exception to four-year term.]
At the general election conducted in 1968, that candidate elected to post No. 3 (county at large) to take office on January 1, 1969, shall be elected for a two-year term of office instead of a four-year term. He shall serve until December 31, 1970. In the general election of 1970, his successor shall be elected to a four-year term of office and every four years thereafter a successor shall be elected in the general election in which the respective term of office shall expire to serve for a four-year term of office.
(1968 Ga. Laws, page 2473)
Section 3. - [Meetings.]
The board shall set a day for holding regular meetings, which shall be held each month. Other meetings shall be held upon call of the chairman or upon a call of a majority of the members of the board. A majority of the members of the board shall constitute a quorum for the conducting of business, but no official action shall be taken on any matter without an affirmative vote of at least two (2) members of the board. The chairman shall vote on all matters coming before the board for a vote.
Section 4. - [Clerk.]
The board shall employ a clerk of its own choosing who shall be responsible for performing the duties assigned by the board and who shall keep all records of the proceedings of the board and all other records. He shall be compensated not less than $6,500 nor more than $9,500 per annum to be determined by the board.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2979)
Section 5. - [Vacancies.]
(a)
(1)
Any vacancy in office upon the board which occurs for any reason other than expiration of term shall be filled as follows:
(A)
If the vacancy occurs during the final six months of a term of office, then within 30 days after such occurrence a majority of remaining members of the board shall appoint a person to fill such vacancy; or
(B)
If the vacancy occurs at any time prior to the time specified in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, then the election superintendent shall call for a special election to fill such vacancy, which special election shall be held on the earliest date permissible under Code Section 21-2-540 of the O.C.G.A.
(2)
Any person appointed to fill a vacancy in office pursuant to subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) of this subsection shall meet the same eligibility requirements specified for persons who are elected to such office. Any person appointed to fill a vacancy under subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) of this subsection or elected to fill a vacancy under subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of this subsection shall serve out the remainder of the unexpired term and until a successor is elected and qualified."
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 3012; Act of 3-31-2005)
Section 6. - [Powers.]
The board is hereby expressly given complete power, authority and control relative to all county matters of Peach County. It is hereby given all the power, authority and duties heretofore vested in the probate court judge when acting as governing authority of the county, and in the one-man office of commissioner of roads and revenues for Peach County.
Section 6A. - [Authorization to regulate charges for water and sewer services.]
The governing authority of Peach County is authorized to regulate the rate of charge for water and sewer services provided by any privately owned water and sewer company operating or conducting business within Peach County.
(1984 Ga. Laws, page 4377)
Section 6B. - [Authority to exercise redevelopment and other powers.]
The county shall have and be authorized to exercise all redevelopment and other powers authorized or granted counties pursuant to Chapter 44 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 36-44-1 et seq.], the `Redevelopment Powers Law,' as now or hereafter amended. These powers shall include, without being limited to, all redevelopment powers, the power to issue tax allocation bonds and incur other obligations without such bonds or obligations constituting debt within the meaning of Article IX, Section V of the Constitution, and the power to enter into contracts with private persons, firms, corporations, and business entities for the period specified in the `Redevelopment Powers Law.'
(1990 Ga. Laws, page 4589)
Section 7. - [Audits.]
The board shall have the books of the board audited annually and make a report thereof by publishing the same in the official organ of the county.
Section 8. - [County attorney.]
The board is hereby authorized to employ an attorney at law of said county as county attorney. It shall be his duty to represent the county in litigation and to be legal advisor to said board. He shall be compensated for his services in an amount and in the manner agreed upon between him and the board.
Section 9. - [Grand jury.]
The books of the board shall be open to inspection and investigation by the grand jury of the county, and it shall be the duty of the board and the clerk to submit to said grand jury all books and records when requested to do so.
Section 10. - [Bonds.]
Each member of the board and the clerk, shall give bond in the amount of $5,000 payable to the clerk of the superior court for and on behalf of the county, conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties as board members and as clerk. Such bonds shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the superior court of Peach County. Premiums thereon shall be paid from the funds of Peach County.
Section 11. - [Oaths.]
Before entering upon the duties of their offices, each member of the board shall take an oath before some officer authorized to administer oaths, to faithfully discharge the duties of their office.
Section 12. - [Selection of board.]
In the event that in the referendum election provided for hereinafter, the people vote in favor of having the grand jury of Peach County select the members of the board in lieu of such members being elected by the voters, the first members of the board shall be appointed by the grand jury for the last term of court in 1964. The grand jury shall select one commissioner for two (2) years, one for three (3) years, and one for four (4) years, to take office January 1, 1965. Each successor shall be selected by the grand jury meeting at the last term of court in the year of the expiration of the term. Such successors shall take office on the first day of January immediately after their selection by the grand jury, and all successors to the first members selected by the grand jury and future successors shall serve for terms of four (4) years and until their successors are selected and qualified.
Section 13. - [1939 Act repealed.]
An Act creating the office of commissioner of Peach County, approved February 10, 1939 (1939 Ga. Laws, page 708), as amended, is hereby repealed in its entirety, and all amendatory Acts are hereby repealed. The office of Commissioner as provided for therein, shall continue in existence, however, through December 31, 1964, but shall stand abolished at that time in the event that this Act is approved in the referendum election provided for hereinafter.
ARTICLE II. - HOSPITAL AUTHORITY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1991 Ga. Laws, page 4482 relating to the filling of vacancies on the board of the county hospital authority. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code reference—Hospital authority, § 2-91 et seq.

Section 1. - [Authority of act.]
This Act is passed pursuant to the authority of subsection (c) of Code Section 31-7-72 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 31-7-72(c)], relating to filling vacancies on boards of hospital authorities in existence prior to March 15, 1964.
Section 2. - [Filling of vacancies.]
On and after the date this Act becomes effective, any vacancy in those two membership positions on the Peach County Hospital Authority which were filled for a term beginning November 1, 1990, by Larry Collins and Ray Hollifield shall be filled, whether the vacancy occurs because of expiration of term or any other reason, as follows:
(1)
The governing authority of Peach County shall submit to the board of the Peach County Hospital Authority a list of three eligible persons for each such membership position. When the membership position will become vacant because of expiration of term, such submission shall be made at least 45 days prior to such expiration. When the membership position has become vacant for any other reason, such submission shall be made at least 30 days after the vacancy occurs;
(2)
The board at its next regular meeting shall either select one of the persons named in such list or decline to select any of the persons named on the list. If the board declines to select any of the persons named on the list, it shall so notify the county governing authority;
(3)
Upon receipt of the notification that the board has declined to select any of the persons named in the county governing authority's list, the county governing authority shall submit to the board of the hospital authority a second list of three eligible persons for the vacant membership position, no one of whom was named on the first list;
(4)
The board at its next regular meeting after receipt of the second list shall either select one of the persons named in the second list or decline to select any of the persons named in the second list. If the board declines to select any of such persons, it shall notify the county governing authority and the presiding judge of the Civil Division of the Superior Court of Peach County; and
(5)
Upon receipt of the notification that the board has declined to select any of the persons named in the second list, the presiding judge of the Civil Division of the Superior Court of Peach County shall select one of the six names previously submitted to the board unless, for good cause, that judge makes another selection of a person eligible for membership on the board.
Section 3. - [Appointment; terms.]
A person appointed pursuant to Section 2 of this Act to fill a vacancy resulting from expiration of term shall take office immediately following the expiration of term and shall serve for a term of office of the same length as the terms of the members of the board who are not appointed pursuant to this Act and until such person's successor is appointed and qualified. A person appointed pursuant to Section 2 of this Act to fill an unexpired term shall be appointed to fill out such unexpired term and until that person's successor is appointed and qualified.
ARTICLE III. - WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1986 Ga. Laws, page 4663 which created and established the Peach County Water and Sewerage Authority. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code reference—Authorities, boards and commissions, § 2-51 et seq.

Section 1. - Short title.
This Act shall be known and may be cited as the "Peach County Water and Sewerage Authority Act."
Section 2. - Peach County Water and Sewerage Authority.
(a)
[Creation.] There is created a body corporate and politic, to be known as the "Peach County Water and Sewerage Authority," which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation and by that name, style, and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The authority shall have perpetual existence.
(b)
[Composition; terms; compensation; powers.] The authority shall be composed of five members who shall be appointed by the governing authority of Peach County. The terms of the initial members of the authority shall be staggered as follows: one member to serve for one year; one member to serve for two years; one member to serve for three years; one member to serve for four years; and one member to serve for five years. Successors to the initial members of the authority shall serve for terms of five years. The terms of all members shall begin on July 1 and shall run until June 30 of the year of expiration and until their successors are appointed and qualified. Successors shall be appointed in the same manner as the initial members in the month of June immediately preceding the expiration of a member's term of office. Any member of the authority may be selected and appointed to succeed himself or herself. As of July 1, 1997, the members of such authority shall enter upon their duties. The members of the authority shall be entitled to reimbursement for their actual expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties. The authority shall have the power to establish bylaws and to promulgate and adopt rules and regulations necessary or desirable for the management and operation of the authority.
[That Representatives Ray and James and Senator Hooks be and they are hereby requested to secure the passage of local legislation at the 1997 Session of the General Assembly to create a water and sewer district for Peach County and to provide for the appointment of members to the Peach County Water and Sewerage Authority on or after April 1, 1997.]
Editor's note— Resolution of 1-14-1997, did not specifically amend the Code; hence, at the discretion of the editor has been added as R.L. Art. III, § 2(b)1. See also the Related Laws Comparative Table.
(c)
[Eligibility for appointment.] To be eligible for appointment as a member of the authority, a person shall be at least 21 years of age and a resident of Peach County for at least one year prior to the date of his appointment and shall not have been convicted of a felony.
(d)
[Election of officers; terms.] The members of the authority shall in July of each year elect one of their number as chairman. Also, the members of the authority shall elect one of their number as vice chairman, shall elect one of their number as secretary, and may also elect one of their number as treasurer. The secretary may also serve as treasurer. Each of such officers shall serve for a period of one year and until his or her successor is duly elected and qualified. The chairman of the authority shall be entitled to vote upon any issue, motion, or resolution.
(e)
[Quorum.] Three members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all of the rights and perform all of the duties of the authority.
(f)
[Vacancy; cause; filling.] In the event of a vacancy by reason of death, disqualification, resignation, or other reason, the governing body of Peach County shall select and appoint a qualified person to fill the unexpired term of the member whose position has been vacated. A vacancy shall exist in the office of any member of the authority who is convicted of a felony or who enters a plea of nolo contendere thereto; who is convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude or who enters a plea of nolo contendere thereto; who moves his residence from the county; who is convicted of any act of misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance of his duties as a member of the authority; or who fails to attend any regular or special meeting of the authority for a period of three months without an excuse approved by a resolution of the authority.
(g)
[Meetings.] All meetings of the authority, regular or special, shall be open to the public. The authority may hold public hearings on its own initiative or at the request of residents of Peach County or residents of any area affected by the actions of the authority.
(h)
[Financial interest, profit or benefit prohibited.] No member or employee of the authority shall have directly or indirectly any financial interest, profit, or benefit in any contract, work, or business of the authority nor in the sale, lease, or purchase of any property to or from the authority.
(Res. of 1-14-1997; Act of 3-3-1997)
Section 3. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the term:
(1)
Authority means the Peach County Water and Sewerage Authority created by this Act.
(2)
Cost of the project means and embraces the cost of construction; the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements, and franchises acquired; the cost of all machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction and for one year after completion of construction; the cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal agents, and legal expenses, and of plans and specifications, and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized; the cost of the acquisition or construction of any project; the cost of placing any project in operation; and the cost of condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act for such project.
(3)
Project shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition, construction, and equipping of water facilities for obtaining one or more sources of water supply, the treatment of water, and the distribution and sale of water to users and consumers, including, but not limited to, the State of Georgia and counties and municipalities for the purpose of resale, within and without the territorial boundaries of Peach County, and the operation, maintenance, additions, improvements, and extensions of such facilities so as to assure an adequate water utility system deemed by the authority necessary or convenient for the efficient operation of such type of undertaking. The word "project" shall also mean and include the acquisition, construction, and equipping of all necessary and usual facilities useful and necessary for the gathering of waste matter of every type, including both individual and industrial, and the treatment of sewage of any and every type, including, but not limited to, the acquisition and construction of treatment plants, ponds, and lagoons, within and without the territorial boundaries of Peach County, and the operation, maintenance, additions, improvements, and extensions of such facilities so as to assure an adequate sewerage system deemed by the authority necessary for the efficient operation of a sanitary and storm sewer system. Said water facilities and said sewerage facilities, at the discretion of the authority, may be combined at any time into a water and sewerage system as one revenue-producing undertaking and operated and maintained as such.
(4)
Revenue bonds and bonds mean revenue bonds as defined and provided for in Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.], as now or hereafter amended, known as the "Revenue Bond Law," and such type of obligations may be issued by the authority as authorized under said Revenue Bond Law and any amendments thereto and, in addition, shall also mean obligations of the authority, the issuance of which are hereinafter specifically provided for in this Act.
(5)
Any project shall be deemed self-liquidating if, in the judgment of the authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom and all facilities used in connection therewith will be sufficient to pay the costs of operating, maintaining, repairing, improving, and extending the project and to pay the principal of and interest on the revenue bonds which may be issued to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of such project or projects.
Section 4. - Powers.
The authority shall have the power:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at its pleasure;
(2)
To acquire by purchase, lease, or otherwise and to hold, lease, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(3)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real property, or rights or easements therein, or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue, and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of, or dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority, the authority being under no obligation to accept and pay for any property condemned under this Act except from the funds provided under the authority of this Act, and, in any proceedings to condemn, such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the suit, action, or proceedings as may be just to the authority and to the owners of the property to be condemned, and no property shall be acquired under the provisions of this Act upon which any lien or other encumbrance exists unless at the time such property is so acquired a sufficient sum of money be deposited in trust to pay and redeem the fair value of such lien or encumbrance;
(4)
To appoint, select, and employ officers, agents, and employees, including engineering, architectural, and construction experts, fiscal agents, and attorneys and fix their respective compensations;
(5)
To make contracts and leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be constructed, erected, or acquired. Any and all persons, firms, and corporations and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions, or agencies of the state are authorized to enter into contracts, leases, or agreements with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable; and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, authority is specifically granted to municipal corporations, counties, and other political subdivisions and to the authority to enter into contracts, lease agreements, or other undertakings relating to the furnishing of water and related services and facilities by the authority to such municipal corporations, counties, and political subdivisions or for the purchase of water by the authority therefrom for a term not exceeding 50 years, and also to enter into contracts, lease agreements, or other undertakings relative to the gathering of waste matter and the treatment of waste matter and sewage by the authority for such municipal corporations, counties, and political subdivisions or by such municipal corporations, counties, or political subdivisions for the authority. Likewise, without limiting the generality of the above and foregoing, the same authority above granted to municipal corporations, counties, political subdivisions, and to the authority relative to entering into contracts, lease agreements, or other undertakings is authorized between the authority and private corporations, both within and without the State of Georgia, and between the authority and public bodies, including counties and cities outside the State of Georgia;
(6)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate, and manage projects, as hereinabove defined, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the authority or from such proceeds and any grant or contribution from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof or from the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(7)
To accept loans and grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may require;
(8)
To accept loans and grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or such agency or instrumentality or political subdivision may require;
(9)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(10)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, including the power to make shortterm loans and approve, execute, and deliver appropriate evidence of such indebtedness, provided no such power is in conflict with the Constitution or general laws of this state; and
(11)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this Act.
Section 5. - Revenue bonds.
The authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties, and liabilities vested in the authority created hereby, shall have power and is authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds of the authority for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as herein defined of any one or more projects. The principal of and interest on such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund hereby provided for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates per annum, payable at such time or times, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 40 years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority, and may be redeemable before maturity, at the option of the authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution for the issuance of bonds.
Section 6. - Same; form; denomination; registration; place of payment.
The authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereon, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the state. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the authority may determine, and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both principal and interest.
Section 7. - Same; signatures; seal.
In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if such officer had remained in office until such delivery. All such bonds shall be signed by the chairman of the authority and the official seal of the authority shall be affixed thereto and attested by the secretary of the authority and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the facsimile signatures of the chairman and the secretary of the authority. Any coupon may bear the facsimile signatures of such persons and any bond may be signed, sealed, and attested on behalf of the authority by such persons as at the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of such bonds such person may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office.
Section 8. - Same; negotiability; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall have and are declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the laws of this state. Such bonds, their transfer, and the income therefrom shall be exempt from all taxation within the state.
Section 9. - Same; sale; price; proceeds.
The authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interest of the authority. The proceeds derived from the sale of such bonds shall be used solely for the purpose or purposes provided in the resolutions and proceedings authorizing the issuance of such bonds.
Section 10. - Same; interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of any definitive bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim certificates, or temporary bonds, with or without coupons, exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
Section 11. - Same; replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The authority may provide for the replacement of any bonds or coupons which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
Section 12. - Same; conditions precedent to issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things other than those proceedings, conditions, and things which are specified or required by this Act. In the discretion of the authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this Act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special meeting of the authority by a majority of its members.
Section 13. - Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of Peach County nor a pledge of the faith and credit of said county; but such bonds shall be payable solely from the fund hereinafter provided for and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently obligate said county to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for their payment. All such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section.
Section 14. - Trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the authority, any issuance of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or without the state. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues, and earnings to be received by the authority. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for the protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair, and insuring of the project, and the custody, safeguarding, and application of all moneys, and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the authority, and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefor, and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depository of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other moneys be satisfactory to such purchasers, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depository and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation, and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
Section 15. - To whom proceeds of bonds shall be paid.
In the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, the authority shall provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who, or any agency, bank, or trust company which, shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes hereof, subject to such regulations as this Act and such resolution or trust indenture may provide.
Section 16. - Sinking fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls, and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings, and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the authority to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or the trust instrument may provide. Such funds so pledged from whatever source received, including funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture into a sinking fund which shall be pledged to and charged with the payment of:
(1)
The interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due;
(2)
The principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due;
(3)
The necessary charges of paying agents for paying principal and interest and other investment charges; and
(4)
Any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as hereinabove provided.
The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be maintained as a trust account for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, any surplus moneys in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds, and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be canceled and shall not again be issued.
Section 17. - Remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act or any of the coupons appertaining thereto and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia or granted hereunder or under such resolution or trust indenture and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this Act or by such resolution or trust indenture to be performed by the authority or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
Section 18. - Refunding bonds.
The authority is authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of bonds of the authority for the purpose of funding or refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and premium, if any. The issuance of such funding or refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the authority in respect to the same shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this Act insofar as the same may be applicable.
Section 19. - Validation.
Bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of the "Revenue Bond Law," Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.]. The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action the State of Georgia or any municipality, county, authority, political subdivision, or instrumentality of the State of Georgia which has contracted with the authority for the services and facilities of the project for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated and the state or such municipality, county, authority, political subdivision, or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any exists, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the contract or contracts adjudicated as a part of the basis for the security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The bonds when validated and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds and the security for the payment thereof and interest thereon and against the authority issuing the same and the state and any municipality, county, authority, political subdivision, or instrumentality, if a party to the validation proceedings, contracting with the said Peach County Water and Sewerage Authority.
Section 20. - Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act or any suit or action against such authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Peach County, Georgia; and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall likewise be brought in said court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
Section 21. - Interest of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence of said authority or its officers, employees, or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds. No other entity, department, agency, or authority will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, nor will the state itself so compete with the authority. The provisions of this Act shall be for the benefit of the authority and the holders of any such bonds, and, upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions hereof, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
Section 22. - Moneys received considered trust funds.
All moneys received pursuant to the authority of this Act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as grants or other contributions, or as revenue, income, fees, and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this Act.
Section 23. - Purpose of the authority.
Without limiting the generality of any provision of this Act, the general purpose of the authority is declared to be that of acquiring an adequate source or sources of water supply, treatment of such water, and thereafter the distribution of the same to the various municipalities and citizens in Peach County and environs, including adjoining counties and municipalities located therein, and further for the general purpose of gathering and treatment of waste, both individual and industrial; but such general purpose shall not restrict the authority from selling and delivering water directly to consumers in those areas where there does not now exist water distribution systems or furnishing sewer facilities to such customers and areas where neither any county nor municipality deems it desirable or feasible to furnish water in such locality.
The authority shall also have the authority, where it deems it feasible, to sell its products and services to customers, governmental agencies, or governmental instrumentalities of adjoining states, providing the laws of the adjoining states do not prohibit or tax said activity.
The authority shall not have the authority to construct water lines for the distribution of water directly to customers within any municipality without first obtaining the express written consent of the appropriate governing body of said municipality and, likewise, the authority shall not have the authority to construct sewer lines for the collection of waste and sewage directly to customers within any municipality without first obtaining the express written consent of the appropriate governing body of said municipality.
Section 24. - Rates, charges, and revenues; use.
The authority is authorized to prescribe and fix rates and to revise the same from time to time and to collect fees, tolls, and charges for the services, facilities, and commodities furnished and, in anticipation of the collection of the revenues of such undertaking or project, to issue revenue bonds as herein provided to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, betterment, or extension of a water system, a sewerage system, or a combined water and sewerage system, and to pledge to the punctual payment of said bonds and interest thereon, all or any part of the revenues of improvements, betterments, or extensions thereto thereafter made.
Section 25. - Rules and regulations for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed or acquired under the provisions of this Act, including the basis upon which water service and facilities, sewerage service and facilities, or both, shall be furnished.
Section 26. - Tort immunity.
The authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as Peach County; and the officers, agents, and employees of the authority when in the performance of the work of the authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents, and employees of Peach County when in the performance of their public duties or work of the county.
Section 27. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The foregoing sections of this Act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized thereby, shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing.
Section 28. - Severability.
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Act shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases of this Act, which shall remain of full force and effect as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional were not originally a part hereof. The General Assembly declares that it would have passed the remaining parts of this Act if it had known that such part or parts hereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
Section 29. - Effect on other governments.
This Act shall not and does not in any way take from Peach County or any municipality located therein or any adjoining county the authority to own, operate, and maintain a water system, a sewerage system, or a combined water and sewerage system or to issue revenue bonds as is provided by the "Revenue Bond Law," Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.].
Section 30. - Liberal construction of Act.
This Act being for the welfare of various political subdivisions of the state and its inhabitants shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
ARTICLE IV. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1988 Ga. Laws, page 4598 which provides an exemption from ad valorem taxation for certain homesteads and residents as defined in such act. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code reference—Taxation, ch. 42.

Section 1. - [Eligibility; filing of affidavit; determination of entitlement; notice of ineligibility.]
The homestead, but not to exceed $12,000.00 of the value thereof, of each resident of the Peach County school district who is 62 years of age or over and who does not have a gross income from all sources, including the income from all sources of all members of the family residing within said homestead, exceeding $14,000.00 per annum, shall be exempt from all ad valorem taxation for educational purposes levied for and in behalf of such school system including taxes to retire school bond indebtedness. No such exemption shall be granted unless an affidavit of the owner of the homestead is filed with the tax commissioner of Peach County giving his age, the amount of income which he received for the immediately preceding calendar year, the income which the members of his family residing within the homestead received for such period, and such other additional information relative to receiving the benefits of the exemption granted by this section as will enable the tax commissioner to make a determination as to whether such owner is entitled to said exemption. The tax commissioner shall provide affidavit forms for this purpose. The exemption granted to the homestead within this section shall extend to and shall apply to those properties, the legal title to which is vested in one or more title holders, if actually occupied by one or more such owners as a residence, and one or more such title holders possesses the qualifications provided for in this section. In such instances, such exemptions shall be granted to such properties, if claimed in the manner provided in this section by one or more of the owners actually residing on such property. Such exemptions shall also extend to those homesteads, the title to which is vested in an administrator, executor, or trustee, if one or more of the heirs or cestui que uses residing on such property shall possess the qualifications provided for in this section and shall claim the exemptions granted by this section in the manner provided in this section. It shall be the duty of any person who claims an exemption under this section to notify the tax commissioner in the event such person becomes ineligible for the exemption granted in this section. The exemption provided for in this section shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1988.
Section 2. - [Exemption in lieu of, not in addition to state homestead exemption.]
(a)
The exemption granted by Section 1 of this Act shall be in lieu of and not in addition to the homestead exemption granted by Code Section 48-5-52 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 48-5-52], relating to exemption from ad valorem taxation for educational purposes of homesteads of qualified individuals 62 years of age or older.
(b)
If the amount of said exemption granted by the general provisions of the Constitution and laws of this state is increased above the amount of the exemption granted by Section 1 of this Act, then such increased exemption shall apply rather than the exemption granted by Section 1 of this Act.
