Chapter 14 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Fire protection and safety, O.C.G.A. § 25-1-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 14-1. - Penalty.
Unless stated otherwise, violations of this chapter are punishable as provided in section 1-7.
Sec. 14-2. - Open burning.
No person shall cause, suffer, or allow the burning of garbage, trash or other materials on any street, right-of-way, or public park in the city. The burning of yard trash only will be permitted on private property by obtaining a burn number from the state forestry commission. Permitted burning must be attended at all times. Burning of household garbage, hazardous materials, or on Sunday is considered prohibited burning.
( Ord. No. 01-98, 3-13-1998 )
Sec. 14-3. - Billing and collection of service fees on behalf of volunteer fire department.
The fire chief shall establish a schedule of rates for each of the services of the volunteer fire department on or before January 1 of each year to be approved by the city council; and only auto and homeowner insurance carriers will be billed service fees. The citizens of the city fire district will not be charged this service fee if their policy does not cover it with the exception of negligent burning without a permit; and billing and collection of service fees on behalf of the city volunteer fire department will be done by an outside billing firm.
( Ord. No. 02-07, 4-24-2007 )
Secs. 14-4—14-24. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS

Sec. 14-25. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Storage container orcontainer means any container either metallic or otherwise, used to contain liquefied petroleum in its liquid or vapor state for agricultural, industrial, commercial or domestic use.
System means any apparatus, piping, tubing, appliance and equipment necessary for storing and converting liquefied petroleum gas into flame for light, heat, cooling, power, or other uses.
( Ord. No. 01-83, § 1, 12-5-1983 )
Sec. 14-26. - Penalty.
Unless stated otherwise, violations of this article are punishable as provided in section 1-7.
Sec. 14-27. - Container testing.
All liquefied petroleum gas containers, whether company owned or individually owned, shall comply with applicable hydrostat test laws. All containers and systems, whether company owned or private, prior to initial fill, shall be leak tested. The term "initial fill" refers to the first-time fill for the licensed person making the fill.
( Ord. No. 01-83, § 2, 12-5-1983 )
Sec. 14-28. - Rules and inspections.
(a)
The fire chief of the city or such officer as may be authorized by the city or by the fire chief is specifically empowered to promulgate reasonable rules and regulations governing the safety of storage containers and systems for liquefied petroleum gas and shall make available to the public copies of said regulations.
(b)
Upon notification to the fire chief or such other office authorized by the city that an unsafe condition exists within the city limits concerning a liquefied petroleum gas container or system, the fire chief shall conduct a safety inspection.
(c)
After the inspection has been conducted and the fire chief is satisfied that said container or system is unsafe in accordance with the requirements of this article, a certificate of nonacceptance shall be issued to the owner of the property holding the storage container and system and a warning label shall be attached to the container.
(d)
The warning label of nonacceptance shall be attached by the fire chief upon the storage container in a place of prominence so that it is visible from a distance and easily seen.
( Ord. No. 01-83, § 3, 12-5-1983 )
Sec. 14-29. - Cause for inspection.
Inspection by the fire chief of the city shall be conducted only when the fire chief possesses good cause to believe that a storage container and system are not in compliance with the provisions of this article or the law of the state.
( Ord. No. 01-83, § 4, 12-5-1983 )
Sec. 14-30. - Label of nonacceptance.
(a)
Any person who fills, or attempts to fill, a storage container and system that has a current and valid label of nonacceptance attached thereto is in violation of the provisions of this article.
(b)
It is the duty of any person who fills, or attempts to fill, a storage container and system to ascertain the presence of the label of nonacceptance and lack of knowledge shall not be a defense to a violation of this article.
( Ord. No. 01-83, § 5, 12-5-1983 )
Sec. 14-31. - Enforcement of article.
(a)
It shall be the duty of the fire chief of the city to enforce the provisions of this article.
(b)
Any person who introduces, or attempts to introduce, liquefied petroleum gas into a storage container and system having a current and valid label of nonacceptance shall be guilty of a violation of this article.
(c)
Any person who has a storage container and system located on real property owned by such person and who allows a person to introduce, or attempt to introduce, liquefied petroleum gas into the storage container and system having a current and valid label of nonacceptance, shall be guilty of a violation of this article.
( Ord. No. 01-83, § 6, 12-5-1983 )
