Sec. 4.14 - Access Management Standards.
Access Management Standards shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the Department of Transportation and Development's Land Disturbance and Right-of-Way Construction Guidelines, with the following modifications.
A.
Vehicular Access Points. Minimum required points of access shall be constructed in accordance with the Table of Vehicular Access Points listed below:
Table of Vehicular Access Points
EXPAND
Type of Development Minimum Number of Vehicular Access Points to Public Streets
Residential, < 100 units 1
Residential, 100 units or more 2
Non-residential, less than 50 parking spaces 1
Non-residential, 50-299 required parking spaces 2
Non-residential, 300-999 required parking spaces 3
Non-residential, 1,000 or more required parking spaces 4 or more
  B.
Access Easements and Inter-Parcel Access. Inter-parcel access, joint driveways, cross-access drives and access easements all intended to provide shared access across adjacent properties shall be provided as follows, except where the Director of Transportation and Development determines that they are unfeasible because of topographic or other site-specific constraints:
1.
Abutting non-residential developments on collector and arterial roadways shall provide a cross-access drive and sidewalk access to allow circulation between sites.
2.
Joint driveways and cross access easements shall be established for multi-parcel, non-residential and mixed use development wherever feasible along collector and arterial roadways. The building site shall incorporate the following:
a.
Continuous cross-access drives connecting adjacent parcels along the thoroughfare.
b.
A design speed of 15 mph and a two-way travel aisle with a minimum of 20 feet to accommodate automobiles, service vehicles and loading vehicles.
c.
Driveway aprons, stub-outs and other design features to indicate that abutting properties may be connected to provide cross access via a service drive.
3.
The Director of Transportation and Development may reduce the required separation distance of access points where the minimum required distance proves impractical, provided all of the following requirements are met.
a.
Joint-access driveways and/or cross-access easements are provided in accordance with this section.
b.
The site plan incorporates a unified access and circulation system for vehicles and pedestrians in accordance with this section.
