Sec. 4.103 - Sign Regulations.
A.
Master Signage Plans are required for all land development within the Overlay District, as described in Article 4.11. Signs shall be required as in Article 8, Sign Regulations, of this Zoning Ordinance. All signs in the District shall comply with all applicable provisions of the Code as follows:
1.
Signs shall be designed in compliance with the applicable requirements in the overlay district.
(A)
All ground signs shall be a monument-style sign with a base and support members made of brick, stucco or stone consistent with the materials of the primary business or structure.
(B)
All monument signs, and/or a building's front façade facing a public or private street, or private drive shall have the address numbers visible from the street or drive, and the individual numbers shall not exceed eight (8) inches in height unless incorporated in sign face design. Address numbers less than eight (8) inches in height shall be excluded from the maximum allowed sign area.
(C)
Each non-residential single tenant lot with a floor area greater than 50,000 square feet shall be permitted one monument sign per public street frontage. The sign area (face) of the monument sign shall not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet and the sign structure shall not exceed ten (10) feet in height.
(D)
Each lot or development with multi-tenants/mixed-use shall be permitted one monument sign per public street frontage. The sign area of the monument sign shall not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet and the sign structure shall not exceed ten (10) feet in height.
(E)
Mixed use developments shall be permitted one monument sign for each street frontage. One additional monument sign may be allowed for each entrance from a street or drive that is internal to the mixed use development. The monument sign area shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet and a maximum height of six (6) feet.
(F)
Signage located on buildings shall be designed to be integrated into the building and overall façade.
(G)
Each separate business front façade with an external public entrance may have a maximum of one (1) wall sign which shall not exceed an area of five (5) percent of the area of the façade of the ground floor of the building or seventy-five (75) square feet, whichever is less. Interior tenant space within a business of at least 50,000 square feet may have an additional wall sign area not to exceed a total of five (5) percent of the area of the façade of the ground floor of the building or one hundred (100) square feet, whichever is less.
(H)
Signs may be externally or internally illuminated. Monument signs shall only be externally illuminated with ground lights at the base of the monument sign.
(I)
No Window Signs other than payment methods, days and hours of operation. Temporary decals, placards, posters and advertisements are prohibited from being placed on the face of exterior walls or windows where it may be seen from the exterior.
(J)
Wall mounted sign shall be channel cut letters applied directly to the building façade.
(K)
Attached Canopy and Awning sign area shall be deducted from the permitted wall sign area.
(L)
Sign placement, lettering and massing shall be limited as follows:
i.
Monument sign structures shall not be two and a half (2 1/2) times the size of the sign copy area unless incorporated into a building wall or perimeter wall/fence structure.
ii.
Sign lettering shall be opaque and consist of block lettering in which individual letters are proportional in size to the overall size of the store wall or distance from the right-of-way, but in no event shall individual letters and/or logo copy area exceed the heights of the store wall or distance from the right-of-way.
iii.
Projected signs are encouraged for identification purposes on buildings and shall be perpendicular to the sidewalks.
2.
The following types of signs are prohibited in the District:
(A)
Motorist Distractions. Signs that incorporate flashing lights or beacons, highly reflective materials, rotating graphics, motion, smoke or visible matter, noise or changeable copy, that is copy that changes at intervals of more than once every six seconds, are prohibited.
(B)
Roof signs. Signs that are placed on or above roofs, penthouses, mechanical equipment screens, and other like structures and any signs that extend above the building parapet or roof fascia line.
(C)
Signs that are placed on vehicles or trailers that are not in regular use and are visible from a public right-of-way or major internal private drive.
(D)
Pole signs and other signs with exposed structural supports that are more than three (3) feet in height and have post supports larger than two (2) inches in diameter or a total of four (4) square inches in cross-section area.
(E)
Vacuum- molded or pre-manufactured signs. LED lighted signs or features
(F)
Temporary Signs. Banners, streamers, pennants, flags, wind banners, air/gas filled balloons, portable signs, string lights, laser lights and search lights except as approved as a part of a permitted temporary festival or event.
(G)
Flashing, animated, marquee, sound emitting, fluorescent, rotating or otherwise moving signs are prohibited.
(Ord. No. 2018-129, § 1, 12-18-18)
