Sec. 4.56 - Residential Land Uses.
A.
Prohibited uses. The following residential land uses shall be prohibited within the Highway 54 Overlay District:
1.
Residential townhomes, except within a Planned Unit Development (PUD), and
2.
Residential condominiums.
B.
Architectural Standards. Architectural design of all buildings and structures utilized for residential uses shall adhere to the following standards:
1.
Building materials for all exterior facades of residential buildings shall consist of brick, stone, or stucco as approved by the Zoning Administrator.
2.
Vinyl products shall only be used for soffits, eaves, and fascia of residential structures.
3.
Building materials, architectural features and colors of exterior finishes of accessory structures shall be consistent with the principal structure.
4.
Sloped roofs shall feature a roof plane change, gable, or dormer for every 100 linear feet.
5.
The roof pitch for sloped roofs shall be a minimum of 4:12 over the primary structure.
C.
Minimum Lot Size. No lot shall be smaller than 10,890 square feet.
D.
Sign standards. The sign standards established within Article 8, Sign Standards (SS), of the Zoning Ordinance shall be applied to all residential properties within the Highway 54 Overlay District, along with the following additional requirements:
1.
Subdivision entrance signs shall be constructed of brick, stone and/or metal.
E.
Landscaping standards. The landscaping standards established in Article 6.34, Landscaping Standards (LA), shall apply to all residential properties within the Highway 54 Overlay District, along with the following additional requirements:
1.
Where a subdivision, condominium, cluster housing or multiple family residential development borders a public right-of-way, a landscaped greenbelt buffer a minimum of 30 feet in width shall be provided along the right-of-way to provide screening. Screening may be provided utilizing a decorative wall and/or landscaped berm. This greenbelt shall be provided in addition to yard setbacks required by the Zoning Ordinance.
2.
A landscaped strip a minimum of 25 feet in width shall be required along all boundaries of subdivisions or multiple family residential developments which do not border a public right-of-way. This landscape strip shall be provided in addition to yard setbacks required by the Zoning Ordinance.
3.
Landscaped strips and greenbelts may consist of ground cover, shrubs, trees, and/or decorative fencing or walls. Areas of exposed earth shall not be allowed.
4.
All landscaped strips and greenbelts shall be maintained by the property owner. Any tree, shrub or ground cover which dies shall be replaced within the earliest planting season.
F.
Sidewalk and Connectivity Standards. Sidewalks shall be provided on all roads and shall conform with the Sidewalk Standards set forth in Article 6.9 of the Subdivision Ordinance.
1.
All developments and public spaces shall be linked with each other and with existing and future developments through the required sidewalk system or use of pedestrian pathways as identified in Article 6.14 of the Subdivision Ordinance.
G.
Parking Standards. Off-street parking shall be required as in Article 6.32, Parking Standards (PK), of the Zoning Ordinance.
H.
Outdoor Lighting Standards. All outdoor lighting shall adhere to the standards set forth within Article 6.36, Outdoor Lighting Standards (OL).
