Chapter 10 - AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Adult entertainment at alcoholic beverage establishments, § 6-161; businesses, ch. 22; games in parks, § 66-10.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 10-1—10-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - AMUSEMENT MACHINE OPERATIONS

Sec. 10-26. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Amusement machine means any machine or device used or operated by a person for the purpose of receiving its temporary services for the pleasure, recreation, amusement or enjoyment of the operator, which term includes, but is not limited to, billiard or pool tables, pinball machines, electronic video game machines and other similar devices. This term does not include "vending machines" whose operation is not intended to further the pleasure, recreation, amusement or enjoyment of the operator.
Class B coin operated amusement machine means a bona fide coin operated amusement machine that rewards a successful player with any combination of the following items:
(1)
Merchandise limited to noncash merchandise, prizes, toys, gift certificates, or novelties, each of which has a wholesale value of not more than $5.00 received for a single play of the game or device.
(2)
Points, tokens, vouchers, tickets, or other evidence of winnings which may be exchanged for free replays or rewards set forth in subsection (i) of this definition.
Distributor means any person which sets up for operation by another, or which leases or rents for the purpose of operation by another, any amusement machine, whether such payment for leasing or renting is based upon a fixed charge or rental, upon the basis of a division of the income derived from such amusement machine or upon any other form or method of payment.
Proprietor means any person who, as owner or lessee in possession, has control of the business establishment, place or premises in which any amusement machine is placed for operation, or kept for use or play, or is on exhibition for the purposes of use or play by the general public.
(Code 1973, § 2-16-99; Ord. No. 2010-247, § 1, 12-14-10)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 10-27. - License required.
No person shall engage in the business of being a distributor or proprietor of amusement machines without first obtaining a license for each calendar year.
(Code 1973, § 2-16-100)
Sec. 10-28. - License fee.
The license fee for each distributor or proprietor shall be based upon the total gross receipts provided in chapter 22, derived from the operation of the amusement machines. The licensee shall pay such fee each year, in advance, and is subject to all rules and regulations not in conflict with this article as more fully set forth in this article.
(Code 1973, § 2-16-101)
Sec. 10-29. - Application for license.
All applications, original, amended or renewal, for a license under this article shall be filed in writing with the department of community development on a form provided by the department, which shall specify the following:
(1)
Applicant's name and address, and if a firm, corporation, partnership or association, the principal owners, officers or partners thereof and their addresses.
(2)
The street address of the premises where the amusement machines are to be operated and a description of the general character of all business activities carried on within such premises.
(3)
The number and description of amusement machines to be operated upon the business premises.
(4)
The name and address of the owner of each amusement machine, if other than the distributor or proprietor of the business applying for the license.
(Code 1973, § 2-16-102)
Sec. 10-30. - General licensing provisions.
Any license issued under this article shall be issued in the name of the legal owner of the business and shall be posted in a conspicuous place upon the business premises. Any such license shall be nonassignable and nontransferable from one location to another, but shall apply only to the specific business premises location for which such license is issued. A processing fee of $25.00 shall be assessed for each original, amended or renewal application, which fee shall be tendered by the applicant at the time the application is submitted. Upon approval of the initial, amended or renewal application by the department of community development, the proper license fee shall be tendered for all amusement machines to be operated upon the premises and the department shall issue the appropriate license.
(Code 1973, § 2-16-103)
Sec. 10-31. - Increasing number of machines.
If any licensee under this article, after the expiration of any portion of any license year, desires to increase the number of amusement machines to be used or played or exhibited for use or play in the establishment, an amended application shall be filed to reflect the information required in section 10-30. Payment of the appropriate license fee applicable to the machines added shall be tendered with the amended application.
(Code 1973, § 2-16-104)
Sec. 10-32. - Operating regulations.
All licensees licensed under this article shall be subject to the following regulations:
(1)
Alcoholic beverages shall not be brought onto the premises by patrons of the business, notwithstanding the fact that the licensee may also be licensed to sell alcohol on the premises.
(2)
The county's sheriff, police or any other duly constituted law enforcement officer or administrative enforcement official shall be authorized to inspect the licensee's premises during normal business hours for the purpose of determining whether the provisions of this article are being obeyed. All suspected violations shall be reported promptly to the appropriate prosecuting or administrative authorities of the county, including the director of the department of permits and licenses. All information and assistance shall be rendered by such inspecting officer or official as is necessary for the proper enforcement of this article or any state or federal law, either civil or criminal.
(Code 1973, § 2-16-105)
Sec. 10-33. - Class B coin operated amusement machines.
(a)
Subject to the restrictions set forth in subsections (c) and (d) of this section, a restaurant, cafe, or dining facility which provides table seating for no less than 40 persons may apply to the county department of community development for a special business permit allowing the establishment to provide more than nine Class B coin operated amusement machines.
(b)
Establishments not meeting the criteria set forth in subsection (a) of this section may not provide more than nine Class B coin operated amusement machines.
(c)
No establishment shall derive more than 50 percent of such establishment's monthly gross retail receipts for the establishment from Class B coin operated amusement machines. Gross retail receipts means the total revenue derived by an establishment at the location on the sale of goods and services but shall not include revenue from the sale of goods or services for which the business will receive only a commission. Revenue from the sale of goods and services at wholesale shall not be included.
(d)
Class B bona fide coin operated amusement machines shall meet the following criteria:
(1)
The machine rewards the player or players with tickets, tokens, or other non-cash representations of value redeemable for merchandise prizes;
(2)
The outcome of the game involves some skill in its operation;
(3)
The award of tickets, tokens or other non-cash representations of value is based solely on the players achieving the object of the game or player's score;
(4)
Only merchandise prizes are awarded;
(5)
The average wholesale value of the prizes awarded in lieu of tickets or tokens for a single play of the machine does not exceed $5.00);
(6)
The redemption value of each ticket, token or other non-cash representation of value that may be accumulated by a player or players to redeem prizes of greater value does not exceed the cost of a single play of the machine; and
(7)
Any distributor or proprietor of Class B bona fine coin operated amusement machines shall comply with all the guidelines and criteria in this article that relate to amusement machines.
(e)
Applications for a special business permit under this section shall be filed with the county department of community development and considered by the board of commissioners at a meeting no sooner than 30 days after the filing of such application.
(f)
Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to supersede any restrictions on coin operated machines in this Code.
(Ord. No. 2010-247, § 1, 12-14-10)
Secs. 10-34—10-55. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - TEEN LOUNGES

Sec. 10-56. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Premises, in addition to the building and any curtilage normally considered as appurtenant thereto, means all public and private parking areas adjacent to the building on the same parcel, regardless of size.
Teen lounge means any business establishment, either for-profit or non-profit, catering exclusively to individuals between the ages of 13 to 17 years and which is operated primarily as a place for such individuals to congregate for social or educational activities for an admission fee. Patrons must present a picture identification for admission into the establishment. A teen lounge shall not include any business establishment which is operated as a place for the exchange of merchandise for consideration.
(Code 1973, § 2-4-41; Ord. No. 2019-97, § 2, 8-20-19)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 10-57. - License required.
(a)
Every person keeping, operating or maintaining a teen lounge within the unincorporated area of the county for use by the public shall be required to obtain a license from the department of community development on a form to be provided by the county in the manner specified in this article and upon approval, based upon adequate assurance that the operating provision contained in this article can be met.
(b)
No licensee shall have been convicted nor have entered a plea of nolo contendere within the ten years immediately preceding the date of application for any felony or crime involving moral turpitude. In those instances involving corporations, this prohibition shall also apply to the corporation's president, vice-president, secretary, treasurer and all stockholders owning 20 percent or more of the corporation's stock.
(c)
It shall be the duty of all licensees to file with the department of community development the names of all employees with their home addresses, home telephone numbers and places of employment. Changes in the list of employees, with the names of new employees, must be filed with the department within three days from the date of any such change. All employees shall be subject to such investigation rules and regulations as may be deemed necessary from time to time by the department of community development. A $20.00 investigation fee shall be paid by all licensees for each employee.
(Code 1973, § 2-4-40; Ord. No. 2019-97, § 3, 8-20-19)
Sec. 10-58. - Operating hours.
No teen lounge shall allow customers to remain upon their premises after 10:30 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday or later than 11:30 p.m. on any Friday or Saturday.
(Code 1973, § 2-4-42; Ord. No. 2019-97, § 4, 8-20-19)
Sec. 10-59. - Alcoholic beverages.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any licensee of a teen lounge to knowingly or recklessly allow any patron to have or bring onto its premises alcoholic beverages of any kind.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any patron of a teen lounge to have or bring onto premises of a teen lounge any alcoholic beverages of any kind.
(Code 1973, § 2-4-43; Ord. No. 2019-97, § 5, 8-20-19)
Sec. 10-60. - Controlled substances.
It shall be unlawful for any licensee of a teen lounge to knowingly or recklessly allow any patron thereof to have or bring onto its premises any substance controlled by the criminal provisions of state law.
(Code 1973, § 2-4-44; Ord. No. 2019-97, § 6, 8-20-19)
Sec. 10-61. - Operating regulations.
(a)
Once a patron of a teen lounge has paid his admission and entered the building, no such patron shall be readmitted after leaving the building.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this article to knowingly or recklessly allow, after a warning from any county official, any individuals to congregate for no apparent legitimate purpose upon its premises outside its building.
(c)
All areas of the licensees' premises outside its building shall have sufficient lighting thereof so as to allow observers from the nearest public right-of-way to observe activities taking place upon the premises outside its building.
(d)
All licensees shall maintain a current and accurate count of the number of individuals in its building at all times.
(e)
All licensees shall maintain at least one security officer for each 150-patron capacity or part thereof.
(f)
There must be in attendance a minimum of three chaperones for the first 100 patrons in attendance, and one chaperone for each additional 30 patrons, one of whom shall be female. Chaperones shall be over 25 years of age and first approved by the department of community development.
(g)
Functions shall at all times be open to the public authorities of the county for entrance and inspection.
(h)
The licensee shall see that all the provisions of this subsection are carried out, and if he or his agent fails to do so, either intentionally or by inadvertence, the permit and license may be suspended or revoked.
(i)
No licensee may deny admission to or charge an admission fee or other charge, any individual entering its premises for the purpose of retrieving their child or children.
(j)
The licensee shall promulgate rules and regulations governing the operation of the business establishment and the conduct of its patrons, which shall be posted in a conspicuous place within the premises.
(k)
Require teen-aged patrons to show a picture ID in order to attend teen lounges.
(l)
Require businesses to: maintain adequate landscaping, maintain proper building codes, and have quarterly regulatory checks.
(m)
Require business to maintain adequate levels of security on the inside and perimeter of the property.
(n)
Violations of this article shall be a misdemeanor punished as provided by section 1-12 of this Code.
(Code 1973, § 2-4-45; Ord. No. 2019-97, § 7, 8-20-19)
