ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Qualifying fees for elective offices.
The method for determining the amount of filing fees to be paid by candidates for elective county offices shall be as prescribed by state law.
(Code 1973, § 2-2-1)
Sec. 2-2. - Fees for the certification of documents.
(a)
Manner of establishment. The clerk of the board of commissioners shall from time to time establish the fee to be charged by him for the certification of any public county document in the office of the board of commissioners. The fee may include charges on a per page basis for the copying of public county documents.
(b)
Disposition of fees. All fees received by the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners pursuant to this section shall be paid over to the county accounting department and deposited to the account of the general fund of the county.
(Code 1973, § 2-2-4)
Sec. 2-3. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the county shall begin on July 1, and end on June 30, for fiscal accounting purposes. Nothing in this section shall be construed to alter or change the taxation of properties or the collection of such taxes, the altering of borrowing capacity or the repayment thereof if and when such borrowing capacity is utilized, nor shall it affect the annual budgets, millage, or other fiscal acts authorized or directed by the laws of the state.
(Code 1973, § 2-2-5)
Sec. 2-4. - Meetings.
The board of commissioners shall hold regular meetings on the first and third Tuesday of each month at 6:30 p.m. at its offices located at 112 Smith Street, Jonesboro, Georgia, unless cancelled postponed to a subsequent date by action taken at a regular meeting. Meetings shall be open to the public. The board of commissioners may hold such additional meetings as shall be necessary when called by any three members of the board (which may include the chairman), provided the chairman and all board members shall have been notified at least 24 hours in advance of such special meeting. Whenever any regular meeting of the board shall fall on a holiday, the meeting shall be held on the following day. No official action shall be taken by the board except in a meeting which is open to the public. Any three members of the board shall constitute a quorum, except that a lesser number shall be sufficient to recess or adjourn any meeting; but no official action shall be taken except upon the affirmative vote of at least three members of the board. The chairman shall be entitled to the same voting rights as other board members on questions considered by the board. All zoning meetings shall be conducted as a part of the regular business meeting on the third Tuesday of each month.
(Ord. No. 2006-135, § 1, 10-17-06; Ord. No. 2009-22, § 1, 2-3-09; Ord. No. 2009-50, § 1, 4-7-09; Ord. No. 2013-149, § 1, 6-18-13; Ord. No. 2019-9, § 1, 2-5-19)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2006-135, § 1, adopted Oct. 17, 2006, amended § 2-4 in its entirety. Formerly, said section pertained to use of county vehicles.
Sec. 2-5. - Legal holidays.
(a)
The board of commissioners shall designate holidays to be observed by county employees on a yearly basis.
(b)
Whenever a public or legal holiday occurs on Sunday, the following Monday may be observed as the public or legal holiday.
(Code 1973, § 2-2-10)
Sec. 2-6. - Employee travel.
(a)
All requests by employees for travel, both intrastate and interstate, where county funds will be expended shall be submitted in writing for consideration for approval by the employee's department head. All travel requests that exceed $1,500.00 must be approved by the chairman of the board of commissioners prior to any such travel. Upon the travel request being approved, the employee must submit the appropriate documents to the finance department. If using advance funds for travel, it shall be the duty of the employee making the trip, immediately upon return to the county, to certify the travel was made and to submit an itemized expense account to the chief financial officer. If the itemized certified accounting of travel is not made within 30 days from the date the employee returns to work, the accounting department shall deduct from his/her salary, any advance payment made to such employee.
(b)
The chief financial officer is charged with the responsibility of administering the policy and preparing forms necessary or incidental to accurate accounting in order that the intent of this section shall be fully satisfied. In the absence of a specific guideline governing a travel request, the county will default to the most recently-adopted version of the Statewide Travel Policy enacted by the State of Georgia (or its equivalent) in processing employee travel requests.
(c)
If the county employee utilizes his or her personal automobile for approved travel, as is contemplated by this resolution, the employee may be reimbursed at the current rate for mileage reimbursement set by the State of Georgia travel policy.
(d)
If any employee is found to have violated the intent and spirit of this section said employee may be subject to disciplinary action.
(Code 1973, § 2-2-11; Res. No. 95-56, 6-20-95; Ord. No. 2014-119, § 1, 5-20-14; Ord. No. 2017-67, § 1, 10-3-17)
Sec. 2-7. - Issuance of citations.
Each department head, or his designee, is hereby authorized to issue uniform citation summons and accusations, upon probable cause, for an alleged violation of any ordinance, resolution or other provision of the Code of Clayton County, Georgia, duly adopted by the board of commissioners, such summons being returnable in the state court of Clayton County.
(Code 1973, § 2-2-13)
Sec. 2-8. - Designation of depositories.
The official depositories for county funds shall be as prescribed annually by the board of commissioners in accordance with 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3055.
(Code 1973, § 2-2-6(a))
Sec. 2-9. - Persons authorized to sign checks.
The chairman, or in the absence of the chairman, the vice-chairman, the chief financial officer and such other individuals as the board of commissioners may designate by resolution are authorized to sign checks, drafts or other orders on such accounts, and such depository is authorized to honor such checks, drafts or orders so signed as long as the check, draft or other orders bear the signature of the chairman, vice-chairman or the signature of the chief financial officer. The clerk is authorized and directed to furnish the depository with a certified copy of this section and the specimen signatures of the persons set forth above, together with the depository's usual forms of signature cards, and the depository shall be authorized to rely thereon until written notice to the contrary is received by it.
(Code 1973, § 2-2-7; Ord. No. 2013-110, § 1, 4-16-13)
Sec. 2-10. - Chief of staff.
The position of chief of staff is created. The chief of staff shall be recommended by the chief operating officer and approved by the board of commissioners. The chief of staff shall perform those duties under the daily direction of the chief operating officer. The provisions of the county civil service act shall not be applicable to the position of chief of staff.
(Ord. No. 2009-50, § 1, 4-7-09; Ord. No. 2022-172, § 1, 8-2-22)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2009-50, § 1, adopted Apr. 7, 2009, enacted provisions intended for use as § 2-13. To preserve the style of this Code, and at the discretion of the editor, said provisions have been redesignated as § 2-10.
Sec. 2-11. - Chief operating officer.
The board of commissioners hereby authorizes the chief operating officer to perform the following duties in addition to those duties provided for in other sections of the Code of Clayton County as well as in other county resolutions and ordinances previously approved by the board:
(1)
The chief operating officer shall supervise the following department director positions and persons holding said positions shall report directly to the chief operating officer:
Building Maintenance
Central Services
Community Development
Corrections
Economic Development
Elections and Registration Extension Service
Fire Department
Fleet Maintenance
Human Resources
Indigent Defense
Information Technology
Library
Parks and Recreation
Police Department
Senior Services
Tax Assessor
Transportation and Development
The director of human resources is hereby authorized to update the class specifications for the department director positions listed in section 2-11(1) to reflect this reporting structure.
(2)
The chief operating officer shall have the authority to interview candidates for department director positions and recommend candidates to the board of commissioners. The chief operating officer shall have the authority to organize a committee to assist with this process.
(3)
The chief operating officer shall have the authority to conduct investigations and take disciplinary actions regarding department directors provided that only the board of commissioners shall have the authority to suspend, demote or terminate a department director. The chief operating officer shall have the authority to investigate allegations regarding department directors and to submit a recommendation for the suspension, demotion or termination of a department director to the board of commissioners.
(4)
The chief operating officer shall have the authority to conduct performance reviews for department directors.
(5)
The chief operating officer shall oversee, monitor and advise contractors and/or department directors that are assigned to SPLOST projects to ensure that all SPLOST projects are implemented as required in the chief operating officer's classification specification.
(6)
The chief operating officer will manage daily operations and strategic execution of initiatives assigned to department directors and direct reports as assigned by the chairman and/or board of commissioners.
(7)
In the event the chief operating officer position is vacant or the chief operating officer is unable to perform the duties of the office all duties vested in that position shall be carried out by the chairman of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 2013-316, § 1, 12-17-13; Ord. No. 2014-126, 5-20-14; Ord. No. 2019-19, § 1, 1-2-19; Ord. No. 2022-134, § 4, 6-21-22; Ord. No. 2022-238, § 1, 10-18-22)
Sec. 2-12. - Director of finance/comptroller.
The board is hereby authorized to employ a director of finance/comptroller. the director of finance/comptroller shall be covered by any provisions of the Civil Service System of Clayton County. The director of finance/comptroller shall have a minimum of three years of general accounting experience with a recognized accounting firm or a degree in accounting from a recognized educational institution or three years' experience in accounting work for a federal, state, county, or municipal agency. The compensation of the director of finance/comptroller shall be initially fixed by the board of commissioners, payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of Clayton County. The director of finance/comptroller shall give a satisfactory surety bond approved by and payable to the judge of the probate court of Clayton County or her successor in office and filed in the office of the judge of the probate court in the sum of $100,000.00 conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of the office. The cost of the bond shall be paid from the funds of the county. The director of finance/comptroller shall provide administrative assistance for the board and chairman through the chief financial officer, and, pursuant to resolutions adopted by the board and instructions given by the chairman, he shall perform the duties enumerated as follows:
(1)
Keep and maintain accurate records reflecting the financial affairs of the county.
(2)
Assist the chief financial officer in compiling the annual budget covering all county funds and submit the same to the board of commissioners for approval.
(3)
Sign checks and disburse monthly allotments of monies appropriated and budgeted to each department, office or agency of the county entitled to receive the same.
(4)
Draw and sign all checks and warrants against county funds, countersigned by the chairman or vice-chairman, specify the account against which such funds are drawn and record same in a book which may be the stub of such checks and warrants showing the amount of each check or warrant, to whom payable and for what consideration.
(5)
Maintain current accounts of the collection and deposit of monies due to the county from taxes and other sources.
(6)
Examine all claims against the county and make recommendations as to payment.
(7)
Maintain budgetary control accounts showing encumbrances for obligations entered into, liquidation of such encumbrances, unencumbered balances of allotments, unexpended balances of allotments, and all un-allotted balances of appropriations.
(8)
Maintain proprietary accounts of the assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenditures of all county funds. Maintain a permanent detailed fixed assets inventory of all assets of the county having a value of $5,000.00 or more and having a usable life expectancy of two or more years and charged to the responsible county departments having custody of the assets. Components purchased separately and assembled into various units shall be treated as a fixed asset when the unit value is $5,000.00 or more.
(9)
Prepare and issue monthly budgetary reports of the operations of all county funds.
(10)
Plan and prepare for meeting the financial needs of the county, project financial requirements, recommend a means of financing those requirements and advise the Chairman and Board of financial matters.
(11)
Perform such other duties as may be assigned by the chairman, the chief financial officer or the board.
(12)
Conduct such internal audits, as he may deem advisable, of county funds and as the board of commissioners may direct.
(13)
Conduct or have conducted a physical inventory of real property assets as provided under provisions of O.C.G.A. § 50-16-141 and a physical inventory of personal property assets as defined in section 2-12(8). The inventory of personal property assets shall be conducted annually on a cycled or sampling basis so as to provide reasonable coverage of all such personal property assets, and on a comprehensive basis not less than once every three years within each department or office so as to provide complete coverage of all such personal property assets within that department or office.
(Ord. No. 2013-19, Pt. I, 2-5-13)
Sec. 2-13. - Medical examiner.
(a)
The board of commissioners may appoint a county medical examiner by contract or employment in such manner and for such compensation as will serve the best interests of the county. Said medical examiner may appoint such persons or positions that are necessary to carry out the duties of the medical examiner's office. The medical examiner shall provide death investigations, coroner services, the handling of deceased persons and such other services as provided by contract, resolution or ordinance. The provisions of the county civil service act shall not be applicable to the position of county medical examiner.
(b)
The county medical examiner's office is authorized by O.C.G.A. 45-16-80 and is established to provide all of the services of a county coroner and such other services as agreed to by contract, resolution or ordinance. The county medical examiner shall have day-to-day responsibility for the management of the office including the hiring and dismissal of personnel, provided that any permanent classified employee of the county can only be terminated, demoted or suspended pursuant to the county civil services rules and procedures.
(Ord. No. 2022-252, § 1, 11-15-22)
Secs. 2-14—2-30. - Reserved.
