ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 14-1. - Short title.
This chapter may be cited as the "Clayton County Animal Control Ordinance."
(Code 1973, § 2-5-1)
Sec. 14-2. - Purpose.
It is the purpose of the provisions of this chapter to alleviate the potential for health hazards as they relate to the keeping of animals, and to provide a more healthy atmosphere in which the citizens of the county may enjoy their prospective pursuits and rights in their individual properties.
(Code 1973, § 2-5-2)
Sec. 14-3. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Animal means any description of vertebrate, excluding Homo Sapiens.
Animal control unit means the county animal control unit, a unit of the county police department.
Animal establishment means any pet shop, kennel, grooming shop, auction, performing animal exhibition; any facility operated, owned or maintained by a duly incorporated humane society, animal welfare society or other nonprofit organization for the purpose of providing for and promoting the welfare, protection and humane treatment of animals; or other facility engaged in the handling of animals, excluding licensed veterinarians and veterinary clinics and hospitals.
Animal shelter means any facility operated by any government entity for the purpose of impounding or caring for animals held under the authority of this chapter or state law.
At large means any animal is at large when it is not under control as provided in this chapter.
Auctions means any place or facility where animals are regularly bought, sold or traded, except for those facilities otherwise defined in this chapter. Individual sales of animals by owners are not auctions.
Certificate means a certificate issued at the time of vaccination of a dog or cat, which certificate shall bear thereon the signature of a licensed veterinarian; the license number; the name, color, breed and sex of the dog or cat; the name and address of the dog's or cat's owner; and the date of the vaccination.
Commercial kennel means any premises wherein any person engages in the business of boarding, breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee or selling animals, excluding veterinarians, veterinary clinics and veterinary hospitals.
Cruelty means every act, omission or neglect whereby unjustifiable pain, suffering, maiming or death may be caused or permitted to any animal.
Dangerous dog means any dog that, according to the records of an appropriate authority:
(1)
Causes a substantial puncture of a person's skin by teeth without causing serious injury; provided, however, that a nip, scratch, or abrasion shall not be sufficient to classify a dog as dangerous under this definition; or
(2)
Aggressively attacks in a manner that causes a person to reasonably believe that the dog posed an imminent threat of serious injury to such person or another person although no such injury occurs; provided, however, that the acts of barking, growling, or showing of teeth by a dog shall not be sufficient to classify a dog as dangerous under this definition; or
(3)
While off the owner's property, kills a pet animal; provided, however, that this definition shall not apply where the death of such pet animal is caused by a dog that is working or training as a hunting dog, herding dog, or predator control dog.
Deputy rabies inspector means any employee of the county department of health deputized by the rabies inspector as an assistant.
Dog means any member of the canine genus.
Dog control officer means an individual selected by a local government pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 4-8-22(b) to aid in the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
Fowl means any warm-blooded, feathered, flying or non-flying animal.
Health officer means the commissioner of health of the county or his authorized representative.
Humane manner means care of an animal to include, but not be limited to, adequate heat, ventilation, sanitary shelter, wholesome fresh food, and access to fresh, clean wholesome water at all times, consistent with the normal requirements and feeding habits of the animal's size, species and breed.
Licensing authority means the agency or department of the county or any designated representative thereof charged with administering the issuance and/or revocation of permits and licenses under the provisions of this chapter.
Livestock means any animal that has hooves.
Neutered means incapable of sexual reproduction.
Nuisance means an animal shall be considered a nuisance if it:
(1)
Damages, soils, defiles or defecates on private property (other than the property of the owner of the animal), or public property and recreational areas;
(2)
Causes unsanitary, dangerous or offensive conditions;
(3)
Causes a disturbance by excessive barking or other noise making;
(4)
Molests, attacks or interferes with persons on public or private property, unless the animal is a guard dog actively performing its duties while confined to the property of the owner or responsible person; or
(5)
Chases vehicles or attacks other animals.
Owner means any natural person or any legal entity including, but not limited to, a corporation, partnership, firm or trust owning, possessing, harboring, keeping or having custody or control of an animal or fowl within this state. An animal shall be deemed to be harbored if it is fed and/or sheltered for three consecutive days or more. In the case of an animal owned by a minor, the term 'owner' includes the parents or person in loco parentis with custody of the minor. The term owner shall also embrace a custodian as defined in O.C.G.A. § 4-8-4.
Performing animal exhibition means any spectacle, display, act or event other than circuses in which performing animals are used.
Pet means any animal kept for pleasure, excluding livestock.
Private kennel means any person, excluding commercial kennels, pet shops and veterinary clinics or hospitals, who keeps, harbors or knowingly permits to remain on or about his premises, more than five dogs or five cats or more than a combination of five dogs and cats over four months of age.
Proper enclosure means any enclosure for keeping a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog while on the owner's property. The dog shall be securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen, fence or structure suitable to prevent the entry of young children and designed to prevent the dog from escaping. Any such pen or structure shall have secure sides and a secure top, and, if the dog is enclosed within a fence, all sides of the fence shall be of sufficient height and the bottom of the fence shall be constructed or secured in such a manner as to prevent the dog's escape either from over or from under the fence. Any such enclosure shall also provide the dog protection from the elements.
Public place means any place where the conduct involved may reasonably be expected to be viewed by people other than members of the actor's family or household.
Rabies inspector means an employee of the county department of health who shall be appointed by the commissioner of health to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
Records of an appropriate authority means the records of any state, county or municipal law enforcement agency; records of any county or municipal animal control agency; records of any county board of health; records of any federal, state or local court; or records of a dog control officer provided for in this chapter.
Responsible Dog Ownership Law as provided for in O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq. and in article VI of this chapter.
Responsible person means any accountable human being.
Restraint. See Under control.
Severe injury means any physical injury that results in broken bones or disfiguring lacerations requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery or a physical injury that results in death.
Spayed means incapable of sexual reproduction.
Under control means any animal shall be considered under control if it is confined by fence, pen, cage, trolley system, or secure enclosure on the premises of its owner or is secured by a leash when not confined or off the premises of the owner. When secured by leash, the animal must be under the direct control of a person of sufficient size and maturity to restrain the animal from trespassing or causing injury, death or damage to property.
Vaccination means the injection by an authorized person of a specified dose of anti-rabic (rabies) vaccine into the body of a dog or cat, which vaccine shall have the U.S. government license number approval stamp on the label of the vaccine container and which vaccine has been approved by the health officer.
Veterinarian means any person who holds a license to practice the profession of veterinary medicine in the state.
Veterinary clinic or hospital means a clinic or hospital operated by a licensed veterinarian.
Vicious animal means any animal that without provocation attacks, bites, or directly causes harm to a human being, domestic animal, or livestock. This phrase shall not be construed to include dogs that are part of a governmental operation.
Vicious dog means a dog that inflicts serious injury on a person or causes serious injury to a person resulting from reasonable attempts to escape from the dog's attack.
Wild and exotic animals means and includes any monkey or other nonhuman primate, raccoon, skunk, wolf, squirrel, fox, leopard, panther, tiger, lion, lynx, ferret, bear, wild rabbit, wild rodent and reptiles, including, but not limited to, crocodiles, alligators, snakes, caiman and gavials, and any other animal so designated by the animal control unit.
(Code 1973, § 2-5-3; Ord. No. 2006-80, §§ 1, 2, 6-20-06; Ord. No. 2012-161, § 1, 8-7-12)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 14-4. - Animals/fowl as prizes forbidden.
It shall be unlawful to offer as a prize or give away any live animal or fowl in any contest, raffle or lottery or as enticement for fund raising or for entry into any place of business unless care and health are certified by a veterinarian licensed in the state. The validity of the certificate will extend for a maximum of seven days from issuance.
(Code 1973, § 2-5-4)
Secs. 14-5—14-30. - Reserved.
