ARTICLE VII. - CRUELTY

Sec. 14-166. - Prohibited treatment.
It shall be unlawful for any person, either by commission or omission:
(1)
To confine an animal in a vehicle in an inhumane manner such that the animal becomes overheated or lacks adequate ventilation or is otherwise harmed.
(2)
For any owner to fail to provide any animal under his control with adequate proper food, adequate fresh water, or veterinary care. For the purpose of this subsection, owner shall mean any person, legal entity, corporation, partnership, firm, or trust owning, possessing, or having custody and control of the premises where the animal is located. For the purpose of this subsection, adequate food shall mean food of a sufficient quantity of non-contaminated and nutritionally healthy sustenance that is appropriate to the species, breed, size, age and health of the animal, or at the direction of a licensed veterinarian; which is sufficient to prevent starvation, malnutrition, or risk to the animal's health. Garbage, spoiled, rancid, or contaminated food is not adequate food. Adequate water means clean, fresh, potable water sufficient to prevent dehydration and properly sustain health presented in a clean dish, free from contamination. Examples of inadequate water include, but are not limited to, snow, ice and rancid or contaminated water.
(3)
To fail to provide any animal under his care with access to adequate shelter to protect it from all types of weather, 24 hours daily. For the purpose of this subsection adequate shelter means a protective covering for a domestic animal that provides adequate space and protection to maintain the animal in a state of good health, and that prevents pain, suffering, or significant risk to the animal's health. Adequate shelter shall consist of a completely enclosed structure with four sides, a constructed floor, and a roof with a door opening. It must be maintained clean, dry and compatible with current weather conditions, in addition to age, size, species and condition of the animal. The structure must be of sufficient size to allow the animal to stand, turn around, lie down and go in and out of the structure comfortably. To be adequate, some type of bedding that is quick drying, such as hay or pine straw, must be provided to maintain comfortable temperatures within the structure during times when the ambient, outside temperature is below freezing. In addition, the structure shall include a heavy plastic or rubber flap to cover the door and/or window openings during the months of November through March. From April through October, the structure shall either be shaded or moved out of direct sunlight. If the shelter is made of wood, it shall be raised at least two inches off the ground to prevent seepage or rotting. Examples of inadequate shelter include, but are not limited to, pet carriers, lean-tos, metal or plastic drums, boxes, abandoned vehicles, porches, decks, or material that does not provide sufficient protection from the elements.
(4)
To abandon any animal.
(5)
To allow an animal under his control to be kept in unsanitary conditions.
(6)
To keep or confine an animal under his control in other than a humane manner.
(7)
To allow any animal to be transported in any moving vehicle without the vehicle being enclosed or the animal confined so that it may not jump or fall out or be injured in any manner.
(8)
To unjustifiably cause death or physical pain or suffering to any animal.
(Ord. No. 2010-174, § 3, 8-17-10)
Sec. 14-167. - Exemption.
This Code section does not apply to the killing of animals raised for the purpose of providing food, nor does it apply to any person who hunts wild animals in compliance with the game and fish laws of this state, or the killing or injuring of any animal for humane purposes or any other circumstance exempted by O.C.G.A. § 16-12-4(e) or (f).
(Code 1973, § 2-5-61; Ord. No. 03-143, § 2, 10-21-03)
Secs. 14-168—14-190. - Reserved.
