Chapter 18 - POLICE

Sec. 18-1. - Duties of police department personnel.
It shall be the duty of the officers of the police department to acquire a full knowledge of and to enforce all the ordinances of the city and all statutes applicable therein, to become familiar with the rules and regulations established by this Code, concerning the discipline, good order, proper conduct, care and management of the police department, and to respect and obey all orders of the governing body, not in conflict with the law or ordinances of the city.
(Code 1981, § 14-1)
Sec. 18-2. - Impersonating police officer prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person, not being a policeman in the city, to assume to act, or to act as or represent himself as a police officer.
(Code 1981, § 14-2)
Sec. 18-3. - Police officers and vehicles to remain at headquarters.
At all times when on duty, but not actually patrolling or performing official duties specified herein, police officers and police vehicles shall remain at police headquarters.
(Code 1981, § 14-4)
Sec. 18-4. - Obedience to orders of police officers.
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of a police officer of the city.
(Code 1981, § 14-5)
Sec. 18-5. - Conduct of police officers.
Every member of the police department shall conduct himself in a proper and law-abiding manner at all times and shall avoid the use of unnecessary force. Prohibited conduct shall include, but not be limited to, the following.
(1)
Absence from regular hours of duty without permission;
(2)
Sleeping or loafing on duty;
(3)
Insubordination or disobedience of orders;
(4)
Engaging in any games of chance;
(5)
Drinking any intoxicating beverage while on duty or in uniform;
(6)
Willful maltreatment of any person or prisoner;
(7)
Using violent, profane or insolent language;
(8)
Acting in a disorderly, immoral or any other manner as to bring discredit upon the city;
(9)
Giving out or releasing any information covering the affairs, business or operation of the city without the consent of the governing body;
(10)
Receiving or accepting a reward from any person, firm or corporation for any services rendered in the line of duty;
(11)
Active participation in any political campaign to the neglect of his official duty;
(12)
Making an arrest for an act growing out of a personal argument on the part of the officer or any member of his family;
(13)
Engaging in any practice that tends to or does lure the public into violations of the law.
(Code 1981, § 14-6)
Sec. 18-6. - Arms and uniforms.
Each officer and member of the police department shall be furnished with such uniform, arms and police equipment as provided for by the city council. Uniforms shall be kept clean and pressed and shall be worn on duty at all times, unless otherwise ordered by the governing body. The equipment, arms and uniforms furnished by the city shall be and always remain the property of the city and shall be, when a change is ordered or on retirement from office, returned to the city. Members of the police department shall be liable for any loss or careless destruction of or damage to their arms and uniforms.
(Code 1981, § 14-8)
Sec. 18-7. - Arrests.
Police officers shall have the power to make arrests and in exercising such power shall observe all requirements imposed by the United States Constitution and by all other provisions of law.
(Code 1981, § 14-9)
Sec. 18-8. - Interfering with or opposing officers.
It shall be unlawful for any person in any manner to oppose or interfere with the police officers of the city in the discharge of their duties, while making arrests or otherwise.
(Code 1981, § 14-10)
Sec. 18-9. - Record of arrests required; report by city clerk to recorder, record kept by city clerk.
When a police officer makes an arrest, he shall make a record thereof and report the same to the city clerk. The city clerk shall furnish copies of all summons to the municipal judge who shall be responsible for entering cases on the docket of the municipal court. It shall be the duty of the city clerk to keep accurate records showing the date of trial and the disposition of all cases.
(Code 1981, § 14-12)
Sec. 18-10. - Improperly releasing prisoners.
After the police make an arrest and the defendant is placed in jail, it shall be unlawful for the police or any official of the city to release or attempt to have released said prisoner without having brought the prisoner before the municipal court for proper action or post a bond with security to ensure his appearance. Otherwise, no prisoners shall be released from jail or the case dismissed by the police except on the expressed order of the presiding judge of the municipal court.
(Code 1981, § 14-13)
Sec. 18-11. - Disposition of stolen, abandoned or impounded property.
All personal property which comes into the custody of the police department, where said property has been stolen or impounded or where the ownership is unknown, shall be held for a period of 30 days awaiting claim by its owner. The owner of said property, upon providing ownership and paying all expenses and costs, including reasonable charges for storage, shall have the right to have such property returned to him. If after the expiration of 30 days the property is unclaimed, the mayor and council or their duly appointed representative shall advertise the property for sale in the newspaper in which the city's legal advertisements are printed. Such advertising shall take place at least ten days before the date set for the sale and shall give a description of the property to be sold and specify the time and place of sale. If the property is still unclaimed by the time of the sale, it shall be sold as advertised and the proceeds shall be placed in the city's treasury.
(Code 1981, § 14-14)
