Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Supplemental powers of municipalities and counties enumerated, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III; municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. title 36; open meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Charge for copies of documents.
Any person desiring a certified copy of the minutes, resolutions, ordinance, court sentence, receipt, document or other record pertaining to the city, or any excerpt from such record, shall pay to the city a fee authorized by O.C.G.A. § 50-18-70 et seq. or as may be set from time to time by resolution of the city council for each such certified copy. Said fee shall be paid to the city by the person requesting such copy before the copy shall be released by the city clerk.
(Code 1981, § 2-1)
Sec. 2-2. - When council meetings held.
The city council shall hold regular meetings on such dates and times and in such locations as established by the governing body from time to time, provided that the mayor may convene the council whenever in his opinion the public business requires it, and he shall do so upon the application by a majority of the members of the city council. A notice containing the information as to the time and place of regular meetings shall be posted and maintained in a conspicuous place available to the general public in the city hall or other such meeting place at least one week in advance of said regular meetings. Unless otherwise authorized by law, all meetings shall be open to the public.
(1)
Notice of any special or called meeting shall be given to all council members by the city clerk.
(2)
It shall be the duty of each member of the governing body to attend each meeting of the city council, unless he is prevented by some unavoidable circumstances.
(Code 1981, § 2-2)
Sec. 2-3. - Meetings of mayor and city council and city council committees.
(a)
All meetings of the mayor and city council, and of all committees thereof, shall be open to the public, and notice thereof shall be given, as more particularly provided in O.C.G.A. §§ 50-14-1 through 50-14-6 (The State of Georgia Open Meetings Act). This section shall not apply to excluded proceedings as more particularly enumerated in O.C.G.A. § 50-14-3. This section shall not apply to repeal of certain privileges as more particularly set out in O.C.G.A. § 50-14-2.
(b)
When any meeting of the city, or any committee thereof, is to be closed to the public pursuant to any provision of this section or pursuant to any provision of the State of Georgia Open Meetings Law, the procedures required by O.C.G.A. § 50-14-4 shall be followed with respect to the closing and re-opening, if applicable, of such meeting or portion of a meeting.
(Ord. of 1-19-1999(01))
Sec. 2-4. - Rules for the conduct of business.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, Roberts' Rules of order shall govern the conduct of council meetings.
(1)
Call to order. The mayor, or in his absence, the mayor pro tem, shall take the chair at the hour appointed for regular, adjourned, special or called meetings; and shall immediately call the council to order.
(2)
Roll call. Before proceeding with the business of the council, the city clerk shall call the roll of the members, and the names of those present shall be entered in the minutes.
(3)
Quorum. A majority of all the members elected to the council shall constitute a quorum at any regular or special meeting of the council.
(4)
Order of business. The business of the council shall be taken for consideration and disposition in the following order:
a.
Call to order by presiding officer.
b.
Roll call.
c.
Approval of minutes of previous meeting.
d.
Petitions and communications.
e.
Reports of standing committees.
f.
Reports of special committees.
g.
Unfinished business.
h.
New business.
i.
Adjournment.
(5)
Reading of minutes. Unless a reading of the minutes of a council meeting is requested by a council member, such minutes may be approved without reading if the city clerk has previously furnished each member with a copy thereof.
(6)
Reports by committees. Any business coming before the governing body concerning the subject matter of which any standing or special committee has jurisdiction, may be referred to the proper committee for investigation and report. It shall be the duty of each standing or special committee, whenever required by the mayor or by the city council, or any member of the city council, to examine any matter referred to such committee, and make a report thereof at the next regular meeting of the governing body, or show good cause why no report is made. Such reports shall not be in writing unless so directed by the presiding officer.
(7)
Manner of addressing council. No member, while the city council is in session, shall speak on any subject unless recognized by the presiding officer. Every speaker shall address the chair, and no member shall interrupt another while speaking, except to call him to order or for explanation.
(8)
Limitations on addressing council. Any person not a member of city council who desires to address the governing body shall first secure the permission of the presiding officer so to do, and then shall stand up before the governing body, give his name and address in an audible tone of voice for the record, and direct his remarks to the council as a body rather than to any particular member, limiting such remarks to five minutes unless additional time is granted by council.
(Code 1981, § 2-4)
Sec. 2-5. - Standing committees.
The mayor, with the concurrence of city council, may appoint and abolish standing committees for the city. Each standing committee shall examine into the condition of the matters within its jurisdiction, and make such reports and recommendations as may be necessary or determined by the governing body.
(Code 1981, § 2-5)
Sec. 2-6. - Membership.
It is hereby declared to be the intent of the mayor and council, in utilizing all available resources of the city in combating the various problems that do or may beset the municipality in the future, to make appointments to any of the city's standing or special committees of those particular citizens of the city having special knowledge, skills, or expertise concerning the subject matter which any standing or special committee may have jurisdiction.
(Code 1981, § 2-6)
Secs. 2-7—2-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PUBLIC OFFICIALS

Sec. 2-31. - Legislative authority.
The mayor and council shall exercise the legislative functions of the city, and may pass any ordinance or resolution that it deems best for the government of the city in the manner set forth in this chapter; provided, that the same is not in conflict with the Charter of the city or the laws of the state.
(Code 1981, § 2-12)
Sec. 2-32. - Ordinances, resolutions and contracts.
All ordinances, resolutions and contracts of the city shall be introduced, approved and adopted in the following manner:
(1)
Ordinances, resolutions, and other matters or subjects requiring action by the governing authority must be introduced and sponsored by the mayor or any member of the council, except that the city attorney may present ordinances, resolutions and other matters or subjects to the governing body who may assume sponsorship thereof by moving that such ordinances, resolutions, matters or subjects be adopted.
(2)
No ordinance shall be put on its final passage on the same day on which it is introduced; provided, however, that the mayor and council may waive the second reading of an ordinance proposed for adoption by the unanimous consent of the councilmembers present at the meeting where such proposed ordinance is read for the first time.
(3)
No ordinance shall relate to more than one subject, which shall be clearly expressed in its title, and no ordinance, or section thereof, shall be amended or repealed unless the new ordinance contains the title of the ordinance or section amended or repealed, and when practicable all ordinances shall be introduced as amendments to this Code.
(4)
An ordinance, resolution or contract shall be deemed adopted or approved when it receives the affirmative vote of a majority of the governing authority.
(Code 1981, § 2-13; Ord. of 1-19-1999(02))
Sec. 2-33. - Recording vote.
Whenever any member shall request it, the yeas and nays of the councilmembers present shall be recorded on the minutes on any question taken.
(Code 1981, § 2-14)
Sec. 2-34. - Questions of order.
The presiding officer shall decide all questions of order, but any councilman who is dissatisfied with the decision may appeal to the council in the manner provided by Roberts' Rules of Order for appealing from decisions of presiding officers.
(Code 1981, § 2-15)
Sec. 2-35. - Mayor pro tem.
The council shall elect a mayor pro tem no later than the first meeting of the governing authority following the city's general election. The mayor pro tem shall act as mayor during the chief executive's absence during which time he shall possess all the necessary powers of the mayor.
(Code 1981, § 2-17)
Sec. 2-36. - Prohibited conduct of public officials and city employees.
Public officials and employees of the city shall treat all citizens with courtesy, impartiality, fairness, and equality under the law, and shall avoid both actual and potential conflicts between their private self-interest and the public interest. In addition to the prohibitions contained in Charter section 2.13, prohibited conduct of each such official and employee shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1)
Granting or making available to any person any special consideration, treatment, advantage, or favor beyond that which it is general practice to grant or make available to the public at large;
(2)
Requesting, using, or permitting the use of any publicly-owned or publicly-supported property, vehicle equipment, labor or service for the personal convenience or the private advantage of himself or any other person, except as otherwise allowed by law.
(Code 1981, § 2-18)
State Law reference— Code of ethics for government service, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-1 et seq.
Secs. 2-37—2-62. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS

Sec. 2-63. - Municipal planning commission—Established.
In order to guide and accomplish a coordinated and harmonious development of the municipality which will, in accordance with existing and future needs, best promote the public health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity, and the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development, the city planning and zoning commission, which may also be referred to as the planning commission, is created and established.
(Code 1981, § 2-26)
Sec. 2-64. - Same—Membership.
The planning commission shall consist of five members, who shall be residents of the city and appointed by the mayor with the consent of council. The terms of the members shall be for four years. Any vacancy in membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by the mayor with consent of council. The mayor, subject to the consent of council, shall also have the authority to remove any member for cause, on written charges, after a public hearing. All members shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their official duties.
(Code 1981, § 2-27)
Sec. 2-65. - Same—Organization; rules; staff; and finances.
(a)
The planning commission shall elect its chairman from among its members. The term of the chairman shall be one year with eligibility for re-election. The planning commission shall appoint a secretary, who may be an officer or employee of the municipality. The planning commission shall make its own rules of procedure and determine its time of meeting. All meetings of the planning commission at which official action is taken shall be open to the public and all records of the planning commission shall be a public record.
(b)
The planning commission may appoint such employees and staff as it may deem necessary for its work and may contract with the state planning agency and city planners and other consultants for such services as it may require. The expenditures of the planning commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for the purpose by the mayor and council of the city.
(Code 1981, § 2-28)
Sec. 2-66. - Same—Powers and duties.
The planning commission shall have all the powers, duties and responsibilities set forth in The Zoning Procedures Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.
(Code 1981, § 2-29)
Sec. 2-67. - Emergency management; definition.
As used in this article, the term "emergency management" means the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency functions, other than the functions for which the state and federal governments are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from disasters caused by enemy nuclear attack, sabotage, or other hostile action, or by acts of nature, fire, explosion, civil disorders or other causes. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services, law enforcement services, medical and health services, rescue services, engineering services, warning services, communications, defense from radiological fallout, welfare services, evacuation when and where necessary, emergency transportation, plant and utility protection, restoration of public utility services, and other functions related to protection and well-being of the population of the city, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to preparation for and the carrying out of the above functions.
(Code 1981, § 2-30)
Editor's note— An emergency operations plan setting forth policies and procedures for coordinated county/city emergency and disaster operations is compiled and published separately. An official copy of such plan is on file in the office of the city clerk.
Sec. 2-68. - Office of the city civil defense director—Established.
There is hereby established the city civil defense office. The mayor, with the consent of city council, may appoint a director of emergency management for the city, who shall be charged with the following:
(1)
To represent the governing officials of the city on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
With assisting city officials in organizing city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
With assisting in developing in conjunction with the county emergency management director, the plan for emergency functions for the county emergency organization.
(4)
Rendering reports such as required by governing officials.
(5)
Procuring, with authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the city emergency operating center.
(Code 1981, § 2-31)
Sec. 2-69. - Same—Emergency powers.
In the event of manmade or natural disaster, an actual emergency attack upon the United States or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the city, the mayor, or in his absence, his legally appointed successor, may declare that a state of emergency exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such state of emergency exists or continues, the following emergency powers:
(1)
To enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources.
(2)
To seize or take for temporary use any private property for the protection of the public.
(3)
To sell, lend, give, or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the city, to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies.
(4)
To perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the city.
(Code 1981, § 2-32)
Sec. 2-70. - Same—Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the city performing emergency functions pursuant to this article, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions volunteers shall have the same immunities as city officers and employees but shall be held strictly accountable for all actions taken.
(Code 1981, § 2-33)
Sec. 2-71. - Same—Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this article, or any rule, order, or regulation made pursuant to this article, shall upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided for in section 1-13.
(Code 1981, § 2-34)
