ARTICLE IV. - DEPARTMENTS[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Charter reference— Departments, § 3.01.
Cross reference— Personnel, Ch. 16; fire department, § 9-11 et seq.; police, Ch. 18.

Sec. 2-101. - Department heads.
(a)
The following positions in the city government shall be the department head positions:
(1)
Assistant city manager.
(2)
Planning and development director.
(3)
Public works director.
(4)
Parks and recreation director.
(5)
Electric superintendent.
(6)
Gas superintendent.
(7)
Water and sewer superintendent.
(8)
Fire chief.
(9)
Police chief.
(10)
Finance director.
(11)
FiberCom director.
(b)
The department head positions of the city shall have the following job description, function and duties:
(1)
Assistant city manager. The assistant city manager shall assist the city manager in the performance of the job responsibilities of that position as outlined by the city charter. He is also responsible for personnel records, all city insurance, and administration of the city retirement system.
(2)
Planning and development director. The planning and development director shall promote the industrial and commercial development of the city. His duties also include coordination of the activities of the planning commission, board of zoning appeals, board of adjustments and appeals, federal flood insurance program, and the city's development authorities. He shall also supervise the personnel and be responsible for the issuance, collection of fees and enforcement of building inspections and permits, building codes, electric codes, plumbing codes, gas codes, health codes and ordinances, zoning ordinances and business licenses; except those business licenses which are specifically designated to be issued, collected and enforced by the city clerk. This position is under the direction of the city manager.
(3)
Public works director. The public works director shall supervise the personnel and be responsible for building and maintenance of all city streets, sidewalks, storm drainage, bridges, city buildings, stormwater utility, and the city cemetery. His duties also include collection of residential and commercial garbage, and trash collection and disposal. In addition, his duties shall also include the maintenance of city-owned buildings. This position is under the direction of the city manager.
(4)
Parks and recreation director. The parks and recreation director shall supervise the personnel and operation of the parks and recreation department of the city. His duties shall include maintenance and improvements to all parks, playgrounds, gymnasiums, and civic center as well as organizing and supervising all organized recreation programs under the control of the city. His activities come under the direction of the city manager.
(5)
Electric superintendent. The electric superintendent shall supervise the personnel and operation of the city electric system under the direction of the city manager.
(6)
Gas superintendent. The gas superintendent shall supervise the personnel and operation of the city natural gas system under the direction of the city manager.
(7)
Water and sewer superintendent. The water and sewer superintendent shall supervise the personnel and construction and operation of the water treatment plant, water distribution system, wastewater pollution control plant, and wastewater pollution distribution system under the direction of the city manager.
(8)
Fire chief. The fire chief shall supervise the personnel and operation of the fire services of the city under the direction of the city manager.
(9)
Police chief. The police chief shall supervise the personnel and operation of the police services of the city under the direction of the city manager.
(10)
Finance director. The finance director shall be the financial officer of the city and shall supervise the personnel and operation of the city finance department including utility readings, billings, and collections, as well as all tax collections and accounting records of all city transactions. He is responsible for preparation of monthly reports to the city manager, city clerk and other department heads showing income and expenditures within each budget account. His tasks come under the direction of the city manager.
(11)
FiberCom director. The FiberCom director shall be responsible for the operation, maintenance, and construction of all current or necessary service lines or extensions, the restoration or establishment of residential, governmental, and commercial internet, data, and fiber services, the bidding for commercial service when applicable, the information technology needs of the city, the supervision and maintenance of the city's geographic information system, and all software used by the city, and all other responsibility for tasks and employees assigned to this department as approved by the city manager. Additionally, the FiberCom director shall be responsible for the supervision of all employees working for this division and the day to day administration of the same.
(Ord. No. 18-86, 7-3-86; Ord. No. 28-92, §§ II, III, 9-20-92; Ord. No. 42-95, §§ 1, 2, 10-12-95; Ord. No. 47-95, §§ 1, 2, 11-9-95; Ord. No. 23-96, §§ 1, 2, 6-6-96; Ord. No. 28-98, 8-13-98; Ord. No. 72-06, § 1, 11-2-06; Ord. No. 51-08, § 1, 12-4-08; Ord. No. 44-09, 10-1-09; Ord. No. 23-20, §§ 1, 2, 10-15-20)
Cross reference— Fire department, § 9-11 et seq.; police, Ch. 18; parks and recreation, Ch. 15; utilities, Ch. 24.
Sec. 2-102. - Code enforcement officer.
(a)
Position created. There is hereby created the position of code enforcement officer who shall be appointed by the city manager. This shall be a full-time, paid position of the city. The code enforcement officer shall receive such salary as is from time to time established. Hereinafter in this section the code enforcement officer shall be called the officer.
(b)
Duties. The code enforcement officer shall enforce the following ordinances:
(1)
The City of Cartersville Sign and Outdoor Advertising Ordinance, Occupational Tax Ordinance, Landscaping Ordinance, Zoning Ordinance, Development Regulations, Soil Erosion and [Sediment Control] Ordinance, Alcoholic Beverages Ordinance. All buildings and housing codes under Chapter 6 of the City of Cartersville Code and all other ordinances of the city relating to selling and buying alcohol, buildings, zoning, improvements of real property and structures and operating a business in the city limits, and Chapter 21, Solid Waste, and Chapter 24. Utilities.
(2)
Furthermore the officer shall enforce compliance with the following chapters of the City of Cartersville Code:
a.
Chapter 4, Alcoholic Beverages;
b.
Chapter 6, Buildings and Buildings Regulations;
c.
Chapter 7.5, Development Regulations;
d.
Chapter 14, Nuisances;
e.
Chapter 10, Licenses, Taxation and Miscellaneous Business Regulations;
f.
Chapter 21, Solid Waste; and
g.
Chapter 24, Utilities.
(c)
Violations of code. The code enforcement officer shall take steps to cause the correction of any violation of any code under the officer's jurisdiction. These steps may include warnings, a written direction to correct the matter, filing of charges and citations for ordinance violations, or filing, with the assistance of the city attorney, other court actions to enforce the code.
(d)
Supervision.
(1)
The officer shall serve under the direct supervision of the director of the planning and development department.
(2)
However, with respect to all building codes of Chapter 6 of the City of Cartersville Code of Ordinances, the officer shall be under the direct supervision of the building official.
(3)
Additionally, with respect to the soil erosion and sedimentation control and flood prevention codes, the officer shall be a designee of the building official to enforce said codes.
(Ord. No. 42-99, 9-16-99; Ord. No. 23-00, 6-15-00; Ord. No. 51-08, § 1, 12-4-08)
Secs. 2-103—2-125. - Reserved.
