Chapter 9.5 - HUMAN RELATIONS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 9.5-1. - Title VI/American Disabilities Act (ADA).
(a)
The City of Cartersville is committed to ensuring that no person is excluded from participating in, or denied the benefits of, or be subject to discrimination in the receipt of the city's services or programs on the basis of race, color, national origin, or any other characteristics protected by law, including Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended. Further, under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990, no entity shall discriminate against an individual with a physical or mental disability in connection with the provision of transportation.
(b)
Therefore, consistent with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the American with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), the City of Cartersville has designated an individual as the city's Title VI/ADA coordinator. The city formally designates the city's human resources director as the Title VI/ADA coordinator. The coordinator is responsible for accepting complaints of discrimination on the basis of disability in the provision/delivery of services, activities, programs, or benefits provided by the city. Complaints shall be submitted in writing within the following time frames:
(1)
Title VI: No later than one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of the alleged discrimination.
(2)
ADA: No later than sixty (60) days from the date of the alleged discrimination.
(c)
Complaints shall include the name, address and phone number of the complainant, along with the location, date and description of the problem/issue. Complaints shall be processed in accordance with the applicable law.
(d)
This process does not apply to complaints relating to employment by the City of Cartersville. Other procedures are available for these types of complaints.
(Ord. No. 15-11, § 1(exh. A), 5-5-11)
Secs. 9.5-2—9.5-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COMMUNITY RELATIONS COMMISSION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 16-96, adopted Apr. 25, 1996, did not specifically amend the Code; hence, inclusion of §§ I—VIII of such ordinance as Ch. 9.5, Art. II, §§ 9.5-31—9.5-38 was at the discretion of the editor.

Sec. 9.5-31. - Name.
The name of this commission shall be the City of Cartersville Community Relations Commission.
(Ord. No. 16-96, § I, 4-25-96)
Sec. 9.5-32. - Purpose.
The purpose of the city community relations commission is to:
(1)
Cultivate and encourage unity;
(2)
Study, review, and formulate strategies to help alleviate problems concerning the residents of the city as directed by the mayor and city council;
(3)
Pursue efforts to improve community relations among all citizens of the city as directed by the mayor and city council;
(4)
Pursue issues within the community as directed by the mayor and city council;
(5)
Identify and report on issues as directed by the mayor and city council;
(6)
Serve as a catalyst and forum for communication among the various parts of the community, providing low income, ethnic, disabled and other disadvantaged groups and individuals appropriate assistance and support which may be available in the community;
(7)
Bring about mutual understanding and respect among all racial, religious, ethnic groups, and special populations, including the mentally and physically disabled, within the city;
(8)
Enlist the cooperation of community, religious, professional, civic, labor and business organizations and other identifiable groups within the city in programs and campaigns devoted to the advancement of tolerance and understanding;
(9)
Hold and conduct public forums at such times and places around the city as may be practical on matters and questions before the commission as directed by the mayor and city council;
(10)
Prepare a written report on its work, functions, and services every six (6) months to the mayor and city council;
(11)
Report to the mayor and city council for their review and consideration procedures, practices, and/or legislation in matters and questions affecting human relations in the city;
(12)
The commission is only an advisory board to the mayor and city council and will only make reports on their meetings to the mayor and the city council on matters as directed by the mayor and city council;
(13)
The mayor and city council are under no obligation to take any action based upon the report presented by the commission;
(14)
Adopt procedures as necessary to govern the proceedings of the community relations commission and to conduct its meetings accordingly;
(15)
Do all other acts and deeds necessary and proper to carry out and accomplish effectively the objectives, functions and service contemplated by the provisions of this article; and
(16)
Perform studies and conduct research as directed by the mayor and city council, when applicable, on human relations within the city, and to foster goodwill among the citizens of the city.
(Ord. No. 16-96, § II, 4-25-96)
Sec. 9.5-33. - Membership.
(a)
Qualifications and posts. The community relations commission, hereinafter referred to as the commission, shall be composed of seven (7) members, all U.S. citizens and all residing within the corporate limits of the city. All members serve without compensation. Subsequent references to the commission shall refer to the body comprised of properly appointed members. Membership composition shall place emphasis on maintaining a diverse group insofar as political party, race, religion, economic status, type of employment, age, sex, national origin or special population is concerned. The mayor and city council shall ratify the appointment of the seven (7) members. Each city council member will appoint one (1) member to the commission and the mayor will appoint one (1) member to the commission. Three (3) of the city council appointees must be non-white.
(b)
Terms. Members shall be appointed on a staggered basis for terms of three (3) years. Terms of the charter members shall be determined by lot of terms of one (1), two (2) or three (3) years. Members can serve two (2) consecutive terms except that charter members shall be eligible for a third consecutive term. Upon conclusion of the maximum terms, a member shall rotate off for one (1) year before regaining eligibility for reappointment.
(c)
Participation standards. If a member has missed, without prior notification, three (3) consecutive, regularly scheduled meetings, the chair shall declare a vacancy, and upon the affirmative vote of the commission, a new nominee shall be sought. The commission has the right to decline to declare a vacancy. If a member fails to attend, without prior notification, three (3) meetings in a year, the chair shall declare a vacancy, and upon the affirmative vote of the commission, a new nominee shall be sought. The commission has the right to decline to declare a vacancy. The mayor and city council will either accept or reject the commission's certification of vacancy, and upon acceptance thereof, will in accordance with this article appoint a new member to replace the vacancy.
(d)
Powers and duties. The membership shall:
(1)
Elect the officers of the commission;
(2)
Adopt bylaws; and
(3)
Conduct such other business as may properly come before the commission.
(e)
Meeting and fiscal year.
(1)
Regular meeting. Regular meetings shall be held no less than six (6) times per year. The date and time of these meetings shall be set by the commission.
(2)
Annual meeting. The annual meeting shall be the last meeting of the calendar year. The business shall include the election of officers and such other business as may properly come before it.
(3)
Special meetings. The chair or secretary shall issue a call for a special meeting upon the receipt of a written request from any four (4) members. The call shall state the purpose of the meeting and no other business may come before the meeting. Five (5) days' notice shall be given to all members of such a special meeting.
(4)
Fiscal year. The fiscal year shall be the calendar year.
(f)
Voting and quorum. A majority of the commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Regular meetings shall be scheduled at times agreed upon by the members. Minutes of its meeting shall be kept by the secretary. All meetings shall be conducted in accordance with the legal standards established for "open meetings."
(Ord. No. 16-96, § III, 4-25-96)
Sec. 9.5-34. - Officers.
(a)
Positions. The officers shall be a chair, first vice chair, and secretary.
(b)
Election and tenure. The commission shall elect officers from its membership at the annual meeting for a term of one (1) year. Officers shall be limited to two (2) consecutive terms in a single office. In the event of long-term disability, death, removal, or resignation of an officer, the commission shall present for its approval at its next meeting a nominee to fulfill the unexpired term, except that in the case of a vacancy in the office of chair, the first vice chair shall succeed to the office immediately. Elected officers of the commission may be removed with cause by a two-thirds (⅔) vote of the members present and voting.
(c)
Duties and powers. The duties and powers of the officers shall be as follows:
(1)
Chair. The chair shall preside at all meetings of the commission and of the executive committee. The chair shall be a voting member ex officio of all committees; except the chair shall appoint all committee chairs and shall, with the chairs, appoint all committee members. The chair performs such duties as are prescribed by law in the execution of contracts on behalf of the council.
(2)
First vice chair. The first vice chair shall preside at all meetings in the absence or disability of the chair and shall perform the customary duties of the treasurer. The first vice chair shall perform such other duties as requested.
(3)
Secretary. The secretary shall give notice and keep a record of the minutes of all meetings of the commission. The secretary shall perform such other duties as are customarily incident to the office or assigned by the chair.
(Ord. No. 16-96, § IV, 4-25-96)
Sec. 9.5-35. - Committees.
(a)
Standing committee. There shall be the following standing committees of the council:
(1)
Executive committee. The executive committee shall consist of the officers of the commission. The executive committee shall have and may exercise all the powers of the commission between meetings of the commission, except it shall not have the power to remove members of the commission or officers or to conduct the affairs of the commission in conflict with general policy adopted from time to time by the council. All actions taken by the executive committee shall be by majority vote and shall be reported at the next meeting of the commission and shall, if necessary, be ratified or rescinded by the commission.
(2)
Program committee. The chair shall name the program committee membership. The committee shall develop and present to the commission proposals for commission programs and activities. The chair shall appoint the committee chair.
(b)
Other committees. There shall be other committees appointed to work on activities of the commission as may be necessary to carry out the purpose of the commission. The chair shall appoint the committee chairs and shall, with the chairs, appoint all committee members with the approval of the commission.
(Ord. No. 16-96, § V, 4-25-96)
Sec. 9.5-36. - Conflict of interest.
Where there is a potential conflict of interest, the commission member shall declare same and decline to vote. A "conflict of interest" exists when a potential personal profit or benefit by virtue of special interest could accrue to a member as a result of the action of the commission. A declaration of "conflict of interest" may be established by the individual involved or by the action of the commission upon recommendation of any member and an affirmative vote of the commission.
(Ord. No. 16-96, § VI, 4-25-96)
Sec. 9.5-37. - Modification of the bylaws.
Any change in the bylaws shall require a "first reading" with the vote on the motion to take place at a later meeting after a "second reading" of the commission. Additionally, any changes in the bylaws must be approved by the mayor and city council of the city.
(Ord. No. 16-96, § VII, 4-25-96)
Editor's note— The bylaws of the commission, attached to Ord. No. 16-96 as Exh. "A," is not set out at length herein, but is available for inspection in the offices of the city.
Sec. 9.5-38. - Cooperation.
The commission shall invite and enlist the cooperation of all ethnic, racial, religious groups and community organizations in carrying on its work and act as a coordinating agency among them and such other groups in the establishment and maintenance of education programs with a view to bringing about better intergroup and racial relationships necessary or desirable to carry out specific programs designed to lessen the tensions and improve understanding. The commission shall also cooperate with the mayor and city council, all other city agencies, citizens, citizens organizations, the city board of education, parochial and private schools located in the city in formulating and developing courses of education to stimulate the interest of the entire population in the improvement of services wherever such cooperation is appropriate in effectuating the purposes of this article and in accomplishing the objectives of the commission to promote better human relations as directed by the mayor and city council.
(Ord. No. 16-96, § VIII, 4-25-96)
