ARTICLE VII. - DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE[10]

Footnotes:
--- (10) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 94-05, § 1, adopted November 17, 2005, repealed the former Art. VII, §§ 2-211—2-219, and enacted a new Art. VII as set out herein. The former Art. VII pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 16-99, § 2(Exh. B), 2-18-99; Ord. No. 36-01, §§ 6, 7, 9, 11, 9-6-01.
The effective date of this article is October, 2005.

Sec. 2-211. - Purpose.
The City of Cartersville has a public trust to provide a variety of services to the community. An efficient and productive work force is vital to carry out that trust. The public has a reasonable right to expect persons employed by the city to perform their duties free from the effects of drugs, including alcohol.
The city has an obligation to ensure public safety through the actions of its employees. Furthermore, employees of the city have a reasonable right to work in a safe environment free from the effects of drug use. The city has a reasonable right to expect employees to report for work fit for duty, free from the effects of drug use.
The city recognizes that an employee's physical condition affects job performance, and that drug abuse ranks as one (1) of the major health problems in our society. It is the intent of this policy to express the city's viewpoint on drug usage exhibited by behavioral and medical disorders, to encourage an enlightened viewpoint toward these disorders, and to provide guidelines for consistent handling of situations arising from such disorders.
(Ord. No. 94-05, § 1, 11-17-05)
Sec. 2-212. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates that different meaning is intended.
City: The City of Cartersville, Georgia, a municipal corporation of the State of Georgia.
Controlled substance: Any of those substances listed under the Uniform Controlled Substances Act of the State of Georgia.
Designated positions: Those positions listed on Exhibit A at the end of this section and by this reference made a part hereof.
Drug and alcohol testing: May include, but not limited to, urinalysis, breath-analysis, oral fluids, hair testing or blood sample testing.
Illegal drugs: Drugs for which possession, use, sale or distribution is unlawful pursuant to the laws of the State of Georgia or any federal law or regulation. Illegal drugs, for the purpose of this policy, include drugs, which are not legally obtainable, and drugs, which are legally obtainable but have been obtained illegally.
Intoxicating substance: Any substance which produces changes on one's physical, mental, or emotional state or behavior, including but not limited to glue, paint thinner, etc.
Possession: Having controlled substances which are not obtained either directly from a doctor or pharmacist using a valid prescription, or having controlled substances, the possession or use of which is unlawful pursuant to the laws of the State of Georgia or any federal law or regulation.
Reportable incident: Any personal injury or property damage involving a city employee that occurs on or off city property during assigned work hours, or any time an employee is using a city vehicle or wearing a city uniform.
Safety director: The employee appointed by the city manager to oversee all functions of the alcohol and drug programs of the City of Cartersville.
Under the influence of alcohol: Means that as a result of the consumption of alcohol an employee (or applicant's) ability to perform his or her job is impaired to any appreciable degree. For the purposes of this definition, a blood alcohol level of .08 percent alcohol in the blood by weight shall be considered to be sufficient to establish an employee is under the influence. However, an employee with a blood alcohol level of less than .08 percent alcohol in the blood by weight may also be considered under the influence of alcohol if job performance is impaired to any appreciable degree.
Under the influence of drugs or other intoxicating substances: Means that as a result of the consumption, inhalation or injection or any combination of alcohol, drug or any other intoxicating substance or any combination of substances, an employee's job performance is impaired to any appreciable degree.
(Ord. No. 94-05, § 1, 11-17-05)
Sec. 2-213. - Rules and regulations.
The City of Cartersville is concerned with those situations where use of alcohol, intoxicating substances, or other drugs is detrimental to the public trust or to the safety of employees or citizens. The city is committed to the rehabilitation of employees who abuse drugs and alcohol by referral.
Early recognition and treatment of chemical dependency problems is important for successful rehabilitation to improve job performance and reduce personal, family, and social disruption. Employees who participate in a program for the purpose of treating alcoholism or drug addiction may do so without jeopardizing their employment with the city, provided they stop all involvement with alcohol or other drugs. Participation in such programs will not automatically prevent disciplinary action for incidents that have already occurred. Should a rehabilitation program be necessary, leaves of absence must be used in accordance with current policies.
To implement this policy, the following rules are established as conditions of employment with the city.
(1)
The city will not hire any applicant who tests positive on a detection test for illegal drugs or alcohol. Those individuals will be prohibited from employment with the city for one (1) year, unless they provide certified documentation of successful completion of a substance abuse rehabilitation program. Applicant who has completed a rehabilitation program will be subject to drug screening prior to being employed.
(2)
Any city employee who is involved in a reportable incident (see definitions) that results in injury to persons or property shall be subject to an investigation. Employees will be directed to undergo a drug or alcohol detection test to aid in determining fitness for duty if there is reasonable suspicion that the employee was under the influence of drugs or alcohol at the time of the incident. An employee who refused to participate in a required drug or alcohol detection test will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
(3)
Based on the results of the investigation and drug or alcohol detection testing, the employee may be subject to disciplinary action in accordance with departmental or city guidelines, and established practices for various infractions.
(4)
If enrollment in a drug or alcohol rehabilitation program is required; employees will be referred to the city manager. An employee's fitness to continue in his or her current position while enrolled in such a rehabilitation program will be determined on a case-by-case basis. Employees who have completed a rehabilitation program will be subject to drug screening.
(5)
Any city employee at any level who reports for work on city premises or work sites will be directed to undergo a drug or alcohol detection test to aid in determining fitness for duty if there is reasonable suspicion that the employee is under the influence of drugs or alcohol. An employee who refuses to participate in such testing will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.
(6)
All illegal drugs (see definitions) discovered during an investigation will be given to the appropriate law enforcement agency and may result in criminal prosecution. Drug or alcohol test results will be used for administrative purposes only and will be kept confidential, unless subpoenaed because of legal action or otherwise required to be released pursuant to the laws, rules and regulations of the State of Georgia.
(7)
The use, sale, possession, or distribution of a narcotic, an intoxicating substance or any illegal drug or alcohol while at work will subject an employee to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
(8)
Supervisors shall take appropriate action to protect city personnel and city property by removing from the work premises or site any individual not in condition to perform assigned work in a normal and safe manner. An employee who appears to be under the influence of drugs or alcohol shall be taken to an authorized facility for drug and alcohol testing. Employees shall not be allowed to drive any vehicle if it appears that they are under the influence of drugs or alcohol.
(9)
If any employee has reasonable suspicion that a supervisor is under the influence of drugs or alcohol, his observations shall be reported to the supervisor's immediate superior. If the employee feels that reporting these observations in this manner would adversely affect his working conditions, the report may be made to the city manager.
(Ord. No. 94-05, § 1, 11-17-05)
Sec. 2-214. - Exemption for prescribed medical treatment.
The use of legally controlled substances as part of a prescribed medical treatment by a licensed physician will not subject an employee to disciplinary action or denial of employment if that treatment does not adversely affect job performance. Prescribed use must be substantiated by a physician's report or statement. If the use of prescribed drugs adversely affects an employee's job performance or is detrimental to the public trust or safety of other employees or citizens, it is in the best interest of the employee and the city for the employee to be placed on a leave of absence. Leaves of absence will be used in accordance with current policies.
(Ord. No. 94-05, § 1, 11-17-05)
Sec. 2-215. - Screening process.
In keeping with the city's goal to establish and maintain a work environment free from the effects of drugs and intoxicating substances, and to insure the safety of citizens, the work place and the work force, the following procedures as established:
(1)
For designated positions, applicants who have received an offer of employment must successfully complete a drug and alcohol detection test in addition to successful completion of any other physical examination requirements. A positive finding of alcohol or illegal drugs will result in denial of employment with the city.
(2)
Applicants for designated positions who do not submit to screening at the appointed time will be denied employment.
(3)
The safety director at the request of department heads, with input from the immediate supervisor, shall initiate drug or alcohol screening of employees involved in reportable incidents (see definitions) that result in injury to person or property, if there is reasonable suspicion of substance abuse.
(4)
Drug or alcohol testing of employees may be initiated by department heads, when there is a reasonable suspicion that substance abuse is occurring. The safety director shall be consulted, if possible, before ordering a test.
(5)
For purposes of drug or alcohol testing under subsections (3) and (4) above, a determination of reasonable suspicion that a person is under the influence of drugs or alcohol includes, but not limited to, any of the following criteria:
An employee seems disoriented; confirmed reports from police, citizens or other employees of drug or alcohol use or abnormal, potentially dangerous behavior, medical or physical information such as track marks; absenteeism or tardiness; any articulate facts which lead supervisors or department heads to believe an employee is in possession of drugs or alcohol; or is under the influence of drugs or alcohol; or the accumulation of facts that indicate an employee, because of alcohol or drug abuse, is unfit for duty. (The areas of observation listed in Exhibit B at the end of this article and by the reference made a part hereof, will be used as a guide for such determination.)
Drug or alcohol screening of applicants or employees will include any approved DOT test method. The consent form to be used for each such test is Exhibit C at the end of this article and by this reference made a part hereof. Any positive readings following urine testing will be confirmed by an alternative testing method before any management action is taken.
The tests designed to detect drugs most commonly abused. Listed below are nine (9) drug groups that are identified by the use of the test:
Alcohol
Amphetamines
Barbiturates
Cocaine/Metabolite
Methaqualone
Phencyclidine (PCP)
Opiates
Benzodiazepines
Cannabinoides (THC)
These drug groups were selected based on known abuse in the community and the ability of each drug to adversely affect physical and mental performance. As new or existing drugs develop into abuse problems, they shall be included in the screening when technically and financially feasible. All positive urine or blood samples will be retained by the laboratory for one (1) year, or longer if an appeal or court action is in process.
(Ord. No. 94-05, § 1, 11-17-05)
Sec. 2-216. - Review and appeal.
Upon report of a positive test, the employee or applicant will be notified of the test results. As part of that notification, he or she will be provided an opportunity to explain any positive results. An employee or applicant whose test results were positive may, at the employee's or applicant's own expense, have a re-test conducted of the original sample at a laboratory of the employee's choice that has been pre-approved by the city. An employee or applicant shall request such re-test within thirty (30) days of being notified of the original test results. The laboratory used for the re-test shall have a chain of custody procedures to ensure proper identification, labeling and handling of test samples and proper exchange with the return of the samples to the original medical group or laboratory. Following review or the appeal process, a final determination will be made by the appropriate authority. Employees who have disciplinary action taken against them as a result of a positive drug test may file a grievance to the city manager for a hearing.
(Ord. No. 94-05, § 1, 11-17-05)
Sec. 2-217. - Implementation.
(a)
Substance abuse screening will be conducted by certified technicians of breath alcohol testing devices or by the medical group or groups responsible for administering pre-employment physical examinations. The integrity of the urine or blood sample being tested or the breath test record card will be ensured by an explicit chain of custody procedures developed by the substance abuse mental health administration. Any testing, testing-related documents, and test results will be kept confidential and will only be released to the safety director or city manager. Further disclosures of such information is prohibited unless written authorization is obtained from the employee or applicant. Any breach of confidentially will subject the employee responsible to disciplinary action up to and including termination.
(b)
The safety director will assist supervisors in policy implementation, day-to-day administration, and with disciplinary action arising from implementation of the policy.
(c)
A training program will be provided to assist supervisory personnel in identifying drug and alcohol use among employees. The training will be directed towards helping supervisors recognize the conduct and behavior that give rise to a reasonable suspicion of drug or alcohol use.
(d)
The safety director will be responsible for scheduling the screening of applicants and employees during normal working hours. the safety director, personnel director, and assistant to the city manager will schedule screening during night shift working hours.
(e)
This policy is intended to be a unilateral expression of the general policies, procedures and guidelines concerning substance abuse. It is not intended to create any contractual rights of employment, whether express or implied, between the city and its employees. The city reserves the right to change the provisions of this policy at any time.
(Ord. No. 94-05, § 1, 11-17-05)
Sec. 2-218. - Access to facilities and records.
The city will not release employee information that is contained in drug or alcohol programs records except as required by law or expressly authorized by the employee. An employee is entitled, upon written request, to obtain copies of any records pertaining to the employee's use of drugs or alcohol, including test records. In addition, federal, state, and local officials will have access to all records and facilities used in complying with drug and alcohol program laws. The city will release an employee's records to a subsequent employer, or other person identified by an employee, upon receipt of a written request from the employee. The subsequent employer or other individual may only disclose the information as expressly authorized by the employee. The city may also provide information to employee or decision-maker when a grievance or other proceeding has been initiated by or on behalf of the employee which arises from the results of a drug or alcohol test given by the city or from the city's determination that the employee engaged in prohibited conduct. Such proceeding may pertain, for example to workers' compensation, or other claims or benefits sought by the employee. _____
EXHIBIT A
All positions in the City of Cartersville, Georgia.
EXHIBIT B
AREAS OF OBSERVATION
EXPAND
Demeanor: Agitated - aggressive - passive - cooperative
Speech: Slurred - loud - quiet - rambling - incoherent - normal
Eyes: Bloodshot - dilated - closed - moist - normal
Breath: Alcohol odor - Marijuana odor - normal
Coordination: Fumbling - jerky - slow reacting - normal
Actions: Talkative - threatening - calm - erratic - normal
Skin: Sweaty - flushed - pale - clammy - normal
Walking: Unsteady - staggering - slow - normal
Standing: Swaying - rigid - feet wide apart - normal
  EXHIBIT C
DRUG/ALCOHOL SCREENING
AUTHORIZATION TO OBTAIN MEDICAL RECORDS
The employee authorizes any physician, medical facility or testing facility (Authorized Party) to release the results of such testing to the city, its authorized agents, or representatives who have a need to know.
The Authorized Party shall be responsible for any unauthorized disclosure made by it and the Employee acknowledges that the Authorized Party has not responsibility for action taken by or caused by the City of Cartersville, Georgia as a result of receiving such test results.
ACTIVE EMPLOYEE CERTIFICATE AGREEMENT
I do hereby certify that I have received and read the City of Cartersville Substance Abuse and Testing Policy and have had the Georgia Worker's Compensation Drug-Free workplace certification program (O.C.G.A. 34-9-410) explained to me. I understand that if my performance indicates it is necessary, or in the case of random testing, I will submit to a substance abuse test. I also understand that failure to comply with a substance abuse test request or a positive result may lead to termination of employment and denial of employment benefits. I understand that failure to submit to a substance abuse test or a positive test result may affect my right to obtain worker's compensation benefits. I further agree to hereby authorize the release of the results of said tests to the company. Nothing in this consent form is to be constructed as a contract between parties.
Name (Please Print)
Signature
Date
City of Cartersville
I do hereby certify that I have received and read the City of Cartersville Substance Abuse and Drug Testing policy and have had the Drug-Free Workplace Program explained to me. I understand that if my performance indicates it is necessary, I will submit to a drug test. I also understand that failure to comply with a drug testing request or a positive result will lead to termination of employment.
Name (Please Print)
Signature
Date
(Ord. No. 94-05, § 1, 11-17-05)
Secs. 2-219—2-230. - Reserved.
_____
