Chapter 3 - ALARM SYSTEMS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Licenses, taxation and miscellaneous business regulations, Ch. 10.
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3.

Sec. 3-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
False alarm means a fire alarm signal or police signal from a privately owned fire or police signal device or system that is caused or created by anything other than an actual fire, burglary or robbery, in the premises where the device or system is located.
False alarm service charge means an administrative fee imposed by the city to defray the needless expense to the city for responding to false alarms and the services received that other businesses and the citizenry do not receive.
Fire alarm signal means a signal indicating an emergency requiring immediate action of the fire department, including but not limited to an alarm from a manually operated fire alarm box, a water flow alarm, or an alarm from an automatic fire or smoke detection system or device.
Fire equipment trouble alarm means an alarm indicating some form of malfunction or trouble with the fire protection or fire detecting system or device being monitored. Such trouble alarm does not indicate the need for emergency fire department response to the site, but only that the person responsible for maintenance of the system being monitored is to be notified of the trouble alarm signal.
Police signal or burglar alarm signal means a signal from a manually operated or automatic device that indicates an emergency requiring immediate response by the police department.
(Ord. No. 14-87, § B, 5-6-87)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 3-2. - Purpose.
It is the purpose of this section to establish requirements for the monitoring and receiving of fire and burglar alarm signals, and fire equipment trouble alarms at the communications office of the fire department and the police department.
(Ord. No. 14-87, § A, 5-6-87)
Sec. 3-3. - Connections.
No signal other than a fire alarm signal or a fire equipment trouble alarm shall be connected to any alarm signal receiving equipment in the fire department. No signal other than a burglary, robbery or intrusion alarm shall be connected to any alarm signal receiving equipment in the police department.
(Ord. No. 14-87, § C, 5-6-87)
Sec. 3-4. - Automatic dialers.
It shall be unlawful to key automatic dialer fire or burglar alarms to the city emergency numbers or the city switchboard. Such alarms shall be keyed to a private service that can then notify the police or fire department.
(Ord. No. 14-87, § D, 5-6-87)
Sec. 3-5. - Automatic cutoff system.
All audible alarms, sirens, bells or horns shall have an automatic cutoff system so that such alarm shall not operate for more than twenty (20) continuous minutes for commercial alarms or ten (10) continuous minutes for residential alarms.
(Ord. No. 14-87, § E, 5-6-87)
Sec. 3-6. - Transmission of false alarms.
The transmission of false alarms to the fire department or the police department in excess of the allowable number of such alarms as contained in the service charge schedule shall authorize the imposition of a false alarm service charge.
(Ord. No. 14-87, § F, 5-6-87)
Sec. 3-7. - Accounting of false alarms.
The police and fire departments shall maintain an accounting of false alarms on a monthly basis. Each calendar month shall constitute a new accounting period for determining the imposition of false alarm service charges.
(Ord. No. 14-87, § G, 5-6-87)
Sec. 3-8. - Keyholder must live near system.
It shall be unlawful to connect a system to the police or fire departments' receiving equipment without a keyholder living within a fifteen-mile radius of the premises where the device or system is located, in order to cut off the alarm and attend to matters arising from the alarm.
(Ord. No. 14-87, § H, 5-6-87)
Sec. 3-9. - Service charge rates.
Service charge rates for alarm systems connected pursuant to this chapter shall be as follows:
(1)
For the first violation of this section at any premises in a month, there shall be no charge.
(2)
For the second violation of this section at any premises in a month, there shall be a service charge of fifty dollars ($50.00).
(3)
For the third violation of this section at any premises in a month, there shall be a service charge of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
(4)
For the fourth and any subsequent violation of this section at any premises in a month, there shall be a service charge of two hundred dollars ($200.00).
(5)
Service charges are not applicable to state, local or federal government agencies.
(6)
Service charges shall be billed by the city and are payable as indicated on said invoice.
(Ord. No. 14-87, § I, 5-6-87; Ord. No. 17-00, § 3, 6-1-00; Ord. No. 16-18, § 1, 7-5-18)
Sec. 3-10. - Termination of service.
Service will be terminated after five (5) false alarms in any calendar month. Service will be reinstated only after appropriate action has been taken to correct user deficiencies and the user has received approval from the appropriate chief.
(Ord. No. 14-87, § J, 5-6-87)
