ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[4]
Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Personnel, Ch. 16.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-61—2-70. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CITY CLERK

Sec. 2-71. - Duties.
(a)
It shall be the duty of the city clerk, immediately following the clerk's appointment, to give bond with approved security and take and subscribe the oath, as provided in this Code. The clerk shall be required to attend all meetings of the council; to keep the minutes and records of the same; to keep an index to the record and enter alphabetically therein the acts and doings of the council; and to have the custody and charge of all records, books and papers belonging to the city.
(b)
The clerk shall maintain the Code for the city, issue all executions required by the ordinances or authorized by the council, attesting thereto in the name of the mayor. He shall keep an execution docket and enter therein all executions issued by the council. He shall keep the city accounts and records in a manner consistent with modern municipal accounting practices.
(c)
It shall be the duty of the city clerk to issue all warrants on the city treasury, properly countersigned by the city manager or the assistant city manager, for all lawful disbursements of the city's funds.
(d)
The clerk may certify copies of any and all documents, ordinances, resolutions and records of the city, attach the corporate seal of the city thereto where the same may be legitimately required, and attach the corporate seal of the city to all bonds issued by the city, to all deeds, contracts, notes, and documents of every kind, executed by the city or its proper officers, and to such other instruments as the council may direct.
(e)
The clerk shall issue all business, occupation and all other licenses required by the ordinances or regulations of the city to be issued by the clerk, and keep all accounts of the city or against it. He shall be the receiver and tax collector for the city and shall be required to prepare and keep correct digests of all returns and assessments.
(f)
The clerk shall perform all other duties required by the charter or by ordinance or resolution of the council. He shall perform all other duties usually incident to the clerk and the treasurer of municipalities in the state. He shall be removable for cause.
(Code 1976, § 2-3053; Ord. No. 28-92, § IV, 9-20-92; Ord. No. 44-09, 10-1-09)
Sec. 2-72. - Deputy city clerk.
The deputy city clerk shall have such duties as devolve upon him by law as such deputy, and the further duties of assisting the clerk and ex officio treasurer. He shall take the same oath as the clerk and ex officio treasurer.
(Code 1976, § 2-3055)
DIVISION 3. - FINANCE DIRECTOR

Sec. 2-73. - Established.
There is established the office of finance director of the city who shall be recommended by the city manager and appointed by the mayor and city council upon the approval of a majority of the city council and be responsible directly to the city manager. He shall also be responsible for supervising any and all employees of the finance department necessary for the performance of his duties.
(Ord. No. 23-96, § 3, 6-6-96)
Sec. 2-74. - Duties.
(a)
The finance director is the accounting officer of the city and shall maintain records reflecting the financial condition of the city.
(b)
At the end of each fiscal year, the finance director shall prepare and present to the mayor and city council a summary statement of receipts and disbursements by department and funds.
(c)
The finance director shall exercise continuous scrutiny of the expenditures and revenues in conformance with the approved budgetary requirements and budget accounting and shall be responsible to notify the city manager and city clerk to transfer monies within a fund to prevent over-expenditures of accounts, to assist the city manager and city clerk in transferring monies from fund to fund where approved by the mayor and city council, preparation of monthly budget reports by fund, by character and object, classification for use of city department heads and the mayor and city council, shall prepare and distribute working schedules to city department heads for the preparation of the ensuing year's budget; and with the city manager schedule and attend budget hearings to assist the mayor and city council, city manager and city department heads in budgetary matters.
(d)
The finance director shall monitor the daily financial transactions of the city; including, but not limited to, all revenue received by the city and with the city manager, city clerk and city department heads determine proper revenue coding classifications for all revenue in accordance with established chart of accounts and daily record revenue as established.
(e)
The finance director shall review and monitor the processing of all bills of the city and in conjunction with the city manager and city clerk audit and determine their validity, certify as to the availability of funds, determine proper expenditure coding in accordance with the established charts of accounts and budget requirements; supervise the preparation and maintenance of ledgers and records with regard to these matters.
(f)
At the close of each month, the finance director shall post revenue and expenditures to the general fund ledger and monthly and year-to-date totals. The fund balances are to be verified with the city clerk's fund balances monthly and must agree.
(g)
The finance director shall perform the following additional duties:
(1)
Encourage the use of efficient planning, budgeting, auditing, reporting, accounting and other fiscal management procedures in all aspects of city government;
(2)
Encourage the full use of computer capabilities in all matters relating to the budget and finances of the city;
(3)
Assist the city manager in preparing a proposed budget to be presented to the mayor and city council for consideration;
(4)
Assist the city clerk in the performance of his duties as treasurer of the city;
(5)
Monitor the current budget to determine whether the current year's expenditures comply with the budget;
(6)
Make spot checks and examinations on all financial books, records and data stored in computers relating to city finance and relating to any money collected, managed or held by the city;
(7)
Obtain information necessary to carry out the duties of the office from all city officers, employees, boards and commissions. All information shall include estimates and recommendations concerning future budgets;
(8)
Make estimates and recommendations concerning anticipated revenues and anticipated expenditures;
(9)
Establish procedures to maintain expenditures to make sure expenditures stay within the budget;
(10)
Establish accounting records and create and maintain active and inactive files for the transaction of city ordinances;
(11)
Supervise with the city clerk and city manager the preparation of the payroll and payroll registers, prepare and certify all reports to other governmental agencies relating to payroll activities; also prepare and certify all other monthly, quarterly and annual reports;
(12)
To be available to the mayor and city council and its individual members for consultation and advice at all reasonable times;
(13)
Prepare a list of all capital improvements belonging to the city together with a projection of future capital needs and the possible financing costs of meeting those future needs;
(14)
To prepare or assist other city officers and employees in preparing projections of figures required in connection with proposed bond issues of all types;
(15)
To prepare or assist in the preparation of all annual financial reports, monthly financial reports and other financial reports required of any city officer or employee;
(16)
To, from time to time, perform inside audits of all city officers, departments and employees.
(17)
To provide all requested information to any outside audit of the city as directed by the mayor and city council;
(18)
To prepare and make projections for the future, including five-year, ten-year, twenty-year and fifty-year projections, concerning any financial matter or capital matter of the city. The finance director shall make projections necessary to assist the work of the planning commission, and whenever any annexation is proposed, prepare a report for the benefit of the planning commission and mayor and city council indicating projected annual costs, projected capital improvement costs, and projected revenues anticipated if the proposed annexation is approved.
(19)
To prepare monthly reports for the city manager and the mayor and city council which include:
a.
Comparative state of estimated and actual revenues and expenditures;
b.
Monthly report of appropriations, encumbrances, expenditures and unencumbered balances; and
c.
Combined fund balance sheet.
(20)
To perform all other duties usually incident to a finance director and/or accountant of municipalities in the state.
(21)
To keep the city accounts and records in a manner consistent with modern municipal accounting practices.
(22)
To coordinate with the city clerk and city manager all financial matters and establish procedures for their monitoring and review.
(h)
It shall be the duty of the finance director, immediately following appointment, to give bond with approved security and take and subscribe the oath, as provided for in this Code in an amount to be set by the mayor and city council.
(i)
The finance director shall perform all other duties required by the Charter or by ordinance or resolution of the council.
(j)
The finance director shall perform such other duties as may be from time to time assigned to him by the mayor and city council.
(Ord. No. 23-96, § 3, 6-6-96)
Secs. 2-75—2-100. - Reserved.
