Chapter 13 - MUNICIPAL COURT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Municipal court, § 6.01 et seq.
State Law reference— Municipal court, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.

Sec. 13-1. - Definitions.
As used in this chapter, the words "court" and "judge" shall, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, refer to the municipal court of the city and the judge of that court respectively.
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 13-2. - Regular sessions.
(a)
A regular session of the court shall be held once each week at a fixed hour of a fixed day as may be determined by the judge, provided such session may be dispensed with when there is no business pending in the court and no cases ready for trial.
(b)
There shall be no regular session of court the weeks of Thanksgiving, Christmas, and New Year's, or on any legal holiday unless otherwise determined by the judge. Additionally, in any month with five (5) Mondays, there shall be no regular session of court on the fifth Monday of the month unless determined by the judge.
(c)
Bail or bond. In all cases in which bail or bond is posted, all required surcharges are to be added to same and shall be posted.
(d)
All surcharges shall be paid into the city's general fund or dedicated accounts as may be established from time to time and are to be disbursed as provided for by law.
(Code 1976, § 4-1001; Ord. No. 03-17, §§ 1, 2, 12-15-16)
Sec. 13-3. - Special sessions.
The judge may hold special sessions when, in his judgment, it is necessary or there is urgent cause for the trial of accused persons. The necessity or urgency of the cause shall be presumed from the fact of such sessions' being held.
(Code 1976, § 4-1002)
Sec. 13-4. - Adjournments and continuances.
The judge may adjourn any regular or special session of court to another day or another hour in the same day, and may grant continuances of any case for trial before him.
(Code 1976, § 4-1003)
Sec. 13-5. - Formal opening.
No formal opening of the court shall be necessary or required, provided the regular sessions may not open prior to the arrival of the regular hour. All parties defendant shall have at least six (6) hours' notice of a special session at which such parties are to be tried.
(Code 1976, § 4-1004)
Sec. 13-6. - Attendance of police officers.
(a)
It shall be the duty of the chief of police or his deputy, or some member of the police force designated by the chief, to attend each session of the court.
(b)
It shall be the duty of each policeman making the arrest or having knowledge of the case for or against the defendant, to attend the trial of any person brought before the court charged with violating any city ordinance.
(Code 1976, § 4-1005)
Sec. 13-7. - Clerk of court.
The judge shall be authorized to appoint any city employee to serve as clerk of the court.
(Code 1976, § 4-1006)
Sec. 13-8. - Compliance with subpoenas.
Any person not exempt by law, who resides within the city, who fails or refuses to appear when subpoenaed to do so as a witness in any trial before the recorder shall be subject to punishment by the judge as for a contempt committed in his presence.
(Code 1976, § 4-1007)
Sec. 13-9. - Docket.
The judge shall keep a docket for the docketing of all cases of persons charged with the commission of an offense against the ordinances of the city. The docket may be maintained and generated by computer. The judge shall docket each case in its regular order with such specifications of the charge as will impart notice of the nature of the charge. He shall enter his judgment in the case on the docket, which shall be signed by him, either collectively or separately at his discretion.
(Code 1976, § 4-1008)
Sec. 13-10. - Contempt by failure to appear.
Any person charged with violating any of the penal ordinances of the city, whether under arrest or not, or under bond or not, who, after being notified of the charge and notified in writing by any policeman of the city to appear before the court at any designated term or time for trial, and who fails or refuses to appear at the time stated in the notice, shall be guilty of a contempt of court, and may be punished by the judge as for contempt committed in his presence. Provided, no person subject to the provisions of this chapter shall be punished as for contempt who has posted cash bond and forfeited such cash bond unless resummoned to appear before the judge.
(Code 1976, § 4-1009)
Sec. 13-11. - Corporations—Service of process; trial.
Whenever a corporation shall violate any of the penal provisions of this Code or any ordinance of the city, a warrant shall be issued against such corporation for such violation. The clerk of the court shall issue a copy of the warrant to be served by any policeman of the city upon any officer of the corporation to be found in the city, or upon the agent, superintendent or person in charge of the business of the corporation in the city. The policeman serving such warrant shall, at the time of service, notify the person upon whom such service is made, in writing, of the time and place of trial and shall make an entry upon the warrant showing the time of service and upon whom made, and shall return the same to the court and docket the case. The case shall stand for trial in the order and manner as cases against individuals for the violation of ordinances of the city.
If upon the trial, the defendant corporation fails to appear, or appearing fails to plead, the judge of the municipal court shall cause to be entered a plea of not guilty, and trial shall proceed as though the defendant had appeared and pleaded, there shall be rendered judgment against it for the fine imposed by the judge of the municipal court, together with all costs of prosecution, upon which judgment the clerk of court shall issue an execution against the defendant, which shall be levied and collected by the chief of police as tax executions in favor of the city are levied and collected.
(Code 1976, § 4-1010; Ord. No. 34-12, § 1, 8-2-12)
Sec. 13-12. - Same—Failure to appear or plead.
If, upon trial, the defendant corporation fails to appear, or appearing, fails to plead, the court may cause to be entered a plea of not guilty, and trial may proceed as though the defendant had appeared and pleaded.
(Code 1976, § 4-1011)
Sec. 13-13. - Same—Judgment and execution.
Upon the conviction of any corporation, there shall be rendered judgment against it for the fine imposed by the judge, together with all costs of prosecution, upon which judgment the clerk of the court shall issue an execution against the defendant, which shall be levied and collected by the chief of police, as tax executions in favor of the city are now collected.
(Code 1976, § 4-1012)
Sec. 13-14. - Appearance bond—Procedure for accepting.
Offenses against the penal ordinances of the city shall be bailable as follows:
(1)
The arresting officer or another officer designated by the chief of police, may accept bond of the accused, payable to the city, conditioned upon the appearance of the accused at the session of the court at which he has been ordered to appear to answer the charge against him. The date and time the accused is to appear shall be stated in the bond.
(2)
Such bond shall be in writing in an amount the person taking the bond may deem proper, but not exceeding two thousand dollars ($2,000.00). Every bond shall be signed by the accused.
(3)
The officer accepting the bond may accept as security a cash deposit in the amount of the bond; or in lieu thereof he may accept the signature as surety of another person at least eighteen (18) years of age whom he believes to be solvent and good for the amount of the bond.
(4)
All bonds must be approved by the officer taking the bond, and shall be filed with the clerk of the court.
(5)
At the time of posting bail or bond in any case involving a violation of a criminal or traffic law of this city or state, all surcharges shall be included in the amount of said bail or bond.
(Code 1976, § 4-1013; Ord. No. 34-12, § 2, 8-2-12)
Sec. 13-15. - Same—Forfeiture.
Any bonds taken pursuant to this chapter may be forfeited for nonappearance of the accused at the time and place for trial as stated in the bond by the following procedure:
(1)
The judge shall call the case in its regular order, and, if the accused is not in court and does not answer the call, and, if no good and sufficient reason is given for his nonappearance, the judge shall enter on the docket of the court where the case is stated, "bond forfeited," or similar words showing that said bond is forfeited.
(2)
Upon the forfeiture of any bond, the cash deposited as security shall be paid to the city clerk and shall become the property of the city.
(3)
Upon the forfeiture of any bond signed by a person as surety, the clerk of the court shall issue an execution against the principal and surety on the bond for the amount thereof as tax executions are issued. Such execution shall be collected as tax executions are collected.
(Code 1976, § 4-1014)
Sec. 13-16. - Contempt of court.
The judge is hereby vested with the same power and authority to punish for contempt of court, and for the same acts, as is now vested in judges of superior courts of the state; provided, however, that punishment for contempt of court shall not exceed the penalties provided by section 6.03 of the charter.
(Code 1976, § 4-1015)
Sec. 13-17. - Fines, enforcement by levy and execution.
For fines that may be due by any defendant, execution may be issued by the city clerk and collected as tax executions are collected.
(Code 1976, § 4-1016)
Sec. 13-18. - Judgment and sentences.
Upon a judgment or plea of guilty the court shall impose sentence. The court may:
(1)
Impose a fine, with or without a commitment for confinement, compulsory work or both;
(2)
Commit the defendant to confinement, compulsory work or both;
(3)
Suspend the execution of the sentence in whole or in part;
(4)
Defer the execution of the sentence or any portion or portions thereof to one (1) or more fixed dates in the future;
(5)
May revoke, alter, amend or charge a sentence at any time, provided the sentence is not increased; or
(6)
Place on probation.
(7)
The court may punish for violations within its jurisdiction a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment for six (6) months, or both, except as otherwise provided by this Code or state law.
(Code 1976, § 4-1017; Ord. No. 34-12, § 7, 8-2-12)
Sec. 13-19. - Use of city prisoners.
The judge, in his discretion, may require persons given jail sentences in the court to work out such sentences in any public service work or on the public streets under the supervision of the chief of police or someone designated by the chief of police.
(Code 1976, § 4-1018)
Sec. 13-20. - Speeding violations.
(a)
In addition to the fines imposed by the city for speeding violation under Georgia law and city ordinances, an additional amount is to be imposed by the court as follows:
1st offense: None
2nd offense: $30.00
3rd offense: $60.00
4th offense: $100.00
(b)
In the event that this additional amount causes the total fine to exceed the limits imposed by the State of Georgia, then the amount over said limit shall not be assessed.
(Ord. No. 45-06, § 1, 7-6-06)
Sec. 13-21. - Weapons not allowed in municipal courtroom and adjacent facilities.
Firearms or other weapons, including, without limitation, any knife, razor, razor blade, ice pick or similar device having a sharp point, bat, baton, stun or tazer gun, any device capable of discharging harmful projectiles, pepper spray, and all similar items, shall not be worn or brought into the courtrooms of the municipal court or into the buildings in which they are located, except with the specific authorization of the court or the chief of police.
The following persons or groups are exempted from this prohibition:
(1)
Law enforcement officers employed by the State of Georgia;
(2)
Local law enforcement officers employed by the City of Cartersville and Bartow County, including sheriff's deputies;
(3)
District attorneys, assistant district attorneys, and the Attorney General of the State of Georgia;
(4)
Law enforcement officers of the United States of America, including federal probation officers who are authorized by law or by federal court to wear or carry firearms;
(5)
Any person appointed by the municipal court judge as a bailiff, provided such person is licensed to carry firearms or otherwise permitted to carry a firearm under state law;
(6)
Any person otherwise authorized by law to carry firearms or weapons within a Superior Courtroom of the State of Georgia.
Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-6 of the City of Cartersville Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. No. 34-12, § 3, 8-2-12)
Sec. 13-22. - Conduct in municipal courtroom.
(a)
No person shall, while present within the courtrooms of the municipal court or in the buildings in which they are located, engage in any conduct which may reasonably disturb or interfere with any session of the municipal court or interfere with the business of any municipal court employee, including, without limitation, engaging in actions which disturb or endanger the public peace or decency by any disorderly conduct, such as the use profane or obscene language, being noisy, boisterous, or engaging in any riotous conduct, engaging in, promoting, aiding, or abetting any fight, riot, or disorderly proceeding, acting in a violent or tumultuous manner, using opprobrious or abusive words of another person in such other person's presence which by their very utterance tend to incite to an immediate breach of the peace, or recklessly or knowingly committing any act which may reasonably be expected to interfere with or disrupt proceedings before municipal court or interfere with its employees.
(b)
The municipal court judge shall have the authority to preserve and enforce order in his or her immediate presence and, as near thereto as is necessary, to prevent interruption, disturbance, or hindrance to municipal court proceedings. In addition to the penalties which may be imposed pursuant to subsection (d) below, any person who fails to comply with an order of the judge of municipal court as to such person's conduct while within the courtrooms of the municipal court or the buildings in which they are located shall be guilty of contempt and shall be subject to the appropriate disciplinary action.
(c)
The municipal court judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the peaceful, efficient and successful administration of the business of said court, including the power to delegate authority to law enforcement personnel to achieve such purpose.
(d)
Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-6 of the City of Cartersville Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. No. 34-12, § 4, 8-2-12)
Sec. 13-23. - Processing fees; fines.
(a)
The municipal court chief judge may recommend a schedule of fees to assist the court in its operation and budget. The council must approve any such schedule, but if the council does not act within thirty (30) days of the court's recommendation, the fee schedule will become effective.
(b)
The council may set city fines for violations of city ordinances.
(Ord. No. 34-12, § 5, 8-2-12)
Sec. 13-24. - Surcharges and court costs.
(a)
State surcharges. The municipal court shall impose all add-on fees or surcharges required by state, federal or local law.
(b)
Interpreter fees. The municipal court shall be authorized to impose fees for providing an accused with the services of an interpreter in accordance with the rules and regulations set forth by the Georgia Supreme Court.
(c)
Bail or bond. In all cases in which bail or bond is posted, all required surcharges are to be added to same and shall be posted.
(d)
All surcharges shall be paid into the city's general fund or dedicated accounts as may be established from time to time and are to be disbursed as provided for by law.
(e)
The judge, mayor, or city council may impose additional surcharges as authorized by the Charter or state law.
(Ord. No. 34-12, § 6, 8-2-12; Ord. No. 02-17, § 1, 12-15-16)
