Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of Montezuma, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1990, § 1-1)
State Law reference— Authority to adopt ordinances for regulation of matters for which no provision has been made by general law, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20; duty to codify ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Rules of construction.
modified
(a)
Applicability. In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances of the city, the following rules of construction shall be observed, unless they are inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council or the context clearly requires otherwise. The rules of construction and definitions set out in this chapter shall not be applied to any section of this Code that contains any express provisions excluding such construction or where the subject matter or context of the section may be repugnant thereto.
(b)
Liberal construction; minimum requirements; overlapping provisions.
(1)
The ordinary signification shall be applied to all words, except words of art or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter when they shall have the signification attached to them by experts in such trade or with reference to such subject matter.
(2)
In all interpretations the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the board of commissioners, keeping in view, at all times, the old law, the evil, and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
(3)
All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the board of commissioners may be fully carried out. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, and general welfare.
(4)
Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions on the subject matter than the other provisions of this Code, the provisions imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling. The specific controls over the general.
(Code 1990, § 1-2)
State Law reference— Construction of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1.
Sec. 1-3. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Code, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Chief administrative officer. The term "chief administrative officer" means the city manager, if a city manager has been appointed by the city or, if that office is not filled, the city clerk.
City. The term "city" shall be construed as if the words "of Montezuma, Georgia" follow.
City council. The term "city council" shall be construed to mean the city council of the City of Montezuma, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" means "The Code of Montezuma, Georgia," as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. When a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years, or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted, and if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the person having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
Conjunctions. Where a provision involves two or more items, conditions, provisions, or events connected by any of the conjunctions "and," "or," "either…or," or "neither…nor," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows, provided that in appropriate cases the terms "and" and "or" are interchangeable:
(1)
The term "and" indicates that all the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply.
(2)
The term "or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or events may apply singly or in any combination.
(3)
The terms "either…or" and "neither…nor" indicate that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or events shall apply singly, but not in combination.
County. The term "county" means Macon County, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears in this Code requiring an officer or employee of the city to do some act, it is to be construed to authorize such officer or employee to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act.
Department; board; agency. The name or title of any department, board, or agency, unless otherwise specifically stated otherwise, shall be read as though the words "of the City of Montezuma, Georgia" were added thereto.
Gender. Any term importing the masculine gender shall extend to and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Governing authority; governing body. The terms "governing authority" and "governing body" mean the city council of the City of Montezuma, Georgia, and its designees.
Joint authority. All words purporting to give a joint authority to three or more city officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such officers or other persons unless it shall be otherwise expressly declared in the provisions giving the authority.
Keeper, proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" mean and include persons as the term "person" is defined herein, whether acting by themselves or through an agent or employee.
May. The term "may" shall be construed as being directory and not mandatory.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Must. The term "must" shall be construed as being mandatory.
Number. Every word importing the singular number only shall extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one person or thing, and every word importing the plural number only shall extend and be applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
Oath. The term "oath" includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." refers to the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Officials or officers. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., by title only, they shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards, commissions and departments of this city.
Owner. The term "owner" applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or of part of such building or land.
Person. Unless otherwise provided, "person" means any individual, corporation, government or governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership or association, or any other legal entity.
Personal property. The term "personal property" shall extend to every species of property except real property.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" means any park, cemetery, shopping center, schoolyard, or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available accessible to the public, regardless of whether privately or publicly owned, and any place where the public is invited or permitted to go or to congregate.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
Shall. The term "shall" shall be construed as being mandatory.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature or subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription" include a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The terms "state," "the state" and "this state" mean the State of Georgia.
Statute. The term "statute", unless otherwise specifically stated, refers to the indicated portion of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Street. The term "street" shall be construed to include streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public ways in the city and shall include all parts thereof constituting the designated right-of-way.
Technical and nontechnical terms. All terms and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical terms and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
Tenant, occupant. The terms "tenant" and "occupant," applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of, such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Terms used in the present or past tense include the future as well as the present and past.
Week. The term "week" shall be construed to mean seven days; but publication in a newspaper of any notice or other matter indicated to be for a stated number of weeks shall be construed to mean one insertion in each week, unless specifically stated to be for each day of the week or for more than one day in each week.
Will. The term "will" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Writing, written. The terms "writing" and "written" include printing and any other mode of representing words and letters.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1990, § 1-2)
State Law reference— Construction of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1.
Sec. 1-4. - Catchlines, notes, and references.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Cross references and state law references which appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles, or sections are to the chapters, articles, and sections of this Code unless otherwise specified.
(Code 1990, § 1-3)
Sec. 1-5. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former ordinance, clause or provision unless it shall be therein so expressly provided. The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1990, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-6. - Supplementation by codifier.
(a)
By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the city council. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the city council or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete. The new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement. Charter amendments may be included in like manner.
(b)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section numbers or other subdivision numbers.
Sec. 1-7. - Amendments to Code.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect any section or subsection of this Code, shall be numbered consecutively, but shall refer specifically to the section or subsection affected, and printed for inclusion therein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, such repealed portions shall be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages. The subsequent ordinances, as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time as this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code by the city council.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code shall be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "Section ____________ of The Code of Montezuma, Georgia, is amended to read as follows:…" The new provisions shall then be set out in full.
(c)
If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language shall be used: "The Code of Montezuma, Georgia, is amended by adding a new section to be numbered section ____________ , which section shall read as follows:…" The new section shall then be set out in full.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number in the following language: "Section (chapter or article) ____________ of The Code of Montezuma, Georgia, is repealed."
(Code 1990, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-8. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
In this section "violation of this Code" means:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a misdemeanor or an offense or unlawful by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a city officer or city employee to perform an official duty unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided specifically in this Code or by general law, a person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, labor upon the streets or public works in the city for a term not exceeding 30 days, or confinement for a term not exceeding six months, or any combination thereof. With respect to violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
(d)
The imposition of a penalty does not prevent revocation or suspension of a license, permit or franchise.
(e)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent equitable relief.
(Code 1990, § 1-6; Ord. No. 264, § 2, 8-9-1994)
State Law reference— Maximum penalties, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-154; additional penalties in certain traffic cases, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; authority to impose community service as punishment, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-1; alternative sentences by municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-5.
Sec. 1-9. - Fees established by resolution.
Fees for permits, licenses, and other city services shall be as established from time to time by resolution of the city council and set forth in the separate fee schedule adopted by the city.
Sec. 1-10. - Severability.
If any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, section or subsection of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, sections or subsections of this Code.
(Code 1990, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-11. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any ordinance:
(1)
Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money;
(2)
Authorizing the issuance of bonds or any evidence of indebtedness;
(3)
Authorizing or approving a contract;
(4)
Granting a franchise;
(5)
Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving or widening any street or public way;
(6)
Establishing or altering the grades of any street;
(7)
Approving a budget;
(8)
Providing personnel regulations not codified in this Code;
(9)
Amending the Charter;
(10)
Levying or imposing taxes that are not codified in this Code;
(11)
Establishing salaries or other benefits for officers or employees of the city;
(12)
Dealing with special assessments;
(13)
Annexing property into the city;
(14)
Dealing with subdivisions, zoning or development;
(15)
Whose purpose has been accomplished;
(16)
Which is special although permanent in effect;
(17)
Which is temporary although general in effect;
(18)
Which declares any act to be unlawful and a violation of an ordinance unless specifically repealed by ordinance.
(b)
Any act, the commission of which constitutes a misdemeanor under the laws of the state, is prohibited within the city and, if committed within the city and if not prosecuted by the state, is hereby declared to be an offense punishable by the city as an ordinance violation unless such misdemeanor law reserves exclusive jurisdiction to the state.
(Code 1990, § 1-8; Ord. No. 232, 2-13-1990)
Sec. 1-12. - Code does not affect prior offenses, rights.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or allowing any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance of the city in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
(Code 1990, § 1-9)
Sec. 1-13. - Provisions as continuation of existing ordinances.
The provisions of this Code, insofar as they are substantially the same as ordinance provisions previously adopted by the city relating to the same subject matter, shall be construed as restatements and continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(Code 1990, § 1-10)
