Chapter 6 - ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Purpose.
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate certain types of businesses, including but not limited to, adult entertainment establishments to the end that the many types of criminal activities frequently engendered by such businesses will be curtailed. However, it is recognized that such regulation cannot de facto approach prohibition. Otherwise a protected form of expression would vanish. As to adult dance establishments, this chapter represents a balancing of competing interests: reduced criminal activity and protection of the neighborhoods through the regulation of adult entertainment establishments versus the protected rights of adult entertainment establishments and patrons.
(Code 1990, § 22-1; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Sec. 6-2. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Adult bookstore means an establishment having a substantial or significant portion of its stock- in-trade, books, magazines or other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specific sexual activities or specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or section, comprising five percent or more of its total floor space, devoted to the sale or display of such material, or five percent of its net sales consisting of printed materials which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Adult business means:
(1)
Any business which is conducted exclusively for the patronage of adults and from which minors are specifically excluded from patronage thereat either by law or by the operators of such businesses;
(2)
Any business other than those expressly specified in this article, where employees or patrons expose specified anatomical areas or engage in specified sexual activities; or
(3)
Any other business or establishment that offers its patrons services or entertainment characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, discussing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Adult dancing establishment means a business that features dancers displaying or exposing specified anatomical areas.
Adult entertainment establishment means a business which consists of one or more of the following: An adult bookstore, adult business, adult dancing establishment, adult motion picture theater, adult mini-motion picture theater, adult hotel or motel, adult motion picture arcade, adult video store, or escort bureau.
Adult hotel or motel means a hotel or motel wherein material is presented which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Adult mini-motion picture theater means an enclosed building with a capacity of less than 50 persons used for presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
Adult motion picture arcade means any place to which the public is licensed or invited wherein coin- or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time and where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Adult motion picture theater means an enclosed building with a capacity of 50 or more persons, used for presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
Adult video store means an establishment having a substantial or significant portion of its stock-in-trade, video tapes or movies or other reproductions, whether for sale or rent, which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or section, comprising more than five percent of its total floor space, devoted to the sale or display of such material or which derives more than five percent of its net sales from videos which are characterized or distinguished by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Church means a body of communicants gathered into church order, united under one form of government by the profession of the same faith and the observance of the same ritual and ceremonies.
Encounter center or rap establishment means any business, agency or person who, for any form or consideration or gratuity, provides a place where two or more persons may congregate, assemble or associate for the primary purpose of engaging in, describing or discussing specified sexual activities, or exposing specified anatomical areas.
Erotic dance establishment means a nightclub, theater or other establishment which features live performances by topless and/or bottomless dancers, go-go dancers, strippers or similar entertainers, where such performances are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Escort bureau; introduction services means any business, agency or persons who, for a fee, commission, hire, reward or profit furnishes or offers to furnish names or persons, or who introduces, furnishes or arranges for persons who may accompany other persons to or about social affairs, entertainments or places of amusement, or who may consort with others about any place of public resort or within any private quarters.
Good moral character means a person is of good moral character according to this chapter if that person has not been convicted of a felony or any crime not a felony if it involves moral turpitude in the past five years. The city may also take into account such other factors as are necessary to determine the good moral character of the applicant or employee. Conviction shall include pleas of nolo contendere or bond forfeiture when charged of such crime.
Minor means any person who has not attained the age of 18 years.
Partial nude dancing means appearing or dancing at an adult entertainment establishment, as defined herein, partially nude, but at a minimum with the human male or female genitals, pubic area and buttocks and all of the nipples of the breasts of a female being at least shielded and covered by a fully opaque covering.
Public indecency, as it relates to adult dancing establishment, means:
(1)
Engaging in sexual intercourse;
(2)
Engaging in deviate sexual conduct;
(3)
Engaging in a state of total nudity as opposed to partial nudity;
(4)
Fondling the genitals of oneself or another person; or
(5)
Dancing with the male genitals covered, but in a discernible turgid state.
Specified anatomical areas includes any of the following:
(1)
Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals or pubic region; buttock; or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola; or
(2)
Human male genitalia in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
Specified sexual activities includes any of the following:
(1)
Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal intercourse, oral anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual relationship, and any of the following sexually oriented acts or conduct: anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio, necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty;
(2)
Clearly depicted human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or tumescence;
(3)
Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus, or masturbation;
(4)
Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks or female breast;
(5)
Masochism, erotic or sexually oriented torture, beating or the infliction of pain;
(6)
Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexual contact with an animal by a human being; or
(7)
Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal irrigation.
Total nude dancing means appearing or dancing at an adult dancing establishment, as herein defined, without the protection or benefit of the minimal coverings required for partial nude dancing.
(Code 1990, § 22-2; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Secs. 6-3—6-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - REGULATIONS

Sec. 6-23. - Erotic dance establishment regulations.
(a)
No person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity shall advertise or cause to be advertised, an erotic dance establishment without a valid adult entertainment establishment license issued pursuant to this article.
(b)
No later than March 1 of each year, an erotic dance establishment licensee shall file a verified report with the chief administrative officer showing the licensee's gross receipts and amounts paid to dancers for the preceding calendar year.
(c)
An erotic dance establishment licensee shall maintain and retain for a period of two years the names, addresses and ages of all persons employed as dancers.
(d)
No adult entertainment establishment licensee shall employ or contract with as a dancer a person under the age of 18 years or a person not licensed pursuant to this article.
(e)
No person under the age of 18 years shall be admitted to an adult entertainment establishment.
(f)
An erotic dance establishment may be open only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. Monday through Friday, and Saturday from 8:00 a.m. through 2:55 a.m. on Sunday. No licensee shall open his place of business on Christmas Day.
(g)
No erotic dance establishment licensee shall serve, sell, distribute or suffer the consumption or possession of any intoxicating liquor or controlled substance upon the premises of the licensee.
(h)
An adult entertainment establishment licensee shall conspicuously display all licenses required by this article.
(i)
All dancing shall occur on a platform intended for that purpose which is raised at least 18 inches from the level of the floor.
(j)
No dancing shall occur closer than four feet to any patron.
(k)
No dancer shall fondle or caress any patron, and no patron shall fondle or caress any dancer.
(l)
No patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any dancer.
(m)
No dancer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron.
(n)
All areas of an establishment licensed hereunder shall be fully lighted at all times patrons are present. Full lighting means illumination equal to 3.5 footcandles per square foot.
(o)
If any portion or subsection of this section of this article or its application to any person or circumstance is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder or application to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected.
(Code 1990, § 22-3; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Sec. 6-24. - Certain activities prohibited.
No person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity shall publicly display or expose or suffer the public display or exposure, with less than a full opaque covering, of any portion of a person's genitals, pubic area or buttocks in a lewd and obscene fashion.
(Code 1990, § 22-4; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Sec. 6-25. - Operation of unlicensed premises unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an adult bookstore, adult motion picture theater, adult mini-motion picture theater, adult hotel or motel, adult motion picture arcade, cabaret, encounter center, escort bureau or adult business or adult dancing establishment unless such business shall have a currently valid license or shall have made proper application for renewal within the time required thereof under this article, which licensee shall not be under suspension or permanently or conditionally revoked.
(Code 1990, § 22-6; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Sec. 6-26. - Admission of minors unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for a licensee to admit or allow the admission of minors within a licensed premises.
(Code 1990, § 22-7; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Sec. 6-27. - Sales to minors unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, barter or give or offer to sell, barter or give to any minor any service, material, device or thing sold or offered for sale by an adult bookstore, adult motion picture theater, adult massage parlor or adult dancing establishment or other adult entertainment facility.
(Code 1990, § 22-8; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Sec. 6-28. - Location.
(a)
No adult business or use restricted hereunder shall be located:
(1)
Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land which is either named or used for residential uses or purposes;
(2)
Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land upon which a church, school, governmental building, library, civic center, public park or playground is located;
(3)
Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land upon which another establishment regulated or defined hereunder is located;
(4)
Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land upon which any other establishment selling alcoholic beverages is located;
(5)
On less than three acres of land containing at least 100 feet of road frontage.
(b)
For the purpose of this section, distance shall be by aerial measurement from property line, using the closest property lines of the parcels of land involved. The term "parcel of land" means any quantity of land capable of being described by location and boundary, designated and used or to be used as a unit.
(Code 1990, § 22-9; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Sec. 6-29. - Adult entertainment establishment employees.
modified
(a)
Qualifications. Employees of an adult entertainment establishment shall be not less than 18 years of age. Every employee must be of good moral character as defined in this article. Any employee who is convicted of a crime constituting a felony or a crime not a felony involving moral turpitude while employed as an adult entertainment establishment employee shall not thereafter work on any licensed premises for a period of five years from the date of such conviction, unless a longer time is ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction. The term "convicted" includes an adjudication of guilty or a plea of guilty or nolo contendere or the forfeiture of a bond when charged with a crime, and the terms "employed on the licensed premises" and "work on any licensed premises" include as well work done or services performed while in the scope of employment elsewhere than on the licensed premises.
(b)
Approval for employment. Before any person may work on a licensed premises, he shall file a notice with the chief administrative officer of his intended employment on forms supplied by the chief administrative officer and shall receive approval of such employment from the chief administrative officer on a form supplied by him. The prospective employee shall supply such information as the chief administrative officer requires, including a set of fingerprints, on regular city or United States Department of Justice forms. Upon approval, the employee may begin working on the licensed premises. If approval is denied, the prospective employee may, within ten days of said denial, apply to the chief administrative officer for a hearing. The decision of the chief administrative officer after hearing may be appealed to the city council which may issue such order as is proper in the premises. An investigation fee in the amount established by resolution of the city council shall accompany the notice of intended employment or a receipt of the chief administrative officer evidencing the payment of such fee at the time the notice is filed.
(c)
Suspension, revocation of license. Violation of the provisions of this Code, the ordinances of the city, laws and regulations of the state, or the rules and regulations of the city shall subject an employee to suspension or revocation of license.
(d)
Independent contractors. For the purpose of this article, independent contractors shall be considered as employees and shall be licensed as employees, regardless of the business relationship with the owner or license of any adult entertainment establishment.
(Code 1990, § 22-10; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Sec. 6-30. - Cleaning of licensed premises.
Each licensed premises shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be cleaned at least once daily and more frequently when necessary. This activity shall be supervised by the person in charge of the licensed premises. There shall be provided adequate facilities, equipment and supplies on the licensed premises to meet this requirement, and adequate ventilation and illumination shall be provided to license thorough, complete cleaning of the entire licensed premises. Trash and garbage shall not be licensed to accumulate or to become a nuisance on or in the immediate vicinity of the licensed premises but shall be disposed of daily or as often as collections license.
(Code 1990, § 22-29; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Sec. 6-31. - Self-inspection of licensed premises.
The licensee of a licensed premises or his designated representative shall make sanitary inspections of the licensed premises at least once a month and shall record his findings on a form supplied by the licensing officer. Each licensed premises shall post and maintain in a readily accessible place a schedule for maintaining the sanitation of the premises.
(Code 1990, § 22-30; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Secs. 6-32—6-46. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - LICENSING

Sec. 6-47. - License required.
It shall be unlawful for any person, association, partnership or corporation to engage in, conduct or carry on in or upon any premises within the city any of the adult entertainment establishments defined in this article without a license so to do. No license so issued shall condone or make legal any activity thereunder if the same is deemed illegal or unlawful under the laws of the state or the United States.
(Code 1990, § 22-5; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Sec. 6-48. - Application for license.
(a)
Any person, association, partnership or corporation desiring to obtain a license to operate, engage in, conduct or carry on any adult entertainment establishment shall make application to the chief administrative officer or his designated representative. Prior to submitting such application, a nonrefundable fee, established by resolution of the city council, shall be paid to the chief administrative officer to help defray, in part, the cost of investigation and report required by this article, and the chief administrative officer shall issue a receipt showing that such application fee has been paid. The receipt or a copy thereof shall be supplied to the chief administrative officer at the time such application is submitted.
(b)
The application for license does not authorize the engaging in, operation of, conduct of or carrying on of any adult entertainment establishment.
(Code 1990, § 22-11; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Sec. 6-49. - Application contents.
Each application for an adult entertainment establishment license shall contain the following information:
(1)
The full true name and any other names used by the applicant.
(2)
The present address and telephone number of the applicant.
(3)
The previous addresses of the applicant, if any, for a period of five years immediately prior to the date of the application and the dates of residence at each.
(4)
Acceptable written proof that the applicant is at least 18 years of age.
(5)
The applicant's height, weight, color of eyes and hair and date and place of birth.
(6)
Two photographs of the applicant at least two inches by two inches taken within the last six months.
(7)
Business, occupation or employment history of the applicant for the five years immediately preceding the date of application. Business or employment records of the applicant, partners in a partnership, directors and officers of a corporation and, if a corporation, all shareholders holding more than five percent of the shares of corporate stock outstanding.
(8)
The business license history of the applicant and whether such applicant, in previous operations in this or any other city, state or territory under license, had such license or license for an adult entertainment business or similar type of business revoked or suspended, the reason therefor, and the business activity or occupation subsequent to such action of suspension or revocation.
(9)
All convictions, including article violations, exclusive of traffic violations, stating the dates and places of any such convictions.
(10)
If the applicant is a corporation, the name of the corporation shall be set forth as shown in its articles of incorporation or charter, together with the place and date of incorporation, and the names and addresses of each of the current officers and directors, and each stockholder holding more than five percent of the stock in the corporation. If the applicant is a partnership, the applicant shall set forth the name, residence address and dates of birth of the partners, including limited partners. If the applicant is a limited partnership, it shall furnish a copy of its certificate of limited partnership filed with the county clerk. If one or more of the partners is a corporation, the provisions of this subsection pertaining to corporations shall apply. The applicant corporation or partnership shall designate one of its officers or general partners to act as its responsible managing officer. Such designated persons shall complete and sign all application forms required of an individual applicant under this article, but only one application fee shall be charged.
(11)
The names and addresses of the owner and lessor of the real property upon which the business is to be conducted and a copy of the lease or rental agreement.
(12)
Such other identification and information as the police department may require in order to discover the truth of the matters hereinbefore specified as required to be set forth in the application.
(13)
The age and date of birth of the applicant, of any partners, or of any and all officers, of any stockholders of more than five percent of the shares of the corporation stock outstanding, and directors of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation.
(14)
If the applicant, any partners or any of the officers or stockholders holding more than five percent of the outstanding shares of the corporation, or the directors of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation, have ever been convicted of any crime constituting a felony, or any crime not a felony involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or moral turpitude, in the past five years and, if so, a complete description of any such crime, including date of violation, date of conviction, jurisdiction and any disposition, including any fine or sentence imposed and whether terms of disposition have been fully completed.
(15)
The city shall require the individual applicant to furnish fingerprints of the applicant.
(16)
If the applicant is a person doing business under a trade name, a copy of the trade name properly recorded. If the applicant is a corporation, a copy of authority to do business in the state, including articles of incorporation, trade name affidavit, if any, and last annual report, if any.
(17)
At least three character references from individuals who are in no way related to the applicant or individual shareholders, officers, or directors of a corporation, and who are not or will not benefit financially in any way from the application if the license is granted, and who have not been convicted of any felony or a city code violation involving moral turpitude in the past five years. The chief administrative officer shall prepare forms consistent with the provisions of this subsection for the applicant, who shall submit all character references on such forms.
(18)
Address of the premises to be licensed.
(19)
Whether the premises are owned or rented and, if the applicant has a right to legal possession of the premises, copies of those documents giving such legal right.
(20)
A plat by a registered engineer, licensed by the state, showing the location of the proposed premises in relation to the neighborhood, the surrounding zoning, its proximity to any church, school, public park, governmental building or site or other business hereunder regulated.
(21)
Each application for an adult entertainment establishment license shall be verified and acknowledged under oath to be true and correct by:
a.
The individual, if the applicant is an individual;
b.
The manager or general partner, if a partnership;
c.
The president of the corporation, if a corporation;
d.
The chief administrative official, if any other organization or association.
(Code 1990, § 22-12; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Sec. 6-50. - Applicant to appear.
The applicant, if an individual, or designated responsible managing officer, if a partnership or corporation, shall personally appear at the city and produce proof that a nonrefundable application fee, established by resolution of the city council, has been paid and shall present the application containing the aforementioned and described information.
(Code 1990, § 22-13; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Sec. 6-51. - Application; investigation.
The city shall have 30 days to investigate the application and the background of the applicant. Upon completion of the investigation, the mayor and council may grant a license if it finds:
(1)
The required fee has been paid;
(2)
The application conforms in all respects to the provisions of this article;
(3)
The applicant has not knowingly made a material misrepresentation in the application;
(4)
The applicant has fully cooperated in the investigation of his application;
(5)
The applicant, if an individual, or any of the stockholders of the corporation, any officers or directors, if the applicant is a corporation, or any of the partners, including limited partners, if the applicant is a partnership, has not been convicted in any federal, state, county, or municipal court of any crime constituting a felony, or any crime not a felony involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or moral turpitude;
(6)
The applicant license or permit denied or revoked for cause by this city or any other city located in or out of this state prior to the date of application;
(7)
The building, structure, equipment or location of such business as proposed by the applicant would comply with all applicable laws, including but not limited to health, zoning, distance, fire and safety requirements and standards;
(8)
The applicant is at least 18 years of age;
(9)
That the applicant, his employee, agent, partner, director, officer, stockholder or manager has not, within five years of the date of the application, knowingly allowed or licensed any of the specified sexual activities as defined herein to be committed or allowed in or upon the premises where such adult entertainment establishment is to be located or to be used as a place in which solicitations for the specified sexual activities as defined herein openly occur;
(10)
That on the date the business for which a license is required herein commences, and thereafter, there will be a responsible person on the premises to act as manager at all times during which the business is open;
(11)
That the proposed premises is not to be located too close to any church, school, library, governmental building or site or any other business restricted hereunder;
(12)
That the grant of such license will not cause a violation of this article or any other article or regulation of the city, the state or the United States;
(13)
Any other inquiry deemed necessary or desirable by the city to ensure the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city or the preservation of its neighborhoods has been satisfied.
(Code 1990, § 22-14; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Sec. 6-52. - Persons prohibited as licensees.
(a)
No license provided for by this article shall be issued to or held by:
(1)
An applicant who has not paid all required fees and taxes for a business at that location or property taxes;
(2)
Any person who is not of good moral character;
(3)
Any corporation, any of whose officers, directors or stockholders holding over five percent of the outstanding issued shares of capital stock are not of good moral character;
(4)
Any partnership or association, any of whose officers or members holding more than five percent interest therein are not of good moral character;
(5)
Any person employing, assisted by or financed in whole or in part by any person who is not of good moral character;
(6)
Any applicant who is not qualified to hold and conduct a business according to the laws of the United States, the state or the city.
(b)
Should there be a sufficient number of current licenses to meet the needs and desires of the inhabitants of the city, no new licenses shall be issued. In determining the needs and desires of the inhabitants, the standard of review shall be that the market is virtually unrestrained as defined in Young vs. American Mini Theaters, Inc., 427 U.S. 50, 70-71, 96 S.Ct. 2440, 49 L.Ed.2d 310 (1976).
(Code 1990, § 22-15; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Sec. 6-53. - Refusal to issue license; appeal.
If the city, following investigation of the applicant, deems that the applicant does not fulfill the requirements as set forth in this article, it shall notify the chief administrative officer of such opinion and, within 30 days of the date of application, provide copies of the investigation report to the chief administrative officer. The chief administrative officer shall, within ten days, notify the applicant by certified mail of such denial. Any applicant who is denied a license may appeal such denial to the mayor and council.
(Code 1990, § 22-16; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Sec. 6-54. - License renewal.
Licenses for adult entertainment establishments may be renewed on a year-to-year basis, provided that the licensees continue to meet the requirements set out in this article. The renewal fees for the adult entertainment establishment licenses shall be established by resolution of the city council.
(Code 1990, § 22-17; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Sec. 6-55. - Licenses not transferable.
No entertainment establishment license may be sold, transferred or assigned by a licensee, or by operation of law, to any other person. Any such sale, transfer or assignment or attempted sale, transfer or assignment shall be deemed to constitute a voluntary surrender of such license, and such license shall thereafter be null and void; provided and excepting, however, that if the licensee is a partnership and one or more of the partners should die, one or more of the surviving partners may acquire, by purchase or otherwise, the interest of the deceased partner without effecting a surrender or termination of such license, and in such case the license, upon notification to the city, shall be placed in the name of the surviving partner. An adult entertainment establishment license issued to a corporation shall be deemed terminated and void when either any outstanding stock of the corporation is sold, transferred or assigned after the issuance of a license or any stock authorized but not issued at the time of the granting of a license is thereafter issued and sold, transferred or assigned.
(Code 1990, § 22-18; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Sec. 6-56. - Change of location or name; expansion.
(a)
No adult entertainment establishment shall move from the location specified on its license until a change of location fee, established by resolution of the city council, has been deposited with the city and approval has been obtained from the chief administrative officer and zoning department. Such approval shall not be given unless all requirements and regulations as contained in the city Code have been met.
(b)
No licensee shall operate, conduct, manage, engage in or carry on an adult entertainment establishment under any name other than his name and the name of the business as specified on his license.
(c)
Any application for an extension or expansion of a building or other place of business where an adult entertainment establishment is located shall require inspection and shall comply with the provisions and regulations of this article.
(Code 1990, § 22-19; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Secs. 6-57—6-85. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - APPEALS

Sec. 6-86. - Appeal procedure.
(a)
The licensee or applicant shall, within ten days after he has been notified of an adverse determination, submit a notice of appeal to the chief administrative officer.
(b)
The notice of appeal shall be addressed to the council and shall specify the subject matter of the appeal, the date of any original and amended application or requests, the date of the adverse decision (or receipt of notice thereof), the basis of the appeal, the action requested of the council and the name and address of the applicant.
(c)
The chief administrative officer shall place the appeal on the agenda of the next regular council meeting occurring not less than five nor more than 30 days after receipt of the application for council action.
(Code 1990, § 22-20; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Sec. 6-87. - Council discretion regarding procedure.
When an appeal is placed on the council agenda, the council may take either of the following actions:
(1)
Set a hearing date and instruct the chief administrative officer to give such notice of hearing as may be required by law;
(2)
Appoint a hearing officer and fix the time and place for hearing. The hearing officer may or may not be a city employee and may be appointed for an extended period of time. The chief administrative officer shall assume responsibility for such publication of notice of the hearing as may be required by law. If a hearing officer is appointed, the hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures set out in this article.
(Code 1990, § 22-41; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Sec. 6-88. - City council hearing.
Whenever the chief administrative officer has scheduled an appeal before the city council, the council shall receive all relevant testimony and evidence from the licensee, from interested parties and from city staff at the time and date set therefor. The city council may sustain, overrule or modify the action complained of. The action of the city council shall be final.
(Code 1990, § 22-22; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Sec. 6-89. - Powers of hearing officer.
The hearing officer appointed pursuant to the procedure set out in this article may receive and rule on admissibility of evidence, hear testimony under oath and call witnesses as he may deem advisable with respect to the conduct of the hearing.
(Code 1990, § 22-23; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Sec. 6-90. - Rules of evidence for administrative hearings apply.
The city council and the hearing officer shall not be bound by the traditional rules of evidence in hearings conducted under this article. Rules of evidence as applied in an administrative hearing shall apply.
(Code 1990, § 22-24; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Sec. 6-91. - Report of hearing.
(a)
The hearing officer shall, within a reasonable time not to exceed 30 days from the date such hearing is terminated, submit a written report to the council. Such report shall contain a brief summary of the evidence considered and state the findings, conclusions and recommendations. All such reports shall be filed with the chief administrative officer and shall be considered public records. A copy of such report shall be forwarded by certified mail to the licensee/appellant the same day it is filed with the chief administrative officer, with additional copies furnished to the chief administrative officer and chief of police.
(b)
The chief administrative officer shall place the hearing officer's report on the agenda of the next regular council meeting occurring not less than ten days after the report is filed and shall notify the licensee/appellant of the date of such meeting at least ten days prior to the meeting unless the licensee/appellant stipulates a shorter notice period.
(Code 1990, § 22-25; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Sec. 6-92. - Review of decision by council.
The council may adopt or reject the hearing officer's decision in its entirety or may modify the proposed recommendation. If the council does not adopt the hearing officer's recommendations, it may:
(1)
Refer the matter to the same or another hearing officer for a completely new hearing or for the taking of additional evidence on specific points; in either of such cases, the hearing officer shall proceed as provided in this article;
(2)
Decide the case upon a review of the entire record before the hearing officer with or without taking additional evidence.
(Code 1990, § 22-26; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Secs. 6-93—6-112. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES

Sec. 6-113. - Misdemeanors.
Any person violating the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section 1-8. In addition to such fine or imprisonment, violation of this article shall also be grounds for immediate suspension or revocation of the license issued hereunder.
(Code 1990, § 22-27; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Sec. 6-114. - Unlawful operation declared nuisance.
Any adult entertainment establishment operated, conducted or maintained contrary to the provisions of this article shall be declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance. The city may, in addition to or in lieu of prosecuting a criminal action hereunder, commence an action, proceeding for abatement, removal or enjoinment thereof in the manner provided. It shall take such other steps and shall apply to such court as may have jurisdiction to grant such relief as will abate or remove such adult entertainment establishment and restrain and enjoin any person from operating, conducting or maintaining an adult entertainment establishment contrary to the provisions of this article. In addition, violation of the provisions of this article shall be per se grounds for suspension or revocation of a license granted hereunder.
(Code 1990, § 22-28; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Sec. 6-115. - Sealing of premises.
A licensed premises or any part thereof may be sealed by order of the licensing officer on his finding of a violation of this article resulting in an unsanitary or unsafe condition. Prior to sealing, the licensing officer shall serve on the licensee, by personal service on him or by posting in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises, a notice of the violation and an order to correct it within 24 hours after service. If the violation is not so corrected, the licensing officer may physically seal that portion of the licensed premises causing the violation and order the discontinuance of use thereof until the violation has been corrected and the seal removed by the licensing officer. The licensing officer shall affix to the sealed premises a conspicuous sign "Unclean" or "Unsafe" as the case may be.
(Code 1990, § 22-31; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
Sec. 6-116. - Abatement as sanitary nuisance.
A licensed premises or any part thereof may be abated as a sanitary nuisance.
(Code 1990, § 22-32; Ord. No. 275, 4-18-1995)
