PART I - CHARTER[1]
ARTICLE I. - CHARTER, CITY LIMITS AND CORPORATE POWERS

Section 1.01. - Applicability.
This Act is a charter and shall constitute the whole Charter of the City of Montezuma, Georgia, repealing and replacing the Charter provided by Act No. 68 of the Georgia Laws of 1929, pages 1199 and 1210, as amended [1929 Ga. Laws (Act No. 68), p. 1199]. The City of Montezuma, Georgia, in the County of Macon, and the inhabitants thereof, are hereby constituted and declared a body politic and corporate by the name and style of the City of Montezuma, Georgia, and by that name shall have perpetual succession, may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, in all the courts of law and equity, and in all actions whatsoever, and may have and use a common seal, and change it at pleasure.
Section 1.02. - City limits.
(a)
Be it further enacted, that said city shall include all territory embraced within the following boundaries, which shall constitute the corporate limits of the said city, as follows:
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 15th district (originally Houston) and in the 1st district (originally Dooly) both now in the County of Macon, State of Georgia, described as being enclosed within the boundaries set forth as follows:
Beginning at the point where the easterly bank of the Flint River intersects with the north boundary line of land lot no. 232 and running thence easterly along the northern boundary line of land lots nos. 232 and 226 to the eastern boundary line of State Highway No. 49 (Montezuma to Marshallville), run thence south along the eastern boundary of said State highway to a certain dirt road which constitutes the beginning of the lands of Hugh D. Crook (formerly W. H. Barnwell, Jr.), run thence north 80 degrees 02 minutes east along said dirt road for a distance of 1039.8 feet, run thence north 73 degrees 57 minutes east for a distance of 301.7 feet, run thence south 0 degrees 50 minutes west for a distance of 827.9 feet, run thence north 89 degrees 10 minutes west for a distance of approximately 740 feet to a certain stream which runs southeasterly from the lake on the Crook Property, run thence along said stream in a southeasterly direction to the confluence of said stream with Beaver Creek, run thence in a northeasterly direction up Beaver Creek to the confluence of that Creek with Spring Branch, run thence in an easterly direction up said Spring Branch to the point where said branch intersects with the lot line between land lots nos. 192 and 187, run thence north along said lot line (which is the west lot line of land lot no. 187 and the east lot line of land lot no. 192) for a distance of 599.4 feet, run thence south 63 degrees 04 minutes east for a distance of 777.2 feet, run thence south 01 degrees 10 minutes west for 923.6 feet to Spring Branch, run thence south 01 degrees 10 minutes west for a distance of 4536.4 feet to the north right of way line of State Highway No. 26 (Montezuma to Handerson), run thence in a westerly direction along said north boundary of said State Highway No. 26 to the western right of way line of the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Company track, run thence along the said western boundary of said railroad track in a southerly direction to the run of Spring Pond Creek (which is 2332 feet down said railroad track from the centerline of Travelers Rest Road), run thence in a westerly direction down Spring Pond Creek across State Highway No. 90 (Montezuma to Byromville) and across the paved road which runs from Montezuma to Drayton and hence down the run of said Spring Pond Creek to the eastern bank of the Flint River, run thence in a northerly direction along said eastern bank of the said Flint River to the point of beginning.
(b)
On November 13, 1956, the City of Montezuma conveyed to the State of Georgia a certain tract of land by deed, recorded in book 30 (3Q), page 224; for the purpose of locating a prison camp adjacent to said city; and the prison camp has not been established thereon and such property is surplus as to the State of Georgia, the State of Georgia to shall reconvey to the City of Montezuma the following tract of land, to-wit:
All that tract or parcel of land situate, lying and being in the fifteenth land district of formerly Houston, now Macon County, Georgia, being a portion of lot of land no. 192, in said district, and more particularly described as follows: To attain a point of beginning commensurate at the junction of lots of land nos. 192, 191, 188, and 187 in said district, and run thence north along the lot line of lots no. 192 and no. 187 a distance of 808 feet; thence south 89 degrees 14 minutes west a distance of 1762.7 feet to the point of beginning of the lands herein conveyed. From said point of beginning run thence south 89 degrees 14 minutes west a distance of 1050 feet; thence north 0 degrees 46 minutes west a distance of 617.5 feet; thence north 88 degrees 58 minutes east a distance of 1050 feet; thence south 0 degrees 46 minutes east a distance of 622.3 feet to point of beginning. Bounded as follows: south and west by property of Spaulding Realty Cooperation, and north and east by other property of City of Montezuma. The lands herein conveyed are more particularly shown on plat prepared by J. R. Curtis, Surveyor, dated November 10, 1956 and recorded in plat book 3, page 23, Office of the Clerk of Superior Court, Macon County, Georgia. Said plat is hereby included as part of this description by reference thereto.
(b)[c]
Be it resolved by the General Assembly of Georgia that the Governor, acting for and on behalf of the State of Georgia, be and he is hereby authorized and empowered to grant, bargain, sell and convey to the City of Montezuma, a municipal corporation, located in Macon County, Georgia, for and in consideration of a price to be determined by the State Properties Control Commission, the moral obligation of the State, and other valuable consideration, all of the rights, titles and interests the State of Georgia has in and to the tract or parcel of land described in this Resolution:
All that tract or parcel of land comprising 14.75 acres, more or less, lying and being in Land Lot No. 192, in the 15th District of originally Houston, now Macon County, Georgia, being more particularly described as follows: From the point were Land Lots Nos. 187, 188, 199 and 192 intersects, run due North for a distance of 2024.5 feet along the line dividing Land Lots 192 and 187; thence run due West for 489.8 feet to the point of beginning of the tract hereby conveyed; from said point of beginning run thence due West a distance of 670 feet, thence due North for a distance of 925 feet; thence North 84 degrees 12 minutes East for a distance of 673 feet to a point on Spring Creek; thence due South for a distance of 993 feet to the point of beginning, all as shown on plat of survey by J. R. Curtis, Surveyor, dated February 18, 1957, recorded in Plat Book #3, page 27, office of the Clerk, Superior Court, Macon County, Georgia, made a part by this reference thereto. Whereas, it is the finding of the General Assembly of Georgia that the tract or parcel of land described herein is surplus and is not needed for State purposes.
(c)[d]
The State of Georgia is the owner of a certain parcel of real property located in Macon County, Georgia:
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Macon County, Georgia, lying in and being a part of Land Lot 192 of the 15th District, containing approximately 14.75 acres, more or less, according to a drawing entitled "Property for State Highway Maintenance Camp" on file with the State Properties Commission; and may be more particularly described on a plat of survey prepared by a Georgia registered land surveyor and presented by the grantee to the State Properties Commission for approval; and
The above-described real property shall be conveyed by appropriate instrument to the City of Montezuma by the State of Georgia, acting by and through the State Properties Commission, for a consideration of $10.00 and upon such further consideration and provisions as the State Properties Commission shall in its discretion determine to be in the best interests of the State of Georgia.
(1959 Ga. Laws (Act No. 49), p. 387; 1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 127), § 1, p. 2423; 1974 Ga. Laws (Act No. 182), § 1, p. 1638; 1993 Ga. Laws (Act No. 32), § 1, p. 1189)
Editor's note— The charter amendments comprising 1959 Ga. Laws (Act No. 49), p. 387; 1974 Ga. Laws (Act No. 182), § 1, p. 1638; and 1993 Ga. Laws (Act No. 32), § 1, p. 1189, did not specify the section amended and have been placed here as subsections (b), (c), and (d), respectively, at the editor's discretion.
Section 1.03. - Corporate powers.
Be it further enacted, that the corporate powers of the city, to be exercised by the city council, shall include the following:
(a)
To levy and to provide for the assessment, valuation, re-evaluation, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation.
(b)
To levy and to provide for the collection of license taxes on privileges, occupations, trades, and professions.
(c)
To levy and to provide for the collection of registration fees on automobiles and trucks owned by residents of the city, and also on automobiles and trucks owned by nonresidents and operated within the city with regularity. Such registration fees on trucks or automobiles may be graduated according to their tonnage capacities, weight or horsepower.
(d)
To appropriate and borrow money to provide for payment of the debts of the city, and to authorize the expenditure of money for any municipal purpose, or for matters of National or State interest.
(e)
To acquire, dispose of, and hold in trust or otherwise, any real, personal or mixed property, inside or outside the city.
(f)
To condemn property, inside or outside the city, for present or future use, and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the city council, under section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia, 1933 [now repealed, see Ga. Const. art. IX, § 11, ¶ V], or under other applicable public acts.
(g)
To acquire, construct, operate, distribute, sell, and dispose of public utilities, including but not limited to a system of waterworks and/or a natural gas system subject to the provisions of applicable general law. For water and gas furnished and for all sewerage and sanitary services rendered, said city shall have a lien against any property of the persons served; said lien to be enforceable in the same manner and with the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes.
(h)
To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services, not to exceed periods of twenty years. The council may prescribe the rates, fares, regulations, and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor.
(i)
To regulate the rates and services of public utilities in-so-far as not in conflict with such regulation by the Georgia Public Service Commission or other similar State or Federal agency having jurisdiction in such matters.
(j)
To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation and maintenance of public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewerage treatment, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, conservation, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities; and any other public improvements, inside or outside the city; and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under Section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia [now repealed, see Ga. Const. art. IX, § 11, ¶ V] or other applicable public acts.
(k)
To require real estate owners to repair and maintain in a safe condition, the sidewalks adjoining their lots or lands; and to enact ordinances establishing the terms and conditions under which such repairs and maintenance shall be effected, including the penalties to be imposed for failure so to do.
(l)
To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(m)
To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse. Charges may be imposed to cover the costs of such services which, if unpaid, shall constitute a lien against any property of persons served, which lien shall be second in priority only to liens for county and city property taxes and shall be enforceable in the same manner, and under the same remedies, as a lien for city property taxes.
(n)
To define, regulate and prohibit any act, practice, conduct, or use of property, which is detrimental, or likely to be detrimental, to the health, morals, safety, security, peace, convenience, or general welfare of inhabitants of the city.
(o)
To define a nuisance in the city and to provide for its abatement. The mayor or recorder of the city, as the case may be, shall have jurisdiction of all nuisance abatement proceedings in the city. The city shall provide by ordinance for any building, structure, or condition maintained in violation of any valid law of this state or any valid ordinance of the city, to be adjudged a nuisance and for its abatement at the owner's expense upon his failure or refusal to abate the same within ten days after written notice from the city to do so.
(p)
To establish minimum standards for, and to regulate, building construction and repair, electrical wiring and equipment, gas installation and equipment, plumbing, and housing for the health, sanitation, cleanliness and safety of inhabitants of the city, and to provide for the enforcement of such standards. This subsection does not apply to work done by and for public utilities.
(q)
To regulate and license weights and measures.
(r)
To provide that persons given jail sentences in the city [municipal] court shall work out such sentences on the streets, or any public works of the city, or in a city workhouse established for this purpose, as provided by ordinance; or the council may provide for the commitment of city prisoners to the county work camp, or jail, by agreement with the appropriate county officers.
(s)
To regulate and license, or prohibit, the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same, in violation of any ordinance or lawful order; also to provide for their disposition, by sale, gift, or humane killing, when not redeemed as provided by ordinance.
(t)
To order any railroad operating within the city to construct viaducts or underpasses in order to eliminate grade crossings, or to pave and maintain grade crossings in a smooth and safe condition. The city shall pay the costs of constructing approaches to the railroad's right-of-way line. Each day's failure of the railroad to comply with such an order after a reasonable time has elapsed, shall be a misdemeanor and a separate offense, and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense. If the railroad refuses to do such work, the city may have the work done, and may collect the cost thereof from the railroad, by the use of all legal and equitable remedies available under applicable provisions of law or equity, or a combination thereof.
(u)
To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in amounts prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate and rent parking spaces in public ways for the use of such vehicles.
(v)
To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments for public improvements.
(w)
To provide that the violation of any ordinance, rule, regulation or order shall be punishable as a misdemeanor, as hereinafter provided.
(x)
To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, morals, and general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; and to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in the Act as fully and completely as if such powers were fully enumerated herein. No enumeration of particular powers in this Act shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers; but shall be held to be in addition to such powers, unless expressly prohibited to cities under the constitution or applicable public acts of the state.
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; municipal water and sewer systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-5; nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1 et seq.
Section 1.04. - Ordinances.
Be it further enacted, that all ordinances, by-laws, rules and regulations, now in force in said city, not inconsistent with this Act, are hereby declared valid and of force until amended or repealed by the mayor and council of said city.
ARTICLE II. - CITY COUNCIL

Section 2.01. - Election of mayor and councilmen.
Be it further enacted, that on the first Tuesday in January, 1964, and on the first Tuesday in December biennially thereafter, there shall be an election for the office of mayor. On the same date in each year three councilmen shall be elected to serve two years, in the order of expiration of terms of those now serving as such. The mayor and council shall have the power to provide the exact manner in which, and place where, elections shall take place; to require the preservation of good order and to prevent disturbance or interference with the free right to vote. The mayor shall appoint three freeholders or one justice of the peace and two freeholders of the City, to manage all elections. Each manager, before entering on his duties shall take the following oath before some judge or justice of the peace:
"I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully and impartially conduct the election for which I am appointed manager, and will prevent all illegal voting, to the best of my ability and power, so help me God."
The mayor shall provide at the city's expense all necessary material for use of managers in elections. The mayor and council may, by ordinance, prescribe how votes may be challenged; how the returns of all elections shall be made and results declared; and also how contests of any election shall be conducted, and to prescribe all rules and regulations for the proper conduct of all elections in said city.
(1969 Ga. Laws (Act No. 372), § 1, p. 3104)
Editor's note— Municipal elections are now governed by the provisions of the Georgia Election Code, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.
Section 2.02. - City council.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and six councilmen shall compose the city council, in which is vested all corporate, legislative and other powers of the city, except as otherwise provided in this Act. The council shall be the final judge of the election and qualifications of its members, also of the amount and manner of compensating them for their services. The council shall hold regular public meetings at a stated time and place, as provided by ordinance. The council shall meet in special session on written call of the mayor or any three councilmen, and notice of which has been served on the other members personally or left at their residences at least twelve hours in advance of the meeting. But such notice of a special meeting shall not be required if the mayor and all councilmen are present when the special meeting is called. Only the business stated in the written call may be transacted at a special meeting, except by unanimous consent of all members of the council. The council shall exercise its powers only in public meetings. A majority of the council shall constitute a quorum. The council may, by ordinance, adopt rules and by-laws to govern the conduct of its business; including procedures and penalties for compelling the attendance of absent members. The council may subpoena and examine witnesses, may order the production of books and papers, and shall have the same powers as the City Court of Oglethorpe, or comparable county court, to punish for refusal to obey such an order or subpoena, or for disorderly or contemptuous behavior in the presence of the council.
Section 2.03. - Mayor as presiding officer.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor shall preside at meetings of the council, shall have a vote only in case of a tie, but no veto power; shall be the ceremonial head of the city, shall sign ordinances and resolutions on their final passage; shall sign deeds, bonds and contracts when authorized by the council to do so; shall be the officer to accept process against the city, and shall perform other duties imposed by this Act and ordinances not inconsistent with this Act.
Section 2.04. - Vice-mayor.
Be it further enacted, that the council at the first regular meeting, after the newly elected councilmen have taken office following each annual election, shall elect from its membership a vice-mayor for a term of one year. In the event that no decision is reached at such first regular meeting, the council shall, within five ballots to be taken within ten days following such meeting, elect the vice-mayor; otherwise the councilman who received the highest number of votes, when he was last elected, shall become vice-mayor. The vice-mayor shall perform the duties of the mayor during his absence or inability to act, and shall fill out any unexpired term in the office of mayor, in which case a new vice-mayor shall be elected by majority vote of the council.
Section 2.05. - Vacancy in office of mayor or councilman.
Be it further enacted, that a vacancy shall exist if the mayor or a councilman resigns, dies, moves his residence from the city, or has been continuously disabled for a period of six months, so as to prevent him from discharging the duties of his office, or if he accepts any Federal, state, county, or other municipal office or position of employment, except as a notary public or member of the National Guard or other reserve components of the U. S. Armed Forces; of if he is convicted of malfeasance or misfeasance in office, or of a felony, or violation of this Act; or any violation of the election laws of the state. The council shall appoint a qualified person to fill such a vacancy for the remainder of the unexpired term. If a tie vote by the council to fill a vacancy is unbroken for fifteen days, the mayor, or vice-mayor in case of a vacancy in the office of mayor, shall appoint a qualified person to fill the vacancy. At no time shall there be more than two members (including the mayor) so appointed holding office; and if a vacancy occurs, with two members so appointed on the council, a special election shall be held on the sixth Tuesday following occurrence of the vacancy, at which election a mayor or councilman, as the case may be, shall be elected to serve the remainder of the unexpired term of the vacant office; provided that no such election shall be held if a regular annual election will occur within six months.
Section 2.06. - City clerk.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council shall appoint a city clerk, who shall be responsible for keeping and preserving the city seal and all records of the council; attending meetings of the council and keeping a journal of its proceedings at such meetings, including the names of members present and absent, the vote of each member on each question, each motion considered, and the title of each resolution or ordinance considered; preparing and certifying copies of official records in his office, for which fees may be prescribed by ordinance; and performing such other duties as may be required by the council or mayor. Salary of the city clerk and his term of office shall be as prescribed by the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 154-B, 7-8-1980; Ord. No. 215, 12-13-1988; Ord. No. 256, 4-14-1992; Ord. No. 347, 1-13-2004)
Section 2.065. - City administrator.
The city council shall appoint a city administrator for an indefinite term and shall fix the city administrator's compensation. The city administrator shall be appointed solely on the basis of that person's executive and administrative qualifications.
(Ord. No. 373, 7-14-2009)
Section 2.066. - Removal of the city administrator.
(a)
The city council shall remove the city administrator from office in accordance with the following procedures:
(1)
The city council shall adopt by affirmative vote of a majority of all its members a preliminary resolution which must state the reasons for removal and may suspend the city administrator from duty for a period not to exceed 45 days. A copy of the resolution shall be delivered promptly to the city administrator.
(2)
Within five days after a copy of the resolution is delivered to the city administrator, that person may file with the city council a written request for a public hearing. This hearing shall be held within 30 days after the request is filed. The city administrator may file with the city council a written reply not later than five days before the hearing.
(3)
If the city administrator has not requested a public hearing within the time specified in paragraph (2) of this subsection, the city council may adopt a final resolution for removal, which may be made effective immediately, by an affirmative vote of a majority of all its members. If the city administrator has requested a public hearing, the city council may adopt a final resolution for removal, which may be made effective immediately upon its passage by a majority vote of all its members after the public hearing.
(b)
The city administrator shall continue to receive the city administrator's salary until the effective date of a final resolution of removal.
(Ord. No. 373, 7-14-2009)
Section 2.067. - Powers and duties of the city administrator.
The city administrator shall be the chief administrative officer of the city and position may be combined with the office of city clerk or may be two separate positions occupied by two separate individuals. The city administrator shall be responsible to the city council for the administration of all city affairs placed in the city administrator's charge by or under this charter. The city administrator:
(1)
Shall direct and supervise the administration of all departments, offices and agencies of the city, except as otherwise provided by this charter or by law;
(2)
Shall attend all city council meetings and shall have the right to take part in discussion, but the city administrator may not vote;
(3)
Shall see that all laws, provisions of this charter, and acts of the city council, subject to enforcement by the city administrator or by officers subject to the city administrator's direction and supervision, are faithfully executed;
(4)
Shall prepare and submit the annual operating budget and capital budget to the city council.
(5)
Shall submit to the city council and make available to the public a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the city as of the end of each fiscal year;
(6)
Shall make other such reports as the city council may require concerning the operations of city departments, offices, and agencies subject to the city administrator's direction and supervisions;
(7)
Shall keep the city council fully advised as to the financial condition and future needs of the city, and make such recommendations to the city council concerning the affairs of the city as the city administrator deems desirable; and
(8)
Shall perform other such duties as are specified in this charter or as may be required by the city council.
(Ord. No. 373, 7-14-2009)
Section 2.07. - City legislation.
Be it further enacted, that any action of the council, having a regulatory or penal effect, or required to be done by ordinance under this Act, shall be done only by ordinance. Each resolution and ordinance shall be in written form before being introduced. The affirmative vote of at least four members of the council shall be required to pass any resolution or ordinance. After adoption of ordinances, the city clerk shall number ordinances consecutively, in the order of their final adoption, and shall copy them into a permanent record book used solely for this purpose; and the city clerk shall do likewise for resolutions, using a separate series of numbers and a separate record book. The original copies of all ordinances, resolutions and motions shall be filed and preserved by the city clerk.
ARTICLE III. - ORGANIZATION AND PERSONNEL

Section 3.01. - Organization.
Be it further enacted, that the city government shall continue as presently organized, unless and until otherwise provided by ordinance; but no such ordinance shall be adopted until after the council has received and considered the written recommendations of the mayor. The council, by such ordinances, may establish, abolish, merge, or consolidate offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city; may provide that the same person shall fill any number of offices and positions of employment, and may transfer or change the functions and duties of offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city.
State Law reference— Authority to provide for, regulate, etc., officers and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2.
Section 3.02. - Administrative duties of mayor.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor shall be the executive head of the city government, responsible for the efficient and orderly administration of the city's affairs. He shall be responsible for the enforcement of laws, rules and regulations, ordinances and franchises in the city; and the city attorney shall take such legal actions as the mayor may direct for such purposes. He may conduct inquiries and investigations into the conduct of the city's affairs and shall have such other powers and duties as may be provided by ordinances not inconsistent with this Act.
Section 3.03. - City attorney.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council shall appoint a city attorney, together with such assistant city attorneys as may be authorized by ordinance. The city attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a part; shall be the prosecuting officer in the mayor's or recorder's [municipal] court; shall attend all meetings of the council; shall advise the council, mayor, and other officers and employees of the city, concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs; shall approve as to form and legality all contracts, deeds, bonds, ordinances, resolutions, and motions, prescribed by the council or mayor.
Section 3.04. - Mayor's or recorder's [municipal] court.
Be it further enacted, there shall be a municipal court in said city, for the trial of all offenders against the laws and ordinances of said city, to be held by the judge in the courtroom in the city hall of said city as often as necessary. If the judge be absent or disqualified, then any attorney designated by the mayor may hold court. Said judge shall have full power and authority to sentence any offender, upon conviction, to labor upon the streets or other public works in said city for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days, or confinement for a period not exceeding six (6) months, or to impose a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or a combination thereof. Either one (1) or more of said penalties may be imposed in the discretion of the judge. The judge shall have the right to issue criminal warrants, to hold preliminary trials, and to fix bonds of all persons tried before him, to answer for their appearance at Macon County Superior Court and/or the municipal court for violation of the criminal laws of said state, or in default of such bond, to commit such offenders to jail for safe keeping.
(1974 Ga. Laws (Act No. UNK), § 1, p. 4095; Ord. No. 264, § 1, 8-9-1994)
Editor's note— Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-21-1 the title of the court has been editorially changed to municipal court.
Section 3.05. - Other officers and employees.
Be it further enacted, that the council by ordinance, after receiving the written recommendations of the mayor, may establish offices and positions of employment and may abolish, combine or modify them by ordinance in accordance with such recommendations. Public utilities owned or operated by the city may be under the supervision of the mayor and employees appointed by him or may be under boards or commissions appointed by and answerable to the council, as provided by ordinance.
Section 3.06. - Oath of office.
Be it further enacted, that before a person takes any office in the city government, he shall take before an officer of this State, authorized to administer oaths, the following oath or affirmation:
"I solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution of the United States and of the State of Georgia, that I will in all respects, observe the provisions of the Charter and ordinances of the City of Montezuma, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of ____________ . So help me God."
Section 3.07. - Political activity prohibited.
Be it further enacted, that no officer or employee of the city, other than the mayor and councilmen, shall continue in the employment of the city after becoming a candidate for nomination or election to any city or other public office.
ARTICLE IV. - FISCAL ADMINISTRATION

Section 4.01. - Fiscal year.
Be it further enacted, that the fiscal year of the city government shall begin on the first day of January and shall end on the thirty-first day of December of each year, but a different fiscal year may be fixed by ordinance for the entire city government or for any utility.
State Law reference— Fiscal year required, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-3.
Section 4.02. - Mayor to submit annual budget.
Be it further enacted, that on or before a date fixed by the council, but not later than forty-five days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year; the mayor shall submit to the council a proposed budget for the next fiscal year, for the general fund, and other funds as required by State law, the following: (a) a revenue and expenditure during the preceding fiscal year, (b) appropriations and estimated revenue and expenditures for the current fiscal year, (c) estimated revenue and recommended expenditures for the next fiscal year, (d) a comparative statement of the assets, liabilities, reserves, and surplus at the end of the preceding year and estimated assets, liabilities, reserves and surplus at the end of the current fiscal year, and (e) such other information and data, as may be considered necessary by the mayor or requested by the council.
(Ord. No. 383, 11-9-2010)
State Law reference— Annual budget generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-3 et seq.
Section 4.03. - Action by council on budget.
Be it further enacted, that before the beginning of the ensuing fiscal year, the council shall adopt an appropriation ordinance, based on the mayor's budget, with such modifications as the council considers necessary or desirable. Appropriations need not be in more detail than a lump sum for each department and agency. The council shall not make any appropriations in excess of estimated revenue, except to provide for an actual emergency threatening the health, property or lives of the inhabitants of the city; providing the council unanimously agrees there is such an emergency. If conditions prevent the adoption of an appropriation ordinance, before the beginning of the new fiscal year, the appropriations for the last fiscal year shall become the appropriations for the new fiscal year, subject to amendment as provided by an ordinance specifically passed for such purpose.
State Law reference— Adoption of budget, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-6.
Section 4.04. - Sale of city property.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council may sell any city property that is obsolete, surplus or unusable, at public or private sale, with or without advertisement; and for such consideration as to said mayor and council shall deem equitable and just to the city.
Section 4.05. - Annual audit.
Be it further enacted, that the council shall employ a certified public accountant to make an annual audit of all financial books and records of the city. The accountant shall file his report with the council, at a time agreed to between him and the council, and shall prepare a summary of the report that shall be furnished or made available to the mayor and every councilman.
State Law reference— Audits required, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-7.
Section 4.06. - Property taxes.
Be it further enacted, that all property subject to taxation for state or county purposes, including the capital stock of merchants and public service companies, assessed as of January 1st in each year, shall be subject to a property tax levied by the city. The council by ordinance may elect to use the county assessment or may provide for an independent city evaluation and/or assessment as provided by Georgia law. If an independent city assessment is made, a board of equalization, consisting of three councilmen appointed by the mayor, or three freeholders of the city appointed by the mayor and council, with compensation fixed by ordinance, shall hear appeals of taxpayers taken within ten days after the city manager [chief administrative officer] has sent a notice, by ordinary mail, of a new or increased assessment; provided that such notice shall not be required, nor may appeals be taken, in the case of initial city assessments that are the same as county assessments. Except as otherwise provided in this section, appeals involving city property assessments may be taken as provided by general law. The board of equalization may increase or decrease the assessment of all property of the same class by a uniform percentage; in which case individual notices shall not be mailed but a notice of such action shall be published once in the official city newspaper; such a blanket increase or decrease shall not be subject to appeal. The authority and duties of such city assessing personnel shall be the same as those provided by general law for county assessing personnel. The city manager [chief administrative officer] shall meet with and assist the board of equalization. The board of equalization, upon completion of its work, shall submit a written report to the council, including total increases and decreases made by it, and the final total assessment of each class of property.
Editor's note— The city council has substituted the title "chief administrative officer" for "city manager." The chief administrative office is the city manager, when that position is filled. If the city manager position is vacant, the city clerk is the chief administrative officer.
Section 4.07. - Tax levy.
Be it further enacted, that the council shall make a tax levy, expressed as a fixed rate per one hundred dollars ($100.00), of assessed valuation, and if no tax levy is made within ninety days prior to the tax due date, the property tax rate in effect the last fiscal year shall continue in effect as the tax rate for the new fiscal year.
State Law reference— Municipal taxation generally, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-350 et seq.
Section 4.08. - Tax due date and tax bills.
Be it further enacted, that the due date of property taxes shall be fixed by ordinance. The city shall send tax bills to taxpayers, showing the assessed valuations, amount of taxes due, tax due dates, and information as to delinquency dates and penalties. Failure to send tax bills shall not, however, invalidate any tax. Property taxes shall become delinquent ten days after a due date; at which time a penalty of five percent (5%) in addition to fi fa charges shall be added and thereafter such taxes shall be subject to interest at the rate of seven percent (7%) per annum, from the due date until paid. On and after the date when such taxes become delinquent, the tax records of the city shall have the force and effect of a judgment of a court of record.
Section 4.09. - Collection of delinquent taxes.
Be it further enacted, that the council may provide by ordinance for the collection of delinquent taxes by distress warrants issued by the mayor for the sale of goods and chattels, which are to be executed by any police officer of the city under the same procedure provided by the laws governing execution of such process from a justice of the peace, or by the city attorney acting in accordance with general laws providing for the collection of delinquent city and/or county taxes, or by any two or more of the foregoing methods, and by the use of any other available legal processes and remedies. A lien shall exist against all property on which city property taxes are levied, as of the assessment date of January 1st of each year, which shall be superior to all other liens except that it shall have equal dignity with those for Federal, state or county taxes.
Section 4.10. - Special assessments.
Be it further enacted, that the city may assess all or part of the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening, or improving any public way, sewers, or other utility mains and appurtenances, against the abutting property owners, under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by ordinance. Such special assessments shall become delinquent thirty days after their due dates, shall thereupon be subject, in addition to fi fa charges, to a penalty of five percent (5%), and shall thereafter be subject to interest at the rate of seven percent (7%) per annum from due date until paid. A lien shall exist against the abutting property superior to all other liens, except that it shall be of equal dignity with liens for county and city property taxes, and said lien shall be enforceable by the same procedures and under the same remedies as provided in this article for city property taxes.
ARTICLE V. - MISCELLANEOUS

Section 5.01. - Restrictions on actions for damages against city.
Be it further enacted, that no action shall be maintained against the city for damages unless a written statement by the claimant or by his agent, attorney or representative, setting forth the basis for his claim, shall have been filed with the mayor within sixty days after such cause of action shall have occurred; except that when the claimant is an infant or non compos mentis, or when an injured person dies within sixty days, the time limit for filing a claim shall be one hundred and twenty days. No officer or employee of the city may waive this requirement.
State Law reference— Written notice of claims for damages, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-5.
Section 5.02. - General laws may be used.
Be it further enacted, that the council, in its discretion, may elect to use the provisions of any general laws of the state in addition to, or instead of, the provisions of this Act.
Section 5.03. - Penalties.
Be it further enacted, that the violation of any provision of this Act, for which a penalty is not specifically provided herein, is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment not to exceed thirty days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. No. 121, § 2, 9-11-1973; 1974 Ga. Laws (Act No. UNK), p. 4095)
Editor's note— O.C.G.A. § 15-10-154 authorizes municipalities to impose, through their charters and ordinances, penalties not to exceed a fine of $1,000.00 and imprisonment of not more than six months. Section 1-8 of the city's code of ordinances authorizes those maximum penalties. Section 3.04 of this Charter vests the municipal court with authority to impose maximum penalties.
Section. 5.04. - Severability.
Be it further enacted, that if any article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof, of this Act shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect or impair other parts of this Act, unless it clearly appears that such other parts are wholly and necessarily dependent upon the part or parts held to be invalid or unconstitutional, it being the legislative intent in enacting this Act that each article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof, be enacted separately and independently of each other.
Section 5.05. - Effective date.
Be it further enacted, that this Act shall be effective on and after the first day of April, 1963.
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE GEORGIA LAWS
modified
This table shows the location of the sections of the basic Charter and any amendments thereto.
EXPAND
Ga. Laws
Year Page Act No. Section  Section
this Charter
1959 387 49 1.02
1965 2423 127 1 1.02
1969 3104 372 1 2.01
1974 1638 182 1 1.02
4095 5.03
1 1 3.04
1993 1189 32 1 1.02
  CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE ORDINANCES
modified
This table shows the location of the sections of the basic Charter and any amendments thereto.
EXPAND
Ordinance
Number Date Section  Section
this Charter
121  9-11-1973 2 5.03
154-B  7- 8-1980 2.06
215 12-13-1988 2.06
256  4-14-1992 2.06
264  8- 9-1994 1 3.04
347  1-13-2004 2.06
373  7-14-2009       Added 2.065—2.067
383 11- 9-2010 4.02
