Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipalities generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Records management.
(a)
The city clerk, acting under the supervision of the city manager, shall act for and on behalf of the city council in directing and coordinating all records management matters including maintenance and security of records.
(b)
The city does hereby adopt the record retention schedules recommended by the Georgia Secretary of State entitled "Retention Schedules for Local Government Paper and Electronic Records," as now or hereafter amended.
(c)
An archival depository will be selected to store those records determined to have permanent historical value.
(d)
For maintenance and security of the records, a centralized records center (and/or local holding area) shall be established, and all records not required for day-to-day operation shall be transferred to the records center or local holding area until destroyed in accordance with the approved records retention schedule.
(e)
No record shall be destroyed except in accordance with approved retention schedules. Whenever any records are destroyed, a certificate of destruction shall be prepared and forwarded to the city council which shall show the type of records destroyed, the approved retention schedule number, the dates covered, and the volume destroyed.
(f)
Records retention schedules approved by the city shall be on file in the city clerk's office.
(Ord. of 6-27-2011, § 31.1)
State Law reference— Records management, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-90 et seq.
Secs. 2-2—2-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CITY COUNCIL (RESERVED)

Secs. 2-21—2-43. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES (RESERVED)

Secs. 2-44—2-74. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - FINANCE (RESERVED)

Secs. 2-75—2-91. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - PURCHASING
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-92. - Statement of intent.
It is the intent of the city to establish, foster, and maintain procedures of procurement that maximize the value of each dollar spent on goods and services used by the city.
(Ord. No. 2013-018, art. 1, § 1, 11-25-2013)
Sec. 2-93. - Objectives.
(a)
To assure the public that money provided to the city and appropriated by city council is spent wisely and effectively.
(b)
To provide instructions and guidance to all city personnel engaged in the purchasing process.
(c)
To establish levels of purchasing that relate procedural formality, cost of procurement activity and levels of approval to the cost of the item purchased.
(d)
To develop reliable, competitive sources of supply based upon fair and open vendor relations.
(e)
To establish ethical standards to ensure that procurement is made without favoritism or inappropriate vendor inducements.
(f)
To remit payments to vendors in a timely manner without error, consistent with vendor terms and taking advantage of any discounts.
(g)
To establish and maintain internal controls over purchasing and vendor payments that deter misappropriation of city resources without creating unnecessary or excessive administration.
(Ord. No. 2013-018, art. 1, § 2, 11-25-2013)
Secs. 2-94—2-114. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PURCHASING PROCESS

Sec. 2-115. - General rules and principles.
(a)
The foundation for effective and proper purchasing conduct is sound and well-communicated policy and procedures. It is the responsibility of the city manager or his designee to ensure that sound procedures are in place, to train and assist city departments in understanding the procedures, and to ensure that the purchasing processes run smoothly.
(b)
Operational responsibility for the purchasing process is delegated to the city clerk.
(c)
In order to minimize the cost of procurement, purchases of less than $2,500.00 are delegated to each department. This puts accountability, as well as responsibility, into the hands of the department head to ensure that all rules and expectations are met.
(d)
Purchases greater than $2,500.00 have a higher degree of centralization and require greater effort in seeking the most competitive price. Therefore, there are more formal procedures and greater administrative oversight established.
(e)
It is the department head's obligation, with the assistance of the city clerk, to make certain that any departmental employees involved in procurement know, understand, and adhere to established policy and procedures. Any delegation of authority by department heads permitted under these procedures should be exercised with prudence with regard to both selection of individuals and monitoring of activity. The most important element of effective purchasing and proper purchasing conduct is the active understanding, support and commitment of department heads and staff.
(f)
All purchasing activity is expected to comply with departmental budget availability and established budget procedures.
(g)
Departments are expected to always seek the most cost-effective goods and services that meet departmental needs. Departments should anticipate needs so as to purchase in sufficient quantities to lower unit costs while avoiding waste due to over-stocking or pilferage.
(h)
Competition for city business is critical to cost-effective purchasing. However, as indicated below, the amount of staff time and effort required to complete a purchase should be relative to the total cost of the purchase. In other words, a smaller amount of time and effort should be expended for lower dollar purchases while considerable time and effort is expected for higher dollar purchases.
(i)
The city is exempt from state sales tax. Departments are expected to take active measures to avoid the payment of sales tax, including, but not limited to, providing a sales tax exemption certificate to vendors when needed to complete a tax-exempt transaction.
(j)
City employees who are involved in the purchasing function in any manner must refrain from all indications or appearance of impropriety with regard to vendors. Specifically, employees are not to accept gifts, gratuities or offers from any individual, company, firm, or business establishment that is a current or prospective vendor. Offers may include, but are not limited to, money, entertainment, gifts, favors, loans, or promises of employment. Any such offers should be politely declined. Any offer of significant value that could be construed as an attempted bribe shall be reported immediately to one's supervisor.
(k)
City employees who are involved in the purchasing function in any manner must refrain from all indications or appearance of conflict of interest. A conflict of interest arises when a purchase of goods or services would result in the employee or any member of the employee's family realizing a financial gain. The employee shall report all potential or actual conflicts of interest to his department head or city manager (as applicable) and remove himself from the decision-making process.
(Ord. No. 2013-018, art. 2, § 1, 11-25-2013)
Sec. 2-116. - Smaller amount purchases (under $2,500.00).
Smaller amount purchases are defined as purchases in amounts of under $2,500.00. Reasonable effort shall be made to obtain the most favorable price for these purchases, but no formal or informal competitive pricing is required.
(1)
Petty cash purchases.
a.
Petty cash is authorized in the city clerk's office in the amount of $250.00 for use of all departments. Petty cash is intended for purchases less than $250.00 that may be expedited more efficiently than by issuing a check or using a credit card.
b.
Petty cash purchases are made on a reimbursement basis. Receipts with proper approval shall be turned in to the department head or city clerk, with a purchase form and include departmental approval. The city clerk then replenishes the petty cash in the amount of the documented receipts. Petty cash may, under no circumstances, be used to conduct personal business. For instance, petty cash may never be used to cash employee checks.
c.
Petty cash shall be maintained in a secure manner and kept physically separate from all other cash. The total of cash and petty cash receipts on hand should always be equal to the authorized petty cash amount, and is subject to unannounced audit by the city manager or his designee.
(2)
Credit card purchases.
a.
The intent of credit cards is to provide a faster, more efficient, more flexible manner to procure purchases, at less transaction cost, than issuing checks, resulting in greater productivity. The credit card is often used to expedite Internet purchases.
b.
Nevertheless, extreme caution must be observed at all times to ensure that the use of credit cards is consistent with city policy and not subject to abuse. The use of credit cards is absolutely prohibited in the following situations:
1.
Any purchase that exceeds $2,500.00 (purchase of a single item or a single purchase of multiple items).
2.
Any purchase that is not budgeted or exceeds the department's approved budget amount.
3.
Any purchase that is not work-related.
4.
Cash advances through ATMs or bank tellers.
5.
Maintenance or other service agreements.
6.
Purchases of personal items of any nature.
c.
The city manager shall determine those individuals that are to have credit cards issued. Credit cards are to be kept secure at all times. Employees are held personally responsible for the safekeeping of issued credit cards until such time as they are surrendered to the city manager. The city clerk shall maintain a credit card issuance list containing all pertinent data, and said list shall be stored in a secure location.
d.
Receipts for any credit card purchases are mandatory and are ultimately the responsibility of the department head. The receipt shall be certified by the individual making the purchase and approved by the department head. The receipts, with a purchase form and approval, shall be submitted to the city clerk. Internet orders generally result in a confirmation that should be printed and used for receipt documentation.
e.
The city clerk or his designee is responsible for reconciling the credit card statement to the submitted receipts and contacting the department to resolve any discrepancies. The credit card shall be paid in full prior to the due date to avoid any finance charges.
(Ord. No. 2013-018, art. 2, § 2, 11-25-2013)
Sec. 2-117. - Medium amount purchases ($2,500.00 to $10,000.00).
(a)
For purposes of this policy, medium amount purchases are defined as purchases in amounts that are greater than $2,500.00 and less than $10,000.00.
(b)
Obtaining competitive pricing is a requirement for medium amount purchases.
(c)
Specifically, departments are required to obtain price quotations or proposals prior to purchase, and are strongly encouraged to obtain a minimum of three price quotations or proposals.
(d)
Verbal quotations are acceptable for medium amount purchases. The quotations should all meet the requirements, standards, or specifications of the goods or services to be purchased so that the purchasing decision will be based on comparable competition.
(e)
Departments are given considerable latitude in obtaining price quotations or proposals. Quotations may be obtained over the telephone, by fax, by e-mail, by sealed quotation, from printed catalogs, or from online catalogs. Regardless of the source of the quotation, comprehensive information documenting the quotation shall be compiled on a city purchasing quotation/requisition form.
(f)
The quotation form shall contain the following information:
(1)
Items for which the quotations are obtained.
(2)
Names of all businesses providing price quotations.
(3)
Specific source of the price from within the businesses.
(4)
The name of the individual providing the quotations.
(5)
Catalog reference (name and date of the catalog, and the page number of the catalog) if the price is obtained from a catalog.
(6)
Copy of a fax for a fax quote.
(7)
Printed copy of a webpage if the price is obtained from the Internet.
(8)
The dollar amount of each quotation.
(9)
The city employee obtaining the quotation.
(g)
More expensive purchases or the purchase of a more complex item will require greater effort and formality. For instance, a written solicitation might be sent to prospective vendors that fully and completely describes the item to be purchased, outlines any special requirements, and provides a deadline for submitting the quote.
(h)
Employees should keep in mind the general principle that there is greater potential for savings and greater potential for vendor disputes as the price of purchases increases; taking the time to purchase carefully will provide better stewardship of city resources and will also reduce the likelihood of ending up with goods or services that do not successfully meet the needs of the job.
(i)
A copy of the quotation form shall be sent to the city clerk. Medium amount purchases should be made using purchase orders when feasible. One larger purchase may not be divided into multiple purchases to circumvent this requirement.
(Ord. No. 2013-018, art. 2, § 3, 11-25-2013)
Sec. 2-118. - Large amount purchases ($10,001.00 to $50,000.00).
For purposes of this policy, large amount purchases are defined as purchases in amounts ranging from $10,001.00 to $50,000.00. Three written quotes must be submitted to the city manager for approval before making the purchase and/or expenditure. Formal advertising in the city legal organ is not required for large amount purchases.
(Ord. No. 2013-018, art. 2, § 4, 11-25-2013)
Sec. 2-119. - Bidding purchases and request for proposal (greater than $50,000.00).
(a)
Purchases and expenditures greater than $50,000.00 require a formal sealed bid or request for proposal (RFP) process. These purchases shall be publicly advertised in the legal organ of the city, the Daily Tribune News, for a minimum of 14 days, and posted on the city website.
(b)
Pre-bid conferences may be held for bidding and RFP purchases to provide bidders the opportunity to ask questions regarding the solicitation. The bidding or RFP package will outline the location, date, and time of any pre-bid conference.
(c)
Bidding purchases require a public bid opening. Public bid openings are normally held at Emerson City Hall on the date specified in the solicitation package. The information read out loud for the bids includes the vendor name and total bid amount. The information read out loud for RFPs includes the vendor name only.
(d)
Bidding and RFP purchases must be received and date/time-stamped in at the city clerk's office prior to the deadline in order to be accepted. Any bidding or RFP package received after the deadline will not be accepted or opened.
(e)
All award of bidding and RFP purchases must be approved by the city council.
(Ord. No. 2013-018, art. 2, § 5, 11-25-2013)
Secs. 2-120—2-136. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - BONDS

Sec. 2-137. - Purpose.
Bonds provide a form of financial protection against damages. A bond is a binding agreement executed by a bidder or vendor and another party to guarantee the performance of certain obligations or duties to the purchaser. There are three types of bonds that may be appropriate for inclusion in procurement for costly items or construction projects.
(Ord. No. 2013-018, art. 3, intro. ¶, 11-25-2013)
Sec. 2-138. - Bid bonds.
Bid bonds provide surety that the firm awarded a bid shall not withdraw the bid, shall insure the execution of the contract document, and shall furnish any required payment and performance bonds. When specified in the bid package, each bid must be accompanied by a bid bond of not less than five percent of the amount of the bid where the cost is greater than $100,000.00, or as required by the city. The guarantee may be in the form of a cashier's check or certified check made payable to the City of Emerson, or a bid bond issued by a surety company. Bid bonds will be returned upon award of the contract.
(Ord. No. 2013-018, art. 3, § 1, 11-25-2013)
Sec. 2-139. - Performance bonds.
A performance bond is executed subsequent to award by a successful bidder to protect the city from loss due to the bidder's inability to complete the contract as agreed, and to secure the fulfillment of all contract requirements. When specified in the bid package, the successful bidder will be required to furnish a performance bond prior to commencing work. The guarantee of performance may be in the form of a cashier's check, certified check made payable to the City of Emerson, performance bond, or irrevocable letter of credit issued by a bank or savings and loan association as defined in O.C.G.A. ch. 7-1A. Irrevocable letters of credit will not be accepted on contracts of more than $300,000.00.
(Ord. No. 2013-018, art. 3, § 2, 11-25-2013)
Sec. 2-140. - Payment bonds.
The successful bidder will be required to furnish a guarantee of payment for the protection of all subcontractors, individuals, or businesses participating in the project or contract. The payment bond is normally in the amount of the contract awarded and must be provided prior to commencing work. This bond is required for construction or other projects with subcontractors when specified in the bid package. This guarantee may be in the form of payment bond, cashier's check, certified check made payable to the City of Emerson, or an irrevocable letter of credit issued by a bank or a savings and loan as defined in O.C.G.A. § 7-1-4. Irrevocable letters of credit will not be accepted on contracts of more than $300,000.00.
(Ord. No. 2013-018, art. 3, § 3, 11-25-2013)
Sec. 2-141. - Maintenance bonds.
When required in the bid package or by other regulation, a maintenance bond will be provided in the amount and for the length of time as specified in the bid package.
(Ord. No. 2013-018, art. 3, § 4, 11-25-2013)
Secs. 2-142—2-165. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - MISCELLANEOUS PURCHASING POLICIES AND PROCEDURES

Sec. 2-166. - Receiving.
A vendor confirmation or a city purchase order establishes the specific items and requirements of the ordering department. There is a departmental follow-up responsibility to see that the goods or services received match what was ordered. Specifically, when goods are received, the order should be inspected and compared to both the packing slip that accompanies the order and the purchase documentation. The receiving verification should also provide assurance that the goods arrived in good condition. Any discrepancies in quantity or condition should be noted on the purchase documentation and must be satisfactorily resolved prior to payment. Similarly, any services performed under contract should be verified for completion and correctness prior to payment. Each department is responsible for establishing its own internal procedures to ensure accountability for this function. The packing slip should be retained with the purchase documentation.
(Ord. No. 2013-018, art. 4, § 1, 11-25-2013)
Sec. 2-167. - State contracts.
The state department of administrative services maintains statewide contracts on many commodities and services. Many of these contracts are available for use by local governments. Using this source for purchases can save time and money. Since state contracts are already the result of a competitive process, departments are authorized to purchase off of state contracts at the prices bid or negotiated by the state in lieu of requirements for obtaining additional competitive prices. Nevertheless, departments are encouraged to spot check state contract prices with prices available for the same item from another source in an effort to obtain the most favorable price.
(Ord. No. 2013-018, art. 4, § 2, 11-25-2013)
Sec. 2-168. - Only known source (sole source) purchases.
(a)
"Only known source" purchases are purchases of goods or services that are so unusual or unique that only one vendor is known to provide this item. If a vendor sells a product that is unique in design, but other vendors have products with a different design that performs the same function, then it is not an "only known source" situation.
(b)
An exception to the requirement of competitive purchasing for any procurement over $2,500.00 may be made in the unusual circumstance when a good-faith review of all known or potential vendors determines that there is only a single known source for procurement. Departments must take care to avoid eliminating competition by writing specifications in such manner that needlessly and unfairly results in elimination of sources of supply.
(c)
Departments are required to provide a written explanation of any "only known source" purchases and have the purchase approved by the city manager prior to issuance of a purchase order.
(Ord. No. 2013-018, art. 4, § 3, 11-25-2013)
Sec. 2-169. - Emergency purchases.
(a)
Normal competitive purchasing procedures may be temporarily waived during bona fide emergencies. An emergency is hereby defined as any situation or circumstance that is determined to constitute a threat to public health, safety or welfare, or to the soundness and integrity of public property, or to the delivery of essential services, and where the adverse effects of such emergency may worsen materially in the short term with the passage of time.
(b)
The city manager must declare a "state of emergency" that would permit a waiver of normal purchasing procedures. Departments shall still use such competitive procedures as circumstances reasonably permit. Emergency purchasing provisions must not be used to compensate for poor planning.
(Ord. No. 2013-018, art. 4, § 4, 11-25-2013)
Sec. 2-170. - Annual (or term) contracts and blanket purchase orders.
(a)
It is often advantageous to procure goods or services on an annual or long-term basis. Such procurement might be for service or maintenance contracts, or for the purchase of commodities such as building or office supplies or petroleum products. Service or maintenance contracts typically specify a term (length of agreement).
(b)
Purchase of commodities may result in a pricing agreement. For example, a vendor might offer a percent discount from catalog or list price in anticipation of selling a greater quantity of goods to the city. Where competition exists, pricing agreements can be sought through either the less formal quotation process or the more formal bid process. Pricing agreements should require no commitment on the part of the city to buy a specific quantity of goods or services, and should contain a non-exclusive clause that allows the city flexibility to use other vendors when needed or desired. In the event that the city enters into any pricing agreements, the city shall confirm the arrangement through a blanket purchase order which would confirm the pricing agreement but not specify specific quantities of goods to be purchased. The city clerk shall maintain a file of any blanket purchase orders.
(c)
Normally, no contracts or blanket purchase orders shall exceed one year in length.
(Ord. No. 2013-018, art. 4, § 5, 11-25-2013)
Sec. 2-171. - Brand name purchases.
Purchase of a brand name product or service is permissible when the goods comprise a major brand system, program, or service previously selected by the city. This is allowed only when operational effectiveness, future enhancements or additions, or maintenance and storage of spare parts preclude the mixing of brands, manufacturers, etc.
(Ord. No. 2013-018, art. 4, § 6, 11-25-2013)
Sec. 2-172. - Request for qualifications.
For the procurement of services where the qualifications of the firm or its principals are central to the services performed, the initial step may be the issuance of a request for qualifications (RFQ). RFQs are typically used when a specialized professional service is sought. An RFQ might seek information regarding the background of the firm, summaries of similar work done by the firm, references, biographies of the personnel that would be used, time requirements, etc. Cost estimates are not normally sought in an RFQ process. Once RFQs have been received and evaluated, the top candidates might be invited for interviews and/or to provide price bids.
(Ord. No. 2013-018, art. 4, § 7, 11-25-2013)
Sec. 2-173. - End of fiscal year purchases.
Purchases made at the end of one fiscal year and beginning of the next fiscal year can cause confusion regarding which budget is used for the purchase. This is not a matter of choice or discretion. Generally accepted accounting principles for local governments provide that expenditures take place when the liability is incurred. In other words, if a purchase order is issued in June, the amount of the purchase order is charged against that year's budget, even if the item is not received until July or August. On the other hand, generally accepted accounting principles do not permit a purchase initiated in July to be charged against the prior year's budget. To reduce end-of-year confusion and accounting problems, year-end purchasing should be kept to a minimum.
(Ord. No. 2013-018, art. 4, § 8, 11-25-2013)
Secs. 2-174—2-199. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - INVOICES AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE

Sec. 2-200. - Generally.
(a)
All purchasing activity that results in the issuance of a city check requires adequate supporting documentation for the check. Supporting documentation includes quotation forms for medium amount purchases and purchase orders for purchases greater than $2,500.00, invoices, receipts, check request forms, credit card statements, expense reports, etc.
(b)
Payment authorizations should be supported by original invoices rather a copy of an invoice or a statement. This is important to prevent duplicate payments to vendors. Any exceptions must be documented explaining the reason for using a copy.
(c)
Payment checks to vendors shall not be issued by the city clerk until the department head or other authorized department employee has approved the invoice or other supporting document for payment.
(d)
The city's standard terms of payment are to pay within 30 days of the receipt of an invoice. All city staff must work together to ensure that this standard is met.
(e)
Approval of invoices is part of each department's fiscal accountability. This step is intended to ensure that no checks are issued merely because an invoice has been received. Department heads or other staff authorized to approve invoices shall carefully check the invoices and assure themselves that the goods have been received in good condition and in the correct quantity (or that the service has been satisfactorily performed), prior to approving payment. Invoices should be returned to the city clerk within three to five business days. Any charges in dispute shall promptly be communicated to the vendor. The department head or authorized staff reporting the dispute shall then await resolution prior to payment.
(f)
Special handling and rush handling of invoices is inefficient and expensive. Therefore, priority must be given to standard, efficient invoice processing according to established procedures, and avoid invoice handling outside of the norm.
(g)
Invoices occasionally provide an early payment discount (for instance, two percent of the payment price may be deducted if the invoice is paid within ten days). Such invoices should be expedited to ensure that the city loses no discounts.
(Ord. No. 2013-018, art. 5, 11-25-2013)
