Chapter 14 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Fire protection and safety, O.C.G.A. title 25.

Sec. 14-1. - Fire hydrant testing, maintenance and identification.
(a)
Title. This chapter shall be known as the "City of Emerson Fire Hydrant Ordinance."
(b)
Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to provide a standard system for hydrant color identification and establish a practice of maintenance for fire hydrants within the service area of the county fire department, which includes the incorporated areas of the city. These provisions shall incorporate by reference the American Water Works Association (AWWA) manual M17, "Installation, Field Testing, and Maintenance of Fire Hydrants;" the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 291 latest edition, defining fire flow testing and marking hydrants; and the Insurance Service Organization (ISO) standards for fire hydrant testing, collectively referred to herein as the "standards."
(c)
Testing required. All fire hydrants within the service area of the county fire department and owned by the water system of the city shall be flowed and tested in accordance with the standards. The testing shall determine the gallons per minute (GPM) fire flow for that hydrant. Testing shall be coordinated with the water system. Proper public notice shall be issued in advance of any testing to ensure the public is aware of potential water discoloration.
(d)
Color coding. After testing, each hydrant shall then be color coded in accordance with NFPA 291, as follows:
(1)
Standard hydrants.
EXPAND
GMP Flow Rate Paint Color
Barrels Any Safety yellow
Bonnets and caps Less than 500 Safety red
500 to 999 Safety orange
1,000 to 1,499 Safety green
1,500 or greater Safety blue
Trim of bonnet Any Silver or white reflective (if available)
  Disclaimer: Color coding is only descriptive of what GPM flow was at the time of the last documented test. It in no way guarantees that the hydrant will flow at that GPM rate at the time of an incident and does not take into account any high demands, broken mains, closed valves or other events that could affect GPM flow. Color coding is only used as a general reference to what the potential flow may be at any given time, and citizens and staff should be aware and prepared for GPM flow changes.
(2)
Special hydrants.
EXPAND
Bastard thread hydrant (non-NST) Caps—Gloss black
Private hydrant Barrel, bonnet and caps—Solid red
Out-of-service hydrant Barrel, bonnet and caps—Safety yellow or clearly marked with a covering to identify out-of-service status.
  (e)
Maintenance procedures. An annual maintenance schedule and visual check program shall be established by the county fire department. Personnel and citizen safety shall be a high priority. All fire hydrants are to be opened and closed very slowly to prevent water hammer, line damage and equipment failure.
(f)
Recording data. All test data shall be maintained in the county fire department records as well as the records of the city's water system. A record of malfunctions, corrections and system changes shall be recorded. Any malfunction of the system, while performing work on the system, is to be immediately reported to the battalion chief, who will in turn notify appropriate water system officials.
(Ord. No. 2014-018, §§ 1-1, 1-2, 9-22-2014)
