Chapter 22 - CIVIL DEFENSE AND DISASTER PREPAREDNESS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; police department, § 2-211 et seq.
State Law reference— Georgia Mutual Aid Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-1 et seq.; Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; Interstate Civil Defense and Disaster Compact, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-70 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 22-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Civil defense means the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency functions, other than the functions for which the state and federal governments are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from disasters caused by enemy nuclear attack, sabotage, or other hostile action, or by acts of nature, fire, explosion, civil disorders or other causes. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services, law enforcement services, medical and health services, rescue services, engineering services, warning services, communications, defense from radiological fallout, welfare services, evacuation when and where necessary, emergency transportation, plant and utility protection, restoration of public utility services, and other functions related to protection and well-being of the population of the city, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to preparation for and the carrying out of the above functions.
Disaster means any happening that causes great harm or damage.
Emergency means a sudden generally unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding immediate action.
Emergency interim successor means a person designated pursuant to this section if an officer is unavailable to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of an office until a successor is appointed or elected and qualified as may be prescribed by law, or until the lawful incumbent or his successor is able to resume the exercise of the powers and the discharge of the duties of the office.
Office means the position of mayor, councilmember, chief administrative officer, or head of any department, agency, board or commission of the city.
Officer means the individual who shall hold an office.
Unavailable means either that a vacancy in an office exists as the result of any emergency and there is no deputy or other successor authorized to exercise all of the powers and discharge all of the duties of the office, or the lawful incumbent of the office (including any deputy exercising the powers and discharging the duties of an office because of a vacancy) and his duly authorized deputy are absent or unable to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the office.
(Code 1980, § 6-1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-2. - Office of civil defense director.
There is established in the city a city civil defense office. The fire chief shall serve as the civil defense director. The city civil defense director will be a deputy director on the county civil defense staff and is charged with:
(1)
Representing the governing officials of the city on matters pertaining to civil defense.
(2)
Assisting city officials in organizing city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
Assisting in developing, in conjunction with the county civil defense director, the plan for emergency functions for the county.
(4)
Rendering reports such as required by governing officials.
(5)
Procuring, with authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the city emergency operating center.
(Code 1980, § 6-3)
State Law reference— Authority to establish organization, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27; removal of place of government, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-54.
Sec. 22-3. - Emergency powers of mayor.
In the event of an actual enemy attack upon the United States or any other disaster which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the city, the mayor or in his absence his legally appointed successor, may declare that a state of emergency exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such state of emergency exists or continues, the following emergency powers:
(1)
To enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to civil defense and to assume direct operational control over all civil defense forces.
(2)
To seize, take for temporary use, or condemn any property for the protection of the public.
(3)
To sell, lend, give or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the city; to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and of funds received for such property or supplies.
(4)
To perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the city.
(Code 1980, § 6-4)
Sec. 22-4. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the city, performing emergency functions pursuant to this chapter shall serve without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, volunteers shall have the same immunities as city officers and employees.
(Code 1980, § 6-5)
Secs. 22-5—22-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY INTERIM SUCCESSORS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Requirement for provisions, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-50.

Sec. 22-36. - Deputies and emergency interim successors.
(a)
All city officers shall within 30 days after taking office, in addition to any deputy authorized pursuant to law to exercise all of the powers and discharge the duties of office, designate by title individuals as emergency interim successors and specify their order of succession. The officer shall review and revise, as necessary, designations made pursuant to this section to ensure their current status. The officer will designate a sufficient number of such emergency interim successors so that there will be not less than three nor more than seven such deputies or emergency interim successors or any combination, at any time. If any officer is unavailable following an emergency or disaster, and if his deputy, if any, is also unavailable, the powers of his office shall be exercised and the duties of his office shall be discharged by his designated emergency interim successors in the order specified. Such emergency successors shall exercise such powers and discharge such duties only until such time as the officials authorized under the Charter to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the office of council may, where a vacancy exists, appoint a successor to fill the vacancy or until a successor is otherwise appointed, or elected and qualified as provided by law; or an officer (or his deputy or a preceding named emergency interim successor) becomes available to exercise, or resume the exercise of, the powers and discharge the duties of his office.
(b)
All emergency interim successors designated under this section shall have the same qualifications as are prescribed by law for the officer by whom they are designated.
(c)
Designations of emergency interim successors to city officers shall become official upon the officer's filing a list of such successors with the city clerk, who shall inform the mayor and council and all emergency interim successors to the officer involved. Any designation of an emergency interim successor may be changed or altered by the officer's filing a notice of such change or alteration with the city clerk.
(d)
At the time of their designation, emergency interim successors shall take such oath as may be required for them to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the office to which they may succeed. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person, as a prerequisite to the exercise of the powers or discharge of the duties of an office to which he succeeds, shall be required to comply with any other provision of law relative to taking office.
(e)
Emergency interim successors shall receive the same compensation as is paid the officer by whom they are appointed. Such compensation shall be paid only during such time as a successor shall exercise the powers of the officer by whom he has been designated.
(f)
Governmental powers shall be exercised by emergency interim successors appointed under this section only during a period of emergency or disaster.
(g)
The operation of this section, as applied to any office or officer to which it may not constitutionally or lawfully apply, is suspended until such time as the constitution or law shall be amended, so as to make this section applicable to all officers and offices.
(Code 1980, § 6-2)
Secs. 22-37—22-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - EMERGENCY WATER RESTRICTIONS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 910, § 1, adopted November 1, 2007, amended article III in its entirety to read as herein set out. Formerly, article III pertained to similar subject matter, and derived from the Code of 1980, §§ 6-4.1(a)—(e).
Cross reference— Utilities and services, ch. 82.

Sec. 22-71. - Adoption of Rules of Fayette County Water Department; restrictions imposed by the state.
(a)
The Outdoor Rules adopted by the Fayette County Board of Commissioners, currently and as may be amended in the future, shall apply to all city residents who are customers of the Fayette County Water System.
(b)
Any rules, regulations, orders, or other restrictions imposed by the director of the environmental protection division of the state department of natural resources or other authorized agency of the state shall apply to all city residents who are customers of the Fayette County Water System.
(Ord. No. 910, § 1, 11-1-2007)
Sec. 22-72. - Declaration of emergency; authority of mayor.
In the event of the existence of an emergency water condition which may adversely affect the lives and property of the citizens of the city, the mayor, or in his absence the mayor pro tem or the mayor's legally appointed successor, may declare that a state of water emergency exists. Should the mayor determine that such an emergency exists, he must immediately implement temporary written rules that regulate the use of water during the emergency period. Notification of these rules is to be disseminated to the citizens immediately by whatever means the mayor deems appropriate and most expedient but additionally shall be specifically published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city as soon as possible. In these temporary rules, the mayor has the authority to:
(1)
Design, implement and enforce regulations relating to water use that the mayor feels are necessitated by the emergency water condition.
(2)
Perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the city because of the emergency water condition.
(Ord. No. 910, § 1, 11-1-2007)
Sec. 22-73. - Review of regulations by council.
If the mayor enacts emergency regulations as outlined in section 22-72, such regulations are to be reviewed by the city council at its next regular or called meeting, at which time it is to determine if a state of water emergency exists; and if it determines that such a condition does exist, it will further consider the temporary rules of the mayor and ratify them by resolution or adopt other rules by resolution. This resolution shall remain in force and effect until the mayor or council determines that the water emergency no longer exists.
(Ord. No. 910, § 1, 11-1-2007)
Sec. 22-74. - Adoption of regulations by council.
In addition to the powers of the mayor set forth in section 22-72, the city council may enact emergency regulations or restrictions by resolution. Any resolution so adopted by the city council shall remain in force and effect until the city council determines that the water emergency no longer exists.
(Ord. No. 910, § 1, 11-1-2007)
Sec. 22-75. - Penalty.
Any person violating this article or any emergency rules imposed by the mayor and ratified by the city council, or emergency rules imposed by the city council, or any resolution passed in accordance with the terms of this article shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, by sentence of imprisonment not exceeding six months, or to work on the streets or public works for a period not exceeding six months, or any combination, in the discretion of the judge.
(Ord. No. 910, § 1, 11-1-2007)
Sec. 22-76. - Service of citations and summons.
Service of citation and summons of violation of this article shall be in person or by placing a copy of the summons at a conspicuous place on the property where the violation occurred.
(Ord. No. 910, § 1, 11-1-2007)
