Chapter 12.40 - ELECTRICAL USE RESTRICTIONS IN POWER SHORTAGES
Sections:

12.40.010 - Definitions.
A.
"Board" means the board of supervisors of the county of Los Angeles.
B.
"Chairman" means the chairman of the board of supervisors of the county of Los Angeles.
C.
"Chief administrative officer" means the chief administrative officer of the county of Los Angeles.
D.
"County" means the county of Los Angeles.
E.
"Electrical power shortage" means a situation in which utility companies become aware that they will be unable to meet the demand for electrical power and that a brownout or blackout is imminent.
F.
"Person" includes every person, firm and corporation.
G.
"Section" means a section of the ordinance codified in this chapter unless some other ordinance or statute is specially mentioned.
(Ord. 10786 § 1(A)—(E), (G), 1973.)
12.40.020 - Powers of deputies.
Whenever by this chapter a power is granted to or a duty is imposed upon a public officer, the power may be exercised or the duty may be performed by a deputy of the officer or by a person authorized, pursuant to law or ordinance, by the officer, unless this chapter expressly provides otherwise.
(Ord. 10786 § 1(F), 1973.)
12.40.030 - Electrical power shortage emergency—Proclamation authorized when.
The board or if the board is not in session, the chairman or the chief administrative officer, may proclaim an electrical power shortage emergency if formal notification is received of an impending electrical power shortage. Whenever such an emergency is proclaimed by an authorized county officer, the board of supervisors shall take action to ratify the proclamation within eight days thereafter or the proclamation shall have no further force or effect.
(Ord. 10786 § 2, 1973.)
12.40.040 - Display lighting restrictions.
A.
If an electrical power shortage emergency proclaimed pursuant to Section 12.40.030, and while such proclamation remains in effect, a person shall not cause or permit display lighting.
B.
"Display lighting" is the use of artificial light for decorative purposes, or to direct attention to the providers of goods or services, or to illuminate or direct attention to:
1.
Signs advertising goods or services or the providers of goods or services;
2.
Display of goods;
3.
Objects or designs symbolic of commercial enterprises, such as trademarks; or
4.
Landscaping or the outside of a building.
C.
However, where light is ordinarily used for purposes in addition to display lighting, display lighting includes only that use of light not reasonably necessary to accomplish the other purposes. Display lighting does not include the use of light necessary for public safety or to identify the location of essential governmental services (e.g., fire and police), or health and communications services.
(Ord. 10786 § 3, 1973.)
12.40.050 - Termination of electrical power shortage emergency.
The board shall review, at least every eight days until the electrical power shortage emergency is terminated, the need for continuing the local electrical power shortage emergency and shall proclaim the termination of such emergency at the earliest practicable date that conditions warrant.
(Ord. 10786 § 4, 1973.)
