Chapter 26 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 26-1. - Dump sites.
(a)
Generally.
(1)
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to dump, deposit, place, keep, leave or cause to permit the abandonment of junk, rubbish, scrap materials, parts and equipment, automobiles or trucks, on any public or private property in the city.
(2)
The term "person" means an individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, foundation, or other association of related parties.
(3)
The term "junk" means any solid material, regardless of worth or perceived intrinsic value, which has been abandoned, or left unclaimed or positioned in the open without cover and giving the clear impression of abandonment, for a period in excess of 30 days.
(b)
Enforcement.
(1)
Police department officers and elected officials of the city are authorized and empowered to enforce compliance with this chapter.
(2)
Upon discovery of an unlawful dump, as prescribed herein, the city clerk shall give written notice to the owner of record of the property or properties on which the dump is located and request removal of unlawful material.
(3)
The owner of targeted dump sites comprised of an area of less than 1,000 square feet will be permitted a grace period of 30 days to clean up and remove the dump material to an authorized dump site, or otherwise lawfully dispose of the material.
(4)
The owner of targeted dump sites comprised of an area of more than 1,000 square feet will be permitted a grace period of 90 days to clean up and remove the dump material to an authorized dump site, or otherwise lawfully dispose of the material.
(c)
Violations.
(1)
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(2)
It is further provided that in the event a violator refuses to comply with the clean-up provision of his property within the stated grace period, the city shall have the option of clean-up at its expense and imposing a lien on the property in the amount of the clean-up cost.
(Ord. No. 92-12, §§ I—III, 7-6-1992)
Sec. 26-2. - Loitering on private business or commercial property.
No person shall enter upon or loiter upon private business or commercial property within the city limits after regular business hours without permission of the owner, lessee or occupant of such property.
(Ord. No. 96-21, § 1, 10-6-1996)
Sec. 26-3. - Trespass on private business or commercial property with automobiles.
No person shall drive an automobile or other vehicle upon private business or commercial property within the city limits after regular business hours, or occupy an automobile or other vehicle upon such private business or commercial property, without permission of the owner, lessee or occupant of such property.
(Ord. No. 96-21, § 2, 10-6-1996)
Sec. 26-4. - After-hours consumption of alcohol on private business or commercial parking areas.
No person shall consume alcoholic beverages upon private business or commercial parking areas or immediately adjacent grounds within the city limits after regular business hours.
(Ord. No. 96-21, § 3, 10-6-1996; Ord. No. 96-22, 11-4-1996)
Sec. 26-5. - Discharge of firearms, air rifles or BB guns.
(a)
No person shall discharge a firearm within the city limits unless it is necessary for the lawful defense of persons or property or for the purpose of law enforcement by a duly authorized law enforcement officer.
(b)
No person shall discharge an air rifle or BB gun within the city.
(c)
No parent, guardian or other adult having care, custody and supervision of a minor child under the age of 18 years shall permit such minor child to discharge a firearm, air rifle or BB gun within the city.
(Ord. No. 96-20, §§ 1—3, 10-16-1996)
Sec. 26-6. - Disorderly conduct.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit an act of disorderly conduct in the city.
(b)
A person commits disorderly conduct when he knowingly:
(1)
Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby any person is placed in fear of safety of his life, limb or health;
(2)
Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby the property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged;
(3)
Without provocation, uses to or of another, in his presence, opprobrious or abusive words which by their very utterance tend to incite to an immediate breach of the peace; that is to say, words which as a matter of common knowledge and under ordinary circumstances will, when used to or of another person in his presence, naturally tend to provoke violent resentment, that is, words commonly called "fighting words;"
(4)
Engages in indecent or disorderly conduct in the presence of any person in any public place;
(5)
Telephones another repeatedly, whether or not conversation ensues, for the purpose of annoying, harassing or molesting another or his family, or uses over the telephone language threatening bodily harm, or telephones and intentionally fails to hang up or disengage the connection, or knowingly permits any telephone under his control to be used for any purpose prohibited by this subsection;
(6)
Uses violent and forceful behavior at any time in or near a public place, such that there is a clear and present danger that free movement of other persons will be arrested or restrained, or other persons will be incapacitated in the lawful exercise of business or amusement;
(7)
Causes, provokes or engages in any light, brawl or riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another;
(8)
Assembles or congregates with another or others for the purpose of causing, provoking or engaging in any fight or brawl;
(9)
Disturbs the peace of others by violent, indecent, offensive or boisterous conduct or language which conduct or language was calculated to cause anguish or injury to another;
(10)
Crowds or pushes any person in any public place;
(11)
Throws any stone or other missile upon or at any person, vehicle, building, tree, sign or other public or private property;
(12)
Throws any stone or missile from any vehicle, either moving, stopped, or parked, upon or at any person, building, vehicle, tree, sign, or other public or private property;
(13)
By acts of violence, interferes with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation; or
(14)
Expectorates, urinates, or defecates on any public street, alley, sidewalk or floor of any public building or a building where the public gathers or has access;
(15)
Prowls or wanders upon the private property of another, peeks in the door or window of any inhabited building or structure located thereon without visible or lawful business with the owner or occupant thereof;
(16)
Interrupts the speaker of any lawful assembly or impairs the lawful rights of others to participate effectively in such assembly or meeting when such conduct is calculated to provoke or tend to cause turmoil or disturbance;
(17)
Assembles for the purpose of engaging in any fraudulent scheme, device or trick to obtain any valuable thing in any place or from any person in the city, or who shall aid and abet therein;
(18)
Displays any deadly weapon in a public place in a manner which is calculated to alarm or frighten other persons present; or
(19)
Collects in bodies or in crowds for unlawful purposes as defined by the current ordinances of the city.
(Ord. No. 08-02, § I(1), 2-8-2008)
State Law reference— Disorderly conduct, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-39.
Sec. 26-7. - Drunkenness on streets.
It shall be unlawful for a person to be found drunk on the streets, or who, while in a state of intoxication, behaves in a disorderly manner on the streets of the city.
(Ord. No. 08-02, § I(2), 2-8-2008)
State Law reference— Public drunkenness, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-41.
Sec. 26-8. - Consumption of alcoholic beverages upon public property.
Except as otherwise provided, no malt beverages, wines, or other alcoholic beverages shall be consumed upon the premises where sold or upon the public streets, road, alleys, or parks of the city, or other public parking areas.
(Ord. No. 08-02, § I(3), 2-8-2008)
