Chapter 6 - ANIMALS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Animals generally, O.C.G.A. § 4-1-1 et seq.; dogs generally, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-1; Responsible Dog Ownership Law, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.

Sec. 6-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Animal means any type of animal, both large and small, which is normally a domesticated animal and not a wild animal with a habitat of the area.
At large means off the premises of the owner or other persons harboring, keeping or maintaining an animal and not under the control of such persons or a member of his immediate family.
Owner means any person, firm, association or corporation owning, harboring, keeping or maintaining an animal.
(Ord. No. 87-10, § 1, 5-4-1987)
Sec. 6-2. - Control.
All animals shall be kept under the control of the owner or his delegated representative at all times, whether on or off the premises of the owner.
(Ord. No. 87-10, § 2, 5-4-1987)
Sec. 6-3. - Trespass.
No person, while in control of any animal, shall allow said animal to enter upon the private property of others without the expressed or implied consent of the owner of such property.
(Ord. No. 87-10, § 3, 5-4-1987)
Sec. 6-4. - Rabies vaccination.
All dogs and cats shall be vaccinated against rabies for a period of not less than one year. A metal tag designating vaccination for rabies and date thereof shall be attached to a collar worn by the animal.
(Ord. No. 87-10, § 4, 5-4-1987)
Sec. 6-5. - Wild animals or birds; exception.
It shall be unlawful to pursue, capture or willfully kill any wild animal or bird within the city. This section does not apply to insects.
(Ord. No. 87-10, § 5, 5-4-1987)
Sec. 6-6. - Impoundment; enforcement and penalty.
Any violation of this chapter shall subject an animal to be impounded with the Rabun County Humane Society Animal Shelter. The city police department shall enforce this chapter and investigate any violations thereof. Any violation of section 6-4 shall be punishable by a fine of $100.00 per violation incident.
(Ord. No. 87-10, § 6, 5-4-1987; Ord. No. 93-2, 5-3-1993)
Sec. 6-7. - Prevention of wildlife access to refuse.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Approved wildlife resistant container means a fully enclosed container with a lid which can be completely closed. The lid must have a latching mechanism which prevents access to wildlife. Both the container and the lid must be constructed of metal or equivalent. Any container which is overfilled so as to prevent latching is not a wildlife resistant container. Wildlife resistant containers must be approved by the animal control officer.
Approved wildlife resistant enclosure means a fully enclosed structure containing four walls and a roof, with one side accommodating a door. The walls of the enclosure must extend to the ground and the door can have no more than a 3/8 -inch gap along the bottom. The latching device must be of a sufficient strength and design to prevent access by wild life. Ventilation openings shall be kept to a minimum and must be covered with a metal mesh or other material of sufficient strength to prevent access to wildlife. Wildlife resistant enclosures must be approved by the animal control officer.
Attractant means any substance which could reasonably be expected to attract wildlife or does attract wildlife, including, but not limited to, food products, pet food, feed, compost, grain or salt.
Commercial means income producing property which shall include but not be limited office buildings, apartments, and time shares.
Domestic means privately owned residential property which shall include but not be limited to single-family dwellings, remodeled dwellings, resale dwellings, newly constructed dwellings, condominiums, and duplexes.
Enforcement officer may include animal control, county sheriff, city police, state natural resource ranger or other law enforcement official.
Refuse includes all substances and materials which are an attractant to wildlife.
Special event means a large outdoor gathering such as a concert, conference, fair or festival with an expected or actual attendance in excess of 50 people.
Wildlife includes any mammal which is not normally domesticated in this state, including, but not limited to, bears, coyotes, foxes, mountain lions, opossums, raccoons and skunks.
(b)
Disposal of domestic and commercial refuse.
(1)
All domestic and commercial refuse must be placed in one of the following:
a.
A building, house or garage that is inaccessible to wildlife.
b.
An approved wildlife resistant container.
c.
A container that is placed in an approved wildlife resistant enclosure.
d.
Deposited at an appropriate county or city disposal site.
(2)
Commercial property owners are responsible for any violations of this section that a tenant may violate, and any fines and/or penalties accumulated by a tenant will be assessed to the commercial property owner.
(c)
Special events refuse disposal.
(1)
All outdoor special events shall be kept free from the accumulation of refuse.
(2)
Refuse must be collected from the grounds of the event at the close of each day and deposited in an approved wildlife resistant container, an approved wildlife resistant enclosure or deposited at an appropriate county or city disposal site or placed in a building or which is inaccessible to wildlife.
(d)
Construction site refuse disposal. All construction sites must have a designated container that receives refuse. The container must be either an approved wildlife resistant container, stored in an approved wildlife resistant enclosure or emptied at the end of each day and stored in a building or trailer.
(e)
Wildlife resistant containers or enclosures available for public use.
(1)
Wildlife resistant containers or enclosures will be available for refuse deposit at the following city dump location when the facilities are open and accessible to the public: City compactor on Knob Drive.
(2)
The provision of approved wildlife resistant containers or approved wildlife resistant enclosures at the above locations does not relieve any person for complying with any requirement of this section.
(f)
Additional provisions to minimize bear/human conflicts.
(1)
Bird feeders are only permitted during certain times of the year. Bird feeders are not permitted between April 15 and November 15 of each year because natural food is abundant during this time of year.
(2)
No person shall fail to take remedial action to avoid contact or conflict with bears after being advised by the enforcement officer that such action is necessary. Remedial action may include, but is not limited to, removal of cooking grills, pet food, bird feeders or any other attractants.
(3)
Further, after an initial contact or conflict with a bear, no person shall continue to provide, or otherwise fail to secure or remove, any likely food sources or attractants, including, but not limited to, grills, pet food or bird feeders.
(g)
Enforcement.
(1)
The city may issue verbal warnings or citations and summons as well as assess penalties for any violation of this chapter.
(2)
The city has the authority to assess the need for remedial action necessary to avoid bear contact or conflict pursuant to subsection (f) of this section.
(h)
Penalties.
(1)
Any violation of this section shall be subject to the following penalties:
a.
First violation: Verbal warning and possible removal of any item deemed to be in violation of this section.
b.
Second violation: Written citation and warning that if preventative measures are not implemented, the offender may be required to install an approved wildlife resistant container at his expense.
c.
Third and subsequent violations: The offender shall be required to install an approved wildlife resistant container at his expense and be subject to fines and penalties.
(2)
Any violation of this section will be subject to the general penalty in section 1-8.
(Ord. No. 19-01, §§ 1—8, 4-23-2019)
