Chapter 22 - LICENSES, TAXATION AND MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Revenue and taxation, O.C.G.A. § 48-1-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 22-1. - Hours of sale of alcoholic beverages; hours of establishments playing music.
No alcoholic beverages shall be sold and playing of music shall cease within the city in any establishment selling alcoholic beverages or playing music after 12:00 midnight and all persons shall exit the establishment wherein the alcoholic beverages have been sold and the premises cleared no later than 12:30 a.m.
(Ord. No. 94-21, § 1, 11-7-1994)
Secs. 22-2—22-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - AD VALOREM TAXES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Ad valorem taxation of property, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-1 et seq.

Sec. 22-21. - Due date.
The actual amount of taxes assessed for each property shall be due on December 20 of each calendar year.
(Ord. No. 85-11, § 3, 1-6-1986)
Sec. 22-22. - Setting the millage rate.
The city council shall be empowered and responsible for setting the millage rate to be levied for each calendar year with said rate to be set no later than October 1 of each calendar year.
(Ord. No. 85-11, § 5, 1-6-1986)
Sec. 22-23. - Interest and penalty for past due taxes.
(a)
Past due taxes shall bear an interest rate of one percent per month from the date tax is due (December 20) until the date the tax is paid. Any period less than one month shall be considered to be one month.
(b)
In any instance in which any person willfully fails to pay within 90 days of the date when due, any ad valorem tax owed the city, in the absence of a specific statutory civil penalty for the failure, a penalty of ten percent of the amount of tax due and not paid on or before the time prescribed by law, together with interest as specified by law, shall be assessed and paid.
(Ord. No. 89-3, §§ 1, 2, 2-7-1989)
Secs. 22-24—22-49. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OCCUPATION TAX[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Occupation taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5 et seq.

Sec. 22-50. - Occupation tax required for business dealings in the city.
Each person engaged in any business, trade, profession or occupation in the city, whether with a location in the city, or in the case of an out-of-state business with no location in Georgia exerting substantial efforts within the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, shall pay an occupation tax for said business, trade, profession or occupation; which tax and any applicable registration shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the place of business, if the taxpayer has a permanent business location in the city. If the taxpayer has no permanent business location in the city, such business tax registration shall be shown to the city clerk or to any police officer of said city upon request.
(Ord. No. 96-1, § 1, 1-9-1996)
State Law reference— Tax authorized, O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-6, 48-13-7.
Sec. 22-51. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Dominant line means the type of business within a multiple-line business that the greatest amount of income is derived from.
Employee means an individual whose work is performed under the direction and supervision of the employer and whose employer withholds FICA, federal income tax, or state income tax from such individual's compensation or whose employer issues to such individual for purposes of documenting compensation a form I.R.S. W-2 but not a form I.R.S. 1099. An individual who performs work under the direction and supervision of one business or practitioner in accordance with the terms of a contract or agreement with another business which recruits such individual is an employee of the business or practitioner which issues to such individual for purposes of documenting compensation a form I.R.S. W-2.
Location or office includes any structure or vehicle where a business, profession, or occupation is conducted but shall not include a temporary or construction worksite which serves a single customer or project or a vehicle used for sales or delivery by a business or practitioner of a profession or occupation which has a location or office. The renter's or lessee's location which is the site of personal property which is rented or leased from another does not constitute a location or office for the personal property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor. The site of real property which is rented or leased to another does not constitute a location or office for the real property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor unless the real property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor, in addition to showing the property to prospective lessees or tenants and performing maintenance or repair of the property, otherwise conducts the business of renting or leasing the real property at such site or otherwise conducts any other business, profession, or occupation at such site.
Occupation tax means a tax levied on persons, partnerships, corporations or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession or business for revenue raising purposes.
Practitioner of profession or occupation.
(1)
The term "practitioner of profession or occupation" means one who, by state law, requires state licensure regulating of such profession or occupation.
(2)
The term "practitioner of profession or occupation" shall not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business, if the business pays an occupation tax.
Regulatory fees means payments, where designated as license fees, permit fees or by another name, which are required by a local government as an exercise of its police power and as a part of or as an aid to regulation of an occupation, profession or business. The amount of a regulatory fee shall approximate the reasonable cost of the actual regulatory activity performed by the city. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee. Development impact fees as defined by O.C.G.A. § 36-71-2(8) or other costs or conditions of zoning or land development are not regulatory fees.
(Ord. No. 96-1, § 2, 1-9-1996)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5.
Sec. 22-52. - Occupation tax levied; restrictions.
An occupation tax shall be levied upon those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices in the city or upon the applicable out-of-state businesses with no location or office in Georgia, pursuant to O.C.G.A § 48-13-7, based upon the number of employees of the business or practitioner.
EXPAND
Number of Employees Tax Liability
0—1 employees $50.00
2—9 employees $150.00
10 or more employees $350.00
  (Ord. No. 96-1, § 3, 1-9-1996)
State Law reference— Tax authorized, O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-6, 48-13-7; authority to tax on basis of number of employees, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-10.
Sec. 22-53. - Paying occupation tax of business with no location in the state.
Registration and assessment of an occupation tax is hereby imposed on those businesses and practitioners of professions with no location or office in the state if the business's largest dollar volume of business in the state is in the city and the business or practitioner:
(1)
Has one or more employees or agents who exert substantial efforts within the jurisdiction of the city for the purpose of soliciting business or serving customers or clients; or
(2)
Owns personal or real property which generates income and which is located within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. No. 96-1, § 4, 1-9-1996)
State Law reference— Taxation of businesses with no location in Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7.
Sec. 22-54. - Each line of business to be identified on business registration.
The business registration of each business operated in the city shall identify the dominant line of business that the business conducts.
(Ord. No. 96-1, § 5, 1-9-1996)
Sec. 22-55. - The number of businesses considered to be operating in the city.
Where a person conducts business at more than one fixed location, each location or place shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of occupation tax.
(Ord. No. 96-1, § 6, 1-9-1996)
Sec. 22-56. - Purpose and scope of tax.
The occupation tax levied herein is for revenue purposes only and is not for regulatory purposes, nor is the payment of the tax made a condition precedent to the practice of any such profession, trade or calling. The occupation tax only applies to those businesses and occupations which are covered by the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-5 to 48-13-26. All other applicable businesses and occupations are taxed by the local government pursuant to the pertinent general and/or local laws and ordinances.
(Ord. No. 96-1, § 7, 1-9-1996)
Sec. 22-57. - When tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
Each such occupation tax shall be for the calendar year unless otherwise specifically provided. Said registration and occupation tax shall be payable January 1 of each year and shall be delinquent if not paid by March 1 of each year and subject to penalties for delinquency as prescribed in this article. In the event that any person commences business on any date after the date specified in this section, the tax shall be due and payable 30 days following the commencement of the business. The tax registration herein provided for shall be issued by the city clerk and if any person, firm or corporation whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after said registration or occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the city, any of the kinds of profession, trade, or calling subject to this article without having first obtained said registration, such offender shall, upon conviction by the city judge, be punished as provided in section 1-8.
(b)
In addition to the above remedies, the marshal may proceed to collect in the same manner as provided by law for tax executions.
(Ord. No. 96-1, § 8, 1-9-1996)
Sec. 22-58. - Exemption on grounds that business is operated for charitable purpose.
No business on which a business registration or occupation tax is levied by this article shall be exempt from said registration or tax on the grounds that such business is operated for a charitable purpose, unless 50 percent or more of the entire proceeds from said business are devoted to such purpose.
(Ord. No. 96-1, § 9, 1-9-1996)
Sec. 22-59. - Evidence of state registration required if applicable; state registration to be displayed.
(a)
Each person who is licensed by the secretary of state pursuant to O.C.G.A. title 43 shall provide evidence of proper and current state licensure before the city registration may be issued.
(b)
Each person who is licensed by the state shall post the state license in a conspicuous place in the licensee's place of business and shall keep the license there at all times while the license remains valid.
(Ord. No. 96-1, § 10, 1-9-1996)
Sec. 22-60. - Evidence of qualification required if applicable.
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualification, certificates of competency, or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the issuance of a city business registration, show evidence that such requirements have been met.
(Ord. No. 96-1, § 11, 1-9-1996)
Sec. 22-61. - Liability of officers and agents; registration required; failure to obtain.
All persons subject to the occupation tax levied pursuant to this article shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for said business as described in this article, and in default thereof the officer or agent soliciting for or representing such persons shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons who fail to obtain a registration. Every person commencing business in the city after January 1 of each year shall likewise obtain the registration herein provided for before commencing the same; and any person transacting, or offering to transact in the city, any of the kinds of business, trade, profession, or occupation without first having so obtained said registration, shall be subject to penalties provided thereof.
(Ord. No. 96-1, § 12, 1-9-1996)
Sec. 22-62. - When registration and tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
Each such registration shall be for the calendar year in which the registration was obtained unless otherwise specifically provided. There is hereby imposed a penalty upon each business which fails to apply for and obtain an appropriate business registration and pay all tax and fees as provided herein before January 1 of each year, and on January 1 each year thereafter. Every person commencing business in the city after January 1 of each year shall obtain the registration required before commencing such business. Any person transacting or offering to transact in the city any business, trade, profession, or occupation without first having obtained said registration shall be subject to the penalties provided in section 1-8. Said penalties shall be in addition to all other penalties, civil and criminal, herein provided; and may be collected by the remedies herein provided for collection of the occupation tax, and shall have the same lien and priority as the occupation tax to which the penalty is applied.
(b)
The registration herein provided for shall be issued by the city clerk, and if any person, firm, or corporation whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after said occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact in the city, any of the kinds of business, trade, profession, or occupation without having first obtained said registration, such offender shall be subject to the penalties provided thereof.
(Ord. No. 96-1, § 13, 1-9-1996)
Sec. 22-63. - Businesses not covered by this article.
The following businesses are not covered by the provisions of this article but may be assessed an occupation tax or other type of tax pursuant to the provisions of other general laws of the state or by local law:
(1)
Those businesses regulated by the state public service commission.
(2)
Those electrical service businesses organized under O.C.G.A. title 46, ch. 3 (O.C.G.A. § 46-3-1 et seq.).
(3)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including agribusiness.
(4)
Cooperative marketing associations governed by O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105.
(5)
Insurance companies governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8 et seq.
(Ord. No. 96-1, § 15, 1-9-1996)
Sec. 22-64. - Lien taken for delinquent occupation tax.
In addition to the other remedies herein provided for the collection of the occupation tax herein levied, the city clerk, upon any tax or installment of said tax becoming delinquent and remaining unpaid, shall issue execution for the correct amount of said tax against the person, partnership, or corporation liable for said tax, which said execution shall bear interest at the rate of 12 percent per annum from the date when such tax or installment becomes delinquent, and the lien shall cover the property (in the city) of the person, partnership, or corporation liable for said tax, all as provided by the ordinances and Charter of said city and the laws of the state. The lien of said occupation tax shall become fixed on and date from the time when such tax or any installment thereof becomes delinquent. The execution shall be levied by the chief of police of said city upon the property of defendant located in said jurisdiction, and sufficient property shall be advertised and sold to pay the amount of said execution, with interest and costs. All other proceedings in relation thereto shall be had as is provided by the ordinances and Charter of said city and the laws of the state, and the defendant in said execution shall have rights of defense, by affidavit of illegality and otherwise, which are provided by the applicable laws in regard to tax executions. When a nulla bona entry has been entered by proper authority upon an execution issued by the city clerk against any person defaulting on the occupation tax, the person against whom the entry was made shall not be allowed or entitled to have or collect any fees or charges whatsoever for services rendered after the entry of the nulla bona. If, at any time after the entry of nulla bona has been made, the person against whom the execution issues pays the tax in full, together with all interest and costs accrued on the tax, the person may collect any fees and charges due him as though he had never defaulted in the payment of the taxes.
(Ord. No. 96-1, § 16, 1-9-1996)
Sec. 22-65. - Provisions to remain in full force and effect until changed by governing body.
This article shall remain in full force and effect until changed by amendment adopted by the council. All provision hereto relating to any form of tax herein levied shall remain in full force and effect until such taxes have been paid in full.
(Ord. No. 96-1, § 18, 1-9-1996)
Sec. 22-66. - Conflicts between specific and general provisions.
Where there is an apparent conflict in this article between specific and general provisions, it is the intention hereof that the specific shall control.
(Ord. No. 96-1, § 21, 1-9-1996)
ARTICLE IV. - INSURANCE LICENSE TAXES[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Local licensing and taxation of insurance, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8 et seq.

Sec. 22-91. - Insurers license fees.
There is hereby levied an annual license fee upon each insurer doing business within the city, as referenced on the city fee schedule in chapter 14. For each separate business location in excess of one not covered by section 22-92, which is operating on behalf of such insurers within the city, there is hereby levied a license fee as referenced on the city fee schedule in chapter 14. For the purposes of this article, the term "insurer" means a company which is authorized to transact business in any of the classes of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5.
(Ord. No. 95-14, § 1, 12-4-1995)
Sec. 22-92. - License fees for insurers insuring certain risks at additional business locations.
For each separate business location, not otherwise subject to a license fee hereunder, operated and maintained by a business organization which is engaged in the business of lending money or transacting sales involving term financing and in connection with such loans or sales offers, solicits or takes application for insurance through a licensed agent of an insurer for insurance, said insurer shall pay an additional license fee, as referenced on the city fee schedule in chapter 14, per location for the year 1996 and for each year thereafter.
(Ord. No. 95-14, § 2, 12-4-1995)
Sec. 22-93. - Gross premiums tax imposed on life insurers.
There is hereby levied an annual tax based solely upon gross direct premiums upon each insurer writing life, accident and sickness insurance within the state in an amount equal to one percent of the gross direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1. The term "gross direct premiums," as used in this section, shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premium tax levied by this section is in addition to the license fees imposed by section 22-91.
(Ord. No. 95-14, § 3, 12-4-1995)
Sec. 22-94. - Gross premiums tax levied upon all other insurers.
There is hereby levied for the year 1996 and for each year thereafter an annual tax based solely upon gross direct premiums upon each insurer, other than an insurer transacting business in the class of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5(1), doing business within the state in an amount equal to 2.5 percent of the gross direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2. The term "gross direct premiums," as used in this section, shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premium tax levied by this section is in addition to the license fees imposed by section 22-91.
(Ord. No. 95-14, § 4, 12-4-1995)
Sec. 22-95. - Due date for license fees.
License fees imposed in sections 22-91 and 22-92 shall be due and payable on January 1 of each year.
(Ord. No. 95-14, § 5, 12-4-1995)
Secs. 22-96—22-118. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - ROOM TAX[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Excise tax on rooms, lodgings and accommodations, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq.

Sec. 22-119. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
City clerk means the duly appointed clerk of the city or the clerk's designee.
Due date means the 20th day after the close of the monthly period for which the tax is to be computed.
Estimated tax liability means the operator's prospective tax liability based upon tax remittance in the prior fiscal year, as adjusted for change in tax rate or substantial change in circumstances due to damage to the hotel.
Folio means primary documentation produced by a hotel that demonstrates interaction between the operator and the occupant, and which, at a minimum, reflects the name and address given by the occupant, the date of occupancy, the amount of rent charged for each date, together with the amounts of applicable excise taxes, and the method of payment.
Guest room means a room occupied, or intended, arranged, or designed for occupancy, by one or more occupants for the purpose of living quarters or residential use.
Hotel means any structure or any portion of a structure, including any lodging house, rooming house, dormitory, Turkish bath, bachelor hotel, studio hotel, motel, motor hotel, auto court, truckstop, tourist cabin, lodge, inn, time-share or other condominium, apartment community, public club, or private club, containing guest rooms and which is occupied, or is intended or designed for occupancy, by paying guests, whether rent is paid in money, goods, labor, or otherwise. The term "hotel" does not include any hospital, asylum, sanitarium, orphanage, jail, prison, or other buildings in which human beings are housed and detained under legal restraint.
Monthly period means the calendar months of any year.
Occupancy means the use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of any guest room or apartment in a hotel or the right to the use or possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the room.
Occupant means any person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has the right to use or possess any guest room in a hotel under any lease, concession, permit, right of access, license to use or other agreement, or otherwise.
Operator means any person operating a hotel in the city, including, but not limited to, the owner or proprietor of such premises, lessee, sublessee, lender in possession, licensee or any other person operating such hotel; and who is subject to the taxation imposed for furnishing for value to the public any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations.
Permanent resident means any occupant as of a given date who has or shall have occupied or has or shall have the right of occupancy of any guest room in a hotel for not less than ten continuous days next preceding such date.
Person means any individual, firm, partnership, joint adventure, association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, cooperative, estate, trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit, the plural as well as the singular number; excepting the United States, the State of Georgia and any instrumentality of either thereof upon which the city is without power to impose the tax.
Rent means the consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and property or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which, credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
Tax means the tax on occupants imposed by this article, as provided for by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq.
(Ord. No. 04-08, § I(1), 10-11-2004)
State Law reference— Definitions, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50.2.
Sec. 22-120. - Tax rate.
There shall be paid for every occupancy of a guest room in a hotel in the city a tax at the rate of five percent of the amount of rent unless an exemption is provided under section 22-123.
(Ord. No. 04-08, § I(2), 10-11-2004)
State Law reference— Tax authorized, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51.
Sec. 22-121. - Authority and use of proceeds.
The hotel/motel excise tax levied herein is pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(a)(3) and the proceeds of this tax should be used in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(a)(3).
(Ord. No. 05-09, § I(2(a)), 6-16-2005)
Sec. 22-122. - Collection of tax by operator.
Every operator renting guest rooms in this city shall collect a tax of five percent on the amount of rent from the occupant unless an exemption is provided under section 22-123. The operator shall provide a receipt to each occupant, which receipt shall reflect both the amount of rent and the amounts of this and other taxes applicable. This tax shall be due from the occupant, and shall be collected by the operator at the same time that the rent is collected.
(Ord. No. 04-08, § I(3), 10-11-2004)
Sec. 22-123. - Exemptions.
No tax shall be collected from an occupant after becoming a permanent resident; or from an occupant who certifies in writing that he is staying in such accommodations as a result of his residence having been destroyed by fire or other casualty; or from the United States and the State of Georgia or any instrumentality of either thereof; or from any official or employee of the state, its units of local government or any other instrumentality of the state, when traveling on official business and presenting written substantiation thereof or paying by state or local government credit or debit card; or from a foreign diplomat exempted by treaty or consular convention, when presenting substantiation issued by the United States Department of State. Occupancy provided without charge in money or otherwise is exempt from this tax.
(Ord. No. 04-08, § I(4), 10-11-2004)
Sec. 22-124. - Registration of operator; form and contents; execution; certificate of authority.
Every person engaging or about to engage in business as an operator of a hotel in this city shall immediately register with the city clerk on a form provided by said official. Persons engaged in such business must so register not later than 30 days after the date that this article becomes effective. Such registration shall set forth the name under which such person transacts business or intends to transact business, the location of his place of business and such other information which would facilitate the administration of the tax as prescribed by the city clerk. The registration shall be signed by the owner if a natural person; in case of ownership by an association or partnership, by a member or partner; in case of ownership by a corporation, by an officer. The city clerk shall, after such registration, issue without charge a certificate of authority to each operator to collect the tax from the occupant. A separate registration shall be required for each place of business of an operator. Each certificate shall state the name and location of the business to which it is applicable.
(Ord. No. 04-08, § I(5), 10-11-2004)
Sec. 22-125. - Determination of assessed penalty/interest; returns; payments.
(a)
Due date of taxes. All amounts of such tax shall be due and payable to the city clerk monthly on or before the 20th day of every month next succeeding each respective monthly period. The tax shall become delinquent for each monthly period after the 20th day of each succeeding month during which it remains unpaid.
(b)
Penalty and interest for failure to pay tax by due date. An operator who fails to make any return or to pay the amount of tax as prescribed, shall be assessed a specific penalty to be added to the tax in the amount of five percent or $5.00, whichever is greater, if the failure is for one month or less; and an additional five percent or $5.00, whichever is greater, for each additional month or fraction thereof in which such failure shall continue; provided, however, that the aggregate penalty for any single violation shall not exceed 25 percent or $25.00, whichever is greater. Delinquent amounts shall bear interest at the rate of one percent per month, or fraction thereof, until paid. If the failure is due to providential cause shown to the satisfaction of the city council imposing a tax under this article in affidavit form attached to the return and remittance is made within ten days of the due date, the return may be accepted exclusive of penalties and interest. In the case of a false or fraudulent return or of a failure to file a return where willful intent exists to defraud the city council of any tax due under this article, a penalty of 50 percent of the tax due shall be assessed.
(c)
Acceptance of delinquent return and remittance without imposing penalty and interest; authority; requirements. If the failure to make any return or to pay the amount of tax by the due date results from providential cause shown to the satisfaction of the governing authority of the city by affidavit attached to the return, and remittance is made within ten days of the due date, such may be accepted exclusive of penalty and interest.
(d)
Waiving of penalty and interest; authority. O.C.G.A. § 48-2-41, relating to the authority to waive interest, and O.C.G.A. § 48-2-43, relating to the authority to waive penalty, shall apply; provided, however, that the governing authority shall stand in lieu of the state commissioner of revenue, and the city shall stand in lieu of the state.
(e)
Penalty for fraud. In the case of a false or fraudulent return, or of failure to file a return where willful intent exists to defraud the city of any tax due, a penalty of 50 percent shall be assessed.
(f)
Return; remittance; time of filing; operators required to file; contents. On or before the 20th day of the month succeeding each monthly period, a return for the preceding monthly period, together with appropriate remittance, shall be filed with the city clerk. The return shall report the gross rent, taxable rent, exempt rent, amount of tax collected or otherwise due for the period, and such other information as may be required by the city clerk. However, if the estimated tax liability for any monthly period shall exceed $2,500.00 for an operator who, in the prior fiscal year remitted tax greater than $2,500.00 in any three consecutive months, such operator shall file an estimated return and remit not less than 50 percent of the estimated tax liability for the monthly period by the 20th day of that same monthly period. The amount of tax so remitted shall be credited against the amount to be due with the regular return for the monthly period to be filed on the 20th day of the succeeding month.
(g)
Extension of time of filing; authority; requirements; remittance; penalty and interest. The governing authority of the city may, for good cause, extend the time for making returns for not longer than 30 days. No extension shall be valid unless granted in writing upon written application of the operator. Such grant may not be applicable for a longer period than 12 consecutive months. An operator granted an extension shall remit tax equaling not less than 100 percent of the tax paid for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year; such remittance to be made on or before the date the tax would otherwise come due without the grant of extension. No penalty or interest shall be charged during the first ten days of the extension period.
(h)
Collection fee allowed operators. Operators collecting the tax shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting and paying the amount due, if the amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of the deduction shall be three percent of the amount due, but only if the amount due was not delinquent at the time of payment.
(Ord. No. 04-08, § I(6), 10-11-2004)
Sec. 22-126. - Deficiency determinations.
(a)
Recomputation of tax; authority to make; basis of recomputation. If the city clerk is not satisfied with the return of the tax or the amount of the tax required to be paid to the city by any operator, he may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon the basis of any information within his possession or that may come into his possession. One or more deficiency determinations may be made of the amount due for one or more monthly periods.
(b)
Penalty and interest for failure to pay tax. Penalty and interest shall be assessed upon the amount of any determination, as provided by section 22-125.
(c)
Notice of determination; service of. The city clerk shall give to the operator written notice of his determination. The notice may be served personally or by mail; if by mail, such service shall be addressed to the operator at his address as it appears in the records of the city. Service by mail is complete when delivered by certified mail with a receipt signed by the addressee.
(d)
Time within which notice of deficiency determination to be mailed. Except in cases of failure to make a return or of fraud, every notice of deficiency determination shall be mailed within three years after the 20th day of the calendar month following the monthly period for which the amount is proposed to be determined, or within three years after the return is filed, whichever period should last expire.
(Ord. No. 04-08, § I(7), 10-11-2004)
Sec. 22-127. - Determination if no return made.
(a)
Estimate of gross receipts. If any operator fails to make a return, the city clerk shall make an estimate of the amount of the gross receipts of the operator, or as the case may be, of the amount of total rentals in this city which are subject to the tax. The estimate shall be made for the periods in respect to which the operator failed to make the return and shall be based upon any information which is or may come into the possession of the city clerk. Written notice shall be given in the manner prescribed in section 22-126(c).
(b)
Penalty and interest for failure to pay tax. Penalty and interest shall be assessed upon the amount of any determination, as provided by section 22-125.
(Ord. No. 04-08, § I(8), 10-11-2004)
Sec. 22-128. - Collection of tax by city.
(a)
Action for delinquent tax; time for. At any time within three years after any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected becomes due and payable, and at any time within three years after the delinquency of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected, the city clerk may bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction in the name of the city to collect the amount delinquent, together with penalty, interest, court fees, filing fees, attorney's fees and other legal fees incident thereto.
(b)
Operator selling or quitting business. If any operator liable for any amount under this article sells out his business or quits his business, he shall make a final return and remittance within 15 days after the date of selling or quitting the business.
(c)
Duty of successors or assignees of operator to withhold tax from purchase money. If any operator liable for any amount under this article sells out his business or quits the business, his successors or assigns shall withhold sufficiently from the purchase price to cover such amount until the former owner produces from the city clerk either a receipt reflecting full payment or a certificate stating that no amount is due.
(d)
Liability for failure to withhold. If the purchaser of a business fails to withhold from the purchase price as required, he shall be personally liable for the payment of the amount required to be withheld by him to the extent of the purchase price.
(e)
Credit for tax, penalty or interest paid more than once or erroneously or illegally collected. Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty or interest has been paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city, it may be offset by the governing authority. If the operator or person determines that he has overpaid or paid more than once, which fact has not been determined by the city clerk, such person shall have three years from the date of payment to file a claim in writing stating the specific grounds upon which the claim is founded. The claim shall be audited. If the claim is approved by the governing authority, the excess amount paid to the city may be credited on any amounts then due and payable from the person by whom it was paid.
(Ord. No. 04-08, § I(9), 10-11-2004)
Sec. 22-129. - Administration of article; recordkeeping.
(a)
Authority of city clerk. The city clerk shall administer and enforce the provisions of this article for the collection of the tax.
(b)
Records required from operators, etc.; form. Every operator renting guest rooms in the city shall preserve, for a minimum of three years, all folios, receipts, certificates of exemption and such other documents as the city clerk may prescribe, and in such form as he may require. Said records shall at all times be available for examination within the city.
(c)
Application for sales tax audit reports. Each year, in the month of January, the city clerk shall request in writing from the state commissioner of revenue any reports of sales tax audits conducted of hotels in the city during the preceding calendar year.
(d)
Examination of records; audits. The city clerk or any person authorized in writing by him may examine the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of any operator renting guest rooms and any operator liable for the tax, in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made by the operator, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid.
(e)
Authority to require reports; contents. In administration of the provisions of this article, the city clerk may require the filing of reports by any person or class of persons having in their possession or custody information relating to the rental of guest rooms which are subject to the tax. The reports shall be filed with the city clerk when required by said official, and shall set forth the rental charged for each occupancy, the dates of occupancy, the basis for exemption, or such other information as the city clerk may prescribe.
(Ord. No. 04-08, § I(10), 10-11-2004)
Sec. 22-130. - Violations.
Any operator who fails to register as required herein, or to furnish any return required to be made, or who fails or refuses to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the city clerk, or who renders a false or fraudulent return, shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
(Ord. No. 04-08, § I(11), 10-11-2004)
