Chapter 46 - HUMAN RELATIONS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 46-1—46-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - HUMAN AND CIVIL RIGHTS[1]

Sec. 46-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Appeal means a request to the sole commissioner to reconsider the decision and procedures of the committee on the handicapped.
Evidentiary hearing means a hearing before the committee on the handicapped where a grievant and management may present testimony and evidence in support of their respective positions.
Grievable concerns includes, but is not limited to:
(1)
Participation in programs or activities open to the general public but inaccessible or unavailable to the handicapped;
(2)
Communications with employees, beneficiaries and the general public with impaired vision or hearing;
(3)
Provision of services with equal result;
(4)
Access to government facilities by the physically impaired;
(5)
Governmental funding of an organization that discriminates on the basis of handicap; and
(6)
Recruitment, selection and employment practices.
Grievance means a request for relief in a matter of concern or dissatisfaction that is subject to the control of the sole commissioner and addressed in the office of revenue sharing regulation.
Grievance form means the standard form promulgated by the county for the purpose of reporting and processing grievances.
Handicapped coordinator means the management official designated to be responsible for coordination of efforts to comply with the handicapped discrimination regulations.
(Res. of 9-20-1984)
Sec. 46-20. - Committee on the handicapped established; membership; selection; terms.
The committee on the handicapped shall consist of five members of the community, selected by the sole commissioner, knowledgeable of the problems of the handicapped or representing a handicapped group or organization. Each member will have demonstrated sound judgment and civic pride. Each member will serve an indefinite term.
(Res. of 9-20-1984)
Sec. 46-21. - Equal opportunity employment; purpose and intent.
(a)
It is hereby affirmed as the policy of the county to enable equal opportunity to participate in all government-supported services, programs, activities and employment without regard to age, sex, race, color, national origins, creed or handicap.
(b)
In order to promote the prompt and equitable adjustment of handicapped citizen grievances, it is the desire of the county to adjust grievances informally, and officials and employees are expected to make every reasonable effort to resolve problems as they arise. However, it is recognized that there will be grievances that can only be resolved after a hearing and review of the facts and issues involved in the problem.
(Res. of 9-20-1984)
Sec. 46-22. - Grievance procedure.
Pursuant to the office of revenue sharing's regulation prohibiting discrimination on the basis of handicap (31 CFR 51), the following shall constitute the county's formal grievance procedure for the redress of handicapped discrimination complaints:
(1)
Within 90 days of the date of an alleged discriminatory act or condition, or 90 days from the date that the grievant could reasonably be expected to have knowledge of the existence of the act or condition, the grievant must request and submit a grievance form with the county clerk's office. Complaints arising from actions and conditions that are ongoing or repetitive in nature shall be considered timely.
(2)
Upon receiving the grievance form, the county clerk shall forward the grievance form to the management official designated as handicapped coordinator.
(3)
The coordinator shall, within ten business days, determine the merit of the complaint, meet and confer with the grieving party, and attempt to resolve the complaint.
(4)
In the event that the problem remains unresolved, the county clerk, on receiving the grievance form from the coordinator, shall notify and convene the committee on the handicapped.
(5)
The committee on the handicapped shall, within ten business days of notification, conduct an evidentiary hearing on the subject grievance and prepare a written recommendation to resolve the problem. The grievance form and recommendation shall then be returned to the county clerk for administrative review by the sole commissioner.
(6)
The county clerk will present the grievance form and the recommendations of the committee on the handicapped to the sole commissioner. Within ten business days, the sole commissioner will review, approve, or modify the recommendation.
(7)
The county clerk will notify the grievant regarding the disposition of the grievance.
(8)
In the event that the grievance remains unresolved by the recommendation of committee on the handicapped, the grievant may, in writing, direct the county clerk to prepare his grievance form for appeal to the sole commissioner at the next regularly scheduled meeting.
(9)
On submission of an appeal, the sole commissioner shall conduct an independent investigation. The sole commissioner may elect to delegate such finding of fact to counsel. A resolution to the problem shall be rendered at the following regularly scheduled meeting. The decision of the sole commissioner shall be final.
(Res. of 9-20-1984)
