ARTICLE VIII. - FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS[7]
Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Editor's note— The current franchise agreement for the Atlanta Gas Light Company is on file in the City Clerk's office, where it is available for inspection and review.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 6-236—6-245. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY OCCUPATION LICENSE TAX

Sec. 6-246. - Definition.
As used in this division, the phrase "recurring local service revenues" shall mean:
(1)
Monthly charges for local exchange service, including:
a.
Charges for additional listings and joint users.
b.
The guarantee portion of the charge for semipublic pay station services.
c.
Charges for local message rate service, including mobile service local messages.
d.
Subscriber station revenues from teletypewriter exchange service.
(2)
Charges for Morse transmission, signaling, data transmission, remote metering and supervisory control, where both terminal points are within the City limits.
(3)
All charges for local private line services (except audio and video program transmission services) where both terminals of the private line are within the City limits.
(4)
Nothing in this definition shall preclude the charging of a separate occupation license tax for the transmission of audio or video programs to customers by CATV companies.
(Ord. No. 154, § I, 8-2-71; Ord. No. 154-1, § I, 11-1-71)
Sec. 6-247. - Payment required.
(a)
Each telephone and telegraph company operating in the City shall pay an occupation license tax in the amount of three (3) percent of the recurring local service revenues received by such company from subscribers located within the City. Such occupation license tax shall be paid in quarterly installments, each of which shall be due on or before the last day of the second month following the end of each calendar quarter and shall be based on recurring local service revenues billed during such calendar quarter.
(b)
The first payment under this section shall be based on revenues billed between the effective date of the ordinance from which this section derives and the end of the calendar quarter in which such effective date falls. Any amount of occupation license tax previously paid and absorbed by a telephone or telegraph company which is applicable to any period subsequent to the effective date of the ordinance from which this section derives shall be credited against the amounts imposed herein or by subsequent ordinance.
(Ord. No. 154, § I, 8-2-71)
Secs. 6-248—6-260. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - GEORGIA POWER COMPANY[8]

Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
Editor's note— Section 1 of Ord. No. 05-31, adopted Sept. 6, 2005, deleted div. 3, which consisted of §§ 6-261, 6-262 in its entirety, and enacted new provisions to read as herein set out. Former div. 3 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 183, adopted Jan. 5, 1976.

Sec. 6-261. - Franchise granted.
(a)
The franchise granted to Georgia Power Company by the City on March 21, 1977, a copy of which is attached to Ordinance No. 05-31, is hereby readopted.
(b)
The amendment to the franchise agreement to Ordinance No. 05-31 is hereby adopted.
(Ord. No. 05-31, § 1, 9-6-05)
Secs. 6-262—6-275. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - ATLANTA GAS LIGHT COMPANY

Sec. 6-276. - [Franchise granted.]
(a)
The right is hereby granted to the grantee, its successors and assigns, to lay, construct, extend, maintain, renew, replace and repair gas pipes, valves, manholes, service boxes, posts, lamps, structures, appliances and all appurtenances and appendages under, along, through and across any streets, avenues, roads, public highways, alleys, lanes, ways, parks and other public places within the territorial limits of the City, and to use and occupy the said streets, avenues, roads, public highways, alleys, lanes, ways, parks and other public places for for the purpose of therein laying, constructing, extending, maintaining, renewing, replacing and repairing mains, pipes, valves, manholes, service boxes, posts, lamps, structures, appliances and all appurtenances and appendages thereto, used and useful for the manufacture, transmission, distribution and sale of gas within and through the present or future territorial limits of the City, such exclusive right, when exercised as herein provided, to continue for thirty (30) years after date of approval of this division.
(b)
Grantee shall be entitled to charge for gas furnished by it such rates as are prescribed by the Public Service Commission or other lawful regulatory body of the State of Georgia.
(c)
Grantee hereby agrees and covenants, for and in consideration of the rights and privileges herein granted to it, to pay within sixty (60) days following the end of each quarterly period to the City three (3) percent of the gas sales receipts received by grantee from customers served under all rate schedules except for interruptible rate schedules or special contracts as defined and approved by the Georgia Public Service Commission (or any successor state regulatory group) within the territorial limits of the City during the preceding quarterly period.
It is provided, however, that should the City require grantee to pay any license fee or tax, excise tax, indirect tax, occupation tax, franchise tax, privilege tax, regulation charge or related fees, taxes or charges, excepting ad valorem taxes and occupation tax certificate taxes for appliance sales, the aggregate amount of such fees, taxes and charges shall be deducted in full by grantee from the quarterly payment or payments subsequently accruing to the City. The quarterly periods for which such payments shall be made shall commence upon the first day of the month immediately following proper adoption, acceptance and effectiveness of this franchise ordinance. The Mayor and Council of the City through its authorized representative or representatives shall have the right to inspect and audit the books and records of grantee for the purpose of determining the amount of its revenues received from the sale of gas as set forth above within said territorial limits.
(d)
All rights herein granted and authorized shall be subject to and governed only by this division; provided, however, that the City expressly reserves unto itself all of its police power to adopt general ordinances necessary to protect the safety and welfare of the general public in relation to the rights hereby granted not inconsistent with the provisions of this division.
(e)
Grantee upon making an opening upon any of the streets, avenues, roads, public highways, alleys, lanes, ways, parks and other public places in the City, for the purpose of laying, repairing or maintaining gas mains, shall use due care and caution to prevent injury to persons, and shall replace and restore all public ways to their former condition as nearly as practicable, and within a reasonable time, and shall not unnecessarily obstruct or impede traffic upon the streets, avenues, roads, public highways, alleys, lanes, ways, parks and other places of said City.
(f)
Grantee shall save and keep harmless the City from any and all liability by reason of damage or injury to any person or persons whomsoever, on account of negligence of the grantee in the installation, maintenance and repair of its mains and pipe lines along said streets, avenues, roads, public highways, alleys, lanes, ways, parks and other public places in the City provided the grantee shall have been notified in writing of any claim against the City on account thereof and shall have been given ample opportunity to defend the same.
(g)
This division, after its passage according to law, in writing duly filed with the City Clerk, shall be effective and in full force after the date of acceptance by Atlanta Gas Light Company.
(h)
Unless one hundred twenty (120) days' written notice is given by one (1) party to the other prior to the expiration of this agreement, this franchise shall be considered as renewed and binding in all its provisions for ten (10) years after such expiration and this franchise shall so continue In operation and effect for a further and second term of ten (10) years unless such notice be given by either party prior to the expiration of the first such renewed term.
(Ord. of 7-5-94, §§ 1—8)
Sec. 6-277. - Definitions.
[For purposes of this division, the following terms, phrases and words, and their derivatives, shall have the meaning given herein:]
Base year means the fiscal year ending September 30, 1998.
Base year franchise fee factor means the total franchise fees paid during the base year divided by the design day capacity as recorded by the company on the last day of the base year.
Design day capacity means the sum of the individual capacity in dekatherms (Dt) attributable to all firm customers located within the City limits of the City, as of the last day of the previous fiscal year.
Firm customers means all residential and business customers who purchase gas service that ordinarily is not subject to interruption or curtailment.
Fiscal year means the twelve (12) months ending September 30, of each year.
Inflation index means the percentage change in the Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers as published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, or any successor index, for the period from September 30, 1997, to the beginning of the then current fiscal year. The percentage shall be reduced by any productivity factor adjustment for the same time period determined by the Georgia Public Service Commission for the company.
(Ord. No. 98-20, § 11, 10-5-98)
Sec. 6-278. - Franchise fee.
The total dollar amount of franchise fees paid by the company to the City shall be calculated as follows:
The current fiscal year total franchise fee shall equal the product of the design day capacity and the current franchise fee factor. The current franchise fee factor shall be equal to the product of the base year franchise fee factor and one (1) plus the inflation index expressed as a decimal to three (3) significant digits.
The following formula quantifies this payment:
FF c = FFF by × (1 + (CPI-PFA)) × DDC c
Where FF c = total franchise fees due the City for the current fiscal year
FFF by = the base year franchise fee factor
CPI-PFA = the inflation index based on the cumulative change in the Consumer Price Index less the productivity factor adjustment determined by the Georgia Public Service Commission.
DDC c = the design day capacity as of the last day of the previous fiscal year.
FFF by = FF by / ;DDC by where
FF by = the total franchise fees paid in the base year
and DDC by = the design day capacity of the base year.
(Ord. No. 98-20, § 2, 10-5-98)
Sec. 6-279. - Responsibility for payment of franchise fee.
The company as the holder of the franchise privilege hereunder is responsible for the payment of all franchise fees payable hereunder, and shall file such reports and returns as required by the franchise ordinance as modified by this amendment. In addition, the company shall report annually the names of all gas marketers for which company is transporting natural gas on the distribution system within the City.
The franchise fee payments required hereunder shall be in lieu of any franchise fee license fee, occupation tax or other payment for use of the rights-of-way by the company for the provision of gas service, but shall not prohibit imposition of a license fee or an occupation tax on gas marketers.
(Ord. No. 98-20, § 3, 10-5-98)
Sec. 6-280. - Quarterly payments.
Effective for the fiscal year 1999, and for each fiscal year thereafter during the term of the franchise ordinance, the company shall remit to the City quarterly franchise fee installments. The installments shall equal to one-fourth (¼) of the total annual franchise fee calculated in accordance with this division.
The quarterly payment is due and payable on or before the 30th day following the last day of each calendar quarter.
(Ord. No. 98-20, § 4, 10-5-98)
Sec. 6-281. - Annual return.
The company shall file a return with its first quarterly installment in each fiscal year showing the details of the calculation of the annual franchise fee.
(Ord. No. 98-20, § 5, 10-5-98)
Sec. 6-282. - Delay of inflation adjustment.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this division, any inflation adjustments shall be made to the franchise fee only when the company changes its rates.
(Ord. No. 98-20, § 6, 10-5-98)
Secs. 6-283, 6-284. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - CABLE AND VIDEO FRANCHISE FEES

Sec. 6-285. - Franchise fee for state-issued cable or video franchise.
The City hereby requires a franchise fee of five (5) percent of gross revenues generated within the City for any cable or video state franchise issued in its corporate boundaries by the State of Georgia.
(Ord. No. 08-01, § 1, 2-1-08)
Sec. 6-286. - Authorized designee.
The City hereby authorizes the City Clerk and/or the City Manager or designee, upon receipt of notice to the City of its right to designate a franchise fee for an applicant for or holder of an existing state franchise, to provide written notice to the Secretary of State and each applicant for or holder of a state franchise within a service area that is wholly or partially located within the City limits of the five (5) percent franchise fee rate applicable to such applicant or holder of a state franchise.
(Ord. No. 08-01, § 1, 2-1-08; Ord. No. 2013-11, § 1, 6-17-13)
Secs. 6-287—6-295. - Reserved.
