ARTICLE VI. - DEALERS IN PRECIOUS METALS, GEMS AND USED WATCHES[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
State Law reference— Junk dealers, O.C.G.A. § 43-22-1 et seq.; dealers in precious metals and gems, O.C.G.A. § 43-37-1 et seq.; dealers in used watches, O.C.G.A. § 43-49-1 et seq.; jeweler's lien for repairs, O.C.G.A. § 44-14-430 et seq.

Sec. 6-171. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Dealer or precious metals dealer means any person who operates a precious metals dealership.
Precious metals dealership means any business which exclusively or as incidental to or in connection with any other business, purchases, sells, barters or acquires in trade, used or secondhand jewelry of any kind or description, including but not limited to watches and clocks or articles of that kind or character made or composed of, or containing in whole or in part, gold, silver, platinum or other precious or semiprecious metals; diamonds, emeralds, rubies or other precious stones or gems; rings and necklaces; and precious or semiprecious metals in any form, including silverware and coins.
Precious metals dealership shall also include jewelry stores which may purchase, sell, barter or acquire through trade any gold, silver, platinum or other precious or semi-precious metals; diamonds, emeralds, rubies or other precious stones or gems; rings and necklaces; and precious or semi-precious metals in any form, including silverware and coins.
(Ord. No. 206, § I, 11-17-80; Ord. No. 95-21, § 1, 1-2-96)
Sec. 6-172. - Annual permit required.
All persons, before commencing the operation of a precious metals dealership, shall, prior to applying for a occupation tax certificate, file an application with the police department for an annual permit to conduct such business.
(Ord. No. 206, § II, 11-17-80)
Sec. 6-173. - Application for permit.
The application for the annual permit shall state the street address from which the proposed business is to operate. The application shall contain the full name, address, phone number, date of birth and Social Security Number of each person owning any interest in the proposed business, plus any additional information, including fingerprints, deemed necessary by the police department for the purpose of conducting a background investigation of the applicants. If the proposed application is a corporation, the name, address, phone number and date of birth of each officer and director shall be furnished in addition to the above information.
(Ord. No. 206, § III, 11-17-80)
Sec. 6-174. - Permit prerequisite to issuance of occupation tax certificate.
No City occupation tax certificate shall be issued to any person for the operation of a precious metals dealership until the annual permit required by section 6-172 has been approved by the police department and issued by the City Clerk.
(Ord. No. 206, § IV, 11-17-80)
Sec. 6-175. - Employee identification card.
No person shall be employed by a precious metals dealer in any capacity until this person has been fingerprinted by the police department and has been issued an annual personal identification card by the City authorizing this person to be employed by a precious metals dealer in the City. It shall be the duty of the dealer to assure that the provisions of this section are complied with.
(Ord. No. 206, § VI, 11-17-80)
Sec. 6-176. - Character of permittee, employee.
No person shall be issued an annual permit or an identification card or a occupation tax certificate for precious metals dealership or a permit to act as an employee thereof, who has been convicted or pleaded nolo contendere to a crime involving moral turpitude or to any crime involving theft, embezzlement, burglary, forgery or any crime against the property of another. No corporation shall be issued an annual permit or a occupation tax certificate for a precious metals dealership if any of its officers, directors or shareholders or employees have been convicted or pleaded nolo contendere to a crime involving moral turpitude, or to any crime involving theft, embezzlement, burglary, forgery or any crime against the property of another.
(Ord. No. 206, § VI, 11-17-80)
Sec. 6-177. - Books, records—Required.
All precious metals dealers shall keep books and records which shall contain an accurate description of all property pledged, traded, sold or delivered to them. This description shall include, to the extent possible, the name of the maker of the article, all identifying marks, numbers and serial numbers, together with a statement of the kind of material of which it is made. These books and records there shall also contain the full name and address of the person by whom the article was sold and the time the article was delivered by the person to the dealer. These entries shall be made as soon after the transaction as is possible, but in no event more than one (1) hour thereafter.
(Ord. No. 206, § VIII, 11-17-80)
Sec. 6-178. - Same—Serially numbered.
Every entry required to be made in the dealer's book required by this article shall be numbered serially, and the property or article described in each entry shall have attached to it a tag bearing the same number corresponding to the entry number.
(Ord. No. 206, § IX, 11-17-80)
Sec. 6-179. - Daily report to police.
(a)
Every dealer shall submit a written daily report to the police department on such form as may be prescribed by the police department of all property bought or received in trade or barter by him during the twenty-four (24) hours ending at 9:00 p.m. on the date of the report. These reports shall be typewritten. In addition to any other information required by the police department, such reports shall show:
(1)
The name and address of the dealer.
(2)
Time of each transaction.
(3)
Serial number of seller tickets and tags required by this article.
(4)
Amount paid.
(5)
Full description of articles, including kind, style, material, color, design, kind and number of stones in jewelry and all identifying names, marks and numbers.
(6)
A description of persons selling, including name, address, race, sex, date of birth, weight and height, Social Security Number and/or driver's license number.
(b)
Insufficient reports shall be rejected, and any dealer knowingly making them shall be deemed guilty of being in violation of this article.
(Ord. No. 206, § X, 11-17-80)
Sec. 6-180. - Mutilation of identification numbers.
It shall be unlawful for any dealer to purchase or acquire in trade or otherwise any article commonly branded with a serial number or other inscription of any type which has been mutilated or altered. Any dealer receiving any such article shall immediately notify the police department.
(Ord. No. 206, § XI, 11-17-80)
Sec. 6-181. - Retention of articles.
Any dealer or person operating under a dealer's license who buys goods, taking full title thereto, the word "goods" being used here in the broadest sense including all kinds of the previously described property, shall hold these goods so acquired or purchased for at least three (3) days before disposing of them by sale, transfer, shipment or otherwise.
(Ord. No. 206, § XII, 11-17-80)
Sec. 6-182. - Examination and inspection of articles by police; segregation of suspicious articles.
All property purchased or acquired by a dealer shall at all times be subject to examination and inspection by the police department. If, upon the inspection, a police officer shall have reasonable cause to believe that any of the property is stolen, he shall segregate it. It shall thereafter be unlawful for the person in possession of the property to dispose of it, or in any manner mutilate, melt or disfigure it, until seven (7) days have elapsed from the date of inspection.
(Ord. No. 206, § XIII, 11-17-80)
Sec. 6-183. - Dealing with minors.
It shall be unlawful for any dealer, his agents or employees to receive precious metals from minors.
(Ord. No. 206, § XIV, 11-17-80)
Sec. 6-184. - Revocation of license.
Any person failing to comply with any provision of this article, or such other laws, ordinances and regulations as may be passed by the City for the conduct of the business of a dealer, shall have his license to conduct this business revoked. This revocation shall result from conviction in any court for a violation of any provision of this article or any other ordinance or regulation covering the conduct of the business for which a permit and license shall have been issued.
(Ord. No. 206, § XV, 11-17-80)
Sec. 6-185. - Enforcement.
The police department shall have the responsibility for the enforcement of this article.
(Ord. No. 206, § XVI, 11-17-80)
Secs. 6-186—6-205. - Reserved.
