Chapter 21 - UTILITIES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Special assessments, § 4.06.
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 5; franchise agreements, § 6-236 et seq.; floodplain regulations, ch. 8; pollution control, ch. 13; soil erosion and sedimentation control, ch. 16; streets and sidewalks, ch. 17; zoning, ch. 23.
State Law reference— Power of City or county to provide stormwater, sewerage collection and disposal systems, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3.; dumping certain wastes in storm or sanitary sewers prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-2; Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; adoption of ordinances, rules and regulations relating to payment for street improvements and construction of water, gas and sewer connections, payment of costs of connections, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-7; City's authority to acquire, construct, extend, operate, maintain and collect fees for water and sewerage systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-5; Resource Recovery Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-63-1 et seq.; grants of state funds to municipal corporations for public purposes, O.C.G.A. § 36-40-20 et seq.; executions for collection of assessments for laying sewers, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-358.

Sec. 21-1. - Incorporation of lines into county system; jurisdiction of county.
The City Council does hereby consent and agree that the sewer lines of the City shall be incorporated within the county sewerage system and that thereafter the sewer department of the county shall have jurisdiction over all such sewer lines.
(Code 1969, § 14-1)
Sec. 21-2. - Maintenance, repair, extension by county; authority to open streets.
The county shall have authority to maintain all existing sewer lines and any additions or any extensions which may be made thereto, and the county is further authorized and empowered to open any public streets or alleys within the territorial limits of the City for the purpose of repairing, maintaining, constructing, or extending any such sewer lines, provided, however, that the county shall complete maintenance or construction with as little inconvenience to the citizens of the City as is practical and possible. Upon the completion of such maintenance and construction, the streets or alleys which may be opened shall be closed and repaired in as good condition as the same were in prior to such maintenance or construction.
(Code 1969, § 14-2)
Sec. 21-3. - Assessment of costs of construction.
The county shall have the full power and authority to levy and assess the cost of construction or extending any sewer lines against the abutting property owners in accordance with the Act of the General Assembly approved February 25, 1949, (1949 Ga. Laws, page 1590), and shall also have the authority and right to collect any and all charges, service fees and costs which are provided for in such Act; provided, however, that any such assessment, service fees, charges, or taxes levied against the citizens of the City shall be upon the same basis and not in excess of such charges levied elsewhere in the county sewerage system.
(Code 1969, § 14-3)
