ARTICLE IX. - SCHEDULE OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS

Sec. 23-901. - Adoption of district regulations.
Zoning district regulations are set forth herein in the schedule of district regulations which is hereby adopted by reference as a part of this chapter.
Sec. 23-902. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2009-23, § 1, adopted Aug. 31, 2009, repealed § 23-902, which pertained to uses common to all residential districts and derived from Ord. No. 136, adopted Sept. 7, 1971.
Sec. 23-903. - R-1 neighborhood residential district.
modified
(a)
Purpose: This district provides for neighborhood scale residential dwellings, their permitted accessory uses, and certain other uses that are in general complementary in use, scale and intensity. All existing and newly created lots shall front onto public streets, and shall be required to be served by public water and sewer systems.
(b)
Permitted uses:
Single-family detached dwellings.
Home occupations as detailed in section 23-614. Group homes, personal care homes and nursing homes are not considered home occupations and are not permitted.
Public parks owned and operated by the City.
Common open space owned and maintained by a neighborhood organization, registered nonprofit, or homeowner's association.
(c)
Conditional uses:
More than three (3) accessory structures as outlined in section 23-601. Detached, fully enclosed garages or carports, as defined in section 23-402, shall not count as accessory structures.
Churches and other places of worship with all appropriate accessory uses. All lots shall have public water and sewer service. All parking requirements shall be met on-site. All such uses shall be screened as detailed in article XI.
Cemeteries when located on lots which are fifteen (15) acres or greater in size when owned and maintained pursuant to the laws of the state. A twenty-five-foot replanted buffer shall be required along the perimeter of the site. All buildings shall maintain a setback of a minimum of one hundred (100) feet from any side or rear property line. Any interior streets shall be private. All such uses shall be screened as detailed in article XI.
Day care center for children, subject to all regulations and requirements of the state. All requirements of home occupations pursuant to section 23-614 shall be met.
(d)
Accessory uses and structures:
Accessory uses common to all residential districts, except those restricted as conditional uses herein.
Up to three (3) accessory structures, as defined in section 23-601, may be permitted by right.
(e)
Uses prohibited:
Any use not specifically permitted or permitted upon approval of a conditional use permit shall be prohibited. Further, mobile, modular, and manufactured single-family detached dwellings are prohibited.
(f)
Dimensional requirements:
EXPAND
Minimum lot area Ten thousand two hundred (10,200) square feet.
Minimum lot width Sixty (60) feet of width, except existing lots which have a minimum lot depth exceeding two hundred fifty (250) feet which shall allow a 50-foot minimum lot width.
Minimum public road frontage Thirty (30) feet.
Minimum front yard building setback Twenty (20) feet.
Minimum side yard building setback Five (5) feet.
Minimum side yard building setback (corner) Ten (10) feet.
Minimum rear yard building setback Twenty-five (25) feet.
Maximum building height Thirty-five (35) feet. See section 23-402 for a definition of how building height is measured.
Minimum heated floor area One thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet.
Maximum impervious lot coverage Forty (40) percent.
  (g)
Parking requirements for single-family detached structures: Every single-family detached structure must provide three hundred twenty-four (324) square feet of space for parking, which is equivalent to two parking spaces sized nine (9) feet wide by eighteen (18) feet deep. These spaces must be located on private property, and not in the right-of-way. This requirement may be met in any of the following ways, or any combination thereof:
A paved driveway connected to a permitted curb cut; or
A carport, either attached or detached; or
A fully enclosed garage, either attached or detached.
(h)
Requirements for garages and carports:
For single-family dwellings, the maximum floor area of any attached or detached garage or carport shall be fifty (50) percent of the floor area of the dwelling.
Measured from the closest point of the principal structure to the garage or carport, no garage or carport may exceed the height of the principal structure to which it is subordinate.
This subsection shall not apply to any conditioned, habitable space additions built above a garage or carport.
(i)
Development guidelines: The following shall be considered by the Mayor and City Council as variances as set forth by article XIV, appeals and variances:
Any single-family detached dwelling structure which contains within more than one (1) kitchen, as defined in section 23-402.
Any single-family detached dwelling larger than five thousand (5,000) square feet heated floor area.
Any dwelling with more than five (5) bedrooms.
Attached or detached garages which contain more than three (3) parking spaces.
(Ord. No. 2009-26, § 1, 9-28-09; Ord. No. 2014-06, § 4, 3-17-14; Ord. No. 2014-07, § 3, 6-2-14; Ord. No. 2021-64 , § 2, 10-20-21; Ord. No. 2022-32 , § 1, 7-18-22)
Sec. 23-904. - R-2 general residence district.
It is the intent of this district to encourage the development of duplex dwelling units which are served by public water and sewer.
Permitted uses: Two-family dwellings developed as a duplex of two (2) attached dwelling units which are separated by and share a common wall, each which functions as its own independent dwelling unit. The lot upon which the duplex is located shall not be customarily subdivided.
Accessory uses: Customary accessory uses as described in section 601.
Home occupation.
Conditional uses: None.
Uses prohibited: Any use not specifically permitted or uses not permitted upon approval of a conditional use shall be prohibited.
Dimensional requirements:
EXPAND
Minimum Lot Area, Duplexes: 12,000 square feet for all lots created prior to December 13, 2010, which may include wetlands and floodplain. Lots created after December 13, 2010, shall have 24,000 square feet exclusive of wetlands and floodplain.
Minimum Lot Width 85 feet
Minimum Lot Depth 120 feet
Minimum Public Road Frontage 30 feet (refer to section 806)
Minimum Front Yard Building Setback 20 feet, provided no administrative variance shall be permitted.
Minimum Rear Yard Building Setback 15 feet or required buffer, whichever is greater (see also section 1102)
Minimum Side Yard Building Setback 5 feet or required buffer, whichever is greater, and provided no administrative variance shall be permitted (see also section 1102)
Maximum Building Height 35 feet, subject to FAA approval within approach zone
Maximum Impervious Surface Sixty percent (60%)
Minimum Floor Area, Duplexes 1,000 heated square feet per dwelling unit
  (Ord. of 1-24-11(3), § 1; Ord. No. 2017-26 , § 1, 10-16-17)
Sec. 23-905. - R-3 multiple-family residence district (apartments).
Purpose: It is the intent of this district to accommodate development of three (3) or more attached rental dwelling units which are served by public water and sewer.
Permitted uses: Multiple-family dwellings containing three (3) or more attached dwelling units of common wall construction on a single lot which has not been customarily subdivided.
Accessory uses: Customary accessory uses as described in section 23-601.
Home occupation.
Conditional uses: None.
Uses prohibited: Any use not specifically permitted or uses not permitted upon approval of a conditional use shall be prohibited.
Dimensional requirements:
EXPAND
Minimum Lot Area 1.0 acres any R-3 zoning existing prior to March 28, 2011, including wetlands and floodplain.

Any R-3 zoning created after March 28, 2011, shall have a minimum contiguous lot area of 10.0 acres, excluding wetlands or floodplain.
Minimum Lot Width 85 feet
Minimum Lot Depth 120 feet
Maximum Building Height 8 stories or 100 feet, provided tract is not adjacent to property zoned R-1, R-2, R-CH, RSFA and subject to FAA approval if within approach zone; otherwise, maximum 3 stories or 40 feet as shall be subject to FAA approval if within approach zone.
Minimum Public Road Frontage 30 feet
Minimum Front Yard Building Setback 20 feet
Minimum Rear Yard Building Setback 15 feet or required buffer, whichever is greater (see also section 23-1102)
Minimum Side Yard Building Setback 15 feet or required buffer, whichever is greater (see also section 23-1102)
Maximum Impervious Lot Coverage 60 percent when located adjacent to R-1, R-2, R-4, R-CH and RSFA.

Otherwise, 80 percent (no common active amenities) and on-site surface parking 10 percent or greater—Any parking not contained within an enclosed parking structure. Minimum required open space shall not include wetlands and/or floodplain.

And, 90 percent (with common active amenities) when these amenities are located on the same zoned lot and provided on-site surface parking less than 10 percent. Other than surface parking, all other parking shall be contained within an enclosed parking structure which is architecturally compatible with the one or more principal structure(s) found on-site. Minimum required open space area shall not include wetlands and/or floodplain.
Minimum Floor Area
Studio Dwelling Units: 600 heated square feet
One-Bedroom Dwelling Units: 750 heated square feet
Two-Bedroom Dwelling Units: 1,000 heated square feet
Three or More Bedroom Units: 1,200 heated square feet plus 200 heated square feet per bedroom over 3 bedrooms
Minimum Distance Between Buildings
Front-to-front arrangement: 50 feet
Front-to-rear arrangement: 60 feet
Rear-to-rear arrangement: 40 feet
Side-to-side arrangement: 30 feet
All other: 30 feet
Each of the minimum distances shall be increased by 10 feet for each story in excess of 3 stories for any building exceeding 3 stories in height.
  Development provisions: The maximum density permitted shall be twelve (12) dwelling units per acre unless a variance is granted by City Council to allow up to, but no more than, fifty (50) dwelling units per acre.
All required parking shall be on-site (refer to article XII, Parking and Loading) and these shall not be located within the Code required front yard building setback.
All internal driveways shall be in accordance with article XII, Parking and Loading, except that the county fire marshall may require minimum drive aisle widths which exceed the minimum width specified in article XII, Parking and Loading, upon specific review of the traffic circulation and fire protection needs.
All garbage, trash containers, dumpsters, and trash compactors shall be screened by a solid masonry enclosure constructed of the same materials as the principal structure which is no less than six (6) feet in height and as further detailed in the City dumpster ordinance.
Any swimming pool amenity shall be in-ground construction, shall not be located nearer than fifty (50) feet to the right-of-way line, nor nearer than one hundred fifty (150) feet to a property zoned for single-family detached dwellings, and when located within a front yard shall be screened from the public right-of-way with a six-foot opaque wall. In all other locations, pools shall be screened with a six-foot opaque fence or wall. Pools must be provided with a fence and gate in accordance with the building code. Gates shall be self-locking. No lifeguard shall be required.
(Ord. No. 2011-11, § 1, 3-28-11; Ord. No. 2017-26 , § 1, 10-16-17)
Sec. 23-906. - R-4 multiple-family residence district (condominiums cooperatives and townhouses).
Purpose: It is the intent of this district to accommodate development of a multiple-family character when served by public water and sewer.
Permitted uses: Multiple-family dwellings containing three (3) or more attached dwelling units of common wall construction on a single lot which has not been customarily subdivided. Each dwelling unit shall have an ownership interest in the lot upon which the collective has been constructed.
Accessory uses: Customary accessory uses as described in section 23-601 which may either be common elements and/or limited common elements as set forth in the Georgia Condominium Act.
Home occupation.
Conditional uses: None.
Uses prohibited: Any use not specifically permitted or uses not permitted upon approval of a conditional use shall be prohibited.
Dimensional requirements:
EXPAND
Minimum Lot Area 6.00 acres any R-4 zoning existing prior to March 28, 2011, including wetlands and floodplain except City initiated rezoning from R-3 to R-4 when an existing condominium regime exists as established by state law as of March 28, 2011, then 1.5 acres including wetlands and floodplain.

Any R-4 zoning created after March 28, 2011, unless as provided above, shall have a minimum contiguous lot area of 6.0 acres, excluding wetlands or floodplain.
Minimum Lot Width 85 feet
Minimum Lot Depth 120 feet
Minimum Front Yard Building Setback 20 feet plus 5 feet for any 10-story building
Minimum Public Road Frontage 30 feet (refer to section 23-806)
Minimum Rear Yard Building Setback 15 feet or buffer, whichever is greater (see also section 23-1102)
Minimum Side Yard Building Setback 15 feet or buffer, whichever is greater (see also section 23-1102)
Maximum Building Height 10 stories or 120 feet, provided tract is not adjacent to property zoned for R-1, R-2, R-CH, RSFA and subject to FAA approval if within approach zone; otherwise, maximum 3 stories or 40 feet as shall be subject to FAA approval if within approach zone.
Maximum Impervious Lot Coverage 60 percent when located adjacent to R-1, R-2, R-4, R-CH and RSFA.

Otherwise, 80 percent (no common active amenities) or on-site surface parking 10 percent or greater—Any parking not contained within an enclosed parking structure. Minimum required open space shall not include wetlands and/or floodplain.

And, 90 percent (with common active amenities) when these amenities are located on the same zoned lot and provided on-site surface parking less than 10 percent. Other than surface parking, all other parking shall be contained within an enclosed parking structure which is architecturally compatible with the one or more principal structure(s) found on-site. Minimum required open space area shall not include wetlands and/or floodplain.
Minimum Floor Area
Studio Dwelling Units: 650 heated square feet
One-Bedroom Dwelling Units: 850 heated square feet
Two-Bedroom Dwelling Units: 1,150 heated square feet
Three or More Bedroom Units: 1,250 heated square feet plus 100 heated square feet per dwelling unit over 3 bedrooms
Minimum Distance Between Buildings
Front-to-front arrangement: 50 feet
Front-to-rear arrangement: 60 feet
Rear-to-rear arrangement: 40 feet
Side-to-side arrangement: 30 feet
All other: 30 feet
Each of the minimum distances shall be increased by 10 feet for each story in excess of 3 stories for any building exceeding 3 stories in height.
  Development provisions: The maximum density permitted shall be twelve (12) dwelling units per acre unless a variance is granted by City Council to allow up to, but no more than, fifty (50) dwelling units per acre.
All required parking shall be on-site (refer to article XII, Parking and Loading) and these shall not be located within the Code required front yard building setback.
All internal driveways shall be in accordance with article XII, Parking and Loading, except that the County Fire Marshall may require minimum drive aisle widths which exceed the minimum width specified in article XII, Parking and Loading, upon specific review of the traffic circulation and fire protection needs.
All garbage, trash containers, dumpsters, and trash compactors shall be screened by a solid masonry enclosure constructed of the same materials as the principal structure which is no less than six (6) feet in height and as further detailed in the City dumpster ordinance.
Any swimming pool amenity shall be in-ground construction, shall not be located nearer than fifty (50) feet to the right-of-way line, nor nearer than one hundred and fifty (150) feet to a property zoned for single-family detached dwellings, and when located within a front yard shall be screened from the public right-of-way with a six-foot opaque wall. In all other locations, pools shall be screened with a six-foot opaque fence or wall. Pools must be provided with a fence and gate in accordance with the building code. Gates shall be self-locking. No lifeguard shall be required.
(Ord. No. 2011-12, § 1, 3-28-11; Ord. No. 2017-26 , § 1, 10-16-17)
Sec. 23-906A. - R-CH single-family cluster residential district.
Purpose: This district provides for single-family detached residences where community water and sewer systems are available.
Permitted uses: Those permitted uses common to all residential districts.
Accessory uses: Those accessory uses common to all residential districts.
Conditional uses: Those conditional uses common to all residential districts.
Space limits:
EXPAND
Minimum lot area 6,000 square feet
Minimum lot width 60 feet, but the Mayor and Council may, in their discretion for good cause shown, reduce the minimum lot area to a width of not less than 50 feet per lot on lots which are not less than 10,000 square feet.
Minimum lot depth 100 feet
Minimum front yard 20 feet
Minimum rear yard 10 feet, except when a rear yard adjoins a project boundary. A rear yard shall be 35 feet.
Minimum side yard 7.5 feet, except that the City may permit adjoining lots is such a zoning category to have a 0 set-back line provided the distance between structures is not less than 15 feet.
Maximum building height 35 feet
Minimum floor area 1,400 square feet
Minimum yard adjacent to public street 85 feet on major thoroughfares, 65 feet on all other streets
Maximum density 4 units per acre
  Sec. 23-906B. - RSFA single-family attached residential district.
Purpose: The district provides for single-family attached residences where community water and sewer systems are available.
Permitted uses: Those permitted uses common to all residential districts.
Accessory uses: Those accessory uses common to all residential districts.
Conditional uses: Those conditional uses common to all residential districts.
Space limits:
EXPAND
Minimum lot area 5,000 square feet (inclusive of all common areas)
Minimum lot width 50 feet
Minimum lot depth 75 feet
Minimum front yard 20 feet
Minimum rear yard 10 feet, except where rear yard adjoins an exterior property boundary, the rear yard shall be 20 feet
Minimum side yard 15 feet where development adjoins an exterior property line
Maximum building height 40 feet
Maximum ground coverage 75 percent
Minimum floor area 1,200 square feet
Minimum buffer area 20 feet enhanced landscape buffer (existing trees not to be removed without City approval, landscaping to be installed where appropriate)
Minimum building from street centerline 85 feet on major thoroughfares, 65 feet on all other streets
Maximum density 8 units per acre of land
Minimum distance between buildings Front to front 60 feet
Front to rear 60 feet
Front to side 40 feet
Rear to side 40 feet
Side to side 15 feet
  Additional provisions: All other provisions related to single residents occupancy that are not in conflict herewith shall be applicable to this zoning category.
Access: All City and county personnel are granted access to any development by an access easement without regard to nondedicated streets, roads, or rights-of-way. The City may elect to deal with a homeowners association which will be responsible for bills concerning City accounting services that are applicable, but each unit or lot shall likewise be separately responsible for any services that might be supplied by the City and county.
Sec. 23-906C. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2009-25, § 1, adopted Sept. 14, 2009, repealed § 23-906C., which pertained to R-SFA single-family attached residential district with nondedicated streets, roads and rights-of-way and derived from Ord. No. 136, adopted Sept. 7, 1971.
Sec. 23-907. - O-I and O-W districts.
modified
(a)
Purpose.
• O-I office/institutional district. The office/institutional district is intended to encourage development of suitable business and professional enterprise, hospitals, medical and dental facilities of a character and density deemed compatible with the primary purpose of this district. Limited retail uses normally appurtenant to office/institutional uses are also permitted under designated uses provided they are located within a principal use and do not occupy more than twenty (20) percent of the gross floor area subject to exclusions detailed herein.
• O-W office/warehouse district. The office/warehouse district is intended to encourage the development of office and office warehouse facilities in combination where the manufacture and/or fabrication of products is limited to items that are compatible with surrounding uses.
(b)
Table of uses.
EXPAND
Table of Uses
Permitted Uses and Structures
P = Permitted "by right" Principal Uses and Structures
CUP = Conditional Use Permit
A = Customary accessory uses except as furthermore regulated herein.
X = Uses prohibited. Furthermore, any use not specifically permitted or uses not permitted upon approval of a conditional use shall be prohibited. O-I
O-W
Commercial/Retail
Automatic teller machine (walk up only). P P
Automotive parts retail, with customary and ancillary installation. Such installation shall be minor and non-mechanical in nature, and shall include audio equipment, stereo systems, upholstery, window tinting, car wrapping, and similar items. All installation shall take place indoors. No outdoor overnight storage of vehicles shall be permitted. X P
Commercial artist studios and art galleries. P P
Commercial or shared kitchen, including catering services, for the purposes of preparation of meals for delivery or distribution, with no on-site food service or sales permitted and no more than two (2) service trucks parked on-site. X P
Computer and data processing services. P P
Film, television, photography, music recording, and audio production studios within fully enclosed and soundproof buildings. P P
Health and fitness clubs without massage or spa. P P
Microbrewery, microdistillery, and microwinery. Said uses shall be limited to a maximum building square footage of twenty thousand (20,000) gross square feet and shall be located greater than five hundred (500) feet measured in a straight line from residential zoning districts. In addition, a "tasting room" open to the general public shall be provided and shall have a minimum gross floor area of five hundred (500) square feet and a maximum gross floor area of three thousand (3,000) square feet. Tasting room hours shall be limited to the "hours of sale" authorized in section 3-28 of the alcoholic beverage ordinance. Such establishments shall also be subject to section 23-911 performance standards pertaining to noise, vibration, smoke, dust or other particular matter, toxic or noxious waste materials, odors, and glare. Manufacturing and storage operations shall be contained solely indoors with no outdoor storage permitted with the exception that each establishment shall be permitted to have one (1) storage silo placed outside in a location visible to the public, which shall include signage of the company name and logo displayed prominently on the silos (in compliance with the sign ordinance). Each outdoor silo shall be limited to a maximum size of nine (9) feet in diameter by thirty-five (35) feet tall. X P
Retail uses normally appurtenant to office/institutional uses to include:
• Florist shops (maximum two thousand (2,000) square feet gross floor area),
• Barber and beauty shops with personnel licensed by the State of Georgia but excluding massage services (maximum two thousand (2,000) square feet gross floor area),
• Shoe shine stands (maximum two hundred fifty (250) square feet gross floor area);
• Cafeterias and restaurants but excluding the sale of alcohol (maximum five thousand (5,000) square feet gross floor area), and
• Snack shops (maximum one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet gross floor area),
• Pharmacies (maximum three thousand (3,000) square feet of gross floor area), and
• gift shops (maximum one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet gross floor area) when located within office or medical buildings which are a minimum of forty-five thousand (45,000) square feet of gross floor area, but excluding wholesale trade. P X
Staging, lighting, audio and video equipment sales, rental, repair, and installations. P P
Tattoo/body craft studios, subject to restrictions of articles I and XVI of chapter 6. P P
Education/Child Care
Child care centers, pre-schools, kindergartens and special schools, and adult daycare P X
Colleges and universities, business colleges CUP CUP
Instruction of fine arts including sculpture, painting, writing, music and performing arts, pottery or ceramics production with kiln usage; glass blowing; and welding, subject to the following:
• Shall be within enclosed soundproof buildings when located within three hundred (300) feet, measured in a straight line, from residential uses. No outdoor storage permitted.
• Such schools may provide performances open to the general public as an accessory use, provided minimum parking requirements are met for the main assembly area.
• Instruction with the use of the nude human figure, subject to restrictions of article X of chapter 6. P P
Schools—Private (offering instruction to children from grades one (1) through twelve (12)). All staff shall hold the requisite certification required by the State of Georgia. CUP X
Special training and schooling services including barber and beauty schools, business and vocational-technical schools (except those having an external industrial character), GED instruction, dancing schools, exercise studios, and tutoring. Driving schools with no outdoor driving courses. No outdoor storage or display permitted. P P
Institutional
Churches and other places of worship but excluding the use of tents. CUP CUP
Museums, auditoriums, libraries and similar cultural facilities, when located greater than five hundred (500) feet, measured in a straight line, from single-family and two-family residential uses. P P
Social, fraternal, union or civic buildings, philanthropic associations; private (nonprofit) clubs, and lodges. Limited to two thousand (2,000) gross square feet when located within five hundred (500) feet, measured in a straight line, from single-family and two-family residential uses. P P
Medical/Health
Abortion clinic with all medical personnel licensed by the State of Georgia. CUP X
Acupuncture as licensed by the State of Georgia. P X
Crisis center (out-patient). CUP X
Cryogenic facility with twenty-four-hour security. All medical personnel shall be licensed by the State of Georgia. CUP X
Funeral homes and mortuaries (both excluding crematoriums) shall be located greater than five hundred (500) feet measured in a straight line from residential zoning districts, and subject to the following:
• Hearses or other transport vehicles for the deceased shall not be parked or stored visible from the public right-of-way.
• An all weather porte-cochere shall be provided at the rear of the facility for the intake of the human remains; however, a side or rear porte-cochere shall be provided for funeral services transport to final resting place.
• All buildings shall be faced with brick and/or stack stone on all elevations (excluding fenestration) and shall have a pitched style roof. P P
Medical cannabis dispensary CUP X
Mental health facility with twenty-four-hour nursing care and security. All medical personnel shall be licensed by the State of Georgia. CUP X
Offices, clinics (out-patient) and laboratories. Blood plasma and blood donor centers shall be prohibited. P P
Hospitals and clinics (in-patient) with all medical personnel licensed by the State of Georgia. CUP X
Massage and spa establishment. X X
Substance abuse and treatment facilities (in-patient) provided twenty-four-hour nursing care and security is provided but excluding the adaptive reuse of single-family or multi-family dwellings. All medical personnel shall be licensed by the State of Georgia. CUP X
Veterinary clinics for household animals, provided that such clinics and any treatment rooms, cages, pens, or kennels be maintained within a completely enclosed, air-conditioned, heated, sound insulated building and that such clinic be operated in such a way as to produce no objectionable or noxious odors or noises outside its walls and the provision be made to dispose of all refuse and garbage in a sanitary manner. P P
Office
Business and professional office uses (excluding the sale of goods at retail).
However, the following uses are specifically prohibited:
• Ambulance service;
• Automotive and truck rental; and automotive dealer's office
• Bail bond and appearance bond operations;
• Barter, swap, and trading offices;
• Cash advance; check cashing establishments;
• Conversion therapy for minors. Conversion therapy means any practice or treatment that seeks to change an individual's sexual orientation or gender identity, including efforts to change behaviors or gender expressions or to eliminate or reduce sexual or romantic attractions or feelings toward individuals of the same gender.
• Day labor or labor pool agencies;
• Delivery services;
• Driving schools with outdoor driving courses;
• Escort services;
• Firearms dealers office;
• Fortunetellers; handwriting analysts; hypnotists;
• Lawn care offices;
• Modeling agencies;
• Palmistry;
• Pawnshops, including title pawn, and pawnbrokers;
• Taxi service and dispatch agencies;
• Trucking and transport firms;
• Wrecker service;
• Vehicles whose gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of over ten thousand (10,000) pounds, including commercial tractor-trailers, dump trucks, wreckers, or earth moving equipment shall not be parked, stored, or dispatched in connection with a business or professional office use conducted on the premises. No vehicle for hire shall be parked, stored, or dispatched from the site. P P
Contractor's offices X P
Customer service center with call center. P P
Exterminating and pest control offices X P
Internet-based business offices. In O-I districts, establishments providing on-site shipping services shall be limited in size to two thousand (2,000) gross square feet. P P
Newspaper office and news syndicates. Establishments providing on-site printing, publication, and distribution shall be located greater than five hundred (500) feet measured in a straight line from residential zoning districts. P P
Research scientist office with laboratory and testing facilities including the production of prototype products provided they are not objectionable by reason of emission of noise, vibration, smoke, dust, fumes, odors, or radiation and that do no create fire or explosion hazards and do not require any outdoor storage. Such facilities shall be limited to a P-3 (protection level) laboratory testing and research, and restricted to biosafety levels no higher than BSL-3. P P
Recreation/Entertainment
Assembly halls and community centers when operated on a nonprofit basis. CUP CUP
Parks, playgrounds, soccer, baseball, football or other athletic fields, golf courses. CUP CUP
Sexually oriented businesses. X X
Residential Dwellings/Lodgings
Community shelter or single room occupancy (SRO) operated not-for-profit with twenty-four-hour on-site management and security. Lodging shall not exceed fifteen (15) continuous hours within a twenty-four-hour period. CUP X
Dormitories, fraternity houses and sorority houses, officially affiliated with an accredited college, university or private school and only for the time period that such affiliation is in effect. CUP X
Group or congregate personal care centers, assisted living, and nursing homes for the elderly, disabled, or infirmed (all with twenty-four-hour nursing services) as shall be licensed and/or regulated by the State of Georgia but excluding the adaptive re-use of single-family dwellings and multi-family dwellings. All medical personnel shall be licensed by the State of Georgia. P X
Orphanage with twenty-four-hour on-site management. All medical personnel shall be licensed by the State of Georgia. CUP X
Transportation/Parking
Parking garages subject to design guidelines when the site is located within a one-half-mile radius of the existing Doraville Marta station property located in the vicinity of New Peachtree Road and Park Avenue and furthermore provided:
(1)  Parking garages shall provide ground floor occupancy office space subject to the exclusions listed herein, for the first sixty (60) feet of building depth along the enfronting facade facing a vehicular right-of-way.
(2) All enfronting ground floor office uses shall have a primary pedestrian entrance which faces, is visible from, and is directly accessible from the adjacent required sidewalk.
(3) Parking garages shall conceal automobiles from view; shall have the appearance of a horizontal storied building on all levels and elevations with fenestration; shall be faced in brick, stacked stone, and cast stone and/or any combination thereof as shall be approved by the City Council. CUP CUP
Other
The adaptive re-use of single-family and multi-family dwellings. X X
Bakeries and other establishments manufacturing prepared foods without retail sales within facilities containing less than 10,000 sf of manufacturing area. X P
Cleaning and maintenance services, provided that there shall be no outside storage of any materials or supplies and all overnight parking of vehicles shall not be located adjacent to the public right-of-way. X P
Climate-controlled self-storage or mini-storage warehouses subject to design guidelines when located on lots one (1) acre or greater exclusive of wetlands and floodplain.
a. Climate-controlled self-service storage facilities shall be limited to dead storage use only.
b. No activities other than the rental of storage units and pick-up and deposit of dead storage shall be allowed on the premises.
c. Examples of activities prohibited in self-storage facilities include, but are not limited to, the following:
1) Auctions (except those of the self-storage facility owner to dispose of items within unit which has become derelict of fee payment and/or abandonment), wholesale or retail uses, yard or garage sales.
2) The servicing, repair, or fabrication of motor vehicles, boats, trailers, lawn mowers, appliances or other similar equipment.
3) The operation of power tools, spray painting equipment, table saws, lathes, compressors, welding equipment, kilns, or other similar equipment.
4) The establishment of a transfer and storage business.
5) The storage of hazardous or flammable materials (including, but not limited to alcohol and propane).
6) The storage of food or food stuffs.
7) Any use that is noxious or offensive because of odors, dust, noise, fumes, or vibrations.
8) Residential habitation of storage units.
d. Incidental manager's office but excluding residential habitation.
e. Outside storage and display shall be prohibited.
f. No door openings for any self-service storage facility unit shall be constructed facing a public right-of-way or a single-family residential district even when visible or viewed through a glass surface.
g. Access to every individual storage unit shall be provided on-grade; neither requiring the use of stairs or steps. There shall be no preclusion of multi-story facilities which contain an elevator for patrons' use. X CUP
Heating equipment dealers, repairs and service, provided that there are no retail sales area within the facility and all repair work is not conducted at the facility. No outside storage shall be permitted. X P
Limited Fabrication Facilities: Facilities not to exceed 10,000 sf in size (exclusive of office and retail areas) utilized for the creation or fabrication of art works or goods (not including automotive parts) by manufacturing involving the use of hand tools and small-scale, light mechanical equipment in a completely enclosed building with no outdoor operations, outdoor storage or long-term commercial truck parking, but which may include retails sales of goods produced on-site. X P
Office/warehouse facilities when the warehouse is an integral portion of the office structure but excluding mini-storage or self-storage facilities, provided:
• A minimum of fifteen (15) percent of the entire building in which the facility is located shall be devoted to office use.
• No warehouse doors shall face a public right-of-way nor shall any shipping/receiving/loading/unloading area face a public right-of-way.
• No vehicle whose gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of over ten thousand (10,000) pounds, including commercial tractor-trailers, dump trucks, wreckers, or earth moving equipment shall be parked, stored, or dispatched in connection with an office/warehouse use conducted on the premises except for a duration of no more than 48 hours while parked at a loading/unloading area that is not visible from a public right-of-way.
• No vehicle for hire shall be parked, stored, or dispatched from the site. X P
Photographic studios which do not include lab processing (printing of photographs without the use of chemical development is permitted). X P
Printing, publishing and reproducing establishments with any associated retail sales limited to no more than twenty (20) percent of the gross floor area, provided that all such facilities shall be limited to the use of reproducing machines and printers, not including printing presses. X P
Textile production facilities that are limited to screen printing or embroidery of garments which are not manufactured at the facility. X P
Wholesaling and warehousing of goods, subject to restrictions noted elsewhere in the zoning district. X P
  (c)
Development controls.
EXPAND
Development Controls
O-I
O-W
Development • Restricted to lands with public water and sewer available. • Restricted to lands with public water and sewer available.
Drive-in and
drive-through facilities • Prohibited • Prohibited
Driveway curb cuts Driveway curb cut limitations are required to ensure adequate provisions are made for ingress and egress to a property, with particular reference to automotive and pedestrian safety and convenience, traffic flow and control, and access in case of fire or other catastrophe. Along state routes, final driveway curb cut approval is subject to Georgia Department of Transportation.
a. Shall be a maximum of twenty-four (24) feet for two-way entrances and twelve (12) feet for one-way entrances, unless a greater width is otherwise permitted by the director of community development upon its finding of necessity of such greater width.
b. Maximum permitted number of driveway curb cuts for each development. (For the purposes of this section, two (2) curb cuts serving two (2) one-way driveways shall only be counted as one curb cut):
i.  Developments with only one (1) street frontage, which is less than three hundred (300) feet in length: One (1) curb cut;
ii.  Developments with only one (1) street frontage, which is greater than or equal to three hundred (300) feet in length: Two (2) curb cuts;
iii. Developments with more than one (1) street frontage: One (1) per street frontage.
c. Along City and private streets, the location of driveway curb cuts shall be subject to approval by the director of community development.
Fleet vehicles On-site parking prohibited On-site parking permitted, subject to the following so as to not be visible from the public right-of-way:
• Shall be parked in the rear or side of the property; or if not possible,
• Shall be screened with a minimum five (5) feet wide landscape buffer planted with evergreen shrubs a minimum of twenty-four (24) inches tall and maximum thirty-six (36) inches tall and/or decorative thirty-six-inch wall. In addition, shall be planted with overstory canopy trees spaced a maximum of forty (40) feet apart.
Administrative variance: Administrative approval from full compliance with the screening requirements is subject to approval by the director of community development due to unique site and/or building constraints, and/or where screening poses conflicts with Georgia Power and/or other infrastructure utilities.
Outdoor display
and storage • Prohibited • Prohibited
Minimum lot
area • Ten thousand two hundred (10,200) square feet exclusive of wetlands and floodplain whether developed or being developed as single use or multi-tenant facility. • Thirty-five thousand (35,000) square feet exclusive of wetlands and floodplain whether developed or being developed as single use or multi-tenant facility.
• Climate-controlled mini-storage or self-storage warehouse facilities when located on lots which are one (1) acre or greater (forty-three thousand five hundred sixty (43,560) square feet) exclusive of wetlands and floodplain.
Minimum lot
width • Fifty (50) feet. • Thirty (30) feet.
Minimum public road frontage • Thirty (30) feet. • Thirty (30) feet.
Maximum front yard building setback • Twenty-five (25) feet but no less than five (5) feet with full masonry front, side, and rear facade elevations (brick and/or stone).
• Uses which allow twenty-four-hour continuous care residential habitation as specified herein shall observe a forty-foot front building setback. • Twenty-five (25) feet but no less than five (5) feet with full masonry front facade elevation (brick and/or stone).
Minimum rear yard building setback • None, but buffer requirements where applicable per Code plus five-foot structure setback. • None, but buffer requirements where applicable per Code plus five-foot structure setback.
Minimum side yard building setback • None, but buffer requirements where applicable per Code plus five-foot structure setback. • None, but buffer requirements where applicable per Code plus five-foot structure setback.
Maximum building height • Five (5) stories subject to FAA approval if within an airport approach zone and where abutting single-family detached dwellings the structure setback from the buffer (e.g., along side or rear lot lines) shall be increased five (5) feet for each one (1) story or portion thereof above two (2) stories in height. • Three (3) stories or thirty-five (35) feet, whichever is less.
Maximum impervious lot coverage • Adaptive reuse (where permitted)—Eighty (80) percent.
• All other—Eighty-five (85) percent. • Eighty (80) percent.
Mechanical and accessory features (such as HVAC condensers, electrical transformers, heat pumps, and similar features, including satellite dishes) Notwithstanding sections 23-1704 and 23-1705, the following screening requirements are required:
• Shall be in the location of least visibility from the public right-of-way and/or private street and shall be prohibited between the building and the street. Screening with fence or plant materials shall be required. Fencing shall be one hundred (100) percent opaque and of a material that matches or is similar to the material of the principal building. Vegetative screening shall consist of evergreen shrubs having a minimum of forty-two (42) inches in height at time of planting, and reaching a minimum height of six (6) feet within two (2) years or planting.
• When located on rooftops, said features shall be incorporated in the design of the building and/or screened with building materials similar to those of the building.
• Administrative variations: Administrative approval from full compliance with the screening requirements is subject to approval by the director of community development due to unique site and/or building constraints, instances where such equipment is not visible from adjacent properties, and/or where screening poses conflicts with Georgia Power requirements for equipment access.
Dumpsters Shall comply with the screening requirements of chapter 15, article VI.
Performance Standards Manufacturing and other production establishments shall be subject to section 23-911 performance standards pertaining to noise, vibration, smoke, dust or other particular matter, toxic or noxious waste materials, odors, and glare.
Sidewalks:
Notwithstanding section 23-402, sidewalks in both of these zoning districts shall be located along all streets and shall consist of two (2) zones: a tree planting/street furniture zone and a sidewalk clear zone. Streetscape Requirements
• Tree planting/street furniture zone: located adjacent to back of street curb, is reserved for the placement of street trees, street furniture including utility and light poles, waste receptacles, fire hydrants, traffic signs, traffic control boxes, newspaper boxes, transit shelters, bicycle racks, seating and similar elements in a manner that does not obstruct pedestrian access or motorist visibility.
• Sidewalk clear zone: The portion of a sidewalk that is unobstructed by any permanent objects to a vertical height of eight (8) feet and is reserved for pedestrian circulation and passage. No fixed elements, including traffic control boxes, fire hydrants or other utility structures, shall be placed above ground in the clear zone. The clear zone shall consist of concrete pavement shall have a consistent cross-slope not exceeding two (2) percent unless existing site topography is greater.
• Street trees: Trees shall be required in the tree planting/street furniture zone and spaced at a maximum distance of forty (40) feet apart, all newly planted street trees shall be single-stemmed with a minimum caliper of three (3) inches measured thirty-six (36) inches above ground, shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet in height, shall have a minimum mature height of forty (40) feet, and shall be limbed up to a minimum height of seven (7) feet. Trees shall have a minimum planting area of forty (40) square feet planted with evergreen ground cover such as mondo grass or liriope spicata or covered with hardwood mulch. Flowers and seasonal plantings may be planted in tree planting areas but shall be supplemented by hardwood mulch when not planted. Tree grates shall be prohibited.
• Street lights: decorative pedestrian lights shall be located in the tree planting/street furniture zoned as required by the director of community development and shall be placed a maximum distance of eighty (80) feet on-center and spaced equidistant between required street trees.
• Uniform design standards: All pavement materials, street tree species (varying by corridor), light fixtures and street furniture shall be a type specified by the director of community development in accordance with uniform design standards utilized by the director for placement of such objects in the public right-of-way.
• Sidewalk taper: Where property abuts a residentially zoned property, the sidewalk area within twenty (20) feet shall taper as necessary to provide a smooth transition to the width of the existing sidewalk. If the abutting residentially zoned property has no existing sidewalk, the sidewalk shall taper to a width of six (6) feet.
• Administrative variances: Administrative approval from the streetscape requirements are subject to approval by the director of community development in instances of overhead powerlines, protection of existing trees, significant topography, and/or other site constraints, and along state routes where Georgia Department of Transportation requirements may require design adjustments.
Minimum Width Requirements
Tree planting/street furniture zone:• State routes: ten (10) feet wide.
• Other streets: five (5) feet wide
Sidewalk clear zone:• Arterial and collector streets: ten (10) feet wide.
• Local streets, Flowers Road, Oakcliff Road (south of the southern leg of Pin Oak Circle): six (6) feet.
  (Ord. No. 2009-001, § 2, 1-20-09; Ord. No. 2012-28, § 3, 12-17-12; Ord. No. 2014-06, § 5, 3-17-14; Ord. No. 2015-03 , § 2, 3-2-15; Ord. No. 2019-012 , § 1(Exh. A), 5-20-19; Ord. No. 2021-33 , §§ 1—4, 4-21-21; Ord. No. 2022-07 , § 4, 1-12-22; Ord. No. 2022-28 , § 1, 7-18-22)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2019-012 , § 1(Exh. A), adopted May 20, 2019, changed the title of § 23-907 from "O-I office/institutional district" to read as herein set out.
Sec. 23-908. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2019-012 , § 1(Exh. A), adopted May 20, 2019, repealed former § 23-908, which pertained to O-W office/warehouse district, and derived from Ord. No. 2009-001, § 3, adopted Jan. 20, 2009; Ord. No. 2012-25, § 1, adopted Dec. 3, 2012; Ord. No. 2017-22 , § 1, adopted Aug. 21, 2017; and Ord. No. 2018-014 , § 6, adopted Sept. 4, 2018.
Sec. 23-909. - C-1 and C-2 commercial districts.
modified
(a)
Purpose.
• C-1 neighborhood commercial district. The neighborhood commercial district provides a location for limited retail and service uses to satisfy the common and frequent needs of the residents of nearby residential neighborhoods. It is the intent of this district to encourage such uses to be a part of neighborhood convenience (a continuous architectural unit e.g. main street or town center) on a street of appropriate classification proximate to the neighborhoods to be served. Neighborhood commercial districts in excess of ten (10) contiguous acres are not encouraged. Development is restricted to lands with public water and sewer available.
• C-2 general business district. The general commercial district is established in order to provide suitable areas for the various types of community and regional oriented commercial activities including retail uses, highway business uses, and office uses. General commercial districts are intended to be located along arterial or major collector streets and at such locations as are appropriate for community and regional commercial areas as opposed to locations that serve primarily local neighborhoods. Development is restricted to lands with public water and sewer available.
(b)
Table of uses.
EXPAND
Table of Uses
Permitted Uses and Structures
P = Permitted "by right" Principal Uses and Structures
CUP = Conditional Use Permit
A = Customary accessory uses except as furthermore regulated herein.
X = Uses prohibited. Furthermore, any use not specifically permitted or uses not permitted upon approval of a conditional use shall be prohibited. C-1 C-2
Commercial/Retail
Antique, vintage, collectible, and/or resale stores, with or without consignment. No outdoor storage or display permitted. X CUP
Auction gallery, but excluding automotive and truck auction. X CUP
Bakeries, whose entire products are sold at retail on the premises but excluding drive-in or drive-through services. P P
Barber shops, beauty salons, nail salons, tanning salons and similar personal service establishments provided the principal and accessory use(s) are licensed by the Georgia Board of Cosmetology but excluding body craft studios and massage establishments. P P
Brewpub, subject to section 23-911 performance standards pertaining to noise, vibration, smoke, dust or other particular matter, toxic or noxious waste materials, odors, and glare. Manufacturing and storage operations shall be contained solely indoors with no outdoor storage permitted, with the exception that each establishment shall be permitted to have one (1) storage silo placed outside in a location visible to the public, which shall include signage of the company name and logo displayed prominently on the silo (in compliance with the sign ordinance). Each outdoor silo shall be limited to a maximum size of nine (9) feet in diameter by thirty-five (35) feet tall. X P
Catering services without banquet hall. X P
Clothing and costume rental agencies. P P
Coin-operated convenience food and drink (nonalcoholic) vending machines (e.g., soft drink, snack, and coffee) when contained within a roofed structure with walled enclosure on a minimum of three (3) sides. Said structure shall be architecturally compatible with the principal structure. CUP X
Commercial artist studios (except body craft studios). P P
Computer sales and data processing services. P P
Drug stores/apothecary shops. P P
Funeral homes without crematorium and without drive-through or drive-in service/viewing. Hearses shall not be parked or stored visible from the public right-of-way. An all-weather porte-cochere shall be provided at the rear of the facility for the intake of the human remains; however, a side or rear porte-cochere shall be provided for funeral services transport to final resting place. X CUP
Furniture and household appliance stores offering new merchandise for rent. X P
Grocery, fruit, vegetable, and meat/seafood markets, including supermarkets, provided all operations, storage and display are wholly contained within a building, but no killing, eviscerating, skinning, plucking, or smoking of livestock, poultry, fish or other animals is permitted. P P
Hookah/vapor and cigar lounges. X X
Laundry and dry cleaning, collection stations or plants; laundry and laundromat establishments where equipment is operated by customers; no outside operations. Petroleum and/or any other chemical solvents shall not have an ignitable flashpoint of less than one hundred forty (140) degrees Fahrenheit. The use of Perchloroethylene (Perc) solvent shall be prohibited. P
(limited to two thousand (2,000) gross square feet. Collection station or plant prohibited) P
(limited to five thousand (5,000) gross square feet)
Limited manufacturing activities: book binding, photocopying and reproduction services, photoengraving, printed matter, printing and publishing. P
(limited to two thousand (2,000) gross square feet) P
(limited to four thousand (4,000) gross square feet)
Liquor stores (retail). The maximum gross floor area of a structure shall be limited to ten thousand (10,000) square feet. X CUP
Mailing, reproduction, mail order houses, and commercial art services X P
Pawnbrokers and pawn shops, including title pawn (subject to restrictions of the Code). X CUP
Pet stores and pet daycare facilities, shall be within enclosed soundproof buildings when located within three hundred (300) feet, measured in a straight line, from residential uses. Outdoor storage prohibited. P P
Photographers (including the sale of supplies and equipment). P P
Precious metal dealers (subject to restrictions of the Code). X CUP
Propane cylinder exchange only (maximum twenty-pound tanks)—No on-site refill. Said facility shall be located as an adjunct to an existing retail home building supply facility (that is greater than ten thousand (10,000) gross square feet) when situated within a side or rear yard but shall not be located visible from public rights-of-way. The tank locations shall be within a secured, gated, roofed facility which is continuously monitored with twenty-four-hour camera surveillance. Said facility hours of operation shall be limited to the presence of an attendant who is also an employee of the parent facility. X P
Restaurants, cafeterias, and delicatessens, and ice cream shops P P
Retail establishments selling new merchandise, excluding sales of guns and sales of drug paraphernalia and drug related objects as defined by O.C.G.A. §§ 16-13-1 and 16-13-32. No outdoor storage or display permitted. P
(limited to two thousand (2,000) gross square feet) P
Sales of boats and trailers, heavy equipment such as trucks, agricultural machinery or road building and service equipment where such uses are located entirely within a wholly enclosed structure. No outdoor storage or display permitted. X CUP
Repair establishments for home appliances, bicycles and similar non-motorized vehicles, shoes, clocks, jewelry, leather goods, electronics and similar household goods. No outdoor storage or display permitted. P
(limited to two thousand (2,000) gross square feet) P
Sign company with incidental inside sign assembly, limited to four thousand (4,000) gross square feet. No outdoor display or storage shall be permitted. Parking of company vehicles shall not be visible from the public rights-of-way. X P
Tailors, dressmaking, millinery, and similar establishments P P
Tobacco and Vape stores, and drug paraphernalia and drug related objects as defined under O.C.G.A. §§ 16-13-1 and 16-13-32. X X
Warehousing X X
Wholesale X X
Education/Child Care
Child care centers, kindergartens and special schools. P P
Special training and schooling services including art, writing, performing arts and music schools, barber and beauty schools, business and vocational-technical schools (except those having an external industrial character), GED instruction, dancing schools, exercise studios, tutoring, and commercial driver's license with indoor training only. P P
Institutional
Automatic teller machine (walk up only) with or without associated retail banking facilities. P P
Banks, credit unions and savings and loan associations, and similar financial institutions P P
Churches and other places of worship but excluding the use of tents CUP CUP
Museums, galleries, auditoriums, libraries and similar cultural facilities. P P
Social, fraternal, union, civic, professional or philanthropic associations; private (nonprofit) clubs, and lodges. P P
Medical/Health
Acupressure. X CUP
Acupuncture provided that state licensing requirements are complied with. X P
Health and fitness clubs without massage or spa. P P
Massage and spa establishment. X CUP
Massage therapy as defined by state law with all parties holding a valid massage therapy license issued by the Georgia Board of Massage Therapy. X CUP
Offices, clinics (out-patient) and laboratories. Substance abuse and treatment facilities, and blood plasma and blood donor centers shall be prohibited. P P
Sauna and spa establishment: A recreational establishment providing a variety of non-medical personal services to the general public, open twenty-four (24) hours a day, seven (7) days a week. Such establishments shall be permitted provided they meet the following requirements:
• Shall be a minimum of 15,000 square feet of floor area.
• Shall serve food prepared on-site in a full service kitchen at all times that the facility is open.
• Shall provide a minimum of 3-4 services and associated areas, including but not limited to: restaurants, nail care, skin care, saunas, heated or steam rooms, etc.
• Shall not provide formal sleep facilities or areas for patrons.
• Shall not provide individual or fully enclosed rooms for ancillary massage.
• Shall not permit unaccompanied minors into the facility.
• Massage services are permitted as an accessory or ancillary use, provided they meet all requirements and restrictions outlined in chapter 6, article IX of the Code, including the limitation on the number of massage licenses allowed in the City, with the exception that massage services may be permitted until 12:00 a.m./midnight. X CUP
Veterinary clinics for household animals, provided that such clinics and any treatment rooms, cages, pens, or kennels be maintained within a completely enclosed, air-conditioned, heated, sound insulated building and that such clinic be operated in such a way as to produce no objectionable or noxious odors or noises outside its walls and the provision be made to dispose of all refuse and garbage in a sanitary manner. P P
Office
Business and professional office uses (including the sale of goods at retail).
The following uses are specifically prohibited:
• Ambulance service;
• Bail bond and appearance bond operations;
• Barter, swap, and trading offices;
• Cash advance, check cashing establishments;
• Firearms dealers office;
• Moving and storage companies;
• Taxi service and dispatch agencies;
• Trucking and transport firms;
• Wrecker service;
• Body craft studios;
• Day labor or labor pool agencies;
• Delivery services, however, office couriers are permitted;
• Escort services;
• Fortunetellers; handwriting analysts; hypnotists;
• Modeling agencies;
• Palmistry;
• Automotive and truck rental; and automotive dealer's office;
• Vehicles whose gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of over ten thousand (10,000) pounds, including commercial tractor-trailers, dump trucks, wreckers, or earth moving equipment parked, stored, or dispatched in connection with a business or professional office use conducted on the premises;
• Vehicles for hire parked, stored, or dispatched from the site;
• Fleet vehicles parked on-site, except no more than two (2) automobiles allowed;
• Outdoor storage of merchandise, and equipment;
• The adaptive re-use of single-family or multi-family dwellings shall be prohibited. P P
Credit reporting, adjustment, and collection agencies but excluding the collection, storage or sale on-site of motorized vehicles. X P
Customer service centers P P
Employment, personnel, and temporary help service (excluding day labor or labor pool). X P
Internet based businesses but excluding on-site shipping services. X P
Recording and TV production services. X CUP
Recreation/Entertainment
Amphitheater and theaters (except drive-in); outdoor. X CUP
Botanical gardens. P P
Comedy club including alcohol sales X P
Commercial recreation establishments, including bowling alleys, billiard parlors, amusement arcades, indoor theaters, indoor skating rinks, miniature golf, paintball/laser tag, convention halls, places of assembly, and similar uses, with activities conducted within fully enclosed buildings. Limited to three thousand (3,000) gross square feet or less. X P
Commercial recreation establishments, including bowling alleys, billiard parlors, amusement arcades, indoor theaters, indoor skating rinks, miniature golf, paintball/laser tag, convention halls, places of assembly, and similar uses, with activities conducted within fully enclosed buildings. Greater than three thousand (3,000) gross square feet. X CUP
Dance halls but excluding alcohol sales or consumption. X CUP
Nightclubs, with or without alcohol sales (subject to other restrictions on alcohol sales) provided the use is setback one thousand five hundred (1,500) feet from the nearest residentially zoned use. The setback distance shall be measured from the nearest corner of the building, fenced in area or facility allowing patrons to be present to the property line of the nearest residentially zoned parcel. X CUP
Parks, playgrounds, soccer, baseball, football or other athletic fields, golf courses, gymnasiums, sports arena, and community centers. X CUP
Sexually oriented businesses. X X
Skating rinks (outdoor) of less than sixty-day duration and located more than four hundred (400) feet measured in a straight line from single-family, two-family, and townhouse residential uses. Hours shall be restricted as follows:
• Sunday through Thursday: 10:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
• Friday and Saturday: 10:00 a.m. to midnight X P
Residential Dwellings/Lodgings
Hotels (but excluding motels and extended stay facilities):
• All guest rooms are accessed by interior hallways which are heated and air-conditioned and controlled as a secured access facility. Guest rooms shall have no direct access to the outside.
• Guest rooms shall be a minimum of three hundred (300) square feet and shall have secured access entry.
• Guest rooms are rented for a minimum duration of eight (8) hours but not on a weekly or monthly basis.
• No occupational tax/business license shall be issued for any business operating from any guest room of the facility.
• The lobby shall be a minimum of seven hundred (700) heated square feet in size and shall provide management on duty twenty-four (24) hours per day.
• A restaurant operated by the hotel would be a customary accessory use.
• Semi-tractor trailer truck parking shall not be provided on-site.
• The hotel site shall be a minimum of two (2) acres exclusive of wetlands and floodplain and meet all other district dimensional requirements. X CUP
Transportation/Parking
Automobile parking lot with attendant provided the entire perimeter of the site (except approved ingress/egress) shall contain a five-foot landscape strip containing a combination of trees, shrubs, perennial flowers, and groundcover. All parking shall be on graded and paved surfaces. CUP X
Automotive parts (retail only) but without on-premises installation. X P
Automotive fuel stations with or without convenience stores, provided the following:
(1)  All pumps and canopy structures are placed not less than twenty-five (25) feet from the nearest right-of-way line.
(2) All underground tanks are located outside the right-of-way.
(3) Any accessory uses are located behind the front building setback line.
(4) All structures shall be faced with brick and/or stone (excluding fenestrations and canopies).
(5) No coin operated car wash. Automated car washes shall be placed to the rear of the principal building and limited to one (1) washing station.
(6) No automotive detail, service or repair.
(7) No outdoor storage or display of merchandise or vehicles shall be permitted.
(8) Shall not be located within one thousand five hundred (1,500) feet from another fuel station and/or within one thousand (1,000) feet of any single-family, two-family, and/or townhouse/rowhouse residential uses, as measured in a straight line. Existing facilities may be redeveloped by more than sixty (60) percent of the replacement cost at time of destruction, notwithstanding sections 23-502 and 23-503 (non-conforming uses), provided the fuel station use is not enlarged. CUP CUP
Automobile sales: manufacturer-authorized car franchise dealership with customary sales and service of primarily new automobiles as well as pre-owned automobiles as a secondary accessory use; having a minimum lot size of two (2) acres; and located on existing parcels consolidated prior to March 18, 2019, within four hundred (400) feet of the right-of-way of Peachtree Industrial Boulevard and within the area formed by the Interstate I-285 loop highway, said area also known as being inside of the I-285 Perimeter highway. X P
Bus or rail terminals/stations, providing the following:
• Indoor and well-lighted passenger waiting area.
• Designated bus/shuttle parking spaces to accommodate the size of each vehicle (typically ten (10) feet wide by fifty (50) feet long). Buses/shuttles shall not be parked or stopped in drive lanes.
• On-site bus/shuttle circulation route clearly identified so as to ensure smooth traffic flow on a property.
• Bus routes and travel schedule clearly posted in a location visible to the general public within the passenger waiting area and/or ticketing area. X CUP
Commercial parking garages, subject to design guidelines, provided ground floor retail space is included. P P
Rideshare facility. X CUP
  (c)
Development controls.
EXPAND
Development Controls
C-1
C-2
Driveway curb cuts Driveway curb cut limitations are required to ensure adequate provisions are made for ingress and egress to a property, with particular reference to automotive and pedestrian safety and convenience, traffic flow and control, and access in case of fire or other catastrophe. Along state routes, final driveway curb cut approval is subject to Georgia Department of Transportation.
a. Shall be a maximum of twenty-four (24) feet for two-way entrances and twelve (12) feet for one-way entrances, unless a greater width is otherwise permitted by the director of community development upon its finding of necessity of such greater width.
b. Maximum permitted number of driveway curb cuts for each development. (For the purposes of this section, two (2) curb cuts serving two (2) one-way driveways shall only be counted as one curb cut):
i.  Developments with only one (1) street frontage, which is less than three hundred (300) feet in length: One (1) curb cut;
ii.  Developments with only one (1) street frontage, which is greater than or equal to three hundred (300) feet in length: Two (2) curb cuts;
iii. Developments with more than one (1) street frontage: One (1) per street frontage.
c. Along City and private streets, the location of driveway curb cuts shall be subject to approval by the director of community development.
Drive-in and drive-through facilities Prohibited • Site layout: shall not be located between the principal structure and the street.
• Stacking: queuing lanes shall provide a minimum of three (3) spaces before service position; one (1) space after service position.
• Banks and similar financial institutions: shall be limited to no more than two (2) queuing lanes and one (1) passing lane
• Restaurants: shall be limited to no more than two (2) queuing lanes and one (1) passing lane.
• All other uses: shall be limited to one (1) queuing lane and one (1) passing lane.
Minimum lot
area Twenty thousand (20,000) square feet exclusive of wetlands and floodplain. Thirty thousand (30,000) square feet exclusive of wetlands and floodplain but excluding hotel site which shall be a minimum of two (2) acres exclusive of wetlands and floodplain.
Minimum lot
width Thirty (30) feet. Thirty (30) feet.
Minimum public
road frontage Thirty (30) feet. Thirty (30) feet.
Maximum front
yard building
setback Twenty-five (25) feet but no less than five (5) feet from the right-of-way. Twenty-five (25) feet but no less than five (5) feet from the right-of-way.
Minimum rear
yard building
setback None, but buffer requirements where applicable per Code plus five-foot structure setback. Ten (10) feet, but buffer requirements where applicable per Code plus five-foot structure setback from required buffer.
Minimum side
yard building
setback None, but buffer requirements where applicable per Code plus five-foot structure setback. Three (3) feet, but buffer requirements where applicable per Code plus five-foot structure setback from required buffer.
Maximum building height Three (3) stories or thirty-five (35) feet, whichever is greater and subject to FAA approval if within approach zone. Ten (10) stories, subject to FAA approval if within approach zone.
Maximum
impervious lot
coverage Eighty-five (85) percent. Eighty-five (85) percent.
Sidewalks:
Notwithstanding section 23-402, sidewalks in both of these zoning districts shall be located along all streets and shall consist of two (2) zones: a tree planting/street furniture zone and a sidewalk clear zone. Streetscape Requirements
• Tree planting/street furniture zone: Located adjacent to back of street curb, is reserved for the placement of street trees, street furniture including utility and light poles, waste receptacles, fire hydrants, traffic signs, traffic control boxes, newspaper boxes, transit shelters, bicycle racks, seating and similar elements in a manner that does not obstruct pedestrian access or motorist visibility.
• Sidewalk clear zone: The portion of a sidewalk that is unobstructed by any permanent objects to a vertical height of eight (8) feet and is reserved for pedestrian circulation and passage. No fixed elements, including traffic control boxes, fire hydrants or other utility structures, shall be placed above ground in the clear zone. The clear zone shall consist of concrete pavement shall have a consistent cross-slope not exceeding two (2) percent unless existing site topography is greater.
• Street trees: Trees shall be required in the tree planting/street furniture zone and spaced at a maximum distance of forty (40) feet apart, all newly planted street trees shall be single-stemmed with a minimum caliper of three (3) inches measured thirty-six (36) inches above ground, shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet in height, shall have a minimum mature height of forty (40) feet, and shall be limbed up to a minimum height of seven (7) feet. Trees shall have a minimum planting area of forty (40) square feet planted with evergreen ground cover such as mondo grass or liriope spicata or covered with hardwood mulch. Flowers and seasonal plantings may be planted in tree planting areas but shall be supplemented by hardwood mulch when not planted. Tree grates shall be prohibited.
• Street lights: Decorative pedestrian lights shall be located in the tree planting/street furniture zoned as required by the director of community development and shall be placed a maximum distance of eighty (80) feet on-center and spaced equidistant between required street trees.
• Uniform design standards: All pavement materials, street tree species (varying by corridor), light fixtures and street furniture shall be a type specified by the director of community development in accordance with uniform design standards utilized by the director for placement of such objects in the public right-of-way.
• Sidewalk taper: Where property abuts a residentially zoned property, the sidewalk area within twenty (20) feet shall taper as necessary to provide a smooth transition to the width of the existing sidewalk. If the abutting residentially zoned property has no existing sidewalk, the sidewalk shall taper to a width of six (6) feet.
• Administrative variations: Administrative approval from the streetscape requirements are subject to approval by the director of community development in instances of overhead powerlines, protection of existing trees, significant topography, and/or other site constraints, and along state routes where Georgia Department of Transportation requirements may require design adjustments.
Minimum Width Requirements
Tree planting/street furniture zone:
• Buford Highway: ten (10) feet wide
• Other streets: five (5) feet wide
Sidewalk clear zone: ten (10) feet wide
  (Ord. No. 2008-33, § 2, 12-1-08; Ord. No. 2010-23, § 1, 8-30-10; Ord. No. 2011-18, § 1, 4-25-11; Ord. No. 2012-28, § 4, 12-17-12; Ord. No. 2014-06, § 6, 3-17-14; Ord. No. 2017-22 , § 1, 8-21-17; Ord. No. 2019-005 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-18-19; Ord. No. 2021-18 , § 2, 2-17-21)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2019-005 , § 1(Exh. A), adopted March 18, 2019, changed the title of § 23-909 from "C-1 Neighborhood commercial district" to read as herein set out.
Sec. 23-910. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2019-005 , § 1(Exh. A), adopted March 18, 2019, repealed former § 23-910 which pertained to the C-2 general business district, and derived from Ord. No. 2008-33, § 3, adopted Dec. 1, 2008; Ord. No. 2010-24, § 1, adopted Aug. 30, 2010; Ord. No. 2011-21, § 1, adopted April 25, 2011; Ord. No. 2012-17, § 2, adopted Sept. 4, 2012; Ord. No. 2014-01, § 1, adopted Jan. 21, 2014; Ord. No. 2014-06, § 6, adopted March 17, 2014; Ord. No. 2015-03 , § 3, adopted March 2, 2015; Ord. No. 2016-02 , § 1, adopted March 21, 2016; and Ord. No. 2018-014 , § 2, adopted Sept. 4, 2018.
Sec. 23-911. - M-1 light manufacturing district.
modified
Purpose: This district is to provide for moderate to heavy commercial and light industrial uses, all of which shall be nuisance free and not generators of hazardous substances. It is intended that light manufacturing uses shall be located on either arterial or major collector streets or within industrial parks having access to such thoroughfares. No residential use shall be permitted in the M-1 district.
Permitted uses:
Animal grooming without overnight housing.
Auction gallery (indoor only) but excluding automobile and truck sales.
Automotive parts store, retail only.
Automotive rental agencies but excluding automobile sales.
Automotive service and repair shops, but excluding motorized vehicle, automotive and truck body shops, and where all work is done within a wholly enclosed facility. Any outside storage of vehicles in need of repair shall be located to the rear of the lot and shall be contained in a secured, gated fence. The fence shall be a minimum height of six (6) feet and a maximum height of eight (8) feet high, be black vinyl coated, chain link, contain fence slating on all elevations (black in color), and shall not utilize barbed wire or razor wire unless as approved as a variance by the City Council. All automotive service and repair shops and all associated parking shall be located on graded and paved surfaces composed of asphalt and/or concrete.
Bait shops excluding outdoor operations and storage.
Bakeries and other establishments manufacturing prepared foods and miscellaneous food products without retail sales.
Blacksmith shop excluding outside operations and storage.
Blueprint and duplicating shops.
Bottling plants (nonalcoholic) and canning operations.
Burglar and fire alarm installation.
Bus terminals.
Cabinet shops provided that any customary associated retail is limited to not more than twenty (20) percent of the gross floor area.
Catering services but excluding on-site retail sales.
Cleaning and maintenance services.
Cold storage, ice plants, and freezer lockers.
Commercial artist facilities.
Contractor offices provided there is no outdoor storage, warehousing or processing.
Courier or messenger services provided any parking or storage of courier vehicles shall be located to the rear of the lot and shall be contained within a secured, gated fence. The fence shall be a maximum height of eight (8) feet high, be black, be vinyl coated, chain link, contain fence slating on all fence elevations (black in color), and shall not be barbed or razor wire unless as approved as a variance by the City Council.
Distribution of merchandise.
Driving schools (automobile) but excluding commercial driver license schools.
Dry cleaning and laundering establishment without retail sales.
Electrical appliances, goods, and equipment, sales, service and repair, but excluding outside storage.
Electronic manufacturing and assembly plants provided there is no outdoor storage.
Engineering and architectural offices.
Extensive impact facilities. Electricity generating facilities; major mail processing centers; major fuel transmission lines and facilities; and military installations.
Fencing sales and installation but excluding outdoor storage.
Film, television, photography, music recording, and audio production studios.
Funeral home without crematorium. Hearses shall not be parked or stored visible from the public rights-of-way after the close of customary business hours.
Golf or baseball driving range.
Greenhouse and growing operations.
Gunsmiths.
Healthcare supplies and equipment with or without healthcare equipment rental.
Heating equipment dealers, repair and service.
Home health agencies without client housing or day care.
Home improvement showroom, means a commercial establishment greater than three hundred thousand (300,000) square feet in gross floor area specializing in the wholesale, commercial or retail sale of various new products for the improvement of residential and commercial properties, including do-it-yourself construction. Wares may include home improvement vendors and retailers, which may include lumber, building materials, paint, garden supplies, hardware, flooring, plumbing materials, domestic and commercial appliances, etc. and shall include product retail showrooms, demonstration exhibition halls, conference/meeting and training facilities, and restaurants/food courts all combined within one (1) building. No outdoor storage shall be permitted. The requirements of section 5-80 of chapter 5, article III, shall not be applicable to home improvement showrooms, however, individual vendor spaces within the building shall each have a minimum gross floor area of four hundred (400) square feet. Furthermore, said home improvement showroom shall have the following additional restrictions:
(1)
Shall be located only on parcels adjacent to or within one thousand (1,000) feet of designated federal highways; and
(2)
Shall be located on parcels at a distance greater than five hundred (500) feet from residentially zoned parcels; and
(3)
Shall be located on parcels east of Northcrest Road; and
(4)
Shall be located on parcels greater than one thousand (1,000) feet off Northcrest Road.
Intermediate impact facilities. Colleges, junior colleges, and universities; industrial training facility (simulated industrial environmental with classroom instruction); radio and television transmission facilities; and water storage facilities.
Lawn care services provided any parking or storage of lawn care vehicles shall be located to the rear of the lot and shall be contained within a secured, gated fence. The fence shall be a maximum height of eight (8) feet high, be black, be vinyl coated, chain link, contain fence slating on all fence elevations (black in color), and shall not be barbed or razor wire unless as approved as a variance by the City Council.
Limited manufacturing activities. Apparel and accessories; art objects; athletic, sporting or recreational equipment; automobiles, airplanes, boats or other motor vehicles; beverages (nonalcoholic); book binding; computer hardware/software; commercial or industrial machinery; dairy products; data processing service; electrical goods and appliances; food processing but not including fog or grease trap materials processing, handling or treatment; furniture and home furnishings; instruments for scientific, medical, engineering, and other professional purposes; motor vehicle and automotive parts and supplies; office supplies (excluding paper milling); optical instruments and lenses, part manufacturing (other than those listed); photoengraving; precision machining of dies, jigs, and fixtures; publishing; record pressing; toys; upholstering; and welding.
Limousine services provided any parking or storage of limousine vehicles shall be located to the rear of the lot and shall be contained within a secured, gated fence. The fence shall be a maximum height of eight (8) feet high, be black, be vinyl coated, chain link, contain fence slating on all fence elevations (black in color), and shall not be barbed or razor wire unless as approved as a variance by the City Council.
Linen and diaper services provided any parking or storage of linen or diaper vehicles shall be located to the rear of the lot and shall be contained within a secured, gated fence. The fence shall be a maximum height of eight (8) feet high, be black, be vinyl coated, chain link, contain fence slating on all fence elevations (black in color), and shall not be barbed or razor wire unless as approved as a variance by the City Council.
Locksmiths.
Market research centers including call centers and telemarketing facilities.
Martial arts studios.
Microbrewery, microdistillery, and microwinery. Said uses shall be limited to a maximum building square footage of twenty thousand (20,000) gross square feet and shall be located greater than five hundred (500) feet measured in a straight line from residential zoning districts. Manufacturing and storage operations shall be contained solely indoors with no outdoor storage permitted with the exception that each establishment shall be permitted to have one (1) storage silo placed outside in a location visible to the public, which shall include signage of the company name and logo displayed prominently on the silos (in compliance with the sign ordinance). Each outdoor silo shall be limited to a maximum size of nine (9) feet in diameter by thirty-five (35) feet tall. Tasting room hours shall be limited to the "hours of sale" authorized in section 3-28 of the alcoholic beverage ordinance.
Mortuary without crematorium.
Motorcycle and motor scooters repair shops excluding outside storage.
Newspaper offices and printing plants incidental to such offices.
Paint, glass, hardware, and wallpaper stores.
Pest control and exterminating services provided any parking or storage of exterminating vehicles shall be located to the rear of the lot and shall be contained within a secured, gated fence. The fence shall be a maximum height of eight (8) feet high, be black, be vinyl coated, chain link, contain fence slating on all fence elevations (black in color), and shall not be barbed or razor wire unless as approved as a variance by the City Council.
Photograph studios with lab processing.
Plumbing shops, with or without retail sales, but excluding open storage.
Printing, publishing and reproducing establishments with any associated customary retail sales limited to no more than twenty (20) percent of the gross floor area.
Processing and compounding of nonexplosive materials not including fog, construction debris, or other waste products of any kind.
Restaurants with a fully-equipped kitchen and having a minimum size of one thousand two hundred (1,200) gross floor area. Said establishments shall be located within five hundred (500) feet, measured in a straight line, from a federal highway interstate entrance or exit.
Retail plant nursery, with bulk item storage and sales of topsoil, sand, gravel, mulch and other landscaping materials.
Scientific or research laboratories.
Sign manufacturing and fabrication shops provided any customary retail is limited to not more than twenty (20) percent of the gross floor area and there is no outdoor storage.
Staging, lighting, audio and video equipment sales, rental, repair, and installations.
Surveyor offices.
Swimming pool sales and service.
Taxidermists.
Textile manufacturing plants.
Transportation and warehousing. Food lockers; general warehousing; packing and crating services; refrigerated warehousing; truck terminals; and freight handling services.
Tree cutting and trimming services provided any parking or storage of tree cutting or trimming vehicles shall be located to the rear of the lot and shall be contained within a secured, gated fence. The fence shall be a maximum height of eight (8) feet high, be black, be vinyl coated, chain link, contain fence slating on all fence elevations (black in color), and shall not be barbed or razor wire unless as approved as a variance by the City Council.
Watercraft, personal (sales, repair, service)—Indoor only.
Wholesaling or warehousing goods transport and storage without outdoor storage.
Accessory uses:
Customary uses and structures subject to exclusions of the Code but excluding outside storage.
Clinics, cafeterias, credit unions, education and training facilities, lodges and organizational meeting halls, and recreational facilities provided these uses are limited to employees only and when located on the same tract as the principal use.
Open space when part of an industrial park and provided there is established and maintained a mandatory property owner's association.
Conditional uses:
Aircraft manufacturing, sales, service, and repair provided there is no outside storage or operations.
Ambulance services provided any parking or storage of ambulance vehicles shall be located to the rear of the lot and shall be contained within a secured, gated fence. The fence shall be a maximum height of eight (8) feet high, be black, be vinyl coated, chain link, contain fence slating on all fence elevations (black in color), and shall not be barbed or razor wire unless as approved as a variance by the City Council.
Animal hospitals, veterinary clinics, and kennels (boarding and breeding), including the keeping of animals associated with medical research provided there are no outdoor kennels, containment areas, or keeping facilities.
Animal shelters excluding outdoor storage and operations.
Animal training facilities.
Archery ranges.
Athletic fields without structures.
Automotive fuel stations with or without convenience stores, provided the following:
1.
All pumps and canopy structures are placed not less than twenty-five (25) feet from the nearest right-of-way line.
2.
All underground tanks are located outside the right-of-way.
3.
Any accessory uses are located behind the front building setback line.
4.
All structures shall be faced with brick and/or stone (excluding fenestrations and canopies).
5.
No coin operated car wash. Automated car washes shall be placed to the rear of the principal building and limited to one (1) washing station.
6.
No automotive detail, service or repair.
7.
No outdoor storage or display of merchandise or vehicles shall be permitted.
8.
Shall be located within five hundred (500) feet of a federal highway. Shall not be within one thousand (1,000) feet of any single-family, two-family, and/or townhouse/rowhouse residential uses, as measured in a straight line. Existing facilities may be redeveloped by more than sixty (60) percent of the replacement cost at time of destruction, notwithstanding sections 23-502 and 23-503 (non-conforming uses), provided the fuel station use is not enlarged.
Automotive paint and/or body shop, motorized vehicle (with or without automotive service and repair) and where all work is done within a wholly enclosed facility. Any outside storage of vehicles in need of repair shall be located to the rear of the lot and shall be contained in a secured, gated fence. The fence shall be a minimum height of six (6) feet and a maximum height of eight (8) feet high, be black vinyl coated, chain link, contain fence slating on all elevations (black in color), and shall not utilize barbed wire or razor wire unless as approved as a variance by the City Council. All body shops and all associated parking shall be located on graded and paved surfaces composed of asphalt and/or concrete.
Automobile parking lots.
Automobile sales lots and automobile sales lots with accessory use garages provided that: in addition to the other regulations set out in this chapter that each lot or lot with accessory use garage shall be a minimum of six (6) acres in size, must have a minimum lot width of six hundred (600) feet on the frontage right-of-way line on an arterial street and any work done on vehicles exclusive of cleaning must be done in a wholly enclosed facility. Cleaning of vehicles shall be limited to exterior water cleaning only without the use of chemical agents. All automobile sales lots and automobile sales lots with accessory use garages and associated parking shall be on graded and paved surfaces.
Automobile sales malls (limited to inside sales, storage and display only).
Bail bond, appearance bond operations.
Barter, swap, and trading events and facilities.
Bingo halls.
Boat storage (with or without repair), but excluding outside operations and storage.
Cement products sales without manufacture.
Check cashing establishments but excluding title pawn.
Christmas tree and pumpkin sales lots (not exceeding forty-five (45) days in a calendar year).
Circus and carnivals (not exceeding fourteen (14) days in a calendar year).
Coliseums, stadiums, concert halls, event facilities, amphitheaters or arenas.
Commercial recreation and health facilities for gymnastics instruction or training.
Conference or convention facilities without hotels or motels.
Drive-in theatres.
Fairgrounds and amusement parks.
Farmer's markets.
Firearm dealers and maintenance.
Firearms training facilities (indoor only).
Firewood sales.
Flea markets with no outdoor storage.
Haunted houses (not exceeding fourteen (14) days in a calendar year).
Lumber and building materials and farm equipment sales.
Microbrewery, microdistillery, and microwinery facilities greater than twenty thousand (20,000) gross square feet, and brewery. Said uses shall be located greater than five hundred (500) feet measured in a straight line from residential zoning districts. Manufacturing and storage operations shall be contained solely indoors with no outdoor storage permitted with the exception that each establishment shall be permitted to have one (1) storage silo placed outside in a location visible to the public, which shall include signage of the company name and logo displayed prominently on the silos (in compliance with the sign ordinance). Each outdoor silo shall be limited to a maximum size of nine (9) feet in diameter by thirty-five (35) feet tall. Tasting room hours shall be limited to the "hours of sale" authorized in section 3-28 of the alcoholic beverage ordinance.
Moving and storage companies (household) provided any parking or storage of moving vehicles shall be located to the rear of the lot and shall be contained within a secured, gated fence. The fence shall be a maximum height of eight (8) feet high, be black, be vinyl coated, chain link, contain fence slating on all fence elevations (black in color), and shall not be barbed or razor wire unless as approved as a variance by the City Council.
Outdoor advertising signs (billboards) provided compliance with the Doraville Sign Ordinance is assured and as shall be approved by the Georgia Department of Transportation.
Portable structures sales lots but excluding portable restroom facilities.
Rodeo and horse shows (not to exceed fourteen (14) days in a calendar year).
Self-service ice manufacturing/vending machines (metal buildings shall be prohibited).
Self-service/mini-storage warehouse facilities subject to design guidelines.
Skateboard facilities (outdoor).
Skating rinks, ice or roller.
Taxi service and dispatch agencies provided any parking or storage of taxi vehicles shall be located to the rear of the lot and shall be contained within a secured, gated fence. The fence shall be a maximum height of eight (8) feet high, be black, be vinyl coated, chain link, contain fence slating on all fence elevations (black in color), and shall not be barbed or razor wire unless as approved as a variance by the City Council.
Terminal and service garages for inter-city and intra-city vehicles provided any parking or storage of inter-city and intra-city vehicles shall be located to the rear of the lot and shall be contained within a secured, gated fence. The fence shall be a maximum height of eight (8) feet high, be black, be vinyl coated, chain link, contain fence slating on all fence elevations (black in color), and shall not be barbed or razor wire unless as approved as a variance by the City Council.
Thrift and consignment stores.
Tire recapping and re-treading shops without retail sales in an entirely enclosed facility.
Tool rentals (excluding heavy equipment).
Trailer (motor home) and trailer (travel) sales, service and repair provided any parking or storage of trailer (motor home) and trailer (travel) vehicles shall be located to the rear of the lot and shall be contained within a secured, gated fence. The fence shall be a maximum height of eight (8) feet high, be black, be vinyl coated, chain link, contain fence slating on all fence elevations (black in color), and shall not be barbed or razor wire unless as approved as a variance by the City Council.
Truck and trailer rental provided any parking or storage of truck and trailer rental vehicles shall be located to the rear of the lot and shall be contained within a secured, gated fence. The fence shall be a maximum height of eight (8) feet high, be black, be vinyl coated, chain link, contain fence slating on all fence elevations (black in color), and shall not be barbed or razor wire unless as approved as a variance by the City Council.
Truck fleet maintenance shops but excluding outdoor storage or operations.
Truck stops without hotels or motels.
Trucking terminals.
Truck wash facilities in an entirely enclosed structure but excluding automobile carwash.
Unmanned gasoline stations.
Vanpool locations.
Wedding chapels, commercial.
Weigh stations.
Wholesale membership clubs.
Zoos.
Prohibited uses: Any use not specifically permitted or uses not permitted upon approval of a conditional use shall be prohibited.
Performance standards: All industrial uses in the M-1 district shall conform to the standards of performance described below and shall be so constructed, maintained and operated as to not be injurious or offensive to the occupants of adjacent premises by reason of the emission or creation of noise, vibration, smoke, dust or other particular matter, toxic or noxious waste materials, odors, fire and explosive hazard or glare. None of the aforementioned shall be detectable at the property line.
(1)
Noise: Noise levels in excess of those permitted by the Department of Housing and Urban Development shall be muffled or eliminated if detectable at the property line so as not to become a nuisance to adjacent uses.
(2)
Vibration: Every use shall be so operated that ground vibration inherently and recurrently generated is not perceptible, without instruments at which point on the property line of the property on which the use is located.
(3)
Smoke: Every use shall be so operated as to prevent the emission of smoke from any source whatsoever.
(4)
Dust and particulates: Every use shall be so operated as to prevent the emission into the air of dust or other solid matter which may cause damage to property or discomfort to persons or animals at or beyond the lot line of the property on which the use is located. Particulate emissions shall comply with all standards promulgated by the Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
(5)
Industrial sewage and waste: Every use shall be so operated as to prevent the discharge into any stream, lake, sewer system or the ground of any waste which exceeds the standards for effluents as promulgated by the Environmental Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
(6)
Odors: Every use shall be so operated as to prevent the emission of odors in a concentration as to be readily perceptible at any point at the lot line of the property on which the use is located.
(7)
Glare: Every use shall be so operated as to prevent emission of glare of an intensity as to be readily perceptible at any point on property line.
(8)
Fire and safety hazard: Each use shall be operated so as to lessen the danger from fire and explosion.
a.
All uses storing, processing or producing free or active burning material (as determined by the building inspector and DeKalb County Fire Services) shall be located entirely within buildings or structures having exterior noncombustible walls and all such buildings shall be set back at least fifty (50) feet from all lot lines unless a greater minimum distance is required elsewhere in this chapter;
b.
All materials or products which produce inflammable or explosive vapors or gases under ordinary weather conditions shall not be permitted within one hundred (100) feet of any lot line.
c.
All buildings and structures containing explosives shall be set back from all property lines a distance to be determined by the building official, but in no case less than one hundred (100) feet.
(9)
Hazardous wastes: No use shall be permitted which produces as a waste product any substance identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency as a toxic waste.
(10)
Storage: Within three hundred (300) feet of a residential district, all processes and storage except of passenger care vehicles shall be completely in enclosed buildings. Processes and storage located at a greater distance shall be effectively contained within a secured, gated fence. The fence shall be a maximum of eight (8) feet high, be black, be vinyl coated, chain link, contain fence slating on all fence elevations (black in color), and shall not utilize barbed or razor wire unless as approved as a variance by the City Council. All outside storage shall be located on graded and paved surfaces.
(11)
Traffic impact study: The community development director is authorized to require submittal of a traffic impact study at the time of application for any development that will generate additional motor vehicle trips to or from the subject site during a twenty-four-hour period or during the peak traffic hour, based on trip generation rates obtained from the most recent editions of Trip Generation and Trip Generation Handbook, published by the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE). Only "new" vehicle trips will be counted; no pass-by or internal trip capture will be used in calculating "added vehicle trips." Traffic impact studies must be prepared by a professional transportation planner or traffic engineer.
Dimensional requirements:
Minimum Lot Area—One (1) acre, exclusive of floodplain, with public water and sewer except for automotive sales lots where the minimum lot area shall be six (6) acres.
Minimum Lot Width—One hundred (100) feet except for automotive sales lots where the minimum lot width shall be six hundred (600) feet on an arterial street.
Minimum Lot Frontage on a Public Street—Eighty-five (85) feet.
Minimum Front Yard Building Setback—Fifty (50) feet.
Minimum Rear Yard Building Setback—Fifty (50) feet, but two hundred fifty (250) feet where abutting residential zoned land.
Minimum Side Yard Building Setback—Twenty-five (25) feet, but two hundred fifty (250) feet where abutting residential zoned land.
Maximum Building Height—fifty (50) feet.
Maximum Impervious Lot Coverage—Seventy (70) percent.
(Ord. No. 2008-22, § 1, 10-6-08; Ord. No. 2008-23, § 2, 10-27-08; Ord. No. 2011-20, § 1, 4-25-11; Ord. No. 2013-05, § 1, 3-18-13; Ord. No. 2015-01 , § 2, 3-2-15; Ord. No. 2017-01 , §§ 1, 2, 1-9-17; Ord. No. 2017-21 , § 1, 8-21-17; Ord. No. 2018-014 , §§ 7, 8, 9-4-18; Ord. No. 2019-023 , § 1, 9-23-19; Ord. No. 2021-27 , § 1, 3-17-21; Ord. No. 2022-28 , § 2, 7-18-22)
Sec. 23-912. - M-2 heavy manufacturing district.
modified
Purpose: This district provides for the broadest range of industrial operations permitted by the City. It is the district for the location of industries or businesses which have not reached a technical stage which renders them free of all nuisance factors. These uses are to be located on either an arterial or major collector street, or when an industrial park shall have access to such thoroughfares. No residential uses are permitted in the M-2 district.
Permitted uses:
Any use permitted in the M-1 (light manufacturing district), except conditional uses, provided there is no generation of hazardous materials.
Brick, tile, or terra cotta manufacture and bulk sales.
Cement, lime, gypsum or plaster of Paris manufacturing.
Central mixing plants for cements, mortar, plaster, or housing material.
Fall-out shelters.
Foundry or forging plants.
Heating fuel or petroleum products, storage, transmission, wholesaling, or sales provided that materials shall not be extracted or processed on the premises.
Sexually oriented businesses, subject to regulations in chapter 6, article X of the Code of Ordinances, City of Doraville, Georgia.
Wrecker service without automobile storage yard.
Accessory uses:
Customary accessory uses and structures subject to exclusions of Code and without outdoor storage.
Open space when part of an industrial park and provided there is established and maintained a mandatory property owner's association.
Conditional uses:
Alcohol or alcoholic beverage manufacturers provided indoor operations only.
Asphalt plants.
Automobile wrecking, automobile junkyards, or salvage yards subject to design guidelines.
Bathhouses without swimming pool.
Blood and/or plasma donor centers.
Body craft/tattoo studios subject to restrictions of Code.
Cigar and cigarette stores.
Correctional and detention facilities.
Crematories.
Dairy operations.
Day labor agencies.
Delivery services.
Driving schools (other than automobile) for commercial driving license.
Drug and alcohol rehabilitation centers.
Dye works.
Emission inspection and testing facilities.
Escort services.
Extended stay hotels.
Feed milling and sales facilities.
Fortunetellers.
Handwriting analysts.
Hypnotists.
Intermediate manufacturing activities. Chemical manufacturing in excess of one (1) ton per day; foundries; grain milling; petroleum refining; rolling and finishing of ferrous metals; smelting and refining of metals and alloys; steel works (other than those listed) but not including processing, collecting, storage, sorting, crushing, compacting, or dumping of construction debris, or previously used construction material, fog or other grease trap material, garbage, hazardous material, municipal solid waste, noxious material, toxic material, refuse, rubbish, medical waste, trash or waste unless otherwise specifically permitted as part of a permitted use.
Junkyards.
Leather manufacture and processing.
Liquor and package stores subject to restrictions of Code.
Livestock sales pavilions when wholly contained within an enclosed facility.
Massage and spa establishments without barber and beauty shops.
Microbrewery, microdistillery, and microwinery facilities greater than twenty thousand (20,000) gross square feet, and brewery. Said uses shall be located greater than five hundred (500) feet measured in a straight line from residential zoning districts. Manufacturing and storage operations shall be contained solely indoors with no outdoor storage permitted with the exception that each establishment shall be permitted to have one (1) storage silo placed outside in a location visible to the public, which shall include signage of the company name and logo displayed prominently on the silos (in compliance with the sign ordinance). Each outdoor silo shall be limited to a maximum size of nine (9) feet in diameter by thirty-five (35) feet tall. Tasting Room hours shall be limited to the "hours of sale" authorized in section 3-28 of the alcoholic beverage ordinance.
Mobile or manufactured home sales.
Modeling agencies.
Palmistry.
Pawnshops, including title pawn, and pawnbrokers subject to restrictions of Code.
Pet or animal cemetery.
Pharmaceutical manufacturing plants.
Photo processing plants.
Plastics extrusion plants.
Racetrack (animal or machinery).
Railroad repair and storage yards.
Sauna and spa establishment: A recreational establishment providing a variety of non-medical personal services to the general public, open twenty-four (24) hours a day, seven (7) days a week. Such establishments shall be permitted provided they meet the following requirements:
•
Shall be a minimum of fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet of floor area.
•
Shall serve food prepared on-site in a full service kitchen at all times that the facility is open.
•
Shall provide a minimum of three (3) to four (4) services and associated areas, including but not limited to: restaurants, nail care, skin care, saunas, heated or steam rooms, etc.
•
Shall not provide formal sleep facilities or areas for patrons.
•
Shall not provide individual or fully enclosed rooms for ancillary massage.
•
Shall not permit unaccompanied minors into the facility.
•
Massage services are permitted as an accessory or ancillary use, provided they meet all requirements and restrictions outlined in chapter 6, article IX of the Code, including the limitation on the number of massage licenses allowed in the City, with the exception that massage services may be permitted until 12:00 a.m. midnight.
Seasonal sales (excluding fireworks) limited to fourteen (14) days in a calendar year and provided locations that exclude tent sale, outdoor storage, and outdoor display.
Seed and storage sales.
Slaughterhouses when wholly conducted within an enclosed building.
Substance control centers.
Sugar refining when wholly conducted within an enclosed building.
Tank farms.
Tanneries.
Temporary or permanent sawmills provided operations are conducted wholly indoors and there is no outdoor storage.
Tool rental (including heavy equipment such as Bobcats, front-end loaders, etc.)
Wind turbines provided fall zones are provided in all directions equal to the height of the structure.
Wrecker service with automobile storage yard provided any parking or storage of impounded vehicles shall be located to the rear of the lot and shall be contained within a secured, gated fence. The fence shall be a minimum height of eight (8) feet high, be black, be vinyl coated chain link, contain fence slating on all fence elevations (black in color), and shall not utilize barbed or razor wire unless as approved as a variance by the City Council.
Prohibited uses: Any use not specifically permitted or uses not permitted upon approval of a conditional use shall be prohibited.
Dimensional requirements:
Minimum Lot Area—Two (2) acres, exclusive of floodplain, with public water and sewer.
Minimum Lot Width—One hundred fifty (150) feet.
Minimum Lot Frontage on a Public Street—Eighty-five (85) feet.
Minimum Front Yard Building Setback—Seventy-five (75) feet.
Minimum Rear Yard Building Setback—Fifty (50) feet, but five hundred (500) feet where abutting residential zoned land.
Minimum Side Yard Building Setback—Twenty-five (25) feet, but five hundred (500) feet where abutting residential zoned land.
Minimum Building Height—Fifty (50) feet.
Maximum Impervious Lot Coverage—Sixty (60) percent.
(Ord. No. 2008-23, § 3, 10-27-08; Ord. No. 2012-28, § 5, 12-17-12; Ord. No. 2015-03 , § 4, 3-2-15; Ord. No. 2017-21 , § 2, 8-21-17; Ord. No. 2018-014 , § 8, 9-4-18; Ord. No. 2021-18 , § 2, 2-17-21)
Sec. 23-913. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2009-10, § 1, adopted May 26, 2009, repealed § 23-913, which pertained to PUD planned unit development district and derived from Ord. No. 136, adopted Sept. 7, 1971.
Sec. 23-914. - CT commercial transition district.
Purpose. The (CT) commercial transition district is intended for parcels that have existing roll-up doors. The district provides a mixture of commercial, office, light industrial, and office warehouse style uses while allowing flexibility in their assemblage and configuration. Parcels must be three (3) acres or less in size.
The permitted locations for inclusion within this district are the properties meeting the criterion herein which are located within the block of parcels which front New Peachtree/Shallowford Roads/Buford Highway and Church Drive/Stewart Road/New Peachtree Road as identified on the supplementary map attached hereto labeled as Exhibit "A." All references to street names are based on the names assigned to the streets referenced on date of the adoption of this district or as such streets may be renamed in the future but which remain at the same location as those existing on upon the adoption of this district.
The existing parcel must be zoned C-2 (general business district) or O-1 (office institutional district) at the time of application for the commercial transition district.
Split zoning within this district is possible where a frontage portion of the parcel fronts either New Peachtree Road or Shallowford Road and remains a C-2 (general business district) or O-1 (office institutional district) designation and the remainder of the property carries the commercial transition (CT) designation. Split zoning of properties fronting Buford Highway shall not be permitted. Applicants for split zoning shall be required to provide as-built surveys with a delineated zoning line and legal description(s) for each zoned portion of the site and the parent tract being split zoned. The City shall not entertain City-initiated rezones containing proposed split zoned parcels without the necessary as-built survey.
The district does not apply to new, ground up construction and/or undeveloped parcels. Thus, properties which are voluntarily demolished resulting in the loss of all or a portion of existing facilities shall be removed from this district and shall revert to its former zoning. Properties which are involuntarily demolished resulting in the loss of a portion of existing facilities (not to exceed sixty (60) percent) shall be permitted to be reconstructed. Involuntary demolition exceeding the threshold of sixty (60) percent shall revert the zoning of the site to its former zoning and said facilities may only be reconstructed in accordance the reverted district requirements.
Properties which have been conditionally zoned by the City and/or have settlement agreements in place prior to the adoption date of this chapter are exempt from inclusion within this district.
Properties without existing roll-up doors as described herein are exempt from inclusion; however, no additional roll up doors shall be permitted.
Residential habitation, wholesaling, outdoor storage and display are prohibited.
The storage of any vehicle which is either not operable and/or is partially disassembled and is receiving some on-site service at a business located within the C-T zone (other than within a completely enclosed structure) is prohibited. At all times, items parked on the property shall not qualify as Junk Motor Vehicles which shall be subject to Code enforcement action.
The property as well as individual tenant spaces shall be forbidden from utilizing construction roll-off dumpsters at any time unless in conjunction with a City-issued building and/or demolition permit.
Inclusion within this district is restricted to lands with public water and sewer connections and service.
Configurations of drive-through and drive-in services shall be prohibited.
The subdivision of an existing lot of record and/or the combination of one (1) or more lots of record shall be prohibited. The lots shall be configured as depicted on the Official Zoning Map of the City of Doraville, Georgia, as adopted at the time of district inclusion.
Footprint expansion of existing facilities shall be prohibited other than for attached or detached dumpster enclosures as are required by Code.
This district is not a highway commercial corridor nor does its presence indicate its inclusion within the City's comprehensive plan as that designation.
Alcohol warehousing, sales or consumption is not permitted within this district except wine distribution as set out in section 23-914, Grandfathered uses.
Adult novelty warehousing, sale, or distribution are not permitted within this district except wine distribution as set out in section 23-914, Grandfathered uses.
Permitted uses:
Note: For every permitted use contained herein and following, interior storage within a facility in conjunction with the permitted use shall be allowed provided the storage is located on the same zoned parcel as the permitted use.
Accounting, auditing, and bookkeeping services.
Advertising agencies and services.
Animal grooming and veterinary services but without overnight kenneling or breeding facilities.
Auction gallery (indoor only) but excluding automotive and truck sales.
Art and school supply stores with or without instruction, but excluding sexually oriented businesses.
Associations for physically or mentally handicapped persons and non-profits.
Automotive parts store (retail only) but without on-premises installation.
Bail bond and appearance bond operations as shall be subject to the City's regulatory codes.
Bait shops.
Bakeries and baked goods stores.
Beauty supply store without beauty services.
Bicycle, motorized or electric—Provided 50 CC or less: Sales, repair, and service.
Blueprint and duplicating shops including commercial printers.
Books, periodicals, compact discs, videos, DVDs, and records, including new and/or used sales or rentals; stationary sales; and card shops sales; but not sexually oriented businesses.
Bookbinding.
Burglar and fire alarm sales and installation offices with or without on-site monitoring of sold systems.
Camera stores with or without lab processing.
Candy, nut, and confectionary stores.
Car and passenger truck stereo, audio and video: sales, repair, and installation provided all operations are conducted indoors and furthermore provided no overnight storage of vehicles unless within a roll-up door facility.
Catering services without banquet hall.
Cellular telephone sales of new merchandise.
Chiropractic offices as shall be licensed as required by state law.
Cigar and cigarette stores but excluding alcohol sales. The sale of drug paraphernalia shall be prohibited.
Cleaning, maintenance, and janitorial services offices and supplies.
Clinics (out-patient), except abortion clinic, reproductive donor clinic, and substances abuse and treatment facilities. All medical personnel shall be licensed as required by state law.
Clothing, apparel, and accessories stores selling new merchandise.
Clothing and costume rental agencies.
Commercial artist studios (except body craft studios).
Commercial re-location services with offices catering to the location and leasing of dwellings but excluding moving or storage operations.
Commercial weight control/loss facility and associated support group.
Computer sales and service of new and used merchandise.
Computer and data processing services.
Computer programming services and software sales.
Concierge services.
Consulting scientist's office with or without laboratory services.
Contractor's office for building and construction trade(s).
Courier or messenger services limited to not more than two (2) vehicles.
Court reporting.
Credit reporting, adjustment, and collection agencies but excluding the collection, storage, or sale of on-site of motorized vehicles or equipment.
Customer service centers with or without call centers.
Dairy products stores.
Denture fitting and lab.
Detective agencies.
Discount store selling new merchandise.
Dispatch office without on-site storage of dispatched vehicles.
Dog obedience training when conducted indoors.
Drapery shops with or without on-site fabrication.
Dry cleaners and laundromats.
Employment, personnel, and temporary help service (excluding day labor or labor pool).
Engineering, drafting, and architectural services as shall be licensed as required by State law.
Fencing installation offices.
Florist and gift shops (excluding adult novelty).
Floor covering stores—Sales, service, and installation.
Furniture and household appliance stores selling new merchandise.
Furriers and fur shops, without or without repair, but excluding manufacturing, tannery, and dying operations.
Glass operations provided all activities occur within an enclosed facility and no glass manufacture on-site.
Health and fitness clubs without massage or spa.
Healthcare supplies and equipment with or without healthcare equipment rental.
Heating and air conditioning dealers, repair, and service.
Hobby, toy, and games stores (excluding sexually oriented businesses).
Holding and investment organizations
Home health care agency office with all medical personnel licensed as required by state law.
Household electronics service and repair.
Ice cream shops provided indoor or outdoor seating (or some combination thereof) is provided.
Ice storage houses of not more than five-ton capacity.
Instruction of fine arts but excluding body craft studios. When models are utilized in a studio or instruction setting, the following anatomical areas shall not be exposed:
(1)
Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals or pubic region, cleft of the buttocks, or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola;
(2)
Human male genitalia in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
Insurance carriers, agents, and brokers' offices as shall be licensed by the State of Georgia.
Interior decorator and home interiors consulting offices.
Internet-based business offices. Automotive dealer's offices shall be prohibited.
Jewelry stores selling new merchandise at retail and jewelry repair but excluding pawnbrokers and precious metal dealers.
Lawn care services.
Lawn mower and associated yard equipment sales and repair within a facility.
Leather goods fabrication and sales.
Legal support services.
Locksmiths.
Luggage (new) retail sales store.
Maid, nanny, and household help agency (excluding day labor and labor pools).
Mail order distribution houses.
Management, consulting, and public relations services.
Market research center/call center.
Martial arts studios.
Membership organizations including automotive clubs (office only), better business bureaus, chambers of commerce, labor unions (except labor or assembly halls), political organizations, and professional organizations.
Miscellaneous home furnishing stores including bedding and linen stores, cookware stores, cutlery stores, glassware and china shops, lamp and shade shops, selling new merchandise.
Money management and investment services.
Monument sales for interned human and animal remains.
Motor vehicle window tinting installation provided all operations are conducted indoors and furthermore provided no overnight storage of vehicles unless within a roll up door facility.
Music and musical instrument stores sales, rental, and instruction.
Newspaper offices and printing plants incidental to such offices.
Newspaper stand within an enclosed facility.
Notary service as shall be licensed by the Georgia Superior Court Clerk's Cooperative Authority/Office of the Secretary of State.
Office supply and related businesses but excluding the sale of used office equipment and furniture.
Optometrists' offices as shall be licensed by the State of Georgia with or without eyeglass lab.
Paint, glass, hardware and wallpaper stores.
Party supply stores (excluding liquor and package stores).
Pest control exterminating services.
Philanthropic institution offices.
Photocopying, word processing and similar office support activities.
Photographers (including the sale of supplies and equipment) but excluding the classification of sexually oriented businesses.
Picture framing.
Plumbing, electrical, and home building supply showrooms, shops, and sales centers.
Real estate brokers, managers, appraisers, and real estate title.
Rediscount and financing institutions for credit agencies other than banks.
Saddle and harness shops.
Sewing and piece goods stores with or without sewing instruction.
Shoe stores and shoe repair shops but excluding outdoor shoe shine stands. Indoor shoe shine stands may be permitted.
Sign manufacturing and fabrication shops with or without retail sales.
Social service agency other than overnight or sleeping accommodations.
Special training and schooling services including art and music schools, barber and beauty schools, business schools, dancing schools, exercise studios, and tutoring.
Sporting goods stores selling new or used equipment but excluding the sale of marine craft and guns.
Supply and distribution centers limited to the following: (a) Building supply—Lighting, electrical, tile, heating and air conditioning, and plumbing; (b) Pre-packaged foods not requiring refrigeration; and (c) Vending supply non-alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, and pre-packaged foods and items not requiring refrigeration.
Surveyor's office as shall be licensed as required by the state law.
Swimming pool contractors, supplies, and service but the excluding on-site sales of pools.
Tailors, dressmaking and millinery.
Tanning salon without massage, spa, or other personal services.
Tax preparation and filing service.
Theatrical producers, bands, orchestras. and entertainers.
Ticket agency office but excluding on-site bus terminal.
Tool rentals (excluding heavy equipment).
Toy store for infant and children selling new merchandise.
Transcriptionist.
Translation service.
Travel agency office but excluding on-site bus terminal.
Upholstery shops provided all work and storage is conducted indoors.
Urban planning services offices.
Utility billing or payment offices.
Vitamin and health goods store (non-prescription items).
Watch and clock sales (new) and repair.
Accessory uses:
Customary accessory uses except as furthermore regulated herein.
Grandfathered uses:
The use of wine distributorship is deemed to specifically be a grandfathered use in this zone at 5859 New Peachtree Road and 5312 Buford Highway as the addresses are known at the time of the effective date of this article. This use must otherwise comply with other City ordinances and such use is subject to Article V, Non-Conforming Uses et seq.
Conditional uses:
Antique store selling only merchandise at least fifteen (15) years old but excluding automobiles and motorized vehicles.
Consignment store of used furniture or clothing.
Furniture and household appliance rental, with or without sales.
Precious metal dealers but excluding pawnbrokers (subject to restrictions of the Code).
Used office furniture or equipment.
Uses prohibited:
Any use not specifically permitted or uses not permitted upon approval of a conditional use shall be prohibited
Dimension requirements:
Minimum lot area—Undefined, reflecting existing parcel configurations per lot of record at the time of zoning application.
Maximum lot area—Three (3) acres, including wetlands and floodplain.
Minimum lot width—Variable based on existing parcel configuration; however no less than thirty (30) feet.
Minimum lot frontage on a public street—Thirty (30) feet.
Minimum front yard building setback—Variable reflecting as-built conditions; however no less than five (5) feet.
Minimum rear yard building setback—Variable reflecting as-built conditions; however no less than three (3) feet.
Minimum side yard building setback—Variable reflecting as built conditions; however built to the line at zero (0) setback is permissible.
Maximum building height—Variable reflecting as built conditions; however, not to exceed two (2) stories.
Maximum impervious lot coverage—Variable reflecting as-built conditions; however, there shall be no increase in the impervious lot coverage once zoned CT.
(Ord. No. 2010-15, § 5-24-10; Ord. No. 2012-28, § 6, 12-17-12)
