ARTICLE VII. - CONTINUATION OF MEDICAL INSURANCE FOR CERTAIN EMPLOYEES

Sec. 2-186. - Qualifications.
(a)
Any employee of the City who has accumulated not less than ten (10) years of service as an employee of the City and who has reached the age of fifty-five (55) years and elects to retire, or has his employment with the City terminated, voluntarily or involuntarily, may at his sole option prior to termination of employment, elect to continue to have medical insurance coverage under the insurance plan now or hereafter in effect by the City until such employee or spouse reaches sixty-five (65) years of age or such employee becomes eligible for Medicare coverage, whichever event occurs first, and may name his spouse (and dependent children) as an additional named insured (or dependent child) provided such employee timely makes all premium payments for the costs of such coverage to the insurance carrier now or hereafter providing hospitalization insurance coverage. "Employee" shall be defined as any fulltime employee of the City and any person who is an elected or appointed member of the governing authority who is covered under the retirement plan of the City.
(b)
If an employee dies after electing to continue coverage after retirement, such coverage may also be continued by the spouse of any employee who has elected to continue such coverage upon payment of the applicable premium and subject to the other provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 233, § I, 5-7-90)
Sec. 2-187. - Obligation with respect to payment of premiums.
(a)
Premiums for medical insurance are payable by the employee and shall be paid when due, and if such premiums cannot be paid directly to the insurance carrier and must be paid to the City, then failure to timely pay such premiums shall result in a termination of coverage and no right of reinstatement shall exist.
(b)
Section 2-186 and this section are intended only to make available to an employee who terminates his relationship with the City the opportunity to continue medical insurance benefits at the employee's expense and are not to be construed as obligating the City to provide any insurance benefits for those employees. Continuation of coverage is subject to approval of the insurance carrier for the City at the time of termination.
(Ord. No. 233, § II, 5-7-90)
Sec. 2-188. - Execution of documents.
The City and the employee shall execute such consents as may be deemed necessary or proper to permit the acquisition of medical insurance by any eligible employee who meets the requirements as set forth in this article. An employee shall execute any and all documentation which the City or its insurance carrier may deem necessary or proper.
(Ord. No. 233, § III, 5-7-90)
Sec. 2-189. - Release of City.
Any former employee who elects to continue medical insurance shall execute an appropriate release and acknowledgement that the City shall have no liability, express or implied, for the payment of any insurance benefits or other sums to employee.
(Ord. No. 233, § IV, 5-7-90)
Sec. 2-190. - Continuation of medical insurance for certain retiring employees with thirty or more years employment.
(a)
Any employee of the City with not less than thirty (30) years of employment at the time of retirement and who is at least sixty (60) years of age and who is covered under the pension plan of the City who retires prior to the age of sixty-five (65) years shall be eligible to have medical insurance benefits comparable to those in effect at the date of retirement continued under the applicable insurance policies of the City, with the City paying for that portion of the coverage related to the employee only. The employee shall pay such portion of the premium for coverage for his spouse if such additional coverage is desired. If an eligible employee dies after retirement and prior to the age of sixty-five (65) years, such coverage may be continued by the spouse of such deceased employee upon payment of the applicable premium and subject to the other provisions of this article.
(b)
This section shall only apply to those employees of the City who have accumulated not less than thirty (30) years of continuous employment with the City as of their retirement and who are employees with the City at the time of their retirement. Such benefits shall in no event be payable for more than a maximum period of five (5) years or until such retired employee becomes eligible for Medicare coverage, whichever event occurs first.
(Ord. No. 233, § V, 5-7-90)
Sec. 2-190A. - Continuation of medical benefits for permanently or partially disabled employees.
Any full-time employee of the City who (a) has been a full-time employee for not less than twenty-five (25) years; and (b) is at least fifty-five (55) years of age at the time of termination from the City; and (c) is eligible to receive benefits under the City's retirement plan; and (d) has been certified by a duly licensed physician, licensed in the State of Georgia, to be permanently or partially disabled so as to be unable to perform the duties for which he or she was employed; and (e) has retired or has been terminated because of the disability, shall be eligible for continued medical insurance benefits, comparable to those then being provided by the City, with the City paying only the employee's portion of the premiums. Should the employee have a spouse or minor children, he or she may apply for coverage for the spouse and family if applicable, but all costs and premiums for this coverage shall be paid by the employee. If an eligible employee dies prior to reaching sixty-five (65) and while such insurance is in effect, such coverage may be continued by the surviving spouse for that spouse and for any minor children. Premiums for this coverage must be paid by or on behalf of the surviving spouse or children and the City shall have no liability therefor.
Any coverage herein provided shall terminate when the employee receives either SSI benefits or insurance through any third party source, or until such employee reaches the age of sixty-five (65) years. If the employee acquires health insurance through self-employment or any subsequent employer other than the City, then the obligation of the City to pay for such employee's insurance shall terminate. If such insurance coverage is terminated it may not be reinstated. Insurance coverage which may be provided for herein is subject to the approval of the insurance carrier for the City. The City shall not be responsible for the payment of insurance premiums or the provision of insurance benefits if the coverage contemplated by this section is not available through or approved by the insurance carrier at the time.
(Ord. No. 99-2, § 1, 4-19-99)
Sec. 2-191. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 3 of Ord. No. 2013-09, adopted May 6, 2013, repealed § 2-191, which pertained to provision for medical and dental insurance to municipal Councilmembers comparable to the coverage in effect for other City employees and their families, and derived from Ord. No. 05-29, § 1, adopted Oct. 3, 2005.
Secs. 2-192—2-225. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 1 of Ord. No. 2010-09, adopted Mar. 17, 2010, repealed § 2-200, which pertained to City Marshall and derived from Ord. No. 93-18, adopted Oct. 4, 1993.
