ARTICLE VII. - ESCORT AND DATING SERVICES

Sec. 6-206. - License required.
Any person desiring to engage in the business of providing or arranging dates, escorts or partners for persons of the opposite sex or the same sex shall, before engaging in this business, file an application for a occupation tax certificate and shall comply with all the rules and regulations set out in this article.
(Ord. No. 203, § I, 2-19-80)
Sec. 6-207. - Application for license.
(a)
All persons desiring to obtain a occupation tax certificate to operate an escort or dating service shall file an application with the City Clerk on forms prepared by the City Clerk.
(b)
The applicant for a dating or escort service must be an owner, partner or majority stockholder in the enterprise.
(c)
Each applicant shall submit the following information as a minimum:
(1)
Trade name and business address.
(2)
Applicant's name and residence address.
(3)
Names and residence addresses of all interested persons, to include owners, partners, stockholders, officers and directors.
(4)
Manager's name and residence address.
(5)
Employees' names, ages and residence addresses.
(Ord. No. 203, § II, 2-19-80)
Sec. 6-208. - Police permit required.
All applicants for an escort or dating service occupation tax certificate must also file for a permit with the police department providing the information in subsection 6-207(c) as well as any additional information and fingerprinting as deemed necessary by this unit for the purposes of conducting a background investigation of the applicant.
(Ord. No. 203, § III, 2-19-80)
Sec. 6-209. - Character of applicants, etc.
No applicant, owner, partner, stockholder, officer, director or any other interested person connected with the business for which a license is applied shall have been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude, lottery, or illegal sale or possession of narcotics within the preceding ten-year period. Any subsequent convictions of the above nature automatically act to void any such license and permits held.
(Ord. No. 203, § IV, 2-19-80)
Sec. 6-210. - Requirements of employees.
No person under the age of eighteen (18) years shall be employed by an escort or dating service in any capacity and no person shall be employed before he has been fingerprinted by the police department. When a determination has been made that the employee has not been convicted of or entered a guilty plea to a crime involving moral turpitude for the preceding three-year period, an annual personal identification card authorizing this person to be employed by the escort or dating service will be issued. An identification must be renewed annually by submitting, not less than thirty (30) days prior to the anniversary of the issuance of the card, an application to the police department for renewal thereof. It shall be the responsibility of the occupation tax certificate applicant to ensure that the provisions of this section are complied with and that no employee possesses an expired identification card or permit while in the business' employ.
(Ord. No. 203, § V, 2-19-80)
Sec. 6-211. - Application of other provisions.
In addition to the requirements of this article, the same rules shall apply to an escort or dating service that apply to general business applicants or businesses.
(Ord. No. 203, § VI, 2-19-80)
Sec. 6-212. - Revocation of license.
(a)
Upon conviction of any violation of this article by any court of competent jurisdiction the occupation tax certificate of the offending employer-business shall be revoked.
(b)
Prior to the reissuance of any identification card which has been revoked or has expired, in addition to the complete compliance with all of the requirements of this article, all fines imposed on both the offending employer business and the employee/applicant must be paid in full.
(Ord. No. 203, § VII, 2-19-80)
Secs. 6-213—6-235. - Reserved.
