Chapter 33 - MASSAGE BUSINESSES

Sec. 33-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Board means the license review board established by this chapter.
Exempt person means:
(1)
A physician, osteopath, physical therapist, chiropodist, podiatrist or chiropractor licensed in the state, and an assistant of any such professional working in the same office and under the direct supervision of such professional;
(2)
A registered nurse or licensed practical nurse licensed in the state, who performs massage services only in the normal course of performing nursing duties;
(3)
Any athletic trainer working as such within the athletic department of any accredited school, college, university or seminary; and
(4)
Hospitals, clinics, nursing and convalescent homes and other similar facilities licensed under the laws of the state, and dedicated to medical or nursing practices where massage services may be given, and the employees and/or independent contractors of such facilities who perform the massage services for the patients at such facilities in the normal course of carrying out their duties at such facility.
Licensee means the person or entity to whom a license is issued under the terms of this chapter.
Massage means the systematic and scientific manipulation and treatment of soft tissues of the body, including the use of effleurage, petrissage, pressure, friction, tapotement, kneading, vibration, range of motion stretches and any other soft tissue manipulation, whether manual or by mechanical or electrical apparatus, and may include the use of oils, lotions, creams, salt glows, hydrotherapy, heliotherapy and hot and cold packs.
Massage business means the business of owning, operating, conducting and carrying on the offering or providing of massage services to members of the public.
Operator's license means a license to own, operate, conduct and carry on the business of offering or providing massage to members of the public, which license is issued pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
Premises means one physically identifiable place of business of one (1) or more contiguous rooms operating under the same trade name where massages are performed. This term shall include reception rooms, guest rooms, office areas, patio areas and any other areas located within the property lines of the land on which the massage business is located.
(Ord. No. 10-30-07(b), § 1, 10-30-2007)
Sec. 33-2. - Operator's license required.
Any person, other than an exempt person, desiring to own, operate, conduct and carry on, in the unincorporated areas of the county, the business of offering or providing massage services, before doing so, shall apply for and obtain a current operator's license from the license review board. All such licenses shall be issued in accordance with the requirements of this chapter. Any non-exempt person that does not maintain an office in the county, but which sends a massage therapist into the county to provide massage services on an outcall basis, must possess an operator's license issued pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. No. 10-30-07(b), § 2, 10-30-2007)
Sec. 33-3. - Qualifications for operator's license.
In order to obtain an operator's license under this chapter, the applicant must satisfy the following requirements:
(1)
Must be at least eighteen (18) years of age and have received a high school diploma or graduate equivalency diploma.
(2)
Must be a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States. Where an applicant is other than a natural person, such applicant must be an entity organized and existing under the laws of the United States or one (1) of its states, and the natural persons who are required to join in the application must meet the qualifications of this subsection.
(3)
If the applicant is a general partnership, the application must be made jointly by the partnership, any managing partner and all other partners owning at least a twenty percent (20%) interest in the assets or revenues of the partnership. If there is no managing partner and there is no partner meeting the ownership requirements, then the application must be made jointly in the name of the partnership and the general partners owning the greatest percentage interest in the assets and revenues of the partnership. At least one (1) of the applicants shall be a natural person. If none of the applicants required in this subsection is a natural person, then the natural person having primary responsibility for the operation of the business for which the license is sought shall join in the application.
(4)
If the applicant is a limited partnership or a limited liability partnership, the application shall be made jointly by the limited partnership or limited liability partnership, its general partners and any other partner owning at least a twenty percent (20%) interest in the assets or revenues of the limited partnership or limited liability partnership. At least one (1) of the applicants must be a natural person. If none of the applicants required in this subsection is a natural person, then the natural person having primary responsibility for the operation of the business for which the license is sought shall join in the application.
(5)
If the applicant is a corporation, the application shall be made jointly in the name of the corporation and its president or vice-president, and any stockholder owning at least twenty percent (20%) of the total outstanding capital stock of the corporation.
(6)
If the applicant is a limited liability company, the application shall be made jointly in the name of the limited liability company and its managers, and any member owning at least a twenty percent (20%) interest in the assets or revenues of the limited liability company.
(7)
If the applicant is an entity other than a natural person, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, corporation or a limited liability company, the application shall be made jointly in the name of the entity, the natural person having chief executive officer authority over the business activities of the entity and any other person having at least a five percent (5%) interest in the assets or revenues of the entity. The application shall further disclose the type of entity making the application and every person having an ownership interest in the assets or revenues of the entity.
(8)
Licenses issued to corporations, limited liability companies, general partnerships, limited partnerships, limited liability partnerships or other types of entities must be issued jointly to the entity, and all of the other persons required by this section to join in the application.
(9)
No person shall be granted a license unless it shall appear to the satisfaction of the license review board that such person shall be of good moral character, or in the case of an entity which is not a natural person, that such entity has a good reputation. In no event shall a license be granted to any person who has been convicted or has pled guilty or entered a plea of nolo contendere to any charge involving a crime of moral turpitude, prostitution, masturbation for hire or any other sexual service crime within a period of ten (10) years immediately prior to the filing of such application. In the case of partnerships, corporations, limited partnerships, limited liability partnerships, limited liability companies or other business entities, an operator's license shall not be issued to the partnership, corporation, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, limited liability company or other entity if any partner, officer, director, shareholder, member or other person required to be listed on the application cannot meet the requirements set forth in this subsection. At the time an application is submitted for an operator's license, the applicant shall, by a duly sworn affidavit:
a.
Certify that all of the requirements of this section have been met by the applicant and the other persons required to be listed on the application as specified in this subsection (9); and
b.
Consent to a criminal background check and release the county, its commissioners, elected officials, officers, agents, employees and representatives from any liability resulting from any criminal background check performed on the applicant.
After the license has been issued, should any person in whose name such license is issued be convicted of or plead guilty or nolo contendere to a charge involving a crime of moral turpitude, prostitution, masturbation for hire or any other sexual service crime, the operator's license shall be immediately revoked and canceled.
(10)
No operator's license shall be issued to any person convicted of or pleading guilty or nolo contendere to any charge under any federal, state or local law constituting a felony, within ten (10) years prior to the date of the filing of the application for the operator's license.
(11)
No operator's license shall be issued to any person who has had any license issued under the police powers of the county revoked within two (2) years prior to the filing of the application for an operator's license.
(12)
The license review board may decline to issue an operator's license when any person having any ownership interest in or control over the land or building in which the establishment to be operated pursuant to the license will be located does not meet the same character requirements as set forth in this section for the licensee.
(13)
If a person in whose name an operator's license is issued is not a resident of the county, such person must appoint and continuously maintain in the county a registered agent upon whom any process, notice or demand required or permitted by law or under this chapter may be served. The registered agent must be a resident of the county. If the licensee is not a natural person, the licensee will be required to appoint and maintain a registered agent in the county if it does not have an agent in the county upon whom process can legally be served on such entity under the laws of the state. The licensee shall file the name of such registered agent, along with such registered agent's written consent to serve as such agent, with the director of administrative services.
(14)
An application for an operator's license may be denied where it appears to the license review board that the applicant does not have adequate financial strength or adequate financial participation in the proposed business to direct and manage its affairs, or where it appears that the applicant is intended or likely to be a surrogate for a person who would not otherwise qualify for an operator's license.
(15)
At the time of filing the application for an operator's license and thereafter, the applicant must at all time have in his or her employ or under a binding contract, a person who holds a massage license issued by the state who has agreed to perform the massage services for the applicant if the operator's license is granted.
(Ord. No. 10-30-07(b), § 3, 10-30-2007)
Sec. 33-4. - Establishment of license review board.
A license review board is created to receive and consider applications for licenses to operate massage businesses and for all other purposes necessary to administer this chapter. The license review board created by this chapter shall be the same board as the alcoholic beverage control board previously established by §§ 6-31 et seq., of the county code of ordinances, and shall have the same composition, tenure, method of appointment, chairman, and clerk, as the alcoholic beverage control board, and shall be for all intents and purposes the same board, but with the additional powers, duties, and responsibilities as provided under this chapter.
(Ord. No. 10-30-07(b), § 4, 10-30-2007)
Sec. 33-5. - Revocation, suspension of license.
(a)
Any license granted under this chapter shall be subject to revocation or suspension for cause. Whenever, in the opinion of the license review board, there is cause to revoke or suspend an operator's or massage license, a written notice of intention to revoke or suspend such license shall notify the holder thereof not less than ten (10) days before a scheduled hearing with the license review board, at which time the holder of the license may make such showing as the licensee may deem proper. After a hearing, the license review board may revoke or suspend the license if, in its discretion, it is in the best interest of peace and good order of the county, or there has been any violation of the ordinances of the county or of the laws of the United States or the State of Georgia in the conduct of the massage business or on the massage business premises, or in the performing of massage services to members of the public.
(b)
Cause for revocation or suspension of a license under this chapter shall include, but not be limited to, the following actions:
(1)
Conviction of or a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to a charge of prostitution, masturbation for hire or any other sexual service crime involving the engaging in sexual activities for compensation or sexual misconduct of any kind by an employee of the massage business operated pursuant to such license, in the course of business.
(2)
Providing false or forged information in the application to obtain a license under this chapter.
(3)
Impersonating a license holder.
(4)
Using or attempting to use a license that has expired or been revoked.
(5)
Failure to maintain in employ or under a binding contract at least one (1) person who holds a massage therapy license issued by the state.
(6)
Violation of any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 10-30-07(b), § 5, 10-30-2007)
Sec. 33-6. - Appeal procedures.
In all instances in which an application for a license is denied, or a license is revoked, suspended, or not renewed, under the terms of this chapter, the applicant or licensee may appeal the decision to the county board of commissioners by filing with the county clerk a request for such appeal within ten (10) days of the date that notice was mailed to the applicant or licensee of the license review board's decision. The request for such appeal must be dated, in writing, and must state the grounds and reasons for the appeal.
(Ord. No. 10-30-07(b), § 6, 10-30-2007)
Sec. 33-7. - Automatic license forfeiture of nonuse.
Any licensee holding an operator's license under this chapter, who shall, for a period of three (3) consecutive months, cease to operate the massage business as authorized in the operator's license, shall automatically forfeit the license without the necessity of any further action. If the massage business operation is interrupted as a result of damage to the premises where the massage business is located which makes it impractical to operate the massage business, and if repairs of such damage are commenced within such three-month period and diligently pursued to completion, or as a result of the premises being remodeled, then this section shall not apply to such cessation of operation. If a license is issued for the operation of a massage business in a building which has not yet been completed, the license will not be forfeited unless the licensee fails to begin operations of the massage business within a period of one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of issuance of the license.
(Ord. No. 10-30-07(b), § 7, 10-30-2007)
Sec. 33-8. - Initial application; expiration; renewal of license.
(a)
Each initial application for an operator's license shall make written application to the license review board. Such application shall be on a form approved by the clerk or the deputy clerk.
(b)
The license application shall be filed with the clerk with a fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county clerk for the processing and investigation of the application. Such fee is not refundable; but the application fee shall be credited to the fee amount due for the initial license, if granted.
(c)
Each license granted under this chapter shall expire on December 31 of the calendar year in which the license was issued, and shall be renewable at the option of the license review board. A licensee who desires to renew his license shall file a written application on the form provided for license renewal on or before November 1 of each year. If a renewal application is received after November 1, the county cannot assure the applicant that a renewal license will be considered by January 1 of the following calendar year, and the licensee will have to cease operations from such January 1 until the renewal license is issued. If a license renewal application is received after the December 31 expiration date, such application shall be treated as an application for a new license and the applicant shall be required to comply with all rules, regulations and fees for the granting of licenses as if no previous license had been issued.
(d)
Any person applying for renewal of a license must pay the license fees as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county clerk for the processing and investigation of the license renewal application. Failure to pay such fees at that time shall result in the application for renewal being treated as not filed or as being withdrawn.
(Ord. No. 10-30-07(b), § 8, 10-30-2007)
Sec. 33-9. - Location of business; hours of operation; separate application and operator's license for each business location.
(a)
Prohibited location. No operator's license shall be granted under this chapter to a business premises located within the following areas of the county:
(1)
Within a measured five hundred (500) feet of any church building. The word building, as used in this section, shall mean a structure used at the time of filing of the application for a license under this chapter for the purposes of church. For the purpose of this chapter, a church shall mean an organization for the purpose of preaching the gospel and other related religious activities located within a permanent structure either owned or leased by such organization, and shall consist of at least ten (10) adult members on the official rolls that meet on a regularly scheduled basis not less than one (1) time per week at such location.
(2)
Within five hundred (500) feet measured in a straight line from the nearest property line of any school or schoolhouse to the nearest corner of the premises on which the massage business is to be operated.
(3)
In any existing building or establishment having a history or reputation, within the six (6) months preceding the filing of the application, for prostitution or other sex offenses; fighting, shooting, stabbing, or other violence; gambling; illegal dealing in alcoholic beverages or drugs; or other violations of the law.
(b)
All massage businesses licensed under this chapter shall remain closed between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
(c)
Each operator's license under this chapter shall be limited to the operation of a massage business at a specific premises. A separate application must be made and separate operator's licenses must be obtained for each location at which a massage business is conducted.
(Ord. No. 10-30-07(b), § 9, 10-30-2007)
Sec. 33-10. - Display of license.
(a)
An operator's license shall, at all times, be kept plainly exposed to public view at the premises for which the license was granted.
(b)
A massage license shall, at all times, be kept plainly exposed to public view at the place where the holder of the massage license is performing massage services.
(Ord. No. 10-30-07(b), § 10, 10-30-2007)
Sec. 33-11. - Report of licensed employees.
Within ten (10) days after a written request of the license review board, a holder of an operator's license under this chapter shall provide a list of the names and addresses of those individuals holding a massage therapy license from the state and who are in the licensee's employ or under a binding contract with the licensee issued by the state.
(Ord. No. 10-30-07(b), § 11, 10-30-2007)
Sec. 33-12. - Enforcement of other laws not limited; severability; effective date.
(a)
This chapter shall not limit the authority of any state, local agency, or county department to enforce any other laws, rules, regulations, or ordinances.
(b)
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this chapter is declared or adjudged to be unconstitutional, or otherwise contrary to law, such adjudication shall in no manner affect any other section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase, and shall remain in full force and effect as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional was not originally a part hereof.
(c)
Any person operating a massage business upon the effective date of this chapter shall have ninety (90) days from such effective date to comply with this chapter.
(Ord. No. 10-30-07(b), § 12, 10-30-2007)
Sec. 33-13. - Transferability.
No license under this chapter shall be transferable.
(Ord. No. 10-30-07(b), § 13, 10-30-2007)
Sec. 33-14. - Violation; penalties.
(a)
Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by penalties and costs as set forth in § 1-19 of the county code of ordinances. In the event any provision of this chapter has been violated or is being violated, in addition to other remedies, the county may institute an injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceeding to correct or stop such violation.
(b)
In addition to the penalties set forth in subsection (a) of this section, the license review board may revoke or suspend a license for violation of this chapter as set forth in § 33-4, which shall be a distinct and separate penalty. Any violation of this chapter, or any failure to comply with the requirements of this chapter, shall be grounds for immediate suspension or revocation of any and all licenses held by the licensee regardless of the number of licenses or locations involved, and regardless of whether or not the licensee knew of or contributed to such violation. It is the intent of this subsection, without limiting the generality thereof, to grant to the license review board the right to suspend or revoke any and all licenses held by a licensee when any violation of this chapter occurs at any place of business operated by the licensee pursuant to a license.
(Ord. No. 10-30-07(b), § 14, 10-30-2007)
