ARTICLE II. - ROAD SPECIFICATIONS

Sec. 42-21. - Paved roads; minimum requirements.
A road must meet the following minimum requirements and must originate at a county maintained road or a state route to qualify for acceptance by Dawson County as a paved road.
(1)
All roads. Must have a minimum of 60-foot right-of-way deeded to Dawson County.
(2)
Dead end roads. Will have a minimum turning diameter of 95 feet of roadbed with a right-of-way diameter of 110 feet.
(3)
Local roads.
a.
Local roads are roads within the unincorporated area of Dawson County that are not included as a collector road, a commercial road, or an industrial/warehouse road; the primary purpose of a local road is to provide access to properties abutting the roadway at issue and to flow traffic to collector roads from low volume residential areas. Through traffic shall be discouraged upon local roads.
b.
Roadbeds shall have a minimum width of 20 feet of paved driving surface and 28 feet of width from shoulder point to shoulder point. A base course 21 feet wide shall consist of a six inch layer of compacted graded aggregate base material. There shall be an intermediate course of an approved asphaltic concrete pavement type "E" mix, two inches thick after compaction and a surface course of asphaltic concrete pavement type "F" mix, 1¼ inches thick after compaction. (See attached diagram.)
(4)
Collector roads.
a.
Collector roads typically allow access from residential areas; the purpose of collector roads is to collect traffic from streets in residential and commercial areas and permit the flow of traffic to the arterial roadway system. A residential collector street shall be required for the main street in a development of 125 lots or more.
b.
Roadbeds shall have a minimum width of 20 feet of paved driving surface and 28 feet of width from shoulder point to shoulder point. A base course 21 feet wide shall consist of an eight inch layer of compacted graded aggregate base material. There shall be an intermediate course of an approved asphaltic concrete pavement type "E" mix, two inches thick after compaction and a surface course of asphaltic concrete pavement type "F" mix, 1¼ inches thick after compaction. (See attached diagram.)
(5)
Commercial roads.
a.
Commercial roads are roads designed to serve a commercially zoned area or an area shown as commercial on the Future Land Use Plan of Dawson County.
b.
Roadbeds shall have a minimum of 24 feet of width of paved driving surface and 32 feet of width from shoulder point to shoulder point. The base course shall have a width of 25 feet and shall consist of graded aggregate base material eight inches thick after compaction. There shall be an intermediate course of asphaltic concrete pavement type "B" modified mix, three inches thick after compaction and a surface course of asphaltic concrete pavement type "E or F" mix, 1½ inches thick after compaction. If concrete paving is used the paving section shall consist of the following: a base course of graded aggregate base material four inches thick after compaction and a surface course of Portland cement concrete eight inches thick, including reinforcing steel. When using this type of material the widths shall be the same as that for asphaltic concrete paving. (See attached diagrams for the types of paving.)
(6)
Industrial/warehouse roads.
a.
Industrial/warehouse roads are roads in areas that are zoned for industrial and/or warehouse use or an area shown as industrial or for warehouse use on the Future Land Use Plan of Dawson County.
b.
Roadbeds shall have a minimum of 26 feet of width of paved surface and 34 feet of width from shoulder point to shoulder point. The base course shall have a width of 27 feet and shall consist of graded aggregate base material eight inches thick after compaction. There shall be an intermediate course of asphaltic concrete pavement type "B" modified mix, four inches thick after compaction and a surface course of asphaltic concrete pavement type "E" mix, two inches thick after compaction. If concrete paving is used the paving section shall consist of the following: a base course of graded aggregate base material six inches thick after compaction and a surface course of Portland cement concrete eight inches thick, including reinforcing steel. (See attached diagram.)
(7)
If multiple layers of asphaltic concrete are being used, then a bonding agent of bituminous tack coat shall be used between each succeeding layer of asphaltic concrete pavement.
(8)
Roads shall be crowned, properly drained and have ditches or curb and gutter (see section 42-23 for culvert specifications). Shoulders and soil-disturbed rights-of-way shall be grassed and constructed in compliance with an approved soil erosion and sediment control plan and/or best management practices.
(9)
Profile grades. Grades may not exceed 14 percent for local roads, 12 percent for collector roads, and ten percent for commercial and other major thoroughfares. The grade at road intersections shall be level with the intersection for a distance of 20 feet from the intersected road right-of-way.
(10)
Dam roads. If a road crosses a dam it shall meet the requirements of a commercial road for paving specifications and shall have guardrail installed on each side of the roadway in the shoulder area. The guardrail shall meet the requirements of the Georgia Department of Transportation standard specifications.
(11)
Maintenance statement.
a.
It is anticipated that any deed tendered to Dawson County in this connection will contain a provision substantially as follows:
b.
As a condition of acceptance of a road by Dawson County, Georgia, the grantor shall maintain the road for a period of 18 months from the date of submittal to Dawson County, Georgia, and continuing until release by the acceptance of the road by Dawson County; additionally, the grantor shall post with the Board of Commissioners of Dawson County a surety bond in the amount of ten percent of the total cost of the road for a period of 18 months from the date of submittal to Dawson County, which shall automatically renew until released by Dawson County; ten percent of the total cost of the road shall be as reasonable determined by the public works director or the Dawson County engineer.
(Ord. of 12-15-2005, §§ 100—100.11)
Sec. 42-22. - Acceptance.
(a)
Upon construction the road will be inspected by the county engineer and the public works director. The road shall be reinspected after 18 months to determine whether additional work is required. If additional work is required to make the road conform to the standards of Dawson County, then it shall be the responsibility of the grantor(s). At the end of 18 months and upon acceptance by the county of any additional work, if required, the bond shall be released upon approval of the board of commissioners.
(b)
No road will be placed on the priority list for grading, drainage, base, or paving unless said road has a minimum right-of-way width of 60 feet added to Dawson County.
(c)
The grantor(s) must furnish the county with a proposed name of the road and if the name is approved by the 9-1-1 coordinator, bear the cost to erect metal sign post(s) with approved metal sign(s) thereon giving the name of the road. He shall also erect or bear the cost of erecting approved traffic control signs at appropriate locations along the road as required by the public works director or the county engineer.
(d)
A standard utility location shall be maintained unless unusual topographic or construction conditions preclude the standard locations; then specific details shall be provided by the developer. (See attached diagram).
(Ord. of 12-15-2005, § 101)
Sec. 42-23. - Gravel roads.
A private gravel roadway or a gravel road presented for acceptance into the county's maintenance system as an existing or new gravel road pursuant to a variance granted by Dawson County Board of Commissioners shall meet the following minimum requirements:
(1)
The road must originate at a county maintained road or a state route.
(2)
The road must have a length of not less than 0.5 miles.
(3)
There are located on the road at least five dwellings.
(4)
All roads must have a 40-foot right-of-way deeded to Dawson County if accepted into the maintenance system. Rights-of-way must be cleared. Dead-end roads will have a cul-de-sac with a diameter of 95 feet of travel lane.
(5)
Roadbeds shall have a minimum of 20 feet of driving surface with a six inch layer of compacted graded aggregate base or other approved material. A coat of calcium chloride shall be applied at a rate of 0.03 gallon per square yard or greater as per accepted industry standards.
(6)
Roads shall be ditched, crowned, and properly drained. Shoulders and all disturbed rights-of-way shall be grassed and constructed in compliance with an approved soil erosion and sediment control plan or best management practices. All driveways shall have properly installed culverts in the roadway ditch which conform to the following specifications:
a.
The culvert shall be a minimum of 18 inches in diameter and 25 feet in length.
b.
Culvert pipe size must be approved by the public works director or the county engineer, and must be made of concrete or galvanized steel.
c.
Dawson County does not provide pipe or place pipe for driveways. This is the responsibility of the property owner and the county does not have pipe for sale.
d.
A permit for each driveway must be obtained. A permit may be obtained by applying with the public works department.
(7)
Grades may not exceed ten percent. The grade at road intersections shall be level with the intersection for a distance of 20 feet from the intersected road right-of-way. If the road crosses a dam it shall be constructed to a width of 24 feet of driving surface and 28 feet from shoulder point to shoulder point. The surface shall have a layer of graded aggregate base material six inches compacted thickness and guardrail shall be installed as per section 42-21 for paved roads or dam roads. The dam under the roadway must meet the specifications of the Georgia Safe Dam Act.
(8)
The road will be inspected by the county engineer or the public works director and the road may be considered by the board of commissioners for acceptance.
(9)
The grantor(s) must furnish the county with a proposed name of the road and if the name is approved by the 9-1-1 coordinator, bear the cost to erect metal sign post(s) with approved metal sign(s) thereon giving the name of the road. He shall also bear the cost of erecting approved traffic control signs at appropriate locations along the road as required by the public works director or the county engineer.
(Ord. of 12-15-2005, §§ 200—200.9)
Sec. 42-24. - Historic roads.
These roads are generally of limited use and do no meet the county standards for gravel roads. These roads have historically become county roads by prior work done on the roads or agreements with previous commissioners. The county will not routinely maintain these roads but will insure that they are maintained to allow for the safe flow of vehicle traffic. Historic roads will be maintained on an as needed basis.
(Ord. of 12-15-2005, § 300)
Sec. 42-25. - Rights and responsibilities.
Any decision of the Public Works Director of Dawson County or the Dawson County Engineer or any other administrative personnel of Dawson County may be appealed to the Board of Commissioners of Dawson County by filing a written notice of appeal with the Clerk of Dawson County Commission within ten days of the decision being appealed; otherwise, the decision of the Public Works Director of Dawson County, the Dawson County Engineer, or other administrative personnel in accord with the terms hereof shall be final.
(Ord. of 12-15-2005, § 400.1)
Sec. 42-26. - Other laws.
Any resolution or law which may be applicable hereto and aid in carrying out or making effective the intent, purpose, and provisions hereof, which shall be literally construed to be in favor of Dawson County is hereby adopted as a part hereof.
Sec. 42-27. - Effective date.
The effective date of the article shall be December 15, 2005.
(Ord. of 12-15-2005, § 400.4)
TYPICAL ROAD SECTION FOR LOCAL ROADS
TYPICAL ROAD SECTION FOR COLLECTOR ROADS
TYPICAL ROAD SECTION FOR COMMERCIAL CONCRETE ROADS
TYPICAL ROAD SECTION FOR COMMERCIAL ROADS
TYPICAL ROAD SECTION FOR WAREHOUSE OR INDUSTRIAL ROADS
TYPICAL ROAD SECTION FOR WAREHOUSE OR INDUSTRIAL CONCRETE ROADS
Secs. 42-28—42-57. - Reserved.
