ARTICLE XV. - DEFINITIONS

Sec. 6-131. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Abandon means to voluntarily give up a license or permit hereunder, or to automatically forfeit a license, permit or application under the terms of this chapter as, for example, by non-use.
Address of record means the address provided by an applicant or licensee or permit holder to the planning department for purposes of administration of this chapter. The applicant, licensee or permittee shall at all times be responsible for keeping the planning department notified in writing of the current address for sending notices or other communications, and delivery or mailing via U.S. Postal Service or private express delivery carrier shall be deemed to be properly addressed if it is sent to the most current address of record.
Administrative fee or application fee means the non-refundable fee which is required by the county to accompany an application for a license, permit, or change under this chapter. Such fees may include administrative, investigative, advertising or other components, which may be, but are not required by this chapter to be broken out separately.
Adverse action means disciplinary, regulatory or administrative action taken or proposed with respect to a license, permit, licensee or permit holder due to violation of this chapter or other law or regulation, or due to any other event that would disqualify a licensee or permit holder, or due to other change in status or circumstances that might make such action appropriate in the discretion of the commission. Adverse action as used herein is action under this chapter which is apart from and may be in addition to any applicable criminal penalties. Adverse action encompasses, but is not limited to, disciplinary action.
Alcohol means ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
Alcohol treatment facility means any alcoholic treatment center owned and operated by the state or the county government.
Alcoholic beverage means and includes all forms of alcohol that can be used for beverage purposes, including distilled spirits, beer, malt beverages, wine or fortified wine.
Alcoholic beverage caterer means a licensed caterer pursuant to this chapter.
Applicant means a person who has completed and submitted an application form, together with all required documents, and information, along with all required fees, seeking a license or permit under this chapter, or a renewal, transfer or modification thereof.
Bar means the station designated for mixing, pouring and dispensing alcoholic beverages within an establishment licensed for by-the-drink consumption on premises. It may have or not have a seating area for counter service to customers. The seating capacity for counter service may not exceed ten percent of the total seating capacity for the entire licensed premises. The licensee must obtain approval for each bar within the establishment and each must be shown on the site plan/floor plan of the premises at the time of any application, renewal or change. The diagram shall indicate whether the bar is intended to allow counter service. Any bar which is on wheels or similarly equipped so as to render it mobile must be so designated in the application and diagram/floor plan.
Beer (or "malt beverage") means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water containing not more than 14 percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer, and strong beer. Also included are beverages known as "nonalcoholic" beer, which is made by fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops or other products, and containing less than three percent, but more than 0.1 percent alcohol by volume. The term "malt beverage" does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine. Hard cider, as defined herein, shall be treated as a malt beverage under this chapter.
Beverage ticket means a printed ticket sold to be used for the purpose of exchanging the ticket or tickets for an alcoholic beverage (even if it may also be used for acquiring other beverages or food rather than alcoholic beverages).
Bona fide non-profit civic organization means an organization which is exempt from federal income taxation pursuant to the provisions of 26 USC § 501(c) or (d) or (e).
Bracelet fee means any charge for a bracelet, pass, ink stamp, badge, armband, receipt or other indication that the bearer may be served alcoholic beverages at a venue, event or licensed premises.
Brewpub means an eating establishment within the meaning of that term as defined in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2 in which beer or malt beverages are manufactured or brewed, subject to the barrel production limitation and other limitations prescribed in O.C.G.A. § 3-5-36 as amended for retail consumption on the premises. May be referred to as a "micro-brewery." A brewpub must have Dawson County licenses for sale of the type of beverages it offers and for the manner of sale (for on the premises or off the premises consumption or both).
Building official means the person designated as such by the director of planning and development, by the county manager or by the board of commissioners, or other person authorized by the county to exercise the powers and duties of building plan review, building inspection, building code enforcement or related duties. The term may include, but is not limited to, the director, county marshal, building inspector, or other acting in any of the foregoing capacities on an interim, acting or temporary basis.
By-the-drink means sales of alcoholic beverages for consumption on-the-premises, sold and served by the individual drink, either poured or in an opened container.
Chapter means this alcoholic beverage code, that is, the Dawson County Alcoholic Beverage Ordinance, which is chapter 6 of the Dawson County Code of Ordinances.
Church building means the main structure used by any religious organization as a permanent place for worship.
Code means the Dawson County Alcoholic Beverage Code (chapter 6 of the Dawson County Code of Ordinances), unless the context makes other usage appropriate.
Code enforcement official means any person authorized by law or designated by the county, the director, or the county manager to exercise licensing, inspection, permitting, taxing, enforcement, regulatory or other powers related in any way to this chapter, or to any related ordinances and regulations of the county, state or federal governments, including, but not limited to, staff of the planning and development, fire, building, sheriff, health, finance and other departments and offices of Dawson County.
Convenience store means a business carrying on retail sales of groceries, household supplies, over-the-counter medications, soft drinks, tobacco products, packaged or prepared foods, magazines, newspapers, gasoline and other consumer goods. The term convenience store shall not include any business for which an adult entertainment license has been issued or for which one is required.
County means Dawson County, Georgia, or as the context may indicate, its governing authority or designated staff.
County commission means the Board of Commissioners of Dawson County, Georgia, or such person as it may designate from time to time to exercise its authority or otherwise act on its behalf under this chapter. May also be referred to as "board," "board of commissioners," "county," "commission" or "governing authority."
County manager means the County Manager of Dawson County, Georgia, or such person as he or she may designate from time to time to exercise authority or act on his/her behalf under this chapter.
Day care means any place operated by a person, society, agency, corporation, institution, or group wherein are received for pay for group care for less than 24 hours per day, without transfer of legal custody, children under 18 years of age, and is not accredited as a public or private school (except that centers offering state funded pre-K programs are still considered day cares).
Director (may be referred to as "administrator") means the county staff member named to administer the rules set forth in this alcoholic beverage ordinance and to develop forms, regulations and policies as may be appropriate to implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter or as the commission may otherwise direct. The director of planning and development shall serve as administrator/director. The staff member to serve as director may be changed by the board of commissioners from time to time by vote in open meeting. The administrator/director may designate another staff member or members to manage the general affairs of alcoholic beverage licensing to the extent the director determines appropriate and is authorized to direct the activities of staff responsible for enforcing the terms of this chapter.
Disciplinary action means adverse action taken or proposed action by the county against a license, permit, licensee or permit holder due to failure to comply with terms or requirements imposed by or pursuant to this chapter, state law or federal law, or for other reasons set forth in this chapter. Examples are suspension, revocation, imposition of special conditions or restrictions (regardless of whether or not termed as a period of probation), posting of bond, denial of renewal or transfer request or other sanctions as imposed by the county.
Distance refers to the minimum distance allowed between an establishment licensed under this ordinance and another licensed premise, or between a proposed licensed premise and some other facility or use, such as a church, a school, a daycare facility, a college, or an alcohol treatment facility. Unless otherwise provided, distance shall be measured as provided for by O.C.G.A. § 3-3-21(c) and Georgia Department of Revenue Regulations [currently found at 560-2-2-.12(1)(b)].
Distilled spirits or liquor means any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume including, but not limited to, all fortified wines.
Distiller means a manufacturer of distilled spirits. A distiller may engage in on-premises or off-premises sales if qualified and licensed as required by applicable State statutes and regulations provided that such distiller must qualify for and obtain licenses from Dawson County for such sales in the same manner and according to the same terms as required for other licensees for sale of distilled spirits under this chapter.
Drug store means any store which sells primarily health care products and which has a pharmacy that supplies prescription medications.
Eating establishment means any public place, including a place available for rental by the public, selling prepared food for consumption by the public on the premises with a full-service kitchen. A full-service kitchen shall consist of a three-compartment pot sink, a stove or grill permanently installed, and refrigerator, all of which must be approved by the health and fire departments. An eating establishment shall be prepared to serve food every hour the establishment is open and shall derive at least 50 percent of the gross receipts annually from the sale of prepared meals or food.
Establishment means a business or place of business. It may refer to the business entity, its operations or the location thereof as the context makes appropriate.
Employee permit means an authorization granted by the county to employees of a licensed retail consumption dealer to dispense, sell, serve, take orders, or mix alcoholic beverages in establishments licensed as a retail consumption dealer, and to employees of a retail package dealer (liquor store, package store, convenience store) to sell alcoholic beverages in that establishment. An employee permit is not required for employees of licensed grocery stores or drug stores, nor for licensees to work in their own business. An employee permit is also required of any employee or volunteer working at a special event in a capacity described in section 6-66 of this Code. A single employee permit shall authorize the employee to sell, serve or dispense alcoholic beverages at retail licensees for on-premises consumption, or at retail package dealer licensees, or at licensed special events or a combination of the foregoing, as may be designated on the permit.
Fee means a charge payable to the county in relation to obtaining, renewing, reinstating, transferring or changing a license or permit under this chapter as well as any other fees and charges, such as occupational, inspection, or zoning fees, which are payable but not a part of the fees charged under this chapter. The fees which are charged under the terms of this chapter shall be as set forth in the alcoholic beverage licensing fee schedule. They may include, but are not limited to, license fees, renewal fees, application fees, investigatory fees, criminal background check fees, advertising/publication fees, license modification fees, and transfer fees.
Fortified wine means any alcoholic beverage containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes, either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. Fortified wine includes, but is not limited to, brandy.
Front door means the primary doorway used by the public (that is, by customers in the case of a business, students in the case of a school or college, members in the case of a church, club or civic organization, or other similar users, and not merely by employees) as an entrance to a structure or building as determined by the director.
Gathering means the assembly of five or more individuals at one location that includes at least one individual who is underage and who is not the child of the person responsible for the property.
Governing authority means the Board of Commissioners of Dawson County, Georgia, or its designee.
Grocery store means a store which sells primarily food, and which has a produce department and a meat department; sometimes referred to as a "supermarket."
Growler means a glass, ceramic, or stainless steel jug or container with a capacity of 32 to 64 fluid ounces having a screw-on or hinged cap which can be sealed, and which is used for purchasing and transporting malt beverages.
Hard cider means an alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the juice of apples, containing not more than six percent alcohol by volume, including, but not limited to, flavored or carbonated cider. For purposes of this chapter, hard cider shall be deemed a malt beverage.
Hotel means any building or other structure providing sleeping accommodations for hire to the general public transient, permanent or residential. Such businesses shall have one or more public dining rooms with an adequate kitchen. Motels meeting the qualifications set out in this definition for hotels shall be classified in the same category as hotels. Hotels shall have the privilege of granting franchises for the operation of any licensed establishment described in this chapter, and the holder of such franchise shall be included in the definition of a hotel pursuant to this definition.
Housing authority means any property containing 300 housing units or fewer owned or operated by a housing authority created under the state housing authorities' law.
Individual means a natural person.
Indoor commercial recreational establishment means and is limited to an establishment that:
(1)
Regularly serves prepared food with a full-service kitchen (a full service kitchen shall consist of a three-compartment pot sink, a stove or grill permanently installed, and a refrigerator, all of which must be approved by the health and fire departments) prepared to serve food every hour the establishment is open and deriving at least 50 percent of its total annual gross sales from the sale of prepared meals or food and recreation activities; and
(2)
Wherein the sale of food and alcoholic beverages is incidental to its primary enterprise and activity on the premises. The primary activity on the premises of the indoor commercial recreational establishment shall be family-oriented in nature, generally meaning a use that attracts a range of individuals from all age groups. Uses may specifically include, but are not limited to, dinner theaters, bowling centers, and other similar uses. Outdoor commercial recreation is not included, nor shall concession sales of alcoholic beverages be permitted in an outdoor commercial recreational establishment. Bingo parlors, dancehalls, nightclubs, taverns, billiard parlors, video arcades, adult entertainment and/or sexually related entertainment activities, and similar uses are specifically excluded from this definition of indoor commercial recreational establishments.
Investigative fee means the fee established to defray the costs of investigating and examining the qualifications and background of applicants for licenses and permits under this chapter and for review of the proposed location of any licensed premises. This fee may be included in the administrative fee or charged separately. In addition to the fees for the applicant, there may be charged a separate fee for criminal history checks on individuals such as officers, agents, partners, managers and other employees.
License means any license or permit applied for, required or issued pursuant to this chapter. It may also refer to the document which evidences such license or permit, as the context indicates.
License fee means the initial license fee and the fee for any renewal or reinstatement of a license as may be determined from time to time by the county commission as a prerequisite to the privilege of holding an alcohol license under this chapter. May be referred to as the "annual fee." In the event an application for issuance, renewal or reinstatement is denied, the license fee is refundable but the application fee is not to be refunded.
Licensed alcoholic beverage caterer means any holder of a license issued under this chapter for the retail sale of beer, wine, and/or distilled spirits by the drink, who is a licensed caterer, who is otherwise qualified under the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 3-11-1 et seq., and who obtains a license pursuant to this chapter to sell alcoholic beverages at authorized special events.
Licensed premises means the area within a parcel of real property where a licensee under this chapter is authorized to operate the licensed business, that is, the portion of the premises where alcoholic beverages may be stored, displayed, sold and, in the case of on-premises consumption licenses, served and consumed. In the case of a special event alcohol permit, the specific area approved for service and consumption of alcoholic beverages.
Licensee means the person to whom a license for the sale or distribution of distilled spirits, malt beverages, or wine is issued under this chapter. In the case of a partnership or corporation, all partners, officers, and directors of the partnership or corporation are licensees. In the case of a limited partnership the managing partner is a licensee, and in the case of a limited liability company the manager and the chief executive officer are licensees. The term may be used to refer to a person to whom a license has been issued and whose license is suspended, revoked, abandoned, or declared void and when so used shall not confer or imply that such person holds or is entitled to a valid license.
Mead, honey mead or mead wine means a fermented alcoholic beverage made from honey that may not contain an alcoholic content of more than 14 percent by volume or total solids content that exceeds 35 degrees Brix. For purposes of this chapter the sale, manufacture, distribution and transport of mead shall be treated in the same manner as wine.
O.C.G.A. means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Off-premises sales refers to sale of alcoholic beverages in sealed containers, for consumption off the licensed premises only. This type of operation may sometimes be referred to as package sales.
On-premises sales refers to sale of alcoholic for consumption only on the licensed premises, in unsealed containers or in the form of poured individual drinks, or, in the case of malt beverages, by the pitcher as may be otherwise allowed under this chapter. This type of operation may sometimes be referred to as "by-the-drink" sales.
Ordinance means this alcoholic beverage ordinance, chapter 6 of the Dawson County Code of Ordinances, unless the context clearly refers to a different or additional ordinance or ordinances.
Package means a bottle, can, keg, barrel, growler, or other original consumer container, including a wine "box" type container for consumer use.
Person means any individual, firm, partnership, cooperative, nonprofit membership corporation, joint venture, association, company, corporation, agency, syndicate, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, fiduciary, or other group or combination acting as a unit, body politic, or political subdivision, whether public, private, or quasi-public.
Premises means the parcel of real property upon which a licensee under this chapter operates the licensed business. It includes both the area authorized for preparation, display, sales, storage, service, possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages ("licensed premises") and the area on the same parcel where such beverages may not be stored, displayed, served, prepared, consumed or possessed. The area outside the designated licensed premises, but on the same parcel, may be referred to in this ordinance as "approaches," which may include parking areas, walkways and any other areas which have not been specifically designated as licensed premises. Use of an address on a license or application is not an indication that the entire parcel or property at such address is approved as licensed premises.
Private club means any club which fits the definition of a private club under the articles of this Code.
Probation means a period during which a licensee may be monitored for compliance with laws, ordinances and, in addition, any conditions specified by the commission, and during which infraction may lead to immediate disciplinary action against the license up to and including suspension or revocation. It may follow or be imposed in addition to or in lieu of a period of suspension or in lieu of revocation. The length/duration or other terms of a probationary period may be extended or modified by the commission.
Provisional approval or conditional approval means approval of a license application subject to financing, zoning status, or other plans or requirement that the licensee construct, renovate, or remodel the licensed premises prior to commencing licensed operations. Such conditional/provisional approval is temporary and not subject to renewal unless the licensee complies with the terms of section 6-7 and section 6-11 of this chapter and all conditions which may be placed upon the license. A provisional license is issued to allow an applicant to ascertain whether a license may be had, subject to the requirements, conditions and qualifications which may apply, but does not allow operations to commence until such conditions are met, including issuance of any necessary state license.
Registered agent or agent means a qualified individual residing in Dawson County who has been named as, and has qualified and consented to be, the local registered agent of a licensee pursuant to this chapter.
Retail consumption dealer means a person or entity licensed under this chapter to sell alcoholic beverages by the drink for consumption on the licensed premises. May be licensed for sale of beer/malt beverages, or distilled spirits, or wine, or a combination of the foregoing.
Retail dealer means persons other than wholesale dealers who sell distilled spirits, malt beverages, or wines irrespective of the quantities sold. It is specifically intended to refer to establishments licensed to sell alcoholic beverages directly to the retail consumer and not for resale.
Retail package dealer means a person or entity licensed under this chapter to sell alcoholic beverages in packaged form at retail for consumption other than on the licensed premises. May be licensed for sale of distilled spirits, or beer/malt beverages, or wine, or a combination of the foregoing.
Revocation means the termination, forfeiture or withdrawal by the county of the privileges afforded by this chapter to a licensee or holder of a permit issued under this chapter.
Sale of alcohol means provision of alcohol beverages in exchange for monetary value in the form of cash, credit card, debit card, check or other form of monetary exchange, or in return for all or part of an admission fee, ticket of any kind, cover charge, door charge, token, coin, per drink fee, or other medium of exchange.
School building or school grounds shall apply only to state, county, city or church school buildings and to such buildings at such other schools in which are taught subjects commonly taught in the common schools and colleges of this state and which are public schools or private schools.
Social host means a person who:
(1)
Knows or reasonably should know that a gathering will occur on property owned or controlled by that person;
(2)
Knows or reasonably should know that alcoholic beverages will be at the gathering; and
(3)
Knows or reasonably should know that one or more underage person will be present at the gathering.
Special event alcohol permit means a temporary permit issued pursuant to articles of this Code.
Suspension means the temporary (either for a definite or indefinite period) prohibition of operation under an alcoholic beverage license or permit issued by the county pursuant to this chapter.
Underage person means any person under the age of 21 years.
Wholesale dealer means persons other than brewers who sell malt beverages, wines or distilled spirits to retail dealers for purposes of resale only.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 21 percent alcohol made from fruits, berries, grapes, or honey (mead wine is subject to the alcohol content and solids content limits set forth elsewhere in this chapter) either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. Wine includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines, honey mead wine and like products. The term "wine" does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at the point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to the definition of wine contained in this section.
(Ord. of 5-6-2021(1))
