Chapter 38 - PARKS AND RECREATION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 38-1. - Park board.
(a)
All duties of the recreation commission established by the governing authority of Dawson County on June 15, 1970; March 16, 1981; August 16, 1993; and February 10, 1997; are transferred and assigned to the Park Board of Dawson County established in accord with the terms hereof.
(b)
There is hereby established a Park Board of Dawson County, Georgia, that shall consist of five members, the terms of office of which shall be for five years or until successors are appointed and qualified, except in making the initial appointments or in filling any vacancies; the initial terms of the members shall be staggered as hereinafter provided so that hereafter the term of at least one member shall expire annually.
(c)
Vacancies on the board that occur otherwise than by expiration of the term of office shall be filled by appointment only for the unexpired term of the withdrawing member.
(d)
Immediately after the initial appointment, the members of the Park Board of Dawson County, Georgia, shall meet and organize and shall elect one of their members as chairman and shall elect such other officers as the members may deem necessary.
(e)
The Park Board of Dawson County, Georgia, shall have the following authority and power after the effective date of this section:
(1)
To formulate policies to be presented to the Board of Commissioners of Dawson County, Georgia, regarding providing, maintaining, and conducting parks, playgrounds, recreations centers, recreational activities, and recreation facilities;
(2)
To develop a program of recreation activities and services designed to meet the various leisure time interests of all citizens in a wholesome and constructive manner;
(3)
To accept any grant or devise of real estate or any gift or bequest of money or other personal property or any donation to be applied, principal or income for either temporary or permanent use of playgrounds or recreation purposes, but if the acceptance thereof for such purposes subjects Dawson County to additional expense for improvements, maintenance, or renewal then the acceptance of any grant or devise of real estate shall be subject to the approval of the Board of Commissioners of Dawson County. Any money received for such purposes, unless otherwise provided by the terms of the gift or bequest, shall be deposited in the treasury of the county to the account of Park Board of Dawson County, Georgia, and such funds may be withdrawn and paid out to such body in the same manner as funds appropriated for recreation purposes;
(4)
To render a decision regarding appeals of decisions of the director in certain situations.
(f)
The Park Board of Dawson County, Georgia, shall submit reports as may from time to time be requested.
(g)
The members appointed to the Park Board of Dawson County, Georgia, shall adopt bylaws that shall be consistent with the terms hereof, which shall be submitted for approval to the Board of Commissioners of Dawson County, Georgia. The initial by-laws shall be established by the board of commissioners upon adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived.
(Ord. of 10-2-2003, 2—8)
Sec. 38-2. - Enactment and enforcement of park rules; adjudication of violations.
(a)
The County Commission of Dawson County hereby authorizes the parks and recreation board and its employees and assigns to enforce any rule or regulation of the parks and recreation department.
(b)
The enforcement power granted herein shall include but not be limited to, the authority of the board, parks and recreation department employees, and assigns to expel any person who violates the rules of such board from the park, building, or structure, and to suspend any person from any and all parks and recreation sponsored events for a period to be determined by the board. Also, the board shall have the power to fine any person violating the rules and regulations of the board in an amount deemed appropriate by the board as long as such amount is less than $1,000.00
(c)
The parks and recreation board shall create, and enact the necessary rules and regulations for the orderly, safe, and efficient operation of all parks and recreation facilities in Dawson County. The board shall be responsible for adjudicating any challenge and grievance to rules created and enacted.
(d)
In order for any challenge to a violation or any grievance arriving from a violation of a rule to be heard by the board, a notice of appeal must be filed with the parks and recreation board within ten days of the occurrence of the underling violation. No out of time appeals shall be accepted or heard. After an appeal is timely filed, the board shall convene at the next Dawson County Park and Recreation Board meeting to conduct a hearing regarding the underlying violation. At the hearing, the appellant shall bear the burden of proof. Any suspension shall be enforced until the hearing is conducted in accord with the terms hereof.
(e)
If the board finds that the appellant has violated a rule or regulation of the parks and recreation board after the hearing as set forth herein, then any fine or suspension shall be enforced.
(f)
Any appeal from the decision of the parks and recreation board shall be filed in the Superior Court of Dawson County through a petition for certiorari.
(g)
Any person charged with violating any rule or regulation created and enacted by the parks and recreation board in accord with the terms hereof and who fails to remove himself/herself from the property of the parks and recreation department at the request of the department's employee or assign shall be subject to criminal charges in accord with O.C.G.A. § 16-7-21.
(h)
The commissioners of Dawson County hereby authorize violations to be pursued through the Magistrate Court of Dawson County through a citation procedure as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq. if in the opinion of the parks and recreation board such procedure is more efficient as a manner of handling a violation of the rules and regulations of such board.
(Ord. of 10-27-1998)
Secs. 38-3—38-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PUBLIC CONDUCT IN PARKS

Sec. 38-21. - Title.
This article shall be known and may be referred to as the "Dawson County Parks and Recreation Ordinance."
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § I)
Sec. 38-22. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed in this section, unless the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
Director means the Director of the Dawson County Parks and Recreation Department.
Director's agent means employees and agents of the Dawson County Parks and Recreation Department.
Litter means garbage, refuse, paper, debris, trash and all other waste material whether natural or artificial.
Park or recreation facility means all Dawson County public parks and recreation areas in such parks including the land, buildings, lakes, ponds, streams, swimming pools, and all other property and buildings owned, leased, or managed by Dawson County and the Dawson County Parks and Recreation Department.
Vehicle means any motor-driven equipment, automobile, truck, motorcycle, four-wheeler, or scooter.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § II)
Sec. 38-23. - Enforcement of ordinance.
This article may be enforced by any authorized law enforcement officer of Dawson County including the Dawson County Marshal's Office. If a violation of any provision of this article occurs, then the law enforcement officer in such officer's discretion may issue a citation, warning and/or order the person to leave the park or recreation facility. Nothing contained herein shall prohibit any law enforcement officer from making a custodial arrest for any felony or misdemeanor committed in the officer's presence or within the officer's immediate knowledge.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § III)
Sec. 38-24. - Penalties for violation of ordinance.
(a)
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be punished by fine not exceeding $1,000.00.
(b)
Any person who violates any provision of this article may further be denied permission to use the facilities of any park or recreation facility for a period of 60 days following the determination that such violation occurred.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § IV)
State Law reference— Penalties for ordinance violations, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20.
Sec. 38-25. - Littering prohibited.
It shall be a violation of this article for any person to throw or deposit litter on the grounds, streets, sidewalks, fountains, lakes, ponds, swimming pools, streams or other body of water in any county park or recreation facility, except within public receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part or the park or recreation facility. If public receptacles are not provided, then all such litter shall be carried away from the park or recreation facility by the person responsible for the presence of such litter and such litter shall be properly disposed of elsewhere.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § V)
State Law reference— Littering, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-43.
Sec. 38-26. - Improper use of sound-producing devices.
No person shall operate or use any sound-producing or motorized equipment including, but not limited to, generators and vehicles or play or operate any sound amplification devices including, but not limited to, radios, television sets, stereos, musical instruments, public address systems and the like in such a manner as to unreasonably annoy, disturb, injure, or endanger other persons or otherwise destroy the comfort, repose, peace or safety of other persons in a park or recreation facility. This section is not applicable to organized programs, parades, activities, or other events authorized or conducted by the Parks and Recreation Department of Dawson County.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § VI)
Sec. 38-27. - Improper personal conduct.
No person shall engage in any violent, abusive, lewd, profane, vulgar, or obscene speech or conduct that disturbs or annoys other persons or that could cause injury to other persons while in a park or recreation facility; such conduct may include, but is not limited to, loitering, fighting, throwing or breaking articles, indecent exposure, inappropriate sexual acts, urinating or defecating in public, or public drunkenness.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § VII)
Sec. 38-28. - Fires restricted.
No person shall build or maintain a fire in a park or recreation facility except in designated areas marked by signs, fireplaces, grills, or other facilities designated for the purpose of safely maintaining a fire. Fires shall be confined to those areas so designated, shall not be left unattended and shall be completely extinguished prior to departure. The burning of materials that produce toxic or noxious fumes including, but not limited to, tires, plastics, flotation materials, any solid wastes, and treated wood products is prohibited.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § VIII)
Sec. 38-29. - Vehicles restricted.
No person shall operate any vehicle in a park or recreation facility except upon roadways designated and maintained for vehicular traffic, except that law enforcement, code enforcement and parks and recreation employees whose duties require the operation of maintenance vehicle and equipment shall be exempt from such operation limitation. All persons operating any vehicle in a park or recreation facility upon roadways designated and maintained for vehicular traffic shall operate such vehicle in a safe manner and shall obey posted speed limits and traffic signs. No person shall operate any vehicle in a park or recreation facility at an excessive speed, in a reckless or unsafe manner, or in violation of posted traffic signs.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § IX)
Sec. 38-30. - Parking restricted.
(a)
No person shall park a vehicle in a park or recreation facility except in those areas designated by proper signs as vehicle parking areas or in marked parking spaces.
(b)
No person shall park a vehicle in a park or recreation facility if the person is not utilizing the park or recreation facility.
(c)
No person shall leave a vehicle standing or parked in a park or recreation facility during hours when the park or recreation facility is closed, except for overnight campers who are within officially designated overnight camping areas, unless otherwise authorized by the director or the director's agent.
(d)
No person shall park a vehicle in violation of posted restrictions and regulations or in such a manner as to obstruct or impede normal or emergency traffic movement or where the parking of such vehicle creates a safety hazard or endangers any person, property or environmental feature.
(e)
No person shall park a vehicle in a parking space or location designated for handicapped parking unless such vehicle properly displays a handicapped parking permit.
(f)
In addition to a citation for violating of this section, any vehicle that is left unattended and parked in violation of this article may be towed from the park or recreation facility at the owner's expense by Dawson County or by a private towing company to a private impound lot. The vehicle owner shall be responsible for all towing expenses and charges incurred in towing the vehicle and all accrued daily impoundment storage fees.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § X)
Sec. 38-31. - Animals restricted.
(a)
Other than Seeing-Eye dogs as necessary, or unless authorized by permit, no person with an animal shall access areas of a park or recreation facility that are restricted to such animals.
(b)
In all locations within a park or recreation facility where animals are permitted, the animal owner or custodian of an animal shall maintain physical control of the animal by leash or lead line no longer than ten feet at all times.
(c)
In locations within a park or recreation facility where animals are permitted, the animal owner or custodian of an animal shall immediately and properly dispose of waste deposited by the animal.
(d)
The animal owner or custodian of the animal in a park or recreation facility shall possess current rabies vaccination for the animal.
(e)
The animal owner or custodian of an animal in a park or recreation facility shall immediately remove from such park or recreation facility an animal if the animal exhibits aggressive behavior toward any person or toward any other domesticated animal. For purposes of this subsection, aggressive behavior includes, but is not limited to, barking, growling, baring of teeth or fangs, biting or attempts to bite, or any other behavior that could reasonably be expected to scare or intimidate any person or domesticated animal.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § XI)
Sec. 38-32. - Use or possession of alcohol and/or controlled substances.
No person shall possess or use any alcoholic beverage, drug or any other controlled substance, as defined by the laws of this state, except as permitted by the laws of this state, in any park or recreation facility. Further, no intoxicated person shall enter or remain within any park or recreational area.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § XII)
Sec. 38-33. - Hours open to public.
Unless authorized by permit, no person or vehicle shall enter or be within a park or recreation facility outside of the posted hours of operation.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § XIII)
Sec. 38-34. - Commercial activity prohibited.
Unless properly authorized, no person shall advertise, sell or offer for sale any merchandise nor operate or attempt to operate a concession nor engage in any commercial activity within any park or recreation facility, without obtaining a proper permit for any such activity.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § XIV)
Sec. 38-35. - Damaging or removal of park property.
No person shall deface, harm or damage any park buildings, wildlife, property, equipment or signs, or dig up, cut, damage or remove any trees, tree limbs, shrubbery, flowers, rocks, mulch, historical artifacts or other vegetation in a park or recreation facility.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § XV)
State Law reference— Criminal damage to property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-21 et seq.
Sec. 38-36. - Operation of bicycles, scooters, skateboards, and roller blades restricted; golfing restricted.
(a)
No person shall operate a bicycle, scooter, skateboard or roller blade within a park or recreation facility, except in areas designated for such operation. No person under the age of 16 years shall operate or be a passenger on a bicycle within a park or recreation facility unless such person is wearing a bicycle helmet which meets or exceeds the impact standards for bicycle helmets under Georgia law.
(b)
No person shall drive, throw or otherwise project golf balls within any park or recreational facility except in areas designated for such activities.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § XVI)
Sec. 38-37. - Athletic fields restricted.
Organized sports or athletic teams must first obtain approval from the director or the director's agent to use the athletic fields or a park or recreation facility to conduct organized games or practices. Additionally, instructors seeking use of an athletic field in a park or recreation facility to instruct, coach, teach, conduct private lessons, or to conduct a camp or clinic must obtain prior approval from the director or the director's agent. No person shall enter or travel upon any athletic field of a park or recreation facility if such field has been designated as "Closed."
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § XVII)
Sec. 38-38. - Tennis courts restricted.
Organized sports or athletic teams must first obtain approval from the director or the director's agent to use the tennis courts of a park or recreation facility to conduct tennis matches or to conduct organized practices. Additionally, instructors seeking use of a tennis court in a park or recreation facility to instruct, coach, teach conduct private lessons, or to conduct a camp or clinic shall obtain prior approval from the director or the director's agent.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § XVIII)
Sec. 38-39. - Soccer fields restricted.
Organized sports or athletic teams shall first obtain approval from the director or the director's agent to use the soccer field of a park or recreation facility to conduct soccer matches or to conduct organized practices. Additionally, instructors seeking use of a soccer field in a park or recreation facility to instruct, coach, teach, conduct private lessons, or to conduct a camp or clinic shall obtain prior approval from the director or the director's agent.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § XIX)
Sec. 38-40. - Application and issuance of permits.
(a)
Permits for restricted uses or activities in a park or recreation facility shall be obtained by applying for a facility use permit to the Parks and Recreation Board of Dawson County ("Park Board"). Upon examination of the application and all other relevant factors, the park board shall approve and issue or deny the permit. Guidelines for the issuance of permits by the park board are as follows:
(1)
The proposed activity or use of the park or recreation facility will not unreasonably interfere with or detract from the enjoyment of the park or recreation facility;
(2)
The proposed activity or use of the park or recreation facility will not unreasonably interfere or detract from the promotion of public health, welfare, safety and recreation of the park or recreation facility;
(3)
The proposed activity or use of the park or recreation facility is not reasonably anticipated to incite violence, crime, or disorderly conduct;
(4)
The proposed activity or use of the park or recreation facility will not cause unusual, extraordinary, or burdensome expense for the county;
(5)
The proposed activity or use of the park or recreation facility will not conflict with existing park and recreation programs and services;
(6)
The area of the proposed activity or use of the park or recreation facility has not been reserved for other use; and
(7)
The person or persons obtaining the permit will abide by all state and county laws, ordinances, rules and regulations and shall be liable for any loss, damage, or injury sustained by any person because of negligence or intentional misconduct of the person or persons to whom such permit shall have been issued.
(b)
The director or the director's agent shall have the authority to revoke any permit upon finding a violation of any law, ordinance, rule or regulation, or condition or term of the permit, or upon good cause shown.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § XX)
Sec. 38-41. - Unauthorized use of park or recreation facilities.
No person shall engage in any activity within a park or recreation facility that is unauthorized or restricted from such use, that has been posted as a prohibited activity within the park or recreation facility, or within a specified area of the park or recreation facility, that violates the rules and regulations of the park or recreation facility, that will impede the use and enjoyment of the park or recreation facility by other persons, or that could cause injury to other persons within the park or recreation facility. No person shall break, force, tamper with, or otherwise disturb a lock, gate, door, or other obstruction designed to control or prevent access to any area.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § XXI)
Sec. 38-42. - Household or commercial garbage prohibited.
(a)
Garbage, trash, rubbish, litter, or other waste material or waste liquid generated within a park or recreation facility and incidental to authorized activities or use of a park or recreation facility shall either be removed from the park or recreation facility or deposited in receptacles provided for that purpose.
(b)
No person shall bring into a park or recreation facility any household or commercial garbage, trash, rubbish, litter, or other waste material of any kind for disposal or dumping without permission from the director or the director's agent.
(c)
Campers, picnickers, and all other persons using a park or recreation facility shall keep sites free of trash and litter during their period of occupancy and shall immediately remove all personal equipment and clean their sites upon departure.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § XXII)
State Law reference— Littering, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-43.
Sec. 38-43. - Camping.
No person shall camp in parks or recreation facilities, except at sites or areas specifically designated for camping within the park or recreation facility and after obtaining a permit or daily occupancy authorization to camp in the park or recreation facility from the director, the directors agent or via the honor box system. Camping for a period of more than 14 consecutive days is prohibited in designated campgrounds.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § XXIII)
Sec. 38-44. - Smoking in prohibited areas.
(a)
No person shall smoke tobacco products on property owned, leased, or operated by Dawson County, except within specific areas designated for such purpose.
(b)
No person may use any alternative nicotine product or vapor product (as defined in section 30-352), including e-cigarettes, on property owned, leased, or operated by Dawson County.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § XXIV; Ord. of 5-5-2016, § 1; Ord. of 10-17-2019, § 4(Exh. D))
Sec. 38-45. - Interference with any member of Dawson County Sheriff's Office, Dawson County Marshal's Office, park official or employee.
No person shall impede, intimidate, violate, forcibly resist, or interfere with any member of the Dawson County Sheriff's Office, Dawson County Marshal's Office, park official or employee of a Dawson County park or recreation facility engaged in the performance of official duties or because of the performance of official duties. The failure to comply with a lawful order issued by a law enforcement officer, park official or employee of a Dawson County park or recreation facility engaged in the performance of official duties shall be deemed as resistance or interference with a member of the Dawson County Sheriff's Office, Dawson County Marshal's Officer, park official or employee of a Dawson County park or recreation facility.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § XXV)
Sec. 38-46. - Failure or refusal to pay recreation use fees.
No person shall fail, refuse, or attempt to avoid paying any designated parking or recreational use fees in any park or recreational facility.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § XXVI)
Sec. 38-47. - Fireworks explosives, and projectiles prohibited.
No person shall use, light, shoot off, launch, fly, discharge, detonate or explode explosives or explosive devices, or projectiles of any kind in any park or recreation facility, including fireworks or other pyrotechnics of any kind, rockets, and model planes, unless written permission has been received from the director or the director's agents or has been posted at such park or recreation facility.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § XXVII)
Sec. 38-48. - Swimming and diving restricted.
No person shall swim or dive in any area within a park or recreation facility where swimming or diving is prohibited including, but not limited to, boat docking areas, launching sites, and mooring points. Diving, jumping, or swinging from trees, bridges, boat docking areas, and launching sites is expressly prohibited and shall be a violation of this article.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § XXVIII)
Sec. 38-49. - Operation of vessels and watercrafts.
No person shall operate any vessel or other watercraft including, but not limited to, powerboats, cruisers, houseboats, sailboats, rowboats, canoes, kayaks, and other such equipment capable of navigation on water in areas restricted from such use or in a careless, negligent, or reckless manner so as to endanger any person, property, or environmental feature within a park or recreation facility.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § XXIX)
Sec. 38-50. - Hunting and trapping prohibited.
No person shall hunt or trap animals or attempt to hunt or trap animals within a park or recreation facility, unless written permission is received from the director and the county manager.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § XXX)
Sec. 38-51. - Other laws.
Any resolution or ordinance that may be applicable hereto and aid in carrying out or making effective the intent, purpose, and provisions hereof, which shall be liberally construed in favor of Dawson County, is hereby adopted as a part hereof.
(Ord. of 8-20-2009(1), § XXXII)
