ARTICLE IV. - PRIVATE CLUBS

Sec. 6-56. - Definitions.
As used in this article:
Fixed salary means the amount of compensation paid any member, officer, agent, or employee of a bona fide private club as may be fixed for him by its members at a prior annual meeting or by the governing body out of the general revenue of the club and shall not include a commission on any profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages. For the purpose of this definition, tips or gratuities which are added to the bills under club regulation shall not be considered as profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages.
Private club means any nonprofit association organized under the laws of this state which:
(1)
Has been in existence at least one year prior to the filing of its application for a license to be issued pursuant to this article;
(2)
Has at least 75 regular dues paying members;
(3)
Owns, hires or leases a building or space within a building for the reasonable use of its members with:
a.
A suitable kitchen and dining room space and equipment; and
b.
A sufficient number of employees for cooking, preparing and serving meals for its members and guest;
(4)
Has no member, officer, agent or employee directly or indirectly receiving in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages beyond a fixed salary.
Sports club means an association or corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Georgia, organized and operated primarily to provide a location for the patrons thereof to engage in sporting events. To qualify for an alcoholic beverage consumption dealer's license, a sports club must have been actively in operation within the county at least two years prior to an application for license hereunder; provided, however, the two-year operational requirement shall not apply to golf club associations or golf club corporations where the selling or the serving of alcoholic beverages is to take place on the golf course premises. A sports club organized or operated primarily for serving of alcoholic beverages shall not qualify for licensing under this article, and accordingly shall not be permitted to serve or sell alcoholic beverages at any time. Unless otherwise indicated, a sports club licensee shall comply with all other requirements imposed upon retail consumption dealers.
(Ord. of 5-6-2021(1))
Sec. 6-57. - Regulation or sale of alcoholic beverages.
A private club may seek a license for retail sales of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises in accord with this chapter. Licensed private clubs may sell and dispense alcoholic beverages by the drink for consumption on the premises upon compliance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of the county governing the sale of such beverages and upon payment of such license fees and taxes as may be required by the existing ordinances, rules and regulations of the county. A licensed private club must have a kitchen as required under this article but shall not be subject to the requirement that 50 percent of its annual sales come from the sale of food and non-alcoholic beverages. A sports club is not subject to a kitchen or food sales requirement.
(Ord. of 5-6-2021(1))
Sec. 6-58. - Certain organizations exempt from food establishment requirements.
Veteran's organizations, fraternal organizations, and other nonprofit organizations currently having tax exempt status under either the United States Internal Revenue Code or the Georgia Income Tax Law shall not be required to operate a food establishment serving prepared food. However, any such organization selling or dispensing alcoholic beverages shall be subject to all ordinance regulations dealing with general licensing and consumption on the premises establishments.
(Ord. of 5-6-2021(1))
Sec. 6-59. - Hours and days of sale.
No alcoholic beverages shall be sold by a private club or sports club for consumption on the premises except between the hours of:
10:00 a.m.—midnight Monday—Thursday;
10:00 a.m. Friday—1:00 a.m. Saturday;
10:00 a.m.—midnight Saturday; and
12:30 p.m.—midnight Sunday.
(Ord. of 5-6-2021(1))
Sec. 6-60. - Other restrictions.
The provisions of sections 6-22 through 6-33 shall apply to sales in private clubs of malt beverages, wine, and distilled spirits, and any references therein to malt beverages or wine shall also include distilled spirits for purposes of this article.
(Ord. of 5-6-2021(1))
Secs. 6-61—6-65. - Reserved.
