ARTICLE VI. - TOWNS COUNTY BOARD OF ELECTIONS[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is an act of the general assembly as enacted by 2001 Ga. Laws (Act No. 659), p. 3876, that created the Towns County Board of Elections.

Sec. 1. - [Created.]
There is created the board of elections of Towns County which shall have jurisdiction over the conduct of primaries and elections in Towns County accordance with the provisions of this Act.
Sec. 2. - [Composition.]
The board of elections of Towns County shall be composed of five members, each of whom shall be an elector and resident of the county and who shall be selected in the following manner:
(1)
Two members of the board shall be selected by the chairperson of the county executive committee of the political party which received the highest number of votes within the county for its candidate for President of the United States in the general election immediately preceding the appointment of the member. Each selection shall have been ratified by a majority of the members of the executive committee voting at a regular scheduled meeting or at a meeting duly called and held for such purpose; selected name to be submitted to the governing authority of the county for appointment as members of the election board for Towns County;
(2)
Two members of the board shall be selected by the chairperson of the county executive committee of the political party which received the second highest number of votes within the county for its candidate for President of the United States in the general election immediately preceding the appointment of the member. Each selection shall have been ratified by a majority of the members of the executive committee voting at a regularly scheduled meeting or at a meeting duly called and held for such purpose; selected names to be submitted to the governing authority of the county for appointment as members of the election board for Towns County;
(3)
The fifth member of the board of elections shall be appointed by the Judge of the Superior Court. Said appointment shall be made from a list of three names to be submitted to by the Grand Jury to the Judge of Superior Court. Said member shall not be an officer or member of the executive committee of any political party at the time of such member's selection or at any time during such member's term of office as a member of the board of elections.
Sec. 3. - [Board members to elect chairman.]
The members of the board of elections shall elect one of the members of the board to serve as chairman of the board.
Sec. 4. - [Board members to designate executive secretary.]
The executive secretary of the board of elections shall be designated by a majority of the board members and such executive secretary shall perform duties as may be specified by the board.
Sec. 5. - [Initial appointments to board; terms.]
In making the initial appointments to the board, the governing authority of Towns County shall appoint two members, one from each political party, for an initial term beginning on January 1, 2002, and ending on December 31, 2002; two members for an initial term beginning on January 1, 2002, and ending on December 31, 2003; and one member for an initial term beginning on January 1, 2002, and ending on December 31, 2004. Each member shall serve until a successor is appointed and qualified. Thereafter, a successor to each member of the board shall be appointed for a term of four years and until his or her successor is appointed and qualified. Each member of the board shall take office on January 1 of the year immediately following the year in which such member was appointed.
Sec. 6. - [Holders of public office and family member not eligible to serve on board.]
No person who holds elective public office shall be eligible to serve as a member during the term of such elective office and the position of any member shall be deemed vacant upon such member's qualifying as a candidate for elective public office. Further, no immediate family member of an elective public official shall be eligible to serve as a member during the elected officials term of office.
Sec. 7. - [Governing authority to make appointments.]
The appointment of each member shall be made by the governing authority of Towns County by filing an affidavit with the clerk of the superior court not later than 30 days preceding the date at which such member is to take office, stating the name and residential address of the person appointed and certifying that such member has been duly appointed as provided in this Act. The clerk of the superior court shall record each of such certifications on the minutes of the court and shall certify the name of each appointed member to the Secretary of State and shall provide for the issuance of appropriate commissions to the members, within the same time and in the same manner as provided by law for registrars.
Sec. 8. - [Rules of vacation of board membership.]
Each member of the board shall serve until his or her successor is appointed and qualified, except in the event of resignation or removal as provided in this Act and shall:
(1)
Be eligible to succeed himself or herself and shall have the right to resign at any time by giving written notice of his or her resignation to the governing authority of the county and to the clerk of the superior court; and
(2)
Shall be subject to removal from the board at any time, for cause after notice and hearing, in the same manner and by the same authority as provided for removal of registrars.
Sec. 9. - [Governing authority to appoint successor when vacancy occurs before term expires.]
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office any member before the expiration of his or her term, by removal, death, resignation, or otherwise, the governing authority of Towns County shall appoint a successor to serve the remainder of the unexpired term. Such appointment shall be made in the same manner as an original appointment to such post. In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of the executive secretary by reason of the death of the executive secretary or his or her removal or resignation, the office of executive secretary shall be filled by the person succeeding to the office. The clerk of the superior court shall be notified of interim appointments or elections and changes in the office of the executive secretary and report and certify such appointments or elections and changes in the same manner as the regular appointments election of members and designations of the executive secretary.
Sec. 10. - [Members to take oath.]
Before entering upon his or her duties, each member shall take substantially the same oath as is required by law for registrars and shall have the same privileges from arrest.
Sec. 11. - [Duties.]
The board of elections shall:
(1)
With regard to the preparation for conduct and administration of elections, succeed to and exercise all duties and powers granted to and incumbent upon the judge of the probate court pursuant to Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, the "Georgia Election Code" [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.], as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended, or any other provision of law, or both.
(2)
With regard to the preparation for and conduct of primaries, succeed to all the duties and powers granted to and incumbent upon the judge of the probate court by Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, the "Georgia Election Code" [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.], as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended.
Sec. 12. - [Board responsible for poll workers.]
The board shall be responsible for the selection, appointment, and training of poll workers in elections, and such workers shall be appointed, insofar as practicable, from lists provided the board by the county executive committee of each political party.
Sec. 13. - [Chairman shall be chief executive officer; duties.]
The chairman of the board of elections shall be the chief executive officer of the board of elections and shall generally supervise, direct, and control the administration of the affairs of the board of elections pursuant to law and duly adopted resolutions of the board of elections. The board of elections shall at its first meeting establish, by appropriate resolution entered on its minutes, directives governing the executions of matters within its jurisdiction.
Sec. 14. - [Compensation for board members.]
Compensation for the members of the board of elections shall be in the same manner as registrars as prescribed in the Official Code of Georgia Annotated 21-2-212(d) [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-212(d)]. Compensation for clerical assistants, and other employees shall be such as may be fixed by the governing authority of the county. Said compensation shall be paid wholly from county funds.
Sec. 15. - [Suitable offices to be provided.]
The governing authority of Towns County shall provide the board of elections with such proper and suitable offices and with such electrical assistants and other employees as the governing authority shall deem appropriate.
Sec. 16. - [Definitions.]
The words "election," "elector," "political party," "primary," "public office," "special election," and "special primary" shall have the same meanings ascribed to those words by Chapter 2 of title 21 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.], as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended, unless otherwise clearly apparent from the text of this Act.
