ARTICLE I. - ACT CREATING TOWNS COUNTY, GEORGIA[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is an act of the general assembly as enacted by 1955 Ga. Laws (Act No. 51), p. 121, that created the county.

Sec. I. - [County limits designated.]
Be it enacted, That from and immediately after the passage of this act a new county shall be, and the same is hereby laid out from the counties of Union and Rabun to be included within the following limits, to-wit: Beginning at the North Carolina line at the north-west corner of Rabun county, and thence running east with said line to the north-east corner of lot of land number ninety-four in the first district of Rabun county, thence running south to the south-east corner of lot number sixty-seven in the said first district, thence running a straight line to the south-east corner of lot of land number one hundred and seventy-two in the eighteenth district and first section of Union county, thence along the top of the Blue Ridge south-westerly to the corner of Habersham county, thence along the top of said Blue Ridge to the main Ridge that divides the waters of Notley and Hiwassee rivers, thence along the top of said Ridge, westerly, to the Brass town, Bald mountain, thence in the same direction to the Double Knobbs, thence to the highest point of a Ridge on lot number one hundred and ninety-one, (191) in the seventeenth district and first section, thence a straight line to the Gap of the Mountain at the head of Langham's Creek, thence with the main leading Ridge in a north-western direction to the highest peak of the mountain, at the head of Gum Log Creek, thence down said Gum Log Creek to the North Carolina line, thence along the dividing line between North Carolina and Georgia to the beginning point.
Sec. II. - [New county named.]
And be it further enacted, That the new county described in the first section of this act, shall be called and known by the name of Towns, and shall be attached to the Blue Ridge Judicial Circuit, to the Sixth Congressional District, and to the Brigade and Division to which said territory now belongs.
Sec. III. - [Voters to elect justices.]
And be it further enacted, That the persons included within said new county entitled to vote shall, on the first Monday in April next elect five Justices of the Inferior Court and Ordinary, the Clerk of the Superior Court, Clerk of the Inferior Court and Sheriff, a Coroner, a Tax Collector and Receiver of Tax Returns, a County Surveyor and County Treasurer for said county, and that said election for said officers shall be held at the several places where Justices' Courts are now held within the limits of said new county, that the Justices of the Inferior Court shall hold their offices until the first Monday in January, 1857, that the Receiver of Tax Returns and Tax Collectors shall hold their offices until the first Monday in January, 1857, the Sheriff, Coroner, County Surveyor and Clerks of the Superior and Inferior Courts until the first Monday in January, 1858, and the Ordinary of said county until the first Monday in January, 1860, and until their successors are respectively elected and qualified, and the Governor on the same being certified to him shall commission the persons returned as elected at such elections; and said Justices of the Inferior Court after they shall have been commissioned, shall proceed as soon as possible to lay off said county into Militia Districts, and to advertise for the election of two Justices of the Peace in each District in which no Justice, now in commission, may reside, and in case one Justice in commission shall reside in any one of said districts then one other shall be elected for said district, and the Governor on being duly certified of the election of such Justices shall commission them according to law, and all officers now in commission within the limits of said new county shall hold their commissions, and exercise the duties of their several offices within said county for the terms, respectively, for which they were elected, and until their successors shall be elected and qualified.
Sec. IV. - [Power and authority of justices.]
And be it further enacted, That the Justices of the Inferior Court of said county, after they shall have been commissioned and qualified, shall have full power and authority to select and locate a site for the public buildings of said county, and said Justices, or a majority of them are hereby authorized and invested with full power to purchase a tract of land for the location of the county site, to divide the same into lots and sell each lot at public sale to the highest bidder, for the benefit of said county, and to make such other arrangements or contracts concerning the county site and the location of the public buildings as they may think proper.
Sec. V. - [Election precincts established.]
And be it further enacted, That so soon as the Justices of the Inferior Court for said county shall have laid off said Militia Districts, the places of holding Justices' Courts in said districts, respectively, be, and each of them is hereby established an Election Precinct.
Sec. VI. - [Transfer of pending business to new county.]
And be it further enacted, That all mesne process, execution and other final process in the hands of the Sheriff, Coroner and Constables of the counties of which the new county may be formed, and which properly belongs to said new county, and which may have been levied, or in part executed, and such proceedings therein, not finally disposed of, at the time when the officers of the said new county shall receive their commission, shall be delivered over to the corresponding officers of said new county and such officers are hereby authorized and required to proceed with the same, in the same manner as if such mesne process, execution or other final process had been originally in their hands, Provided, that in all cases publication of the time and places of sale or other like proceedings in the new county, shall be made for the time now prescribed by law, and all papers appertaining to all, or any suits, or prosecutions pending in the counties out of which said new county is formed, when the defendant resides in said new county, shall be transferred to the proper officers of said new county and there tried and disposed of.
Sec. VII. - [Days of court proceedings.]
And be it further enacted, That the Superior Court of said new county shall be held on the fourth Monday in April and October in each year, and the Inferior Courts on the third Mondays in June and December.
Sec. VIII. - [Superintendents of elections to meet the day after election.]
And be it further enacted, That the Superintendents of elections in said new county shall meet at the usual place of holding Justices' Courts in the 990th Militia District in said new county, on the next day after the election, for the purpose of consolidating said election returns.
Sec. IX. - [Civil, military officers may take oath.]
Be it further enacted, That all civil and military officers elected in said new county may take the usual oath of office before any person qualified by law to administer an oath.
