Chapter 50 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Courts, ch. 26
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 50-1. - Alcoholic beverage consumption within Meeks Park Recreation Facility.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Open container means the same as defined in O.C.G.A. § 40-6-253(a).
(b)
Possession or consumption. No person shall possess or consume any alcoholic beverage within the Meeks Park Recreation Facility.
(c)
Transportation of open container. No person shall transport any alcoholic beverage in an open container within the Meeks Park Recreation Facility.
(Ord. No. O-97-001, § 1, 7-29-1997)
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6.
Sec. 50-2. - Violation; penalty.
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Ord. No. O-97-001, § 2, 7-29-1997)
Secs. 50-3—50-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FALSE ALARMS

Sec. 50-31. - Statement of purpose.
The commissioner desires to regulate the amount of false alarm responses required by public safety personnel, and enacts penalties for unauthorized alarms in order to promote the public safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to repeated responses to false alarms.
(Ord. No. O-2001-005, § B, 9-20-2001)
Sec. 5O-32. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alarm system means any assembly of mechanical, electrical or battery-operated equipment which is arranged to signal the occurrence of a sheriff, fire hazard or medical emergency requiring immediate attention, and to which a sheriff or fire or medical units are expected to respond.
Automatic dialing device means any device connected to an alarm system which automatically sends a prerecorded message or coded signal indicating the activation of the alarm system to a predetermined location.
Automatic response alarm means a device intended to detect and signal intrusion into a closed premises or upon a premises, or to signal a robbery or emergency, which will signal an alarm system business, monitoring such station or other entity.
False alarm means the activation of an alarm either by an automatic dialing device or an automatic response system, signaling a burglary and/or robbery, medical or emergency alarm and/or sheriff or fire alarm at a time when no burglary, robbery or emergency is being committed or attempted on the premises.
Response means the dispatch of sheriff, fire or emergency personnel to the premises where an alarm system has been activated indicating a burglary, robbery and/or emergency in progress on such premises.
(Ord. No. O-2001-005, § C, 9-20-2001)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2
Sec. 50-33. - Ensurance of proper system function; notification.
(a)
The owner of the property at which an alarm system is installed, and the owner or operator of the alarm system, if not the owner of the property, shall ensure that his alarm system is functioning properly, and that it shall not cause false alarms to be transmitted.
(b)
Any sheriff, fire or emergency personnel responding to an alarm which is determined to be false shall promptly notify his superior officer and the dispatch center of such alarm in writing, and, if practical, leave notification of such false alarm at the scene of the alarm.
(Ord. No. O-2001-005, § D, 9-20-2001)
Sec. 50-34. - Records.
The 911 dispatch center will be responsible for the creation and maintenance of a database to record all false alarm calls, and such database shall be configured so that the number of calls and previous calls to any specific address can be retrieved quickly for the benefit of responding law enforcement and/or fire department personnel. The 911 dispatch center shall also be responsible to monitor and flag addresses that are in apparent violation of this article, and such information, with accompanying documentation, shall be forwarded monthly to the sheriff's office for enforcement.
(Ord. No. O-2001-005, § D, 9-20-2001)
Sec. 50-35. - Automatic cutoff system.
All audible alarms, sirens, bells or horns shall have an automatic cutoff so that the alarm will not operate for more than 30 continuous minutes after activation.
(Ord. No. O-2001-005, § D, 9-20-2001)
Sec. 50-36. - Violation; penalties.
The penalties for violations of this article shall be as follows:
(1)
First and second false alarm/activations per month shall receive a warning.
(2)
Third false alarm/activation per month shall be fined $50.00.
(3)
Fourth and subsequent false alarm/activation per month shall be fined $100.00.
(4)
Following a fourth alarm in one month, the owner/user of such alarm system shall have the system inspected by a licensed alarm system company and proof of such inspection shall be delivered to the county sheriff's office.
(5)
Penalties provided for false alarms that are relayed or transmitted by an intermediary shall be the responsibility of the owner/user of the alarm system.
(6)
Any person found guilty of willful, false activation of an alarm system shall be punished as provided in section 1-12, plus the cost of prosecution, for each and every false alarm activation.
(7)
Penalties of violations of this article shall be paid to the county sheriff's office. Any penalty not paid within 30 days of the notice of penalty being placed in the U.S. mail shall result in a citation being issued to the person who has violated this article, and such citation shall be returnable to the county magistrate court.
(Ord. No. O-2001-005, § E, 9-20-2001)
Sec. 50-37. - Exemptions.
(a)
The owner of each business, residence or structure within the county which is equipped with an alarm system shall have a period of two weeks following installation of such alarm system to correct any malfunctions without incurring a penalty.
(b)
The owner of each business, residence or structure within the county which is equipped with an alarm system shall not incur a penalty if lightning or any other act of God triggered the false alarm.
(Ord. No. O-2001-005, § E, 9-20-2001)
