Chapter 46 - MANUFACTURED HOMES AND TRAILERS
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; floods, ch. 34; health and sanitation, ch. 38; land use, ch. 44; planning, ch. 58; solid waste, ch. 66; subdivisions, ch. 70
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 46-1. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to prevent older mobile homes, manufactured homes, and recreational vehicles used as residences, hereinafter referred to collectively as "mobile homes," from being brought into Union County in order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the county.
(Rev. of 11-17-2005)
Sec. 46-2. - Required compliance with other laws.
Any mobile homes, manufactured homes, and recreational vehicles that are legally brought into the county in accordance with the provisions of this article shall be required to comply with all other codes and ordinances, including but not limited to; Chapter 18, Buildings and Building Regulations: Chapter 30, Environment, Chapter 44, Land Use; Union County's new Building Inspection Ordinances, and any other applicable ordinances and laws.
(Rev. of 11-17-2005)
Secs. 46-3—46-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MOVEMENT AND INSTALLATION OF MOBILE HOMES

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (2) ---
Editor's note—Ord. of Aug. 17, 2010, amended Art. II, in its entirety to read as herein set out. Prior to inclusion of said ordinance, Art. II, pertained to similar subject matter. See also the Code Comparative Table.
Sec. 46-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, or phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section.
Applicant means any person seeking to install a pre-owned manufactured home in the unincorporated area of Union County.
Building inspector means the person appointed, employed, or otherwise designated as the director of planning, permits and inspections; the county building official or any of his or her assistants.
Certificate of occupancy means a document issued by the building inspector certifying that a pre-owned manufactured home is in compliance with applicable requirements set forth by this article, and indicating it to be in a condition suitable for residential occupancy.
Guarantee of condition bond means a surety bond to guarantee that the affidavit and photographs required by subsections 46-33(a)(1) and (2) of this article reasonably portray or represents the existing condition of the pre-owned manufactured home proposed for relocation. In lieu of the bond, a cash deposit may be deposited with the county.
Install means to construct a foundation system and to place or erect a manufactured home on such foundation system. Such term includes, without limitation, supporting, blocking, leveling, securing, or anchoring such manufactured home and connecting multiple or expandable sections of such manufactured home.
Jurisdiction means the unincorporated areas of Union County, Georgia.
Manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401 et seq.
Pre-owned manufactured home means any manufactured home that has been previously used as a residential dwelling and has been titled.
Temporary permit. A preliminary permit required prior to moving a home to a new location. This permit requires a prior inspection.
(Ord. of 8-17-2010, § 1)
Sec. 46-32. - Conditions.
All pre-owned manufactured homes located in the jurisdiction shall bear a label certifying it was constructed in compliance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401 et seq. (the HUD Code) and shall be installed in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 8-2-160 et seq.
(Ord. of 8-17-2010, § 2)
Sec. 46-33. - Permitting, inspection and certificate of occupancy.
A permit shall be required to locate or relocate a pre-owned manufactured home in the jurisdiction.
(1)
Permit. To obtain a permit, applicants shall provide, in addition to other necessary paperwork, to the building inspector:
a.
A signed affidavit that the pre-owned manufactured home meets health and safety standards required by this Act.
b.
Photographs providing evidence that minimum health and safety standards are met;
c.
A refundable guarantee of condition bond or refundable cash deposit as determined by the inspection department; and
d.
The permit and inspection fee required by subsection (4) of this section.
(2)
Inspection. The building inspector shall inspect a pre-owned manufactured home prior to its being relocated to or within the jurisdiction. A reasonable fee shall be assessed based on the cost of the inspection. If the home is located outside the county, at the building inspectors option, he may go to that location or require inspection by a local reputable inspector, in which case the applicant shall pay the actual cost of inspection. Upon receipt of a temporary permit, applicants may relocate the manufactured home on a residential site for the purposes of a final inspection. Applicant shall arrange for an inspection to be held once the final installation of the manufactured home is complete. The home must be built on a concrete block or similar foundation.
(3)
Certificate of occupancy. A certificate of occupancy shall be issued to the applicant at such time that the building inspector certifies that the requirements of this article have been met.
(4)
Fee. A permit and inspection fee as determined by the inspection department shall be charged to the applicant to cover the cost to the county to process the permit application and inspect the pre-owned manufactured home. Such fee shall cover the initial inspection and one follow-up inspection. The applicant shall be charged a fee as determined by the inspection department for each additional follow-up inspection that may be necessary.
(Ord. of 8-17-2010, § 3)
Sec. 46-34. - Minimum health and safety standards.
All pre-owned manufactured homes shall comply with the following before being issued a certificate of occupancy by the building inspector:
(a)
HUD Code: Every pre-owned manufactured home located in the jurisdiction shall be in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act, 41 U.S.C. 5401-5445 (the HUD Code) and shall not have been altered in such a way that the home no longer meets the HUD Code.
(b)
Interior condition. Every floor, interior wall, and ceiling of a pre-owned manufactured home shall be in sound condition, including painting if necessary. Doors and windows shall be operable, watertight and in good working condition. The floor system shall be in sound condition and free of warping, holes, water damage, or deterioration. It shall also have a floor covering that is in good condition.
(c)
Exterior condition. The exterior of all pre-owned manufactured homes shall be free of loose or rotting boards or timbers and any other conditions that might admit rain or moisture to the interior portions of the walls or to occupied spaces. The exterior siding shall be free of rot and rust. Roofs shall be structurally sound and have no obvious defects that might admit rain or cause moisture to collect on the interior portion of the home. The exterior appearance shall be similar to that of a new home and may require repair and or paint if not approved by the inspection department.
(d)
Sanitary facilities. Every plumbing fixture, water, and waste pipe of a pre-owned manufactured home shall be in a sanitary working condition when properly connected, and shall be free from leaks and obstructions. Each home shall contain a kitchen sink. Each bathroom shall contain a lavatory and water closet. At least one bathroom shall contain a tub and/or shower facilities. Each of these fixtures shall be checked upon being connected to ensure they are properly functioning and free from leaks or damage. Their appearance and function shall be such so as not to devalue the home.
(e)
Heating systems. Heating shall be safe and in working condition. Un-vented heaters shall be prohibited.
(f)
Electrical systems (switches, receptacles, fixtures, etc.) shall be properly installed and wired and shall be in working condition. Distribution panels shall be in compliance with the approved listing, complete with required breakers, with all unused openings covered with solid covers approved and listed for that purpose. The home shall be subject to an electrical continuity test to assure that all metallic parts are properly bonded. All interior branch circuit wiring must be copper and a home that has aluminum circuit feeders will not be considered for relocation.
(g)
Hot water supply. Each home shall contain a water heater in safe and working condition.
(h)
Egress windows. Each bedroom of a manufactured home shall have at least one operable window of sufficient size to allow egress if necessary.
(i)
Ventilation. The kitchen in the home shall have at least one operating window or other ventilation device.
(j)
Smoke detectors. Each pre-owned manufactured home shall contain one operable battery-powered smoke detector in each bedroom and in the kitchen, which must be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations.
(Ord. of 8-17-2010, § 4)
Sec. 46-35. - Enforcement.
(a)
Permanent connection to utilities shall not be approved until the building inspector has issued a preliminary certificate of occupancy. Final inspection and receipt of certificate of occupancy shall be approved once all utilities are hooked up and operating.
(b)
Owners of pre-owned manufactured homes that are not in compliance upon a third inspection shall have their permit revoked and shall be required to remove the home from the jurisdiction at their own expense.
(c)
The guarantee of condition bond or cash deposit will be forfeited after 90 days from the date of inspection, unless all conditions and standards are met prior to the end of the 90 days or an extension has been issued in writing by the building inspector.
(Ord. of 8-17-2010, § 5)
Sec. 46-36. - Penalties.
Failure to remove a pre-owned manufactured home from the jurisdiction upon failure to receive a certificate of occupancy shall be punishable by a fine of $500.00. Each week any violation under this article continues shall be considered a separate offense. Union County shall be allowed to place a lein on the property for the cost of said removal and destruction.
(Ord. of 8-17-2010, § 1)
