ARTICLE VI. - HOSPITAL AUTHORITY VACANCIES

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (6) ---
Editor's note—Printed herein is the 1985 Ga. Laws, page 4268, which provides for vacancies on the board of the Union County Hospital Authority. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Cross reference— Hospital authority, ch. 2, art. IV, div. 3.
State Law reference— Hospital authority created, O.C.G.A. § 31-7-72.
Section 1. - Appointments.
Appointments to fill vacancies for either an unexpired or full term on the board of trustees of the Union County Hospital Authority shall be filled as follows:
(a)
The governing authority of Union County shall fill such vacancies for four of the five members of said board of trustees by submitting to the board of the hospital authority a list of three eligible persons for each such vacancy. The board, at its next regular meeting, shall either select one of the three persons named in that list for each such vacancy or decline to select any of the persons named for any such vacancy in the list. If the board declines to select any of the persons named on the list for any such vacancy, it shall notify the governing authority. Upon receipt of notification that the board has declined to select any of the persons named in the governing authority's list for any such vacancy, the governing authority shall submit to the board of the hospital authority a second list of three eligible persons for that vacancy, no one of whom was named on the first list. The board, at its next regular meeting after receipt of the second list, shall select one of the persons named in the second list for that vacancy.
(b)
The fifth member of said board of trustees shall be appointed by the governing authority of the City of Blairsville. The member appointed by the governing authority of said city shall be the member whose regular term of office expires in a year different from any other member of the board of trustees. When a vacancy occurs in the membership position appointed by the governing authority of said city, the governing authority of that city shall submit to the board of the hospital authority a list of three eligible persons for the vacancy. The board, at its next regular meeting, shall either select one of the three persons named in that list or decline to select any of the persons named in the list. If the board declines to select any of the persons named in the list, it shall so notify the governing authority of that city. Upon receipt of notification that the board has declined to select any of the persons named in that governing authority's list, the governing authority shall submit to the board of the hospital authority a second list of three eligible persons, no one of whom was named on the first list. The board, at its next regular meeting after receipt of the second list, shall select one of the persons named in the second list.
(c)
Any appointment to fill a vacancy on the board under this section shall be for a term of six years and until a successor is appointed and qualified, unless the appointment is made to fill the vacancy for a reason other than the expiration of the term of office, and in that event the appointment shall be made to fill the vacancy until the expiration of the term of office and until a successor is appointed and qualified.
(1980 Ga. Laws, page 3557)
