ARTICLE XVIII. - ACCOUNTING, AUDITS, AND FINANCIAL REPORTING[3]

Sec. 2-486. - Basis of accounting.
(a)
The county shall use the modified accrual basis of accounting for all governmental fund types at the fund level. The county shall use the accrual method for all proprietary or fiduciary funds at the fund level.
(b)
At the entity-wide level the county shall aggregate the governmental fund information and report using the accrual basis of accounting.
(Code 2002, § 1-9-1)
Sec. 2-487. - Basic principles.
(a)
A qualified external auditor, in accordance with GA Code § 36-81-7, will perform an independent audit in compliance with generally accepted audit standards annually. This independent audit must be completed and mailed to the state auditor within 180 days of the end of the fiscal year.
(b)
The county health department and the development authority of the county shall be component units of the county government and reported as such on all government wide financial reports. The county will require audits of their records and the records of any subsequent component units in compliance with state law and generally accepted accounting procedures.
(c)
The county will endeavor to prepare a comprehensive annual financial report (CAFR) in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
(d)
The county will maintain accounting practices and an accounting system that are sufficient to enable the preparation and presentation of financial statements that conform to generally accepted accounting principles. The county has adopted and will maintain the Uniform Chart of Accounts for Local Governments in Georgia as approved and amended by the department of community affairs.
(e)
The county will maintain accurate records of all assets to insure a high degree of stewardship of public property.
(f)
The county will issue financial statements that conform to governmental generally accepted accounting principles.
(g)
The county will issue financial reports at the entity level utilizing major funds as defined in GASB 34. The auditors will also include original budget information in the comparison section of the financial reports.
(h)
The county will report at the government-wide level at a minimum with a statement of net assets and a statement of activities that will disclose the total of primary governmental revenue allocation to the governmental activities. The basis of accounting at the government wide level shall be by the accrual method. To project a true and accurate reflection of the county's financial health the county will insure that all long term assets and liabilities are accounted for in the government-wide financial statements.
(i)
The county will endeavor to include a management discussion and analysis with the audit.
(j)
The county will maintain an ongoing system of financial reporting to meet the needs of the board of commissioners, department heads, and the general public. Reporting systems will monitor the cost of providing services where possible. The reporting systems will promote budgetary control and comparative analysis.
(k)
The county will enter into multiyear agreements when obtaining the services of an independent auditor. Such multiyear agreements will be for periods of at least four years and consistent with applicable legal requirements. Every four years the county will issue a request for proposal to independent auditors to provide an audit for county operations. The current auditing firm will be eligible to propose on this audit. The audit procurement process should be structured so that the principal factor in the selection of an independent auditor is the auditor's ability to perform a quality audit. In no case shall price be the sole criterion for the selection of an auditor.
(Code 2002, § 1-9-2)
Secs. 2-488—2-512. - Reserved.
