Chapter 22 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 22-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin caused by enemy attack, sabotage, acts of domestic or international terrorism, civil disturbance, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, wave action, oil spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot or other hostile action, radiological action, or other causes. These functions include, without limitation, fire-fighting services; police services; emergency medical services; rescue; engineering; warning services; communications; defense from radiological, chemical, biological, and other special weapons to include weapons of mass destruction; evacuation of persons from stricken areas; emergency welfare services; consequence management functions to include victim services; emergency transportation; plant protection; temporary restoration of public utility services; and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
(Res. of 6-11-1990, § I)
State Law reference— Similar provision, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3.
Sec. 22-2. - Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, or any rule, order or regulation made pursuant to this chapter shall be, upon conviction, punished as provided in section 1-8 of this Code.
(Code 2002, § 9-1-1-8)
Secs. 22-3—22-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - AGENCY

Sec. 22-21. - Creation; membership; office.
An emergency management agency is created in and for the county. The office of the emergency management agency shall be the city fire department building.
(Code 2002, § 9-1-1-1)
State Law reference— Authority for establishment of local emergency management organization, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.
Sec. 22-22. - Director—Nomination.
The chairman of the board of commissioners, with concurrence of the mayors of the municipalities, shall nominate for appointment, by the governor, a director of emergency management for the entire county.
(Code 2002, § 9-1-1-2)
State Law reference— Authority for nomination of local director of emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.
Sec. 22-23. - Same—Powers and duties.
When appointed, the emergency management director is charged with the duties to:
(1)
Represent the governing officials of the county and cities in the county on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
Assist county and city officials in organizing county and city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
Develop, in conjunction with county and city departments, the county plans for emergency functions. Such plan will be in consonance with the state natural disaster operations plan and nuclear emergency operations plan and shall be submitted to the board of commissioners and the cities in the county for approval, and thence to the state emergency management agency for approval.
(4)
Maintain the emergency management agency and carry out the day-to-day administration for the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
Submit reports as required by governing officials in keeping with good management practices, e.g., financial, daily activity, etc.
(6)
Obtain, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the county emergency operating center.
(7)
Coordinate the activities of the county emergency operating center staff during periods of an emergency, and under the supervision of county governing officials.
(Code 2002, § 9-1-1-3)
Sec. 22-24. - Agency organization.
(a)
The county emergency management agency shall be established around existing county and city departments, and the emergency functions are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department/Agency Functions
(1) Chairman of the board of commissioners
County administrator
Mayors of cities Direction and control
(2) Sheriff's office
Police department Communications and warning
Evacuation
Police services
(3) Emergency management agency Public information
State military support
Training
Preliminary damage
Assessment and reporting
Public property assistance
Attack preparedness
Specific hazards
(4) Fire department Search, rescue and recovery
Fire services
Hazardous materials
Radiological protection
(5) Public works Engineering
Petroleum and solid fuel
Services, utilities
(6) School superintendent Transportation services
Food services
(7) Health department Health and medical services
(8) County administrator's office Administrative services
Resources management
(9) Department of family and children services Social services
Shelter and temporary housing
  (b)
Heads of departments listed above are responsible for developing appropriate annexes to the local emergency operations plan (EOP) for their assigned emergency functions. Such annexes will be submitted to the emergency management director for inclusion in the local EOP for submission to the appropriate local official for approval.
(Code 2002, § 9-1-1-5)
Sec. 22-25. - Powers during an emergency or disaster.
Upon a manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States, or any other emergency that may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the county, the chairman of the board of commissioners or the county administrator, jointly with the mayors of the affected cities, or in their absences their legally appointed successors to be named, may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such emergency or disaster exists or continues, the following powers:
(1)
Enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management, and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources.
(2)
Seize or take for temporary use any private property for the protection of the public.
(3)
Sell, lend, give or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county and to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies.
(4)
Perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
(Code 2002, § 9-1-1-6)
State Law reference— Powers of local governing bodies during state of emergency or disaster, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-54.
Sec. 22-26. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the county and cities in the county, performing emergency functions pursuant to this article shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as county and city officers and employees.
(Code 2002, § 9-1-1-7)
State Law reference— Rights, privileges, and immunities of emergency aid workers, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-30.
Secs. 22-27—22-55. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - STATE OF EMERGENCY OR DISASTER

Sec. 22-56. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Curfew means a regulation requiring the withdrawal of any person not otherwise exempt from this article from appearing in certain public areas during specified hours.
Exempt individuals, unless otherwise specified in the resolution implementing the curfew, means those individuals engaged in the provision of designated, essential services, such as fire, law enforcement, emergency medical services and hospital services, military services, utility emergency repairs. The resolution may, in the discretion of the board of commissioners, also exempt regular employees of local industries traveling to and from their jobs with appropriate identification, news media employees, building and repair contractors performing activities related to construction, repair, renovation or improvement of buildings and other structures damaged during the disaster or emergency.
State of emergency means a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster, emergency, or energy emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period means the period of time that the disaster or emergency continues to cause disruptions in the area by the disaster or emergency. The "subsequent recovery period" shall not exceed six months after the state of emergency declaration by the governor is terminated unless extended by official action of the board of commissioners.
(Code 2002, §§ 9-2-1-1, 9-2-3-1)
Sec. 22-57. - Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this article, or any rule, order or regulation made pursuant to this article shall be, upon conviction, punishable as provided in section 1-8 of this Code.
(Code 2002, § 9-2-5)
Sec. 22-58. - Overcharging prohibited.
In order to preserve, protect, or sustain the life, health, or safety of persons or their property, it shall be unlawful during the duration of a state of emergency, or subsequent recovery period in which the county has been designated as a disaster area, for any person located or doing business in the county to overcharge for any goods, materials, services or housing sold within the county.
(Code 2002, § 9-2-1-2)
Sec. 22-59. - Unlawful acts.
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any of the following acts during an emergency:
(1)
To willfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the emergency management corps in the enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation issued pursuant to this article or in the performance of any duty imposed by virtue of this article.
(2)
To do any act forbidden by any lawful rules or regulations issued pursuant to this article if such act is of such a nature as to give assistance to the enemy, imperil the life or property of any inhabitant of this county, or prevent, hinder or delay the defense or protection of this county.
(3)
To wear, carry or display, without authority, any mark or identification specified by the emergency management agency.
(Code 2002, § 9-2-1-3)
State Law reference— Authority for local rules and regulations for emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-28.
Sec. 22-60. - Meetings of board of county commissioners.
Upon proclamation by the appropriate state official of an emergency or disaster of manmade or natural causes or enemy attack impending on or affecting the state or the United States, the affairs and business of the county may be conducted at places other than the regular or usual place thereof, within or outside of the county, when it is not prudent, expedient or possible to conduct business at the regular location. When such meetings occur outside of the county, all actions taken by the board of commissioners shall be as valid and binding as if performed within the county. The presiding officer or any two members of the board of commissioners without regard to or compliance with time-consuming procedures and formalities otherwise required by law may call such meetings.
(Code 2002, § 9-2-2-1)
State Law reference— Operation of local governing authority during emergencies, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-54.
Sec. 22-61. - Purchasing and public works contracts.
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the board of commissioners, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the board of commissioners, its designee or the emergency interim successor may contract for public works without letting such contract out to the lowest, responsible bidder and without advertising and posting notification of such contract for four weeks; however, any public works contract entered into pursuant to this section shall be entered on the minutes of the county as soon as practical and the nature of the emergency described therein.
(Code 2002, § 9-2-2-2)
Sec. 22-62. - Code enforcement.
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the board of commissioners, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the board of commissioners, its designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily suspend the enforcement of the county Code, or any portion thereof, where:
(1)
The emergency or disaster is of such nature that immediate action outside the Code is required;
(2)
Such suspension is consistent with the protection of the public health, safety and welfare; and
(3)
Such suspension is not inconsistent with any federal or state statutes or regulations.
(Code 2002, § 9-2-2-3)
Sec. 22-63. - Temporary dwellings.
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the board of commissioners, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the board of commissioners, its designee or the emergency interim successor may issue temporary mobile home, trailer, recreational vehicle or other temporary dwelling structures or parks in any zoning district while the primary dwelling is being repaired provided that such temporary dwellings or parks are designed by an engineer and the plans are approved by the county health department and building and inspections department. The temporary permit shall not exceed six months in duration. In the case of continuing hardship and in the discretion of the board of commissioners or its designee, the permit may be extended for an additional six months. Upon expiration of the temporary permit or an extension, the temporary dwelling shall be removed.
(Code 2002, § 9-2-2-4)
Sec. 22-64. - Curfew.
(a)
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the board of commissioners, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the board of commissioners, its designee or the emergency interim successor may adopt a resolution instituting a curfew when it is determined necessary to protect and safeguard the people and the property of the county.
(b)
All of the territory of the unincorporated county shall be subject to the terms of the curfew, unless otherwise specified in the resolution.
(c)
The resolution instituting the curfew shall include the dates and hours that the curfew shall be in effect.
(Code 2002, § 9-2-3-2)
Sec. 22-65. - Prohibition of appearance in public places.
It shall be prohibited for any person, other than exempt individuals, to appear in public in the territory subject to the curfew including, not limited to, streets, highways, alleys, sidewalks, vacant lots, parks, public buildings or any other public places in all or a delineated part of the unincorporated county during the stated hours of the curfew.
(Code 2002, § 9-2-3-3)
Sec. 22-66. - County operations.
To promote civil stability and to provide basic services to the county in the case of emergencies or hazardous inclement weather it is essential that the county be able to maintain an adequate workforce. The provisions of sections 22-67 and 22-68 shall guide the conduct of county employees in the event of an emergency or a hazardous inclement weather situation.
(Code 2002, § 9-2-4)
Sec. 22-67. - Essential employees.
All essential employees engaged in the protection of citizens and emergency services shall be required to report to work at their regular shift unless called in early by their immediate supervisor, the county administrator or the emergency management director. Essential officers and employees are defined as the county administrator, constitutional officers, EMA director, sheriff, deputies and dispatchers, emergency medical service providers, road department employees and code enforcement personnel.
(Code 2002, § 9-2-4-1)
Sec. 22-68. - Nonessential employees.
(a)
The chairman of the county commission or the county administrator, in consultation with the EMA director, the road superintendent and the sheriff, shall decide whether to open the courthouse and other county work facilities. It shall be his responsibility to notify the constitutional officers if the courthouse is to be closed. If the courthouse is open, all employees in all offices are expected to report for their assigned shift. If the courthouse is not opened for business at the regular opening hour of 8:30 a.m., all employees are required to check in with the courthouse periodically for updates. Employees will not be paid for regular hours that the courthouse is not in operation.
(b)
Any employee not able to report for their assigned shift may take annual leave for those hours. If an employee reports for work and is then sent home by the closing of the courthouse the employee will be paid for the remainder of the day. The chairman of the county commission or the county administrator shall make the decision to close the courthouse. All decisions regarding the pay of employee fall under the fiscal responsibility and control of the county commissioners.
(Code 2002, § 9-2-4-2)
Secs. 22-69—22-94. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - EMERGENCY AND DISASTER MUTUAL AID

Sec. 22-95. - Creation.
The county commission, and the Participating Georgia Emergency Management Agency (GEMA) Area Three Counties, (GEMA Administrative Area Map) have, by agreement, adopted this Emergency and Disaster Mutual Aid Agreement.
Editor's note— The GEMA Administrative Area Map is not included herein but is on file at the office of the county administrator.
State Law reference— Authority for local mutual aid arrangements for emergencies and disasters, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-29.
Sec. 22-96. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Agreement means the Emergency and Disaster Mutual Aid Agreement.
Assisting county means the participating county furnishing equipment, services, personnel, or other aid pursuant to this article.
Disaster means any natural, technological, civil emergency or threat thereof that causes damage or has the potential to cause damage of sufficient severity and magnitude to result in a declaration of a state of emergency declared by a county, the governor, or the President of the United States.
Emergency means any occurrence, or threat thereof, whether natural, or caused by man, in war or in peace, which results or may result in substantial injury or harm to the population or substantial damage to or loss of property.
Emergency management director means the person appointed by the county governing authority to implement the emergency plan of the county.
Employees means paid, volunteer, and auxiliary employees and emergency management workers.
Participating county means a county that has duly enacted this article.
Receiving county means the participating county requesting equipment, services, personnel, or other aid pursuant to this article.
(Ord. of 11-10-1997, § 1)
Sec. 22-97. - Sunset provision.
This agreement shall be automatically renewed each year; provided, however, that at the first regularly scheduled meeting of the county governing authority, said authority may vote to modify or terminate this article.
(Ord. of 11-10-1997, § 2)
Sec. 22-98. - Basic agreement; limitations.
(a)
Any participating county requested to render mutual aid or exercises and training for mutual aid pursuant to this article shall take such action as is necessary to provide and make available the resources covered by this article in accordance with the terms hereof; provided; however that the assisting county may withhold or withdraw those resources necessary to provide protection for such county. A request for aid may be denied if to send emergency personnel beyond its boundaries would leave a jurisdiction without sufficient personnel available within its limits for service at any incident that might subsequently arise therein.
(b)
Any participating county agrees that under extraordinary circumstances, it may provide assistance beyond the jurisdiction of the named parties to this article.
(Ord. of 11-10-1997, § 3)
Sec. 22-99. - Procedure.
(a)
In the event of any emergency or disaster as defined above in this article, the emergency management director of any participating county or the designee of the county governing authority may request assistance of another participating county by contacting the emergency management director or the designee of the governing authority of that county.
(b)
The provision of this article shall only apply to requests for assistance made by and to official emergency management directors or the designees of the county governing authority. Requests may be verbal or in writing. If verbal, the request shall be confirmed in writing within ten days of the verbal request. At the time a request is made for aid under this article, written notification of such request shall be forwarded to the state emergency management agency.
(Ord. of 11-10-1997, § 4)
Sec. 22-100. - Rights and duties; control.
(a)
Whenever the employees of any political subdivision are rendering aid to another city or county, the employees shall have the same powers, duties, rights, privileges, and immunities as if they were performing their duties in the political subdivisions in which they are normally employed.
(b)
Further, each receiving county shall afford to the employees of any other city or county, while operating within its jurisdiction under the terms and conditions of this article, the same powers (except that of arrest, unless specifically authorized by the receiving county), duties, rights, privileges, and immunities as are afforded employees of the receiving county in which they are performing emergency services.
(c)
Employees of the assisting county will continue under the command and control of their regular leaders, but the organizational units will come under the operational control of the emergency services authorities of the receiving county unless the receiving county relinquishes such control.
(Ord. of 11-10-1997, § 5)
State Law reference— Similar provision, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-30.
Sec. 22-101. - Licenses and permits.
Whenever any person holds a license, certificate, or other permit issued by the state or at the local level evidencing the meeting of qualifications for professional, mechanical, or other skills, such person may be permitted by the receiving county to render aid involving such skill in any other participating county to meet an emergency or disaster situation.
(Ord. of 11-10-1997, § 6)
Sec. 22-102. - Compensation.
Each participating county shall provide for the payment of compensation and death benefits to injured employees of that county and the representatives of deceased employees in case such employees sustain injuries or are killed while rendering aid pursuant to this article, in the same manner and on the same terms as if the injury or death were sustained within their own county.
(Ord. of 11-10-1997, § 7)
Sec. 22-103. - Payment and reimbursement; liability.
Unless otherwise agreed, the receiving county shall pay and reimburse the assisting county for the compensation paid to its employees during the time and rendition of the aid and shall defray the actual traveling and maintenance expenses of the employees while they are rendering the aid. The reimbursement shall include any amounts paid or due for compensation due to personal injury or death while the employees were engaged in rendering the aid. The receiving county shall also be liable for any loss or damage to equipment used in the receiving county pursuant to this article and shall pay any expense incurred in the operation or maintenance thereof. No claim for the loss of, damage to or expense of such equipment shall be allowed unless, within 60 days after the same is sustained or incurred, an itemized notice of the claim under oath is served by mail or otherwise upon the chief fiscal officer of the receiving count. Failure to notify GEMA of a request for aid, as reset out in section 22-99 of this article, may result in a delay of processing reimbursement.
(Ord. of 11-10-1997, § 8)
Sec. 22-104. - Termination of agreement.
All parties have retained the right to withdraw from this mutual aid agreement by giving 30 days notice in writing to the other party.
(Ord. of 11-10-1997, § 10)
Secs. 22-105—22-123. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - EMERGENCY 911 TELEPHONE SERVICE[1]

Sec. 22-124. - Purpose and intent.
The county board of commissioners endorses the concept of a countywide 911 emergency telephone service and is committed to the eventual implementation of such a program on the earliest date feasible for completion of such service.
(Res. of 12-14-1998)
Sec. 22-125. - Advisory board.
The county board of commissioners has created a 911 advisory board to assist the board in:
(1)
Reviewing and analyzing the progress by public safety agencies in developing 911 system requirements;
(2)
Recommending steps of action to effect the necessary coordination, regulation, and development of a 911 system;
(3)
Identifying mutual aid agreements necessary to affect the 911 system;
(4)
Assisting in the promulgation of necessary rules, regulation, operating procedures, schedules, and other such policy and administrative devices as shall be deemed necessary and appropriate; and
(5)
Providing other services as may be deemed appropriate by the board of commissioners.
Sec. 22-126. - Members of advisory board.
The advisory board shall consist of the sheriff of the county, the chief of police of the city, the EMA director, the EMS director, the county fire chief, mayor of the city, county administrator and other individuals knowledgeable of emergency 911 systems and the emergency needs of the citizens of the county.
(Res. of 12-14-1998)
Sec. 22-127. - Imposing a 911 charge on prepaid wireless service.
(a)
911 charge on prepaid wireless transactions. In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2, there is hereby imposed a prepaid wireless 911 charge as defined by O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2(a)(4) upon every prepaid wireless retail transaction occurring within the jurisdiction of the public service answering point in the amount of $0.75.
(b)
Collection of 911 charge on prepaid wireless transactions. Prepaid wireless 911 charges collected by sellers shall be remitted to the Commissioner of the Department of Revenue at the times and in the manner provided by Chapter 8 of Title 48 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated with respect to the sales and use tax imposed on prepaid wireless calling service.
(c)
Administrative provisions. The clerk of the county is hereby directed to file with the State Revenue Commissioner a certified copy of this section and amendments thereto, in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2(j)(1), within ten days of enactment of this section.
(d)
Depositing of funds; use of funds. In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2(j)(5), funds received by this county from charges imposed by this section shall be deposited in the emergency telephone system fund maintained by this county pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134 and kept separate from general revenue of the jurisdiction; all such funds shall be used exclusively for the purposes authorized by O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134(f).
(Ord. of 11-14-2011(1), §§ 1—4)
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted Nov. 14, 2011(1), added provisions that were not specifically amendatory. At the editor's discretion, said provisions were included as § 22-127.
Secs. 22-128—22-150. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES

Sec. 22-151. - Rules and regulations.
The following rules and regulations shall apply to all emergency medical services personnel:
(1)
All personnel will report to work neat, clean and in full uniform at 0700 hours. The person on-call is expected to be available to respond at 0700 hours to replace the previous employee on-call.
(2)
No person will leave a shift until he/she is relieved by a member of an oncoming crew.
(3)
Each duty crew will perform a daily check of the ALS units, BLS units, fire truck and rescue vehicle.
(4)
An EMS unit will not run with a known defect until the director or his/her designee is notified.
(5)
All equipment and supplies will be replaced/cleaned on the immediate completion of every run.
(6)
All duties will be completed as early as possible in the day.
(7)
Each crew will check the bulletin board, notebook and shift logs for duties, notices and memos each day.
(8)
Each employee will be responsible for maintaining all certification as required for employment.
(9)
No employee shall discuss any business or ambulance call with anyone outside of the service. All requests shall be referred to the director.
(10)
Persons requesting leave will obtain the services of a parttime person at their same level of training and shall have that person sign a form acknowledging their willingness to cover the shift. No employee will take time off without the approval of the director.
(11)
Any employee approached by an attorney or news media concerning any call will notify the director immediately.
(12)
Only employees, police, deputies and first responders will be allowed to drive an ambulance.
(13)
All persons riding in any EMS vehicle will wear seat belts at all times. The only exception will be the paramedic/EMT providing patient care in route to the hospital.
(14)
Only employees, police, deputies and first responders needed to care for a patient will be allowed to ride in the rear of an ambulance. The only exception will be in the care of a child.
(15)
One family member may be allowed to ride in the front of an ambulance.
(16)
No AM/FM cassette radio will be played at a level that can be heard outside the ambulance.
(17)
The duty crew will stay in continual contact with dispatch any time they are not at the station.
(18)
Ambulance personnel will not engage in any activity that could be interpreted or constructed to be or leading to sexual activity of any shape, form or fashion. This includes any immoral, unethical, unprofessional or socially unacceptable activity while on duty. Engagement in any of the aforementioned activity will result in immediate termination of all persons involved.
(19)
Persons not employed by the county EMS will not be allowed in the crew quarters after 2200 hours, except with the crew's approval.
(20)
No purchases will be made by anyone without approval of the director.
(21)
There will be no smoking in the crew's quarters or in an ambulance transporting a patient.
(22)
Employees will not be involved in anything that may bring disgrace or bad publicity to the county EMS while on or off duty.
(23)
Tardiness or habitual absenteeism in reporting to work will not be tolerated.
(24)
No person is to operate any county EMS vehicle in violation of any state or local law. No unit shall exceed the speed limit by more than ten miles per hour unless the lights and sirens are in operation.
(25)
All county EMS vehicles will come to a complete stop at all red lights and proceed only when it is safe to do so.
(26)
At no time will a vehicle run 10-18 except in an emergency situation.
(27)
All ambulances will be cleaned inside and out before leaving the shift. Units will be washed each shift, if used.
(28)
Crew quarters will be cleaned, vacuumed, swept and trash taken out at the end of each shift. Kitchen will be cleaned and dishes put away.
(29)
All employees will maintain a telephone during employment.
(30)
All employees will maintain a current class C driver's license and will notify the director of any suspension, revocation or expiration immediately.
(31)
An employee will notify the director upon being charged with any offense by state or local officials.
(32)
No employee will have any form of drugs or alcohol on EMS premises without a prescription for same and it will be in the original container with name of drug and dosage shown.
(33)
Calls to dispatch times will be no longer than three minutes day or night.
(34)
Each employee on a call is responsible for the completed DHR, bill, signatures and copies of insurance cards, hospital information and transported information.
(35)
No weapons of any kind shall be allowed in crew's quarters or other property of the county EMS.
(36)
The director will be notified immediately when a vehicle of the county EMS is involved in an accident.
(37)
No employee will work overtime without the approval of the director.
(38)
Ambulances will be plugged into shorelines and heaters connected at any time the temperature is below 50 degrees.
(39)
Persons will not charge phone calls to the county. Any call made and not authorized will be paid by the person making the calls.
(40)
Persons who willfully destroy, deface or sabotage any county equipment will be required to reimburse the county for replacement. Persons may be suspended or terminated.
(41)
Persons stealing from the county will be required to reimburse the county for same. Persons will be suspended or terminated.
(42)
Employees will attend all in service and staff meetings as required by the director.
(43)
No person will falsify any report required by the county EMS or DHR for any reason.
(44)
No person employed by the county EMS will accept any gratuity for any service rendered.
(45)
Employees of the county EMS will not mistreat, abuse, neglect, abandon or withhold treatment from any patient.
Sec. 22-152. - Dress code.
(a)
All employees will report to work in the following uniform:
(1)
Gray, short-sleeve uniform shirt;
(2)
Black or dark trousers;
(3)
Black belt;
(4)
Black shoes;
(5)
Navy or black flight jacket;
(6)
Blue EMS or solid color tee-shirt; and
(7)
Silver EMT, CT or EMT-P collar brass worn at an angle across the point of the collar. The director will wear gold brass.
Uniforms will be clean, pressed and free from soil and tears. Any missing or malfunctioning fasteners will be replaced.
(b)
The on-call person may wear a jumpsuit while responding on a call. The jumpsuit will be navy or black.
(c)
Hair will be neatly trimmed at all times.
(d)
Excessive jewelry will not be worn. A simple chain may be worn, but not outside the shirt. One wedding set on one hand and a class ring, or other professional ring may be worn on the other hand. A watch may be worn on the arm. Stud-type earrings may be worn.
(e)
Certification pins may be worn in the pocket flaps of the shirt.
(f)
Radical clothing and hairstyles will not be worn.
(g)
Appropriate uniform shirts:
(1)
Dress grey uniform shirts will be worn October 1 through March 31.
(2)
Golf shirts will be worn from April 1 through September 30.
(3)
Jumpsuits may be worn after 7:00 p.m. on weekdays and all shifts on Saturday and Sunday.
Sec. 22-153. - School tuition policy.
The county will pay an amount determined, from time to time, by the board of commissions toward paramedic school for employees at the county emergency medical services (EMS). These students will sign a contract agreeing to work for the county EMS while in school and for one year after they become a paramedic or they will have to pay the cost of school back to the county.
(Res. of 7-12-1999)
Secs. 22-154—22-170. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - ENHANCED 911 ADDRESSING ORDINANCE[2]

Sec. 22-171. - Enactment and short title.
The Board of County Commissioners of Johnson County, Georgia, hereby enacts and adopts the following article, which shall be known and cited as the "Johnson County Enhanced 911 Addressing Ordinance".
(Ord. of 11-14-2011(2), § 1)
Sec. 22-172. - Definitions.
[The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:]
Board of commissioners means the Board of County Commissioners of Johnson County.
County means Johnson County, Georgia.
(Ord. of 11-14-2011(2), § 2)
Sec. 22-173. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to improve the Johnson County E-911/Emergency Communication System and to provide for a uniform county-wide address system with respect to street or house numbers assigned to all residences and principal buildings and businesses within the county. This will assist fire and rescue companies/agencies, law enforcement agencies, the United States Postal Service, parcel delivery companies, utility companies, tax appraisal, public works, planning and the general public in the timely and efficient provision of services to residents and businesses in Johnson County, Georgia.
(Ord. of 11-14-2011(2), § 3)
Sec. 22-174. - Display required.
Every location furnished with a 911 address outside of any incorporated area must display that address so that it is visible from the public roadway. Mobile home parks and apartment complexes, including duplex dwelling structures, shall also be required to have each individual pad, lot number, or apartment number displayed in a readily visible manner and in compliance with the requirements of this article. Such lot, pad, or apartment numbers shall be in sequence unless directional signs are provided for numbers not in sequence.
(Ord. of 11-14-2011(2), § 4)
Sec. 22-175. - Method of display.
Assigned 911 address numbers may be fixed to the house, apartment, business, or other location provided that such house, apartment, business, or other location is not more than 40 feet from the center line of the roadway or the road or street in front of such location, and the number must be readily visible from the street or road by persons traveling along the street or road in each direction. 911 address numbers may also be placed on mailboxes or signs located on the premises in front of the location, as long as the mailboxes or signs are on the same side of the road as the house, apartment, business, or other building or location. If the addresses or numbers are displayed on signs, such signs must be of a durable type and must be located not more than ten feet from the center line of the street or road in front of the property. The numbers on such signs shall be readily visible from the street by persons traveling along the street in each direction. If on mailboxes, the address must be located within ten feet of the access from the public road and shall be displayed on both sides of the mailbox.
If the house, business, apartment, or other building or location to be numbered is more than 40 feet from the centerline of the street or roadway in front of the property, or for any reason a street address number affixed to the location would not be readily visible from the street or roadway by persons traveling along the street or roadway in each direction, then the 911 address numbers shall be displayed on a sign or mailbox in the premises next to the public roadway in front of the structure, and complying with the requirements of this section.
(Ord. of 11-14-2011(2), § 5)
Sec. 22-176. - Size and condition of addresses.
Assigned 911 addressed numbers and/or characters shall be a minimum of three inches in height and one and one-half inches in width. Address numbers and characters for businesses shall be a minimum of four inches in height and two inches in width. All numbers or characters shall be reflective on a contrasting background so as to be clearly visible. It is recommended to use white reflective numbers and/or characters on a green or blue background.
(Ord. of 11-14-2011(2), § 6)
Sec. 22-177. - Proper maintenance.
It shall be the responsibility of each property owner to properly maintain their 911 address sign. Tall grass or bushes are to be kept cut and/or trimmed so as not to obstruct the signs. Also, any faded or missing characters and/or numbers shall be replaced so that the location may be located easily and at all times by emergency personnel.
(Ord. of 11-14-2011(2), § 7)
Sec. 22-178. - Duty of owner; notification; and enforcement.
The obligation of complying with the provisions of this article shall be upon the owner of the property. Failure to comply shall constitute a violation of this article. Upon such violation, notice shall be given to the owner of the property, or his agent, by mailing to his last known address of record, specifying the nature of such violation and requiring that such violation be remedied and brought into compliance within ten days after receipt of such notice. Notification shall be made by the designated code enforcement officer and/or the Johnson County Sheriff's Office.
Any property owner who does not comply with this article shall be in violation of this article and said violation shall result in a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 plus the cost of enforcement and prosecution. Said prosecution will be pursued through the Magistrate Court of Johnson County, Georgia. The designated code enforcement officer and/or the Johnson County Sheriff's Office shall be responsible for enforcement of this provision. Warnings shall be issued for the first violation during the one year period following adoption of this article. Penalties shall be imposed for any violation following a warning or any violation occurring in the second or subsequent years.
It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, damage, alter, or deface any posted 911 Address Sign in Johnson County. Violators shall be subject to prosecution. Upon conviction, the violator will be liable for a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 plus the cost of enforcement and prosecution. Said prosecution shall be pursued through the Magistrate Court of Johnson County.
(Ord. of 11-14-2011(2), § 8)
