Chapter 18 - BUSINESSES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 18-1—18-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DEPOSITORY FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

Sec. 18-19. - Business license tax.
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93, there is hereby levied an annual business license tax upon all depository financial institutions located within the county at a rate of 0.25 percent of the gross receipts of said depository financial institutions.
(Res. of 12-31-1983, § 1)
Sec. 18-20. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Bank means any financial institution chartered under the laws of any state or under the laws of the United States which is authorized to receive deposits in this state and which has a corporate structure authorizing the issuance of capital stock.
Depository financial institution means a bank or a savings and loan association.
Gross receipts means gross receipts as defined in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-95.
Savings and loan association means any financial institution, other than a credit union, chartered under the laws of any state or under the laws of the United States which is authorized to receive deposits in this state and which has a mutual corporate form.
(Res. of 12-31-1983, § 1)
Sec. 18-21. - Minimum tax.
The minimum annual amount of business license tax due from any depository financial institution pursuant to this article shall be $1,000.00.
(Res. of 12-31-1983, § 2)
State Law reference— Authority to provide minimum annual amount of tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
Sec. 18-22. - Filing of return.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93, each depository financial institution subject to this tax shall file a return of its gross receipts with the board of commissioners of the county on March 1 of the year following the year in which such gross receipts are measured. The return shall be in the manner and in the form prescribed by the commissioner of the department of revenue based on the allocation method set forth in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93. The board of commissioners of the county shall assess and collect the tax levied pursuant to this resolution based upon the information provided in said return.
(Res. of 12-31-1983, § 3)
Sec. 18-23. - Due date of taxes.
Taxes levied pursuant to this resolution shall be due no later than 30 days after filing of the return prescribed by this article unless extended by the board of commissioners.
(Res. of 12-31-1983, § 4)
Sec. 18-24. - Administrative provisions
The county administrator is hereby directed to forward a copy of this resolution to each depository financial institution in the county and to the home office of each such depository financial institution if located outside the county.
(Res. of 12-31-1983, § 5)
Secs. 18-25—18-51. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - USED MOTOR VEHICLE YARD

Sec. 18-52. - Annual license fee.
There is imposed an annual licensing fee on each used motor vehicle yard operating with the unincorporated areas of the county, in an amount established by the board of commissioners.
State Law reference— Authority for local regulatory fees on certain businesses, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-8; limitations on local regulatory fees, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9.
(Res. of 6-8-1993)
Secs. 18-53—18-77. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - TIMBER HARVESTING

Sec. 18-78. - Purpose and intent.
The purpose of this article is to ensure the proper notification to authorities of all timber harvesting in unincorporated the county, to provide for the protection and maintenance of the county owned roads and rights-of-way, and to provide for the requirement of a surety bond or irrevocable letter of credit to protect the county against any loss or damages to county property resulting from said timber harvesting.
(Ord. of 8-26-2002(1); Ord. of 12-13-2005)
State Law reference— Authority of local government to require notice and bonds or letters of credit regarding timber harvesting operations, O.C.G.A. § 12-6-24 et seq.
Sec. 18-79. - Violations and penalties.
Violation of the notice requirements of this article shall be prosecuted in the magistrate court of the county and upon conviction the violator shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500.00 per violation. All other violations of this article shall subject the violator to penalties as set forth in section 1-8 of this Code. Each day of operation without sufficient and legal notice or without a surety bond or letter of credit shall constitute a new and separate violation of this article.
(Ord. of 8-26-2002(1); Ord. of 12-13-2005)
Sec. 18-80. - Notification requirements and bonds.
(a)
All persons or firms harvesting standing timber in any unincorporated area of the county for delivery as pulpwood, logs, poles, post or wood chips to any wood yard or processing plant located in the county or inside or outside of the state must provide notice of such harvesting to the county commissioners or the designated agent thereof prior to cutting any such timber. Prior written notice is required of any person or firm for each separate tract harvested. Any tract or parcel of timber of sufficient size to require a separate pair of ingress and egress points over a county-owned right-of-way shall require a separate notice.
(b)
The written notice shall be upon a form designed and provided by the governing authority of the county and shall consist of:
(1)
A map of the area that identifies the location of the tract to be harvested and, as to those trucks that will be traveling to and from such tract for purposes of picking up and hauling loads of cut forest products, the main point of ingress to such tract from a public road and, if different, the main point of egress from such tract to a public road;
(2)
A statement as to whether the timber will be removed pursuant to a lump sum sale, per unit sale, or owner harvest for purposes of ad valorem taxation under O.C.G.A. § 48-5-7.5;
(3)
The name, address, and daytime telephone number of the timber seller if the harvest is pursuant to a lump sum or per unit sale or of the timber owner if the harvest is an owner harvest; and
(4)
The name, business address, business telephone number, and nighttime or emergency telephone number of the person or firm harvesting said timber.
(c)
All points of ingress and egress are subject to the approval of the county road department.
(d)
Each notice of intent to harvest shall not be or remain in effect for such harvesting operations unless and until the person or firm providing such notice has delivered to the office of the county commissioners a surety bond in the amount of $5,000.00 executed by a surety company licensed to do business within the state or, at the option of the person or firm harvesting timber, a valid and irrevocable letter of credit issued by a bank or savings and loan association in the amount of $5,000.00.
(e)
The bond shall protect the county against any damage caused by such person or firm, tendering the surety bond or letter of credit, or any agent, employee or contractor or said person or firm and will be used to reimburse the county for any cost incurred to repair the county right-of-way, to reditch or repair existing ditch structure or for the removal of any harvesting residue to include but not limited to tree tops, debris, logs, pulpwood and other materials placed in or around said rights-of-way. The bond shall also be used to offset any cost to maintain or repair county roads damaged by ingress or egress of trucks engaged in said harvesting operation.
(f)
The county road supervisor shall be responsible for the determination of damages or losses. The company responsible for operations under the timber notification will be given notice of the damage and allowed 72 hours to restore the road to a safe and operable condition as determined by the road supervisor and the road commissioner.
(g)
All repairs, material used and final releasing condition shall be approved and accepted by the road supervisor and road commissioner. The timber operator shall be responsible for any cost associated with signing, closing or the use of safety equipment required during that 72 hour period.
(h)
If a surety bond or letter of credit is held, claimed against or forfeited for any amount to reimburse the county for such damages then any notice that is dependent on said bond shall not be, or remain, in effect for such harvesting operations unless and until the person or firm shall cause to be delivered to the county a separate surety bond or letter of credit in the amount of $5,000.00.
(i)
For purposes of this section, any such surety bond or letter of credit shall be valid only for the calendar year in which delivered.
(j)
Notice shall be effective for such harvesting operation on such tract within such unincorporated area of the county upon receipt of the same by the governing authority of the county or its designated agent and upon compliance with the requirements of this section and at a time when posted with a laminated copy of said notice signed by the code enforcement officer of the county and posted at the harvesting site and until said time that the harvester gives notice as to the completion of said harvest to the governing authority of the county. Any material change in information provided on said notice must be submitted to the governing authority within three business days.
(k)
The surety bond or letter of credit shall be released by the governing authority of the county upon notification of completion by the person or firm harvesting said tract and only upon final inspection of the harvesting site, points of ingress and egress, all affected rights-of-way and county roads leading to and from the harvesting site by the county code enforcement officer and if necessary by the superintendent of the road department of the county. The surety bond or letter of credit may be retained against future or continuing operations by the company in the county.
(l)
Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as a requirement of any persons or firms harvesting standing timber in any unincorporated area of the county for delivery as pulpwood, logs, poles, post or wood chips to any wood yard or processing plant located in the county or inside or outside of the state to obtain a permit before commencing said harvesting operation.
(Ord. of 8-26-2002(1); Ord. of 12-13-2005)
Sec. 18-81. - Driveways.
(a)
Pursuant to the right of the county to protect all county owned rights-of-way, ditches, drainage pipes, county roads, and county streets under its jurisdiction, if any logging operation or timber harvesting site needs to cross ditches or shoulders of roads to have ingress or egress to the harvesting site and where in the judgment of the supervisor of the county road department a temporary driveway is required to protect county owned rights-of-way, ditches, drainage pipes, county roads, or county streets under its jurisdiction, such driveway must be installed before harvesting operations can commence.
(b)
The harvester can at his option install such a temporary driveway with a drainage pipe of appropriate specifications or request the county to install said driveway at the expense of the harvester.
(c)
The minimum width of any driveway installed, in furtherance of this section, shall be 40 feet. This section shall be construed to convey on the county the power and duty to restrict the access of timber or other commercial vehicles to county rights-of-way at such times when access by those vehicles may cause damage to the county road system.
(Ord. of 8-26-2002(1); Ord. of 12-13-2005)
Sec. 18-82. - Enforcement and jurisdiction.
(a)
Enforcement of this article shall be the responsibility of the code enforcement officer of the county or their designee. All violations will be under the jurisdiction of the magistrate court of the county.
(b)
The county reserves the right to pursue any civil remedies for damages in excess of said surety bond or letter of credit or to institute an action for injunction or mandamus to prevent any unlawful act or to correct or abate a violation of this article.
(Ord. of 8-26-2002(1); Ord. of 12-13-2005)
