Chapter 94 - VEHICLES FOR HIRE[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL[2]

Sec. 94-1. - Reserved rights.
All licenses and permits granted under this chapter shall be subject to the right of the city to make or adopt any further ordinance, resolution and regulation further regulating and governing the operation of public vehicles for hire, or prescribing other regulations, or changing, modifying or withdrawing, in whole or in part, the approval of any right for the operation of such vehicles, as may, in the judgment of the mayor and city council, be consistent and in the best interest of the public welfare.
(Code 1982, § 22-1)
Sec. 94-2. - Parking in fire zones.
It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park any vehicle used for carrying passengers for hire upon the streets in a fire zone, except for the purpose of permitting passengers to enter or leave such vehicle, and then only for a period not exceeding ten minutes.
(Code 1982, § 22-2)
Cross reference— Fire prevention and protection, ch. 42.
Secs. 94-3—94-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TAXICABS

Sec. 94-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Driver means the person in charge of, or operating, a taxicab, as defined in this section, whether as owner, agent, employee or otherwise.
Taxicab means a motor-driven vehicle for hire, seating not less than five passengers, including the driver.
(Code 1982, § 22-20)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 94-32. - Operator's permit required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of operating taxicabs on the streets of the city until such person has secured a permit and otherwise complied with the provisions of this article.
(Code 1982, § 22-21)
Sec. 94-33. - Permit application.
(a)
Submission. Every person desiring to engage in the business of operating one or more taxicabs in the city shall, in each year in which the business is proposed to be carried on, first make a written application to the police committee for a permit to operate such business. Such application shall be in writing, verified under oath that the contents are true, and shall be filed with the city clerk.
(b)
Contents. The application shall contain the full name and address of the applicant and the location from which the proposed business is to be operated; if the applicant is a corporation, the names of all of the officers; if the applicant is a partnership, the names of all of the partners; the number of vehicles to be operated under such permit, if granted; the type of vehicles to be used, together with the motor number and tag number of each vehicle; and such other information as the police committee may require.
(Code 1982, § 22-22)
Sec. 94-34. - Investigation of permit applicant.
The police committee shall make, or cause to be made, an investigation, including any hearing deemed to be necessary, as to each application for a permit for the operation of taxicabs. In determining whether a permit shall be issued, the police committee may investigate the fitness of the applicant to engage in the business of operating taxicabs, and whether or not the public interest requires the service.
(Code 1982, § 22-23)
Sec. 94-35. - Refusal to issue permit; appeals.
(a)
Authority of police committee. If the police committee should find that public convenience and necessity do not justify the taxicab service, or that the applicant is not a fit and proper person or not qualified to engage in the taxicab business, the permit to operate may be refused.
(b)
Right to appeal. The applicant shall have the right to file an appeal with the mayor and city council to appeal from the decision of the police committee in refusing any permit. Such appeal shall be in writing and shall be filed with the city clerk within five days from the decision complained of. The decision of the mayor and city council shall be final.
(Code 1982, § 22-24)
Sec. 94-36. - Conditions of license issuance; display.
The applicant for an operator's permit shall present the permit to the city clerk, and shall deposit with the city clerk an insurance policy as required in this article, and shall satisfy the city clerk that each vehicle has been properly inspected and approved by the chief of police. Upon payment of the license fees prescribed by the city, and upon compliance with the conditions precedent in this article, a license shall be issued by the city clerk by delivering to the owner, for each vehicle, a suitable card signed by the city clerk, which shall contain the official license number of the taxicab. Such card shall be continuously displayed in a conspicuous place in the taxicab.
(Code 1982, § 22-25)
Sec. 94-37. - Compliance required for issuance of permit.
If the application for a permit is approved by the police committee, the committee shall issue a permit to operate a designated number of taxicabs to the applicant, upon compliance with all of the conditions precedent in this article.
(Code 1982, § 22-26)
Sec. 94-38. - Permit suspension and revocation; appeals.
(a)
Authority of police committee. The police committee, with or without notice, may suspend or revoke any permit to operate a taxicab business issued under this article, if it shall determine that such action is in the public interest.
(b)
Right to appeal. Upon the suspension or revocation of any permit, interested parties shall be notified in person or by mail, and the person holding such permit shall have the right to file an appeal with the mayor and city council. Such appeal shall be in writing, and shall be filed with the city clerk within five days from the decision complained of. The decision of the mayor and city council shall be final.
(Code 1982, § 12-27)
Sec. 94-39. - Liability insurance.
(a)
Required. No person shall be allowed, and it shall be unlawful, to drive or operate a taxicab in the city, unless and until a liability insurance policy is procured and filed with the city clerk. Such policy must be signed by a surety or insurance company authorized to do business in the state, and the form of the policy shall be approved by the city attorney and the police committee.
(b)
Amount. The amount of liability insurance for each taxicab shall not be less than $100,000.00 for each person injured and $300,000.00 for bodily injury in any one accident, and not less than $100,000.00 for property damage in any one accident. A policy in such amounts shall be furnished for each car or taxicab operated. The policy may be in the form of a fleet policy covering all taxicabs operated by any one owner, in which event, such policy shall provide the minimum amount of coverage, as set forth in this subsection, for each taxicab operated by the owner.
(c)
Cancellation. Before any policy of insurance as provided for in this section shall be cancelled for nonpayment of premiums or otherwise, notice, in writing, must be given to the city clerk at least ten days before the policy cancellation shall take effect.
(d)
Purpose. The liability insurance required by this section shall be for the benefit of the city and for the use and benefit of the public.
(e)
Term. Liability insurance policies must be procured for a period of at least one year from the date of issuance of such policies. The procuring of such liability insurance policies on monthly terms is specifically prohibited.
(Code 1982, § 22-28)
Sec. 94-40. - Registration of owners and operators.
The city clerk shall keep a register of the name of each person owning and operating a taxicab licensed under this article, which registration shall contain the description, make of vehicle and number of the vehicle assigned by the chief of police. Such records shall be open to inspection by the public at all reasonable hours.
(Code 1982, § 22-29)
Sec. 94-41. - Inspection of taxicabs.
No taxicab shall be licensed until it has been thoroughly and carefully inspected and examined under the supervision of the chief of police and found to be in a thoroughly safe condition for transportation of passengers. The chief of police is hereby authorized and empowered to establish rules and regulations for the inspection of taxicabs. The police department shall maintain constant vigilance over all taxicabs to ensure that they are kept in a condition of continued fitness for public use and, to this end, inspections shall be made from time to time as may be necessary or convenient. The police department may suspend from operation any taxicab found to be unsafe.
(Code 1982, § 22-30)
Sec. 94-42. - Signs required.
Every taxicab shall have a sign plainly painted on each side and on the rear of each vehicle, in letters not less than five inches in height, with the full name of the company or individual owning or operating the vehicle, and the term "taxi."
(Code 1982, § 22-31)
Cross reference— Advertising, ch. 6.
Sec. 94-43. - Taxicab numbers.
A number shall be painted on each side and on the rear of every taxicab, which shall be a separate and distinct number from the number on any other taxicab in the city. The number shall be assigned to the vehicle and the owner thereof by the chief of police and shall not be altered or changed without the consent of the chief of police.
(Code 1982, § 22-32)
Sec. 94-44. - Driver's license and permit required; application; character references.
(a)
Required. Every person driving a taxicab in the city must be licensed as a taxicab driver. Before any person shall be entitled to drive any motor vehicle for hire for the transporting of passengers in the city, such person shall first obtain a permit from the chief of police.
(b)
Submission of application. All applicants for driver's permits, as required by this article, shall submit an application, in writing, to the chief of police, on a form to be furnished by the police department.
(c)
Contents of application. Such application shall be made under oath and shall contain the following:
(1)
Age of the applicant;
(2)
Applicant's address;
(3)
Length of time the applicant has resided in the city;
(4)
Applicant's knowledge of the streets and traffic laws of the city;
(5)
Applicant's physical infirmities, if any;
(6)
Whether the applicant has been convicted of a violation of any applicable section of this Code, laws of the state, the United States or any other state, or any ordinance of the city and, if so, when and of what offense, and the sentence of the court;
(7)
Whether the applicant uses alcoholic beverages in any form; and
(8)
Applicant's sex and race.
(d)
Character references. An applicant for a driver's permit must file with the chief of police, at the time of making such application, affidavits of the applicant's good character from two reputable citizens who have personally known the applicant and observed the applicant's conduct during the year next preceding the date of application.
(Code 1982, § 22-33)
Sec. 94-45. - Qualifications and investigation of applicant for driver's permit; charge; period of validity.
(a)
Qualifications. Each applicant for a driver's permit:
(1)
Shall be 18 years of age or older.
(2)
Shall be sober and an ablebodied person, with sound physique, good eyesight, not subject to epilepsy, heart trouble or any other infirmity of the body or mind which might render the applicant unfit for the safe operation of a taxicab.
(3)
Shall be able to speak, read and write the English language.
(4)
Must not be suffering from a contagious or communicable disease.
(b)
Investigation. It shall be the duty of the chief of police to make an investigation to determine the moral character and fitness of an applicant for a driver's permit and the knowledge of the applicant of the traffic ordinances of the city.
(c)
Annual charge; validity; renewal; driving after expiration and before renewal. There shall be an annual charge for a driver's permit issued under this article as provided in section 94-32. Such permit shall be valid only until April 1 each year. A permit may be renewed from year to year by the chief of police. It shall be unlawful to drive or operate a taxicab in the city after a permit has expired and before renewal has been granted.
(Code 1982, § 22-34)
Sec. 94-46. - Conditions of driver's permit issuance; photographs; appeals.
(a)
Authority of chief of police. The chief of police shall personally examine an applicant for a driver's permit and the applicant's vouchers, and if, in the chief of police's opinion, the applicant is a person of good moral character, is qualified and a fit person to drive a taxicab, and is otherwise qualified under the provisions of this article, he shall issue the permit, which permit shall be signed by the chief of police, and shall contain the name, age, sex, race and photograph of the applicant.
(b)
Photographs. The applicant shall furnish a photograph of himself, in duplicate. One such photograph shall be filed at police headquarters and the other shall be pasted on the driver's permit, if granted.
(c)
Right of appeal. If the chief of police refuses to grant a taxicab driver's permit to any applicant, the applicant shall have the right to file an appeal with the mayor and city council. Such appeal shall be in writing and filed with the city clerk within five days from the decision complained of. The decision of the mayor and city council shall be final.
(Code 1982, § 22-35)
Sec. 94-47. - Transferability of driver's permit.
No driver's permit granted under this article can be transferred or used by any person other than the licensee or grantee.
(Code 1982, § 22-36)
Sec. 94-48. - Display and obliteration of driver's permit.
(a)
Display. The driver's permit required by this article shall be placed in the vehicle which the driver is to operate, where the permit will be in constant, clear view of the passengers when the driver is on duty and engaged in employment as a taxicab driver.
(b)
Obliteration. It shall be unlawful for any person holding a driver's permit to deface, obliterate or destroy the permit, or to cause the permit to be defaced, obliterated or destroyed.
(Code 1982, § 22-37)
Sec. 94-49. - Suspension and revocation of driver's permit; appeals.
(a)
Grounds. After the issuance of a taxicab driver's permit to any person, the chief of police shall have the right to suspend or revoke the permit, if the permit holder violates any of the provisions of this article; is convicted in any court of violating any law; has been convicted in any court of driving a taxicab or other motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic beverages; has been convicted of violating the traffic laws or ordinances of the city; is suffering from a contagious or communicable disease or defect or impairment of vision; or is not a person of good moral character. It shall be mandatory that the driver's permit be revoked if the holder of such permit is convicted twice of driving while under the influence of an alcoholic beverage within a period of two years.
(b)
Appeal. The person holding such permit shall have the right to file an appeal with the mayor and city council to appeal from the decision of the chief of police in revoking or suspending any such permit. Such appeal shall be in writing, and shall be filed with the city clerk within five days from the decision complained of. The decision of the mayor and city council shall be final.
(c)
Effect. After the suspension or revocation of any driver's permit, it shall be unlawful for any such person to drive or operate a taxicab in the city during the time that such suspension or revocation is in effect. It shall also be unlawful for any holder of a driver's permit to refuse to deliver the permit to the chief of police, upon demand.
(Code 1982, § 22-38)
Sec. 94-50. - Soliciting passengers; cruising.
No driver of a taxicab shall solicit passengers, directly or indirectly, upon the streets of the city. Driving a taxicab on the streets of the city while not engaged, or not actually in the service of transporting a passenger from one place to a designated point, will be construed as soliciting and shall be a violation of this section.
(Code 1982, § 22-39)
Sec. 94-51. - Carrying persons in addition to person employing taxicab.
No driver of a taxicab shall carry any person or passenger other than the passenger first employing the taxicab without the consent of the first passenger.
(Code 1982, § 22-40)
Sec. 94-52. - Posting of schedule of rates.
Every taxicab shall display a schedule of rates charged in a conspicuous place where the passenger can see such schedule.
(Code 1982, § 22-41)
