Chapter 11 - SPECIAL EVENTS

Sec. 11-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
Alcoholic beverages means all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverages, wines or fortified wines.
Controlled zone means a geographic area with controlled access, with wristband identification of persons authorized to purchase and hold in possession alcoholic beverages, loudspeaker limits and controls, enhanced security measures, and entertainment controls.
Special event means a program of cultural and/or entertainment events open to the general public and taking place either fully or in part on public streets, thoroughfares, parks, squares, public property (with approval of the city, or private property in commercial zoning classifications (with approval of the owner). To be regulated by this article, each such special event must be designated as a special event by the police chief or his designee.
Special event area means the area that meets the requirements of a special event and controlled zone.
(Res. No. 11-0721-18, att. § (11-1), 7-21-2011)
Sec. 11-2. - Temporary permit for special events.
Organizers of special events to be conducted within the city must first file an application with the police chief, or the chief's designee, for a permit authorizing the event. If alcoholic beverages are to be served, the application shall so state and shall designate a person or business that holds a valid license issued by the city to sell alcoholic beverages as the event's alcohol vendor. An application fee shall be paid with the application, and a permit fee shall be paid before issuance of the permit. The application fee and permit fee shall be established by written policy of the mayor and council. After investigation by the police chief or his designee, the police chief or his designee may issue a special event permit under the following conditions:
(1)
The applicant must contract with an individual or entity that holds a current, valid license issued by the state allowing the sale of alcoholic beverages who will then hold the special alcohol permit and be responsible for the sale of alcoholic beverages at the special event.
(2)
The special event alcohol permit may be issued to the licensee and will allow sale of alcoholic beverages beyond the premises described in the licensee's annual license only in the controlled zone specifically described in the application as approved in the permit, and only during the special event approved.
(3)
Food must be served within the controlled zone during any period of time that alcoholic beverages are served.
(4)
The application for such special event and special alcohol permit must have been filed with the police chief or his designee, at least 30 days prior to the date of the special event.
(5)
All applicants and permit holders must comply with all state statutes governing the sale of alcoholic beverages and all provisions listed in the application approved by the city.
(6)
To qualify as a special event, the proposed event must be open to the general public, subject to reasonable attendance restrictions. As part of the application process, the applicant must provide a copy of the event's marketing plan including copies of marketing materials. The application shall include an estimate of public attendance for each day of the event. The application shall also include a security plan for the event in a form required by the chief of police. The security plan must provide for contingencies, such as attendance in excess of projected attendance, and unexpected public safety issues during the event. The chief of police may place conditions and requirements upon the event as part of an approved security plan. The chief may restrict the number of event attendees allowed within the controlled zone, and may limit attendance during the special event based upon conditions within the controlled zone and the effectiveness of the security plan. The chief may require that the applicant hire off-duty city police officers to be on-site within the controlled zone during the special event.
(7)
A special event permit and special alcohol permit may be immediately revoked by the police chief (or his designee) for a violation of state or city laws, inadequate security, or unruly attendees or any event that results in an emergency situation in which continued operation of the premises by the licensee may, in the opinion of the police chief, (or his designee), endanger the health, welfare or safety of the public, the attendees, or city or private property.
(Res. No. 11-0721-18, § 1, att. § (11-2), 7-21-2011)
Sec. 11-3. - Designation of a community special event.
The mayor and council will consider approval of an application upon recommendation of the police chief, or his designee, after the police chief has conducted an examination and investigation of the application. The police chief, or his designee, shall review and approve all fencing, wristband identification procedures, loudspeaker limits, entertainment controls, security measures and any other applicable standards for the special event.
(Res. No. 11-0721-18, att. § (11-3), 7-21-2011)
Sec. 11-4. - Designation and management of controlled zone.
The police chief or his designee may implement regulations and controls which will be specific for each designated controlled zone. Such regulations and controls may include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1)
Fencing and gating. Fencing designated controlled zones and establishing entrance gates for controlling and limiting access to each controlled zone.
(2)
Identification, entrance criteria. Permit holders shall provide wristbands or other means of identifying persons who have met entrance criteria. Entrance criteria may include, but are not limited to, prohibiting persons from entering with weapons, alcoholic beverages, pets, skates, bicycles, and other items which may be dangerous, disruptive, or inconvenient in crowded conditions, and prohibiting entry by persons appearing to be intoxicated.
(3)
Identification, consumption of alcoholic beverages. Permit holders shall require wristbands or other means of identifying persons who have displayed proof of attaining the age of 21 years, and who are authorized to purchase or hold in possession alcoholic beverages within the controlled zone. Displaying such a wristband does not relieve alcoholic beverage vendors of responsibility for determining if a person has attained the age of 21 years before dispensing alcohol to that person.
(4)
Designation of special event manager within controlled zone. The police chief, or his/her designee, may designate and authorize a nonprofit tax-exempt organization or similar entity to organize and manage special event activities within a controlled zone. Such designation may include authorization to collect and expend funds, in which case subsection (5) of this section will apply.
(5)
Insurance. Any organization authorized to organize and manage special event activities within a controlled zone shall take out and keep in force for all activities associated with such event a special events liability policy. Such policy shall provide the following:
a.
Minimum coverage limits: $1,000,000.00 single-limit.
b.
Named as additional insured: the mayor and council of the city, a Georgia municipal corporation, its elected officials, officers, employees and agent.
c.
Certificate of insurance: A certificate of insurance shall be issued to the additional insured least five days prior to the beginning of the event. Such certificate shall be on a standard form and will provide for notification of the additional insured within ten days of termination of coverage.
(6)
Security plan. Security plan as described at section 11-2(6).
(Res. No. 11-0721-18, att. § (11-4), 7-21-2011)
Sec. 11-5. - Transport of alcoholic beverages.
The transport of alcoholic beverages for personal consumption either into or out of any designated controlled zone is prohibited. Only the holder of the special alcohol permit may transport alcoholic beverages in and out of the controlled zone.
(Res. No. 11-0721-18, att. § (11-5), 7-21-2011)
