Chapter 34 - COURTS[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 34-1—34-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MUNICIPAL COURT[2]

Sec. 34-31. - Created.
There is hereby created for the city a municipal court.
(Code 1982, § 8-1)
Sec. 34-32. - Jurisdiction and power.
(a)
The municipal court shall have the jurisdiction and power as provided in the Charter or by law.
(b)
The court may appoint such special officers as may be necessary, in the absence of the marshal, to execute its writs and processes.
(Code 1982, § 8-2)
Charter reference— Recorder's court, § 15.
Sec. 34-33. - Rules of practice and procedure.
The rules of practice and procedure in the municipal court and, in cases of appeal, shall be governed by the rules of the superior court and as provided by law.
(Code 1982, § 8-3)
Sec. 34-34. - Summonses—Authorized; procedure.
Any person charged with violating any section of this Code or any city ordinance shall be summoned by the marshal or any police officer to appear before the municipal court and shall notify the accused of the charges, and the time and place at which such accused shall appear. Upon demand of the accused, he shall be furnished with a written statement of the charges against him and shall have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses.
(Code 1982, § 8-4)
Sec. 34-35. - Summonses—To appear.
Any person duly summoned, who fails, neglects or refuses to appear, without sufficient excuse, shall be fined for contempt by the judge as provided in the Charter. The accused, if found, shall be arrested and brought before the judge for trial at such time as the judge may designate.
(Code 1982, § 8-5)
Sec. 34-36. - Arrest in lieu of summons.
Instead of summoning any person charged with violating any section of this Code or any city ordinance, the arresting officer may, in such officer's discretion, arrest the accused, and release the accused upon such person giving bond as provided in the Charter. The person arrested shall be notified of the charges against him and the time and place of his appearance. Such person shall be entitled upon demand to a written statement of the charges and have compulsory process to obtain witnesses.
(Code 1982, § 8-6)
Sec. 34-37. - Arrest warrants.
Warrants for offenders violating any section of this Code or any ordinance of the city and affidavits to obtain such warrants may be issued by the judge or any member of the mayor and city council, and shall be directed to the marshal and police officers of the city. Such affidavits and warrants shall be substantially of the form of affidavits and warrants for offenders against the laws of the state, substituting the term "City of Fort Valley" for the term "County of ___________." The chief of police and police officers shall execute the penal warrants placed in their hands and the arresting officer shall exercise reasonable diligence in bringing the person arrested before the officer authorized to try such person.
(Code 1982, § 8-7)
Sec. 34-38. - Criminal docket.
The clerk of the municipal court shall keep a criminal docket on which such clerk shall docket all cases of persons charged with violations of this Code or any city ordinances, the times of docketing the violations, the offenses charged, and the arresting officers and the final judgments and other entries to show the progress of the case.
(Code 1982, § 8-8)
Sec. 34-39. - Bail bond—Authorized; procedure.
Any person arrested by city officers may give the arresting officer a bond, with good security, approved by the chief of police or judge as provided in the Charter.
(Code 1982, § 8-9)
Sec. 34-40. - Bail bond—Control surety.
The principal of the bond shall be subject to the control of the surety and may be imprisoned or surrendered by the surety at any time.
(Code 1982, § 8-10)
Sec. 34-41. - Bail bond—Forfeiture.
Upon the failure of any party, witness or other person who is under bond to appear, such bond shall be forfeited in the same manner as is practiced in the case of appearance bonds in the superior court. They shall be collected from the principal and sureties on such bonds by judgment, execution and sale. The duties, in the event of forfeiture, shall devolve upon the city attorney, clerk and chief of police, respectively.
(Code 1982, § 8-11)
State Law reference— Authority to provide for bond forfeiture, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-4.
Sec. 34-42. - Rearrest of bonded defendant.
When from any cause the judge deems it necessary, in order to secure the attendance of a defendant out on bond, such defendant may be taken in custody. The judge shall issue a warrant for the rearrest of such defendant, and shall commit to the prison or require new bond, as the necessities of the case may demand, provided that excessive bond shall not be required.
(Code 1982, § 8-12)
Sec. 34-43. - Right of fast trial; continuances.
The accused shall have a right to a speedy trial and to that end the city shall have a right to a peremptory continuance, but only one time. If the accused is in custody, a continuance shall not be for a longer time than three days, except by agreement of the defendant. If the defendant is not in custody, a continuance may be for such time as the court may appoint.
(Code 1982, § 8-13)
Sec. 34-44. - Schedule of fines.
The schedule of fines for the municipal court, attached to the resolution from which this section is derived as Exhibit A, as now or hereafter amended, is adopted as a part of this section as if set out at length in this section.
(Res. of 9-18-1997)
Sec. 34-45. - Entering and signing of judgments.
The judgments of the court shall be entered by the clerk on the docket and then signed by the judge.
(Code 1982, § 8-15)
Charter reference— Enumeration of corporate powers, § 41.
Sec. 34-46. - Judgments and sentences to run consecutively.
All judgments and sentences imposed and ordered by the judge shall run consecutively unless otherwise specifically provided by the judge in such judgments and sentences.
(Code 1982, § 8-16)
Sec. 34-47. - Scire facias—Issuance.
The clerk of the municipal court shall issue a scire facias against the principal and the principal's sureties on all forfeited bonds and recognizances, whether the scire facias were for appearance before the municipal court or the mayor and city council returnable to a regular meeting of the mayor and city council which shall be served by the marshal or any police officer at least ten days before the return term. If the principal or sureties reside outside the city, the scire facias may be served by the publication of such scire facias one time in a newspaper in the city at least ten days before the return term. The official return of the marshal or police officer as to the service of the scire facias shall be sufficient evidence of such service.
(Code 1982, § 8-17)
Charter reference— Collection of moneys due the city by execution, § 31; levy of execution, § 37.
Sec. 34-48. - Scire facias—Judgments.
If, at the regular meeting of the mayor and city council to which the scire facias is returnable, no sufficient cause is shown to the contrary, judgment on the motion shall be entered against the principal and sureties or on the principal and sureties which have been served.
(Code 1982, § 8-18)
Sec. 34-49. - Scire facias—Collection of judgments.
Judgments on scire facias shall be a lien on the property of defendants from the date of rendition and shall be enforced by execution to be issued by the city clerk, which may be levied and sales made thereunder as other executions.
(Code 1982, § 8-19)
Sec. 34-50. - Technology surcharge.
There shall be imposed by the municipal court a technology surcharge in the amount of $30.00 per offense, for all offenses except O.C.G.A. §§ 40-8-76 and 40-8-76.1, said technology surcharges to be in addition to all other fines and fees imposed by the municipal court. All revenue derived from the technology surcharge shall be utilized by the city to provide for technology support for the city law enforcement function and municipal court function.
(Ord. No. 04-1021-69, 10-21-2004)
