Chapter 32 - SUBDIVISIONS

Sec. 32-1. - Penalties.
City services shall not be provided to any subdivision nor subdivided until all violations are corrected. Any approval of the plan submitted shall be terminated upon the discovery of said violations.
(Code 1986, § 18-9)
Sec. 32-2. - Amendments.
This chapter may be amended from time to time by the city government. However, no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been proposed by or shall have first been submitted to the planning and zoning commission for review and recommendation. The planning and zoning commission shall have 30 days within which to submit its report. If the planning and zoning commission fails to submit a report within the 30-day period, it shall be deemed to have approved the proposed amendments.
(Code 1986, § 18-10)
Sec. 32-3. - Approval of plats required.
No land shall hereafter be subdivided and no street or other public space shall hereafter be laid out within the city until the plan of such subdivision or street or other public space shall have been submitted to and approved by the city council. Such approval must be in writing or stamped on such plans. Such plans must be submitted to the planning and zoning commission for its recommendations by the subdivided. No plan can be approved without the recommendation of the planning and zoning commission.
(Code 1986, § 18-1)
Sec. 32-4. - Copy of plat.
(a)
Any person hereafter subdividing any piece or parcel of land, block, lot or sublot, or any part thereof in the city, shall make a map or plat thereof, and before recording the same in the recorder's office of the county, shall submit it with a duplicate thereof, to the city council for approval or rejection. If approved such approval shall be certified thereon, and signed by the mayor and attested by the clerk; and no such map or plat shall be valid or entitled to record until it shall have been approved as aforesaid.
(b)
No lot, tract, or parcel of land within any such subdivision shall be offered for sale nor shall any sale, contract for sale, or option be made or given until such subdivision has been formally approved.
(Code 1986, § 18-2)
Sec. 32-5. - Improvements.
(a)
No plat of subdivision shall be approved unless all street and sidewalk payments, and water and sewer mains have been installed or provisions has been made to ensure such installation, in compliance with the ordinances of the city.
(b)
No improvements such as water supply, drainage, sewerage, sewage disposal, gas service, electric service, or lighting, or grading, paving or surfacing of streets shall hereafter be made within any such subdivision, by any owner or his or their agent or by any public service corporation at the request of such owner or his or their agent, until the plans for the subdivision and also the plans for such improvements have been formally approved by the city council.
(Code 1986, § 18-3)
Sec. 32-6. - Custody.
The duplicate of such major plat shall be kept on file with the clerk and no such map or plat shall be approved as aforesaid until the same shall have been properly certified by a surveyor and acknowledged by the owner.
(Code 1986, § 18-4)
Sec. 32-7. - Taxes.
All taxes and assessments on property platted must be paid before the plat shall be recorded.
(Code 1986, § 18-5)
Sec. 32-8. - Connection fee.
No subdivision shall be connected with the sewer or water mains of the city, unless there is paid to the city the sum established by the city for connection with the water mains and sewer mains.
(Code 1986, § 18-6)
Sec. 32-9. - Requirements.
In general the minimum requirements for the subdivision of land and the laying out of streets and other public space shall be as follows:
(1)
All plans submitted for approval shall be in triplicate, drawn to a scale of not more than 100 feet to the inch, and shall be clearly and neatly drawn. Preliminary or tentative plans may be first submitted before the final plans are prepared.
(2)
All final plans shall show the proposed street lines, sidewalks and sidewalk lines, lot lines, building lines and all property or subdivision boundaries. They shall show, in accordance with an accurate land survey, the controlling points and lines around and within the subdivision itself and also by distance, bearings, and angles, the relation of such controlling points and lines to the other controlling survey points within or near the city. All survey monuments shall be indicated, and there shall be at least one permanent monument placed at each corner of the subdivided area, and at least one at each street intersection. Such monuments shall be placed when the surveys are made and shall consist of one-inch iron pipe driven in concrete.
(3)
Sufficient topography shall be shown to indicate the natural drainage and the probable finished grades of streets. All existing and proposed streets and alleys and other public spaces shall be shown, with the width and type of pavement or surfacing, and all other important features. Sufficient information shall be drawn to scale on the plans to indicate the relation of the proposed streets and other public spaces to the present street system of the city, and also the official city plan, when and after such city plan has been adopted.
(4)
The dimensions of all lots, and subdivisions and resubdivisions of lots shall be shown.
(5)
The proposed use of each lot, or group of lots, or subdivisions shall be indicated. No lot shall be proposed for a use of a classification lower than permitted in the zoning plan.
(6)
The north point and scale shall be shown, and the name and addresses of the petitioner and of the engineer or surveyor shall be given on each plan.
(7)
Whenever improvements are proposed within any such subdivision or in any such street or other public space, detailed plans, profiles, and outline specifications of such improvements shall be likewise submitted in triplicate. Such plans and specifications shall show or indicate every essential detail of such improvements.
(8)
One copy of all such plans, profiles, and specifications shall be filed with the city clerk, one shall be preserved in the files of the city and the third shall be returned to the city council clearly indicated.
(Code 1986, § 18-7)
Sec. 32-10. - Subdivisions requirements.
(a)
Rules for streets, lots, etc. The minimum width for any street shall be 50 feet, except by special permit for purely local drives. Through streets shall be at least 60 feet wide.
(b)
All streets and other public spaces and easements shall conform in effect to the official plan, both as to location and to width or size.
(c)
When adjoining undeveloped property, a half street may be dedicated.
(d)
The minimum width of any alley, wherever provided, shall be 20 feet. Where alleys are not provided, easements may be required along lot lines of or across lots where necessary for the extension of water mains, sewers and similar purposes.
(e)
No block shall be longer than 1,200 feet in length between street lines. Blocks over 900 feet in length shall have one crosswalk, not less than five feet in width, situated near the center of the block.
(f)
The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provision for the direct continuation of the principle existing streets in adjoining subdivisions (or their proper projection where adjoining property is not subdivided) insofar as they may be necessary for public requirements. In general, such streets shall be a width at least at great as the existing streets. The street and alley arrangement must also be such as to provide opportunity for access for any use by adjoining property owners.
(g)
Wherever a street is stub-ended so that it will not at its end open into another street, an adequate turnaround, either circular or Y-shaped, shall be provided.
(h)
No lots shall be subdivided nor indicated for sale as business or industrial lots, except at points designated for these uses on the zoning plan or general development plan of the city.
(i)
No lot in any subdivision or resubdivision which is classified as district R-1, single-family residential by the zoning chapter, shall be less than 100 feet in depth and shall meet the lot width and area requirements of the zoning ordinances and building codes of the city.
(j)
All lots shall be sufficiently wide and deep to permit full conformity with the zoning chapter.
(k)
At important intersections and at all acute corners, the property corner shall be rounded or cut off.
(l)
Grades of streets shall be the lowest feasible and no grade shall be less than one half of one percent. Grades on local streets dead-end streets and alleys shall not be in excess of 14 percent.
(m)
Whenever streets or alleys are paved or surfaced, such paving or surfacing shall be of a type and strength suitable for the volume and character of traffic to be expected.
(n)
All improvements shall conform to the best engineering standards. Due consideration shall be given throughout to the appearance of the subdivision and the various features thereof within its own boundaries and also in its environment in the city.
(1)
Parks, playgrounds, school sites. In subdividing property, due consideration shall be given to the provision of suitable sites for parks, playgrounds and schools.
(2)
Sale contract. A copy of the subdivider's sale contract, showing restrictions, shall be furnished to the city before final approval of the subdivision plan. Such contract shall relate that the lots contracted for are subject to the zoning chapter, building ordinance, and subdivision chapter of the city.
(3)
Dedication. The subdivider shall furnish to the city an effective dedication of all streets, and other public spaces to be dedicated, and of all easements provided by the subdivision plan.
(Code 1986, § 18-8)
