PART I - CHARTER[1]
An Act to create a new Charter for the City of Oglethorpe, in the County of Macon, Georgia; to consolidate, supersede, and repeal the Charter provided by an Act approved November 28, 1900 (Ga. L. 1900, p. 394), as amended; to provide for incorporation of the city; to provide for corporate limits; to provide for the corporate powers, duties and authority of the City; to be exercised by the city council; to provide for the validation of ordinances by laws, rules and regulations in force in said City on the effective date of this Act; to provide for the election of a mayor and councilmen and their terms of office, duties, powers, authority, qualifications, meetings, quorums and the manner of filling vacancies; to provide for the method and manner of conducting city elections and the practices and procedures in connection therewith; to provide that the mayor shall preside at meetings of the council; to provide for a mayor pro tem and the method of his appointment or election and his duties, powers and authority; to provide for a city clerk and the manner of his appointment, his term of office, his duties, powers and authority, his compensation, his bond, and other matters pertaining to the office of city clerk; to provide for city legislation and the practices, procedures and methods of adoption, amendment, repeal and filing of such legislation; to provide for regular, adjourned and special meetings of the mayor and council; to provide for the organization of city government; to provide for offices, positions of employment, departments, agencies and employees of the city and their duties, powers and authority; to provide for the administrative duties of the mayor; to provide for the appointment of a city attorney and his duties, powers, authority and compensation; to provide for a municipal court and the jurisdiction, powers and duties of said court; to provide that the mayor or a recorder shall conduct such court; to provide for the powers and duties of the recorder or mayor while serving as judge of said court; to provide for appeals and bonds; to provide for practices and procedures in connection with such court; to provide for oaths of office; to prohibit certain political activity by officers and employees of the city; to provide for the fiscal administration of the city; to provide for fiscal years; to provide for the preparation and submission of budgets and the practices and procedures in connection with such budgets; to provide for action by the council on budgets; to provide for the procedures, practices and requirements for the sale of city property; to provide for audits; to provide for the assessment, levy and collection of ad valorem property taxes and the practices and procedures in connection therewith; to provide for tax due dates and tax bills; to provide for penalties; to provide for the collection of delinquent taxes; to provide for special assessments; to provide for licenses and occupational taxes and the practices and procedures in connection with the issuance, amendment or revocation of such licenses and taxes; to provide for the transfer or assignment of executions and fi. fas.; to provide for the issuance of general obligation bonds; to provide for the issuance of revenue bonds; to provide for restrictions on actions for damages against the city; to provide for written statements by claimants in certain actions against the city; to provide for penalties; to provide for severability; to provide for other matters relative to the foregoing; to provide an effective date; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Georgia:
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Published in this part is 1975 Ga. Laws (Act No. 51), page 2630. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform and the scheme of expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used. Section catchlines have been editorially supplied. Other additions are indicated by brackets.

ARTICLE I. - CHARTER, DEFINITIONS, CITY LIMITS AND CORPORATE POWERS

Sec. 1.01. - Charter established; name of city; status.
This Act is a Charter. This Act shall constitute the whole Charter of the City of Oglethorpe, repealing and replacing the Charter provided by an Act approved November 28, 1900 (Ga. L. 1900, p. 394), as amended. The City of Oglethorpe, in the County of Macon, Georgia, and the inhabitants thereof, are hereby constituted and declared to be a body politic and corporate by the name and style of City of Oglethorpe, Georgia, and by that name shall have perpetual successions, may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, in all the courts of law and equity, and in all actions whatsoever, and may have and use a common seal and change it at pleasure.
Sec. 1.02. - City limits.
The corporate limits of said city shall extend for a distance of three-quarters of a mile in every direction from the point formed by the intersection of the center line of Baker Street with the center line of Cuyler Street.
Sec. 1.03. - Corporate powers.
The corporate powers of the city, to be exercised by the city council, shall include the following:
(1)
To levy and to provide for the assessment and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation.
(2)
To levy and to provide for the collection of license fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades and professions and to provide for the manner and method of payment of such licenses and taxes.
(3)
To levy and to provide for the collection of registration fees on automobiles and trucks owned by residents of the city, and also on automobiles and trucks owned by non-residents and operated within the city with any regularity. Such registration fees on trucks or automobiles may be graduated according to their tonnage capacities, weight or horsepower.
(4)
To appropriate and borrow money to provide for payment of the debts and expenses of the city, and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized by this Charter or the laws of the State of Georgia, and to authorize the expenditure of money for any municipal purpose or matter of national or state interest.
(5)
To acquire, dispose of, buy, sell and hold in trust or otherwise any real, personal or mixed property, inside or outside the city.
(6)
To condemn property, inside or outside the city, for present or future use, and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the city council, under code section 36-202 [see now O.C.G.A. § 22-1-1 et seq.], or under other applicable public Acts as are in effect or may be enacted.
(7)
To acquire, lease, construct, operate, maintain, distribute, sell and dispose of public utilities, including but not limited to a system of waterworks, sewers and drains, sewage disposal, gas works, electric light plants, transportation facilities, public airports, and any other public utility; to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, assessments, regulations and penalties and to provide for the withdrawal of service for the refusal or failure to pay same and the manner in which remedies shall be enforced. For water and gas furnished and for all sewerage and sanitary services rendered, said city shall have a lien against any property of the persons served; said lien to be enforceable in the same manner and with the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes.
(8)
To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services, not to exceed a period of 20 years. The council may prescribe the rates, fares, regulations, and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor.
(9)
To regulate the rates and services of public utilities insofar as not to conflict with such regulation by the Georgia Public Service Commission or other similar state or federal agency having jurisdiction in such matters.
(10)
To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation and maintenance of public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewage treatment facilities, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, conservational, sport, curative, corrective, detention, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities, and any other public improvements, inside or outside the city and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes property may be acquired by condemnation under code section 36-202 [see now O.C.G.A. § 22-1-1 et seq.], or other applicable public Acts.
(11)
To require real estate owners to repair and maintain in a safe condition the sidewalks adjoining their lots of lands, and to enact ordinances establishing the terms and conditions under which such repairs and maintenance shall be effected, including the penalties to be imposed for failure so to do.
(12)
To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(13)
To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse, and to provide for the separate collection of glass, tin, aluminum, cardboard, and paper and to provide for the sale of such items. Charges may be imposed to cover the costs of such services which, if unpaid, shall constitute a lien against any property of persons served, which lien shall be second in priority only to liens for county and city property taxes and shall be enforceable in the same manner and under the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes.
(14)
To levy a fee, charge a sewer tax as necessary to assure the acquiring, constructing, equipping, operating, maintaining and extending of a sewage disposal plant or plants and sewage systems, and to levy on the users of sewers and the sewage system, a sewer service charge fee or sewer tax for the use of sewers and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges and for enforcing payment of same.
(15)
To charge, impose, and collect a sewer connection fee or fees, and to change the same from time to time, such fees to be levied on the users connecting with the sewage system.
(16)
To define, regulate and prohibit any act, practice, conduct, or use of property, detrimental, or likely to be detrimental, to the health, morals, safety, security, peace, convenience, or general welfare of inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(17)
To define a nuisance in the city and to provide for its abatement. The mayor or recorder of the city as the case may be, shall have jurisdiction of all nuisance abatement proceedings in the city. The city shall provide by ordinance that the maintenance of any building, structure, or condition in violation of any valid law of this state or any valid ordinance of the city shall be adjudged a nuisance and for its abatement at the owner's expense and upon his failure or refusal to abate same within a period of not less than ten days after written notice from the city to do so and to provide for the destruction and removal of any building or other structure which may or might become dangerous or detrimental to the public.
(18)
To establish minimum standards for and to regulate building construction and repair, electrical wiring and equipment, gas installation and equipment, plumbing, and housing for the health, sanitation, cleanliness and safety of inhabitants of the city, and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(19)
To regulate and license weights and measures.
(20)
To provide that persons given jail sentences in the city court shall work out such sentences on the streets or any public works of the city or in a city workhouse established for this purpose, as provided by ordinance; or the council may provide for the commitment of city prisoners to the county workhouse or jail by agreement with the appropriate county officers.
(21)
To regulate and license or prohibit the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same when in violation of any ordinance or lawful order, and for their disposition, by sale, gift, or humane killing, when not redeemed as provided by ordinance; to provide punishment for violation of ordinances enacted hereunder.
(22)
To order any railroad operating within the city to construct viaducts or underpasses to eliminate grade crossings or to pave and maintain grade crossings or to pave and maintain grade crossings in a smooth and safe condition. The city shall pay the costs of constructing approaches to the railroad's right of way line. Each day's failure of the railroad to comply with such an order after a reasonable time has elapsed shall be a separate offense, and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $50.00 for each offense. If the railroad refuses to do such work, the city may have the work done and may collect the cost thereof from the railroad by the use of all legal and equitable remedies available under the law.
(23)
To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city, to limit the number of such vehicles, to require the operators thereof to be licensed, to require public liability insurance of such vehicles in amounts prescribed by ordinance, and to regulate and rent parking spaces in public ways for the use of such vehicles.
(24)
To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments for public improvements.
(25)
To provide that the violation of any ordinance, rule, regulation or order shall be punishable as hereinafter provided.
(26)
To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good other, comfort, convenience, morals, and general welfare of the city and its inhabitants, and all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in the Act as fully and completely as if such powers were fully enumerated herein. No enumeration of particular powers in this Act shall be held to be exclusive of others nor restrictive or general words and phrases granting powers, but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to cities under the Constitution or applicable Acts of the state.
(27)
To accept gifts, donations, bequests or grants from any source for any purpose related to the powers and duties of the city and the general welfare of its citizens, on such terms and conditions as the donor or grantor may impose.
(28)
To lay out, open, widen, extend, narrow, establish or change the grade of, abandon or close, construct, pave, curb, gutter, adorn with shade trees, otherwise improve, maintain, repair, clean, and prevent erosion of roads, alleys and walkways within the corporate limits of the city without notification.
(29)
To grant franchises and rights-of-way throughout the streets and roads, and over the bridges and viaducts, for the use of public utilities.
(30)
To prohibit or regulate and control the erection, removal and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings and any and all structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the rights-of-way of streets and roads or within immediate view thereof, within or abutting the corporate limits of the city and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation of such ordinances.
(31)
To regulate the emission of smoke, gas, fumes, exhausts, and other materials which pollute the air and to prevent the pollution of natural streams which flow within the corporate limits of the city, and the source or sources of water supply for the use and consumption of the city and its residents.
(32)
To fix and establish fire limits and from time to time to extend, enlarge or restrict the same; to prescribe fire safety regulations not inconsistent with general laws, relating to both fire prevention and detection and to fire fighting; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation thereof.
(33)
To provide for the preservation and protection of property and equipment of the city and the administration and use of same by the public; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof.
(34)
To regulate the operation of motor vehicles and exercise control over all traffic, including parking, upon or across the streets, roads, alleys and walkways of the city.
(35)
To provide and maintain a system of pensions and retirement for officers and employees of the city.
(36)
To enter into contracts and agreements with other governmental entities and with private persons, firms and corporations providing for services to be furnished and payments to be made therefor.
(37)
To create, alter, or abolish departments, boards, offices, commissions and agencies of the city; and to confer upon such agencies, the necessary and appropriate authority for carrying out all the powers conferred upon or delegated to same.
(38)
To make, ordain and establish such bylaws, ordinances, rules, and regulations as shall appear necessary for the security, welfare, convenience and interest of the city and the inhabitants thereof, and for preserving the health, peace, order and good government of the city.
(39)
To provide penalties for violations of any ordinance adopted pursuant to the authority of this Charter and the laws of the State of Georgia.
(40)
To levy taxes and to make appropriations for the purpose of advertising said city and its advantages and resources so as to bring new capital and commercial, manufacturing and other enterprises into the city; and also to levy taxes and to make payment from the general revenues and funds of the city for the support of public hospitals and libraries.
(41)
To impose, levy and collect excise taxes, gross receipts, taxes, sales or use taxes, amusement admission taxes, franchise taxes, occupational taxes, license taxes, or any other tax or taxes to the fullest extent allowable or not expressly prohibited by Georgia Law.
(42)
To establish procedures for determining and proclaiming that an emergency situation exists within or without the city, and to make and carry out all reasonable provisions deemed necessary to deal with or meet such an emergency for the protection, safety, health or well-being of the citizens of the City of Oglethorpe.
Sec. 1.04. - Ordinances.
All ordinances, bylaws, rules and regulations now in force in said city, not inconsistent with this Act, are hereby declared valid and of force until amended or repealed by said mayor and council of said city.
ARTICLE II. - CITY COUNCIL

Sec. 2.01. - Election of mayor and councilmen.
On the first Thursday in December 1987, and on that day every four years thereafter, there shall be an election for the mayor and three councilmen. On the first Thursday in December 1988, and on that day every four years thereafter, there shall be an election for two councilmen. Thereafter, on the same date the mayor and councilmen shall be elected in the order of expiration of terms of those so elected. The mayor and council shall have the power to provide the exact manner in which and place where said elections shall take place and to require the preservation of good order and prevent disturbance or interference with the free right to vote. The mayor shall appoint three freeholders or one justice of the peace and two freeholders of the city to manage all elections and such clerks as he deems necessary. Each manager, before entering on his duties, shall take the following oath before some judge or justice of the peace: "I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully and impartially conduct the election for which I am appointed manager, and prevent all illegal voting, to the best of my ability and power; so help me God."
The mayor shall provide at the city's expense all necessary material for use of managers in elections.
The mayor and council may prescribe by ordinance how votes may be challenged; how the returns of all elections shall be made and the result declared, how contests of any election shall be conducted, and prescribe all rules and regulations for the proper conduct of all elections in said city.
(1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 363), page 2222)
Sec. 2.02. - City council.
The mayor and five councilmen shall compose the city council, in which is vested all corporate legislative and other powers of the city, except as otherwise provided in this Act. The council shall be the final judge of the election and qualifications of its members, also of the amount and manner of compensating them for their services. The council shall hold regular public meetings at a stated time and place, as provided by ordinance. The council shall meet in special session on written call of the mayor or any three councilmen and served on the other members personally or left at their residences at least 12 hours in advance of the meeting and notice of any special meeting may be waived in writing before or after the meeting, but such notice of a special meeting shall not be required if the mayor and all councilmen are present when the special meeting is called. Only the business stated in the written call may be transacted at a special meeting, except by unanimous consent of all members of the council. The council shall exercise its powers only in public meetings. A majority of the council shall constitute a quorum. The council may adopt, by ordinance, rules and bylaws to govern the conduct of its business, including procedures and penalties for compelling the attendance of absent members. The council may subpoena and examine witnesses, may order the production of books and papers, and shall have the same powers as the State Court of Macon County, or comparable county courts, to punish for refusal to obey such an order or subpoena or for disorderly or contemptuous behavior in the presence of the council.
(1987 Ga. Laws, Act No. 363, § 1)
Sec. 2.03. - Mayor as presiding officer.
The mayor shall preside at meetings of the council, shall have a vote only in case of a tie, but no veto power, shall be the ceremonial head of the city, shall sign ordinances and resolutions on their [its] final passage, shall sign deeds, bonds and contracts when authorized by the council to do so, shall be the officer to accept process against the city, and shall perform other duties imposed by this Act and ordinances not inconsistent with this Act.
Sec. 2.04. - Mayor pro tem.
The council, at the first regular meeting after the newly elected councilmen have taken office following each annual election, shall elect from its membership a mayor pro tem who shall serve for a term of one year. In the event that no decision is reached at such first regular meeting, the council shall elect the vice mayor within five ballots to be taken within ten days following such meeting; otherwise the councilman who received the highest number of votes when he was last elected shall become vice mayor. The vice mayor shall perform the duties of the mayor during his absence or inability to act, and shall fill any unexpired term in the office of mayor, in which case a new mayor pro tem shall be elected by majority vote of the council.
Sec. 2.05. - Vacancy in office of mayor or councilman.
A vacancy shall exist if the mayor or a councilman resigns, dies, moves his residence from the city, is absent from four consecutive regular meetings of the governing authority, except if granted a leave of absence by the council, or has been continuously disabled for a period of six months so as to prevent him from discharging the duties of his office, or if he is adjudged an incompetent or is convicted of malfeasance or misfeasance in office, or felony, a violation of this Act or a violation of the election laws of the state. The council shall appoint a qualified person to fill such a vacancy for the remainder of the unexpired term. If a tie vote by the council to fill a vacancy is unbroken for 15 days, the mayor or mayor pro tem in case of a vacancy in the office of mayor, shall appoint a qualified person to fill the vacancy. At no time shall there be more than two members so appointed holding office, and if a vacancy occurs with two members so appointed on the council, a special election shall be held on the eighth Tuesday following occurrence of the vacancy, at which election a mayor or councilman, as the case may be, shall be elected to serve the remainder of the unexpired term of the vacant office; provided that no such election shall be held if a regular annual election will occur within six months.
Sec. 2.06. - City clerk.
The mayor and council shall appoint a city clerk, who shall be responsible for keeping and preserving the city seal and all records of the council; attending meetings of the council and keeping a journal of its proceedings at such meetings, including the names of members present and absent, the vote of each member on each question, each motion considered, and the title of each resolution or ordinance considered; preparing and certifying copies of official records in his office, for which fees may be prescribed by ordinance; and performing such other duties as may be required by the council or mayor. The salary of the city clerk and his term of office shall be as prescribed by the mayor and council. The council shall require the clerk, before entering upon discharge of his or her duties to give good and sufficient bond in the amount to be decided by the council, but not less than $5,000.00, said bond payable to the City of Oglethorpe, for the faithful performance of his or her duties and to secure against corruption, malfeasance, misappropriations or unlawful expenditures. Said security bond shall be obtained from a surety company licensed to do business in the State of Georgia and approved by the council and the premiums thereon shall be paid by the city.
Sec. 2.07. - City legislation.
Any action of the council having a regulatory or penal effect, or required to be done by ordinance under this Act, shall be done only by ordinance. Each motion, resolution and ordinance shall be in written form before being introduced. The affirmative vote of at least three members of the council shall be required to pass any motion, resolution or ordinance. After adoption of ordinances, the city clerk shall number ordinances consecutively in the order of their final adoption and shall file them in a permanent record book used solely for this purpose, and the city clerk shall do likewise for resolutions, using a separate series of numbers and a separate record book. The original copies of all ordinances, resolutions and motions shall be filed and preserved by the city clerk. All ordinances before they are passed shall be read twice, and each reading had at a separate meeting, regular, adjourned, or special, on separate days. The first reading shall be at a regular meeting of the council, provided that both readings of said ordinance may be had at the first meeting, upon unanimous consent of the council to that effect; provided further, that ordinances or resolutions appropriating or involving the expenditure of money or for other than current expenses shall be read twice as above provided and the rule shall not be suspended.
ARTICLE III. - ORGANIZATION AND PERSONNEL

Sec. 3.01. - Organization.
The city government shall continue as presently organized, unless and until otherwise provided by ordinance, but no such ordinance shall be adopted until after the council has received and considered the written recommendations of the mayor. The council by such ordinances may establish, abolish, merge or consolidate offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city, may provide that the same person shall fill any number of offices and positions of employment, and may transfer or change the functions, duties and compensation of offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city. As governing body of the city, the council shall name the authority to generally supervise and hire and fire any employee of the city, and may delegate all or part of such authority to responsible city management personnel, provided that whenever any employee of the City of Oglethorpe is fired or requested or induced to resign from his position of employment with the city, that person shall have the right, if he so desires, to request and have a full and complete public hearing before the council for the purpose of determining the reason or reasons for such firing or request or inducement of resignation. If requested, such public hearing shall be held within a reasonable time, but not less than 30 days following such request. Said public hearing may be held in conjunction with a regular meeting of the council.
Sec. 3.02. - Administrative duties of mayor.
The mayor shall be the executive head of the city government and shall be responsible for the efficient and orderly administration of the city's affairs. He shall be responsible for the enforcement of laws, rules and regulations, ordinances and franchises in the city, and the city attorney shall take such legal actions as the mayor may direct for such purposes. He may conduct inquiries and investigations into the conduct of the city's affairs and shall have such other powers and duties as may be provided by ordinances not inconsistent with this Act.
Sec. 3.03. - City attorney.
The mayor and council shall appoint a city attorney, together with such assistant city attorneys as may be authorized by ordinance. The city attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a party, shall be the prosecuting officer in the municipal court, shall advise the council, mayor and other officers and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs, and shall approve as to form and legality all contracts, deeds, bonds, ordinances, resolutions, and motions prior to enactment or execution by the council and mayor.
Sec. 3.04. - Municipal court.
There shall be a municipal court in said city for the trial of all offenders against the laws and ordinances of said city, to be held by the mayor or recorder in the courtroom in the city hall of said city as often as necessary. If the council shall so decide, a recorder shall be appointed to serve from year to year, at a salary to be fixed by the council, and if so appointed, such recorder shall conduct the court. If no recorder is appointed, the mayor shall conduct the court. If both the mayor and recorder are absent or disqualified, any councilman designated by the mayor may hold court. The recorder or mayor shall have full power and authority, upon conviction to sentence any offender to labor upon the streets or other public works in the city for a period not exceeding 30 days, or to impose a fine not exceeding $500.00, or both, in the discretion of the presiding officer. The recorder or mayor shall have the right to issue criminal warrants, to hold preliminary trials and to fix bonds of all persons tried before him to answer for their appearance at the Superior Court of Macon County or the State Court of Macon County, for violations of the criminal laws of said state, or in default of such bond, commit such offenders to jail for safekeeping.
The municipal court shall be held at such times and places as the council may designate. The right to appeal any bond as may be required to secure the costs on appeal to the Superior Court of Macon County from the municipal court shall lie in the same manner and under the same procedure as generally described for appeals and bonds from the Probate Court of Macon County; provided, however, any person convicted of an offense shall have ten days to file his appeal. An appeal to the superior court shall be a de novo proceeding.
Sec. 3.05. - Other officers and employees.
After receiving the written recommendations of the mayor, the council may establish by ordinance, offices and positions of employment and may abolish, combine or modify them by ordinance in accordance with such recommendations. Public utilities owned or operated by the city shall be under the supervision of the mayor, council and employees appointed by them or may be under boards or commissions appointed by and answerable to the mayor and council, as may be provided by ordinance.
Sec. 3.06. - Oath of office.
Before a person takes any office in the city government, be shall take the following oath or affirmation before an officer of this state authorized to administer oaths:
"I solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution of the United States and of the State of Georgia, that I will, in all respects, observe the provisions of the Charter and ordinances of the City of Oglethorpe, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of…."
Sec. 3.07. - Political activity prohibited.
No officer or employee of the city, other than the mayor and councilmen, shall continue in the employment of the city after becoming a candidate for nomination or election to any public office.
ARTICLE IV. - FISCAL ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 4.01. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the city government shall begin on the first day of January, and shall end on the 31st day of December of each year, but another fiscal year may be fixed by ordinance for the entire city government or for any utility.
Sec. 4.02. - Mayor to submit annual budget.
On or before a date fixed by the council, but not later than 45 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor shall submit to the council a proposed budget for the next fiscal year, showing separately for the general fund, each utility, and each other fund the following:
(a)
Revenue and expenditures during the preceding fiscal year,
(b)
Appropriations and estimated revenue and expenditures for the current fiscal year,
(c)
Estimated revenue and recommended expenditures for the next fiscal year,
(d)
A comparative statement of the assets, liabilities, reserves, and surplus at the end of the current fiscal year, and
(e)
Such other information and date, as may be considered necessary by the mayor or requested by the council.
Sec. 4.03. - Action by council on budget.
Before the beginning of the ensuing fiscal year the council shall adopt an appropriation ordinance, based on the mayor's budget with such modifications as the council considers necessary or desirable. Appropriations need not be in more detail than a lump sum for each department and agency. The council shall not make any appropriations in excess of estimated revenue, except to provide for an actual emergency threatening the health, property or lives of the inhabitants of the city; provided the council unanimously agrees there is such an emergency. If emergency conditions prevent the adoption of an appropriation ordinance before the beginning of the new fiscal year, the appropriations for the last fiscal year shall become the appropriations for the new fiscal year, subject to amendment as provided by an ordinance specifically passed for such purpose.
Sec. 4.04. - Sale of city property.
The mayor and council may sell any city property which is obsolete, surplus or unusable, at public or private sale, with or without advertisement and for such consideration as to said mayor and council shall seem equitable and just to the city.
Sec. 4.05. - Annual audit.
The council shall employ a certified public accountant to make an annual audit of all financial books and records of the city. The accountant shall file his report with the council, at a time agreed to between him and the council, and shall prepare a summary of the report which shall be furnished or made available to the mayor and every councilman.
Sec. 4.06. - Property taxes.
All property subject to taxation for state and county purposes, including the capital stock and inventory of merchants and public service companies, assessed as of January 1st in each year, shall be subject to the property tax levied by the city. The council shall elect to use the county assessment. Said property is to be taxed at the rate provided by ordinance.
Sec. 4.07. - Tax levy.
The council shall make a tax levy, expressed as a fixed rate per $100.00, of assessed valuation; and if no tax levy is made within 90 days prior to the tax due date, the property tax rate in effect for the last fiscal year shall continue in effect as the tax rate for the new fiscal year.
Sec. 4.08. - Tax due date and tax bills.
The due dates of property taxes shall be fixed by ordinance. The city shall send tax bills to taxpayers showing the assessed valuations, amount of taxes due, tax due dates, and information as to delinquency dates and penalties. Failure to send tax bills shall not, however, invalidate any tax. Property taxes shall become delinquent on the day following the specified due date, at which time a penalty of ten percent but not less than $10.00 shall be added, and after the due date such taxes shall be subject to interest at the rate of seven percent per annum from the due date until paid. On and after the date when such taxes become delinquent, the tax records of the city shall have the force and effect of a judgment of a court of record.
Sec. 4.09. - Collection of delinquent taxes.
The council may provide by ordinance for the collection of delinquent taxes by distress warrants issued by the mayor and city attorney for the sale of goods and chattels to be executed by any police officer of the city either under the laws governing execution of such process from a justice of the peace, or under general laws providing for the collection of delinquent city or county taxes, or by any two or more of the foregoing methods, and by the use of any additional available legal processes and remedies. A lien shall exist against all property on which city property taxes are levied, as of the assessment date of January 1st of each year, which shall be superior to all other liens except that it shall have equal dignity with those for federal, state or county taxes.
Sec. 4.10. - Special assessments.
The city may assess all or part of the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening, or improving any public way, sewers, or utility mains and appurtenances, against the abutting property owners, under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by ordinance. Such special assessments shall become delinquent on the day following the specified due dates, shall thereupon be subject to a penalty of ten percent, and shall thereafter be subject to interest at the rate of seven percent per annum from due date until paid. A lien shall exist against the abutting property superior to all other liens, except that it shall be of equal dignity with liens for county and city property taxes, and said lien shall be enforceable by the same procedures and under the same remedies as provided in this article for city property taxes.
Sec. 4.11. - Licenses and occupational taxes.
The council may provide by ordinance for the levy of such license and occupational taxes upon the residents of the City of Oglethorpe, both individual and corporate, and upon all those who transact or offer to transact business therein or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein, as the council may deem expedient for the public health, safety, benefit, convenience or advantage of the city. The council shall have the power to classify businesses, occupations, professions or callings for the purpose of taxation in any way which may be lawful, to require such persons to procure appropriate licenses; to compel payment for such licenses; and to provide by rules and regulations necessary or proper to carry out the powers herein conferred, and to prescribe penalties for the violations thereof.
Sec. 4.12. - Transfer of executions.
The city clerk of the City of Oglethorpe shall be authorized to transfer or assign any fi. fa. or execution issued for any tax or for any street, sewer, or other assessment in the same manner and to the same extent as provided by Georgia law regarding sales and transfers of tax fi. fas. Such transfer or assignment, when made, shall vest the purchaser or transferee with all right, title and interest as provided by Georgia law governing sales and transfers of tax fi. fas. Provided that, upon levy of execution and sale of property pursuant to such tax fi. fa., whether assigned, transferred or executed by the city, the owner of such property in fee simple or lesser interest, shall not lose his right to redeem the property in accord with the requirements of redemption of property sold under state or county ad valorem tax fi. fas., as said requirements now exist or as may be provided by law from time to time.
Sec. 4.13. - General obligation bonds.
The council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized under this Charter or the general laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuances by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
Sec. 4.14. - Revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the council as provided by an Act of the General Assembly of Georgia, approved March 31, 1937, known as the "Revenue Bond Law" (Ga. L. 1937, p. 761), as now or hereafter amended.
ARTICLE V. - MISCELLANEOUS

Sec. 5.01. - Restrictions on action for damages against city.
No action shall be maintained against the city for damages unless a written statement by the claimant or by his agent, attorney or representative, setting forth the basis for his claim, shall have been filed with the mayor within 60 days after such cause of action shall have occurred, except that when the claimant is an infant or non compos mentis, or an injured person dies within 60 days, the time limit for filing a claim shall be 120 days. No officer or employee of the city may waive this requirement.
Sec. 5.02. - Penalties.
The violation of any provisions of this Act or any ordinance adopted pursuant to this Act, for which a penalty is not specifically provided herein, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500.00 or by imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
Sec. 5.03. - Severability.
If any article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof, of this Act shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not effect or impair other parts of this Act unless it clearly appears that such other parts are wholly and necessarily dependent upon the part or parts held to be invalid or unconstitutional, it being the legislative intent in enacting this Act that each article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof, be enacted separately and independently of each other.
Sec. 5.04. - Effective date.
This Act shall be effective on and after the first day of March, 1975.
Sec. 5.05. - [Repealing laws in conflict.]
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE GEORGIA LAWS
This table shows the location of the sections of the amendments to the Charter. The Charter is derived from 1975 Ga. Laws (Act No. 51), page 2630.
EXPAND
Ga. Laws
Year Act No. Page Section
this Charter
1987 363 4835 2.01
