ARTICLE V. - CODE OF ETHICS

Sec. 2-291. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Appointed official means the county administrator, the county attorney, the county clerk and the county physician.
Business means a corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship or any other person operating an enterprise, whether or not for profit.
Confidential information means any information which, by law or practice, is not available to the public.
Contract means any lease, claim, account or demand against or agreement with any person or business, whether express or implied, executed or executory, oral or written.
Department head means any agent or employee of the county who is charged with the duty to oversee the operation of a department, agency, county board of commissioners and any other person with the authority of the board of commissioners to participate in an official act or take official action on behalf of the county, whether such person is elected, appointed or employed.
Employment means any rendering of services on request, whether paid or unpaid.
Immediate family means an official, appointed official or department head and his spouse, mother, father, brother, sister, son or daughter.
Interest means any direct or indirect pecuniary or material benefit held by or accruing to an official, appointed official or department head as a result of a contract or transaction which is or may be the subject of a contract or transaction which is or may be the subject of an official act or action by the county. Unless otherwise provided, the term "interest" does not include any remote interest. For the purpose of this chapter, an official, appointed official or department head is deemed to have an interest in transactions involving or affecting any:
(1)
Person in his immediate family;
(2)
Person with whom a contract exists;
(3)
Business in which he is an employee or prospective employee, or in which the official, appointed official or department head, or a member of his immediate family, is a director or officer;
(4)
Business in which an official, appointed official or department head, or his immediate family, owns a whole or part interest, except publicly traded shares of a corporation; and
(5)
Corporation in which an official, appointed official or department head, and/or his immediate family, owns five percent or more of the number of outstanding publicly traded shares of such corporation.
Official means each member of the county board of commissioners then in office.
Official act or action means any executive, legislative, administrative, appointive or discretionary act of the county board of commissioners taken pursuant to a regular or special meeting of the board of commissioners or of an appointed official or department head in the discharge of his official duties.
Paid means the receipt of or right to receive a salary, wages, commission, percentage, brokerage fee, contingent fee or other compensation for services rendered.
Participate means to take part in official acts or actions, or proceedings personally as an official, appointed official or department head through an approval, disapproval, decision or failure to act or perform a duty.
Person means any individual, business, labor organization, representative, fiduciary, trust or association, whether paid or unpaid, and includes any official, appointed official or department head.
Property means any property interest, whether real or personal, tangible or intangible, and includes currency and commercial paper.
Transaction means the conduct of any activity that results in or may result in an official act or action of the county.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.1-1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 2-292. - Appearance of improper or undue influence.
No official, appointed official or department head shall, by his conduct, give reasonable basis for the impression that any person can improperly influence him or enjoy undue favor in the performance of official acts or actions, or that he is affected unduly by the kinship, rank, position of or association with any person.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.1-2)
Sec. 2-293. - Acceptance of gifts.
(a)
No official, appointed official or department head shall directly or indirectly request, accept or agree to accept a gift, loan, favor, promise or thing of value for himself or another person if:
(1)
It tends to influence him in the discharge of his official duties; or
(2)
He recently has been, is now or in the near future will be involved in any official action or action indirectly affecting the donor or lender.
(b)
This section shall not apply in case of:
(1)
An occasional nonpecuniary gift of insignificant value;
(2)
An award publicly presented in recognition of public service; and
(3)
A commercially reasonable loan made in the ordinary course of business by an institution authorized by the laws of the state to engage in the making of such a loan.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.1-3)
Sec. 2-294. - Campaign contributions; disclosure of campaign contributions; when required.
(a)
The provisions of this article do not apply with respect to campaign contributions made to an official or department head in compliance with O.C.G.A. tit. 21, ch. 5, commonly known as the Georgia Campaign and Financial Disclosure Act.
(b)
An official, appointed official or department head who has received a campaign contribution aggregating $251.00 or more from any person or business appearing before the commission shall file a disclosure report with the county board of commissioners showing:
(1)
The date the campaign contribution or gift was made; and
(2)
The dollar amount of each campaign contribution made by the person appearing before the commission.
The disclosure required in this section shall be made within ten days of the official, appointed official or department head learning that such person or business entity has a matter involving the county.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.1-4)
Sec. 2-295. - Disclosure of confidential information.
No official, appointed official or department head shall disclose or otherwise use confidential information acquired by virtue of his position with the county for his or another person's private gain.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.1-5)
Sec. 2-296. - Withholding information or intentionally providing misleading information.
No official, appointed official or department head shall provide intentionally misleading information to any person, nor withhold necessary information from officials, appointed officials or department heads. All officials, appointed officials and department heads shall have equal access to necessary information with no secret communication of necessary information between officials, appointed officials and department heads.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.1-6)
Sec. 2-297. - Appearance for the benefit of self or others.
No official, appointed official or department head shall appear on his own behalf, without making such disclosures and/or abstaining as required in section 2-299, nor under any circumstances represent or appear on behalf of any person, whether paid or unpaid, before any court or before any legislative, administrative or quasijudicial board, agency, commission or committee appointed by the board of commissioners, or an official or department head concerning any contract or transaction which is or may be the subject of any official act or action of the county, except in the regular discharge of their official duties, or otherwise use or attempt to use his position to secure unwarranted privileges or exemptions for himself or others.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.1-7)
Sec. 2-298. - Employment, business or professional activities adverse to interest of county.
No official, appointed official or department head shall engage in employment with or render services for any private business or professional activity when it is adverse to and incompatible with the proper discharge of his official duties.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.1-8)
Sec. 2-299. - Conflict of interest.
(a)
An official, appointed official or department head who has an interest, as defined in section 2-291, that he has reason to believe may be affected by or may affect his official acts or actions, or the official acts or actions of the county, shall immediately disclose the nature and extent of such interest in writing to the board of commissioners for the public record, and shall abstain from participating in such official acts or actions affecting or affected by such interest.
(b)
An official, appointed official or department head who has an interest, other than provided for in this article, that he has reason to believe may be affected by or may affect his official acts or actions, or the official acts or actions of the county, shall disclose such interest where failure to disclose such interest would create the impression of impropriety. The official, appointed official or department head disclosing such interest shall abstain from participating in official acts or actions affected by or affecting such interest at the discretion of the board of commissioners.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.1-9)
Sec. 2-300. - Violation of state or federal laws or county ordinances.
No official, appointed official or department head shall engage in any activity or transaction that is prohibited by state or federal law or county ordinance which is applicable to him by virtue of his office.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.1-10)
Sec. 2-301. - Misleading public as to facts and law.
(a)
An official, appointed official or department head shall not knowingly mislead the public as to the existence of a fact when such fact is known to such individual or should have been known by the reasonable exercise of diligence.
(b)
An official, appointed official or department head shall not knowingly mislead the public as to a matter of law when such matter of law is known to such individual or should have been known by the reasonable exercise of diligence.
(Code 1979, §§ 2-5.1-11, 2-5.1-12)
Sec. 2-302. - Upholding Code of Ordinances, policy and procedure, rules and regulations.
An official, appointed official or department head shall uphold and comply with the county Code of Ordinances, the various policy and procedure manuals of the county and the rules and regulations of the county.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.1-13)
Sec. 2-303. - Dealing with departments through department heads.
An official, appointed official or department head shall conduct all business with a particular department through the properly designated head of such department, except when specifically otherwise authorized by a department head or a majority of the board of commissioners.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.1-14)
Sec. 2-304. - Enforcement.
If any member of the county board of commissioners, appointed official or department head intentionally fails to follow the requirements of this article, it shall be the duty of the other parties covered by this article to report such failure to comply to the county board of commissioners and for the county board of commissioners, after proper investigation, with due process being afforded to the alleged offender, to take whatever action is deemed necessary and appropriate.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.1-15)
Secs. 2-305—2-335. - Reserved.
