Chapter 26 - CABLE COMMUNICATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Zoning, ch. 90.
State Law reference— Regulation of cable television systems by counties, O.C.G.A. § 36-18-1 et seq.; avoiding or attempting to avoid charges for use of cable television service, O.C.G.A. § 46-5-2.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 26-1—26-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEMS

Sec. 26-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Basic service means and consists of the retransmission of television broadcasting station signals, a local origination channel, weather and news channels and any other channels which form the basic service package from time to time being provided by any grantee of cable or video franchises issued by the county or the State of Georgia in the area of its franchise operation in the county for which a charge is made to the subscriber.
Basic service revenue means the amount of revenue collected from the subscribers for the provision of basic service.
Community antenna television system, referred to in this article as "CATV system," "cable system" or "system, " means a system for the transmission of audio and/or video and/or data signals by coaxial cable or fiber optic networks, or other means, and such related services as the state of the art permits and a grantee chooses to provide. Such services include, but are not limited to, basic service and premium service.
County means Columbia County, Georgia.
County engineer means the county engineer of Columbia County, Georgia.
Franchise means the term applied to this article following adoption by the board of commissioners and acceptance by the grantee, or following adoption by the State of Georgia and acceptance by the grantee.
Grantee means any holder of a franchise issued by the county or the State of Georgia.
Person means a person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, or organization of any kind.
Premium service means any future services such as motion pictures, shopping services, sporting events and the transmission of such other electronic service information or data as may become technically and economically feasible, and for which service a charge is made to the subscriber.
Shall means mandatory and not merely directory.
Subscriber means a person who purchases a service offered by the CATV system.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.5-1; Ord. No. 14-02, § 1, 2-4-2014)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 26-32. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 2 of Ord. No. 14-02, adopted Feb. 4, 2014, repealed former § 26-32 which pertained to grant of authority, and derived from the 1979 Code, § 2-5.5-2; and Ord. No. 05-03, adopted March 15, 2005.
Sec. 26-33. - Compliance with applicable laws and ordinances.
The grantee shall, at all times during the life of this franchise, be subject to the lawful exercise of the police power of the county, and to such reasonable regulations as the county shall provide.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.5-3)
Sec. 26-34. - Liability and indemnification.
By its acceptance of this franchise, the grantee agrees that it will pay all damages and penalties which the county may legally be required to pay as a result of granting this franchise, including the cost of defending any legal action against the county arising out of the installation, operation or maintenance of the CATV system authorized in this article, whether or not any such act or omission complained of is authorized, allowed or prohibited by this franchise.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.5-4)
Sec. 26-35. - Operation and maintenance of system.
The grantee shall install such equipment and have the necessary equipment and personnel to maintain its facilities in order to ensure efficient service, and it shall have the necessary equipment and personnel to promptly make repairs, and service shall be interrupted only for good cause and for the shortest time possible.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.5-5)
Sec. 26-36. - Safety requirements.
(a)
The grantee shall, at all times, employ ordinary care and shall install and maintain in use commonly accepted methods and devices for preventing failures and accidents which are likely to cause damages, injuries or nuisances to the public.
(b)
The grantee shall install and maintain its wires, cables, fixtures and other equipment in accordance with the requirements of chapter 18, and in such a manner so as not to interfere with any existing installations of the county or of a public utility serving the county.
(c)
All structures, lines, equipment and connections in, over, under and upon the streets, sidewalks, alleys and public ways or places of the county, wherever situated or located, shall, at all times, be kept and maintained in a safe, suitable and substantial condition, and in good order and repair.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.5-6; Ord. of 11-1-1983)
Sec. 26-37. - Conditions of street occupancy.
(a)
All transmission and distribution structure lines and equipment erected by the grantee within the unincorporated areas of the county shall be located so as to cause minimum interference with the proper use of streets, alleys and other public ways and places, and with the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin such streets, alleys or other public ways and places.
(b)
In case of disturbance of any street, sidewalk, alley, public way or paved area, the grantee shall, at its own cost and expense and in a manner approved by the county engineer, replace and restore such street, sidewalk, alley, public way or paved area in as good a condition as before the work involving such disturbance was commenced.
(c)
The grantee shall have the authority to trim trees upon any street, alley, sidewalk, public way and place of the unincorporated areas of the county so as to prevent the branches of such trees from coming in contact with the wires, cables or other equipment of the grantee.
(d)
If at any time during the period of this franchise, the board of commissioners shall lawfully elect to alter or change the grade of any street, sidewalk, alley or other public way, the grantee, upon reasonable notice by the board of commissioners, shall relocate its poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes and other fixtures at its own expense.
(e)
In all unincorporated areas of the county where the cables, wires or other like facilities of public utilities are placed underground, the grantee shall place its cables, wires or other like facilities underground to the maximum extent that existing technology reasonably permits the grantee to do so.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.5-7)
Sec. 26-38. - Erection, removal and common user of poles.
No poles or other wire-holding structures shall be erected by the grantee without prior approval of the county engineer with regard to location, height, type and any other pertinent aspect. Any pole or wire-holding structure of the grantee shall be moved or modified by the grantee, at its own expense, upon reasonable notice, whenever the board of commissioners has determined that the public convenience would be enhanced by such action.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.5-8)
Sec. 26-39. - Removal of facilities.
The grantee, upon termination by any subscriber of the grantee's services, shall promptly remove all of its facilities and equipment from the premises of a subscriber upon the subscriber's written request.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.5-9)
Sec. 26-40. - Payment to county by holders of franchises issued by county or by the State of Georgia.
All holders of cable or video franchises issued by the county shall pay to county the same maximum franchise fee allowed by law for cable or video franchises issued by the State of Georgia, which as of the adoption of this section is five percent of gross revenues received from the provision of cable or video services generated in the unincorporated areas of the county.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.5-10; Ord. No. 14-02, § 3, 2-4-2014)
Editor's note— Section 3 of Ord. No. 14-02, adopted Feb. 4, 2014, changed the title of § 26-40 from "Payment to county" to read as herein set out.
Sec. 26-41. - Subscriber charge.
The charges for services offered to the public by the grantee shall be fair and reasonable. Prior to any rate change or adjustment, the grantee shall give notice to the board of commissioners. The grantee shall file with the board of commissioners, or the State of Georgia as the case may be, a schedule of the rates and charges for its basic CATV services offered to the public.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.5-11; Ord. No. 14-02, § 4, 2-4-2014)
Sec. 26-42. - County rights in franchise.
(a)
With regard to a franchise issued by the county, the right is reserved to the board of commissioners to adopt, in addition to the provisions contained in this section and in existing applicable ordinances, such additional regulations as it shall find necessary in the exercise of its police power, provided that such regulations, by ordinance or otherwise, shall be reasonable and not in conflict with the rights granted in this section.
(b)
At any time during normal business hours, the board of commissioners shall have the right to inspect and the grantee shall make available its books, records, maps, plans and/or other like materials of the grantee pertaining to the operation of the CATV system, provided that seven days' notice shall have been given to the grantee as to what records are to be produced for such inspection.
(c)
During the term of each franchise issued by the county, the board of commissioners shall have the right to install and maintain, free of charge, upon the poles of the CATV system, any wire or pole fixtures necessary for a police alarm system, on the condition that such wire and pole fixtures do not interfere with the operations of the grantee.
(d)
The board of commissioners shall have the right to hold a public or private hearing on any matter pertaining to each franchise issued by the county, and the grantee shall make available its representatives or agents for such hearing.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.5-12; Ord. No. 14-02, § 5, 2-4-2014)
Sec. 26-43. - Maps, plats and reports.
(a)
On or before March 1 of each year each grantee shall file with the clerk of the board of commissioners true and accurate maps or plats of CATV trunk and feeder lines within the unincorporated areas of the county as of December 31 of the preceding year.
(b)
Each grantee shall annually file with the clerk, no later than 60 days after the end of its fiscal year, a sworn statement of the number of subscribers to its basic CATV system service residing within the unincorporated areas of the county, the revenues from the operation thereof upon which the payment to the county is based and a computation of the franchises fee due to the county.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.5-13; Ord. No. 14-02, § 6, 2-4-2014)
Sec. 26-44. - Cancellation of franchise.
(a)
With regard to each franchise issued by the county, the board of commissioners reserves the right to terminate and cancel the franchise and all rights and privileges of the grantee under the franchise if the grantee:
(1)
Fails to make the payments to the county as provided in section 26-40 for a period of more than 180 days, unless the county shall have granted a waiver of timely payment.
(2)
Becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its debts, or is adjudged as bankrupt.
(3)
Willfully violates any of the provisions of the franchise.
(b)
Termination and cancellation as provided in this section shall be by ordinance duly adopted after 90 days' notice to the grantee, and shall in no way affect any of the county's rights under this franchise or any provisions of law. If such termination and cancellation depends upon a finding of fact, such finding of fact shall be made by the board of commissioners; provided, however, that before this franchise may be terminated and cancelled, the grantee shall be provided with an opportunity to be heard, to present evidence before the board of commissioners and to appeal such proposed cancellation to a court of competent jurisdiction.
(c)
The termination or cancellation of a franchise shall give the county no vested interest in the business or property of the grantee, and the grantee shall have a reasonable period of time to dismantle its equipment in the event of such cancellation or termination.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.5-14; Ord. No. 14-02, § 7, 2-4-2014)
Sec. 26-45. - Duration and acceptance of franchise.
A franchise issued by the county and granted to the grantee to operate a CATV system in the unincorporated area of the county shall take effect and be in force on the dates agreed to by the county as grantee and set forth in the franchise agreement. If the termination date of the franchise shall occur but no action is taken to extend or end its term, the duration of the franchise shall continue on a month to month basis until terminated.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.5-15; Ord. No. 14-02, § 8, 2-4-2014)
Sec. 26-46. - Transferability.
The grantee shall not assign or transfer its franchise issued by the county to another person unless the resultant successor to the grantee shall have a net worth of not less than $1,000,000.00. The board of commissioners shall be notified 30 days prior to any proposed transfer of the franchise, and shall be provided with reasonable evidence of the financial qualifications of the proposed transferee to operate the CATV system in the public interest. Prior to the effective date of the assignment, the assignee shall execute and deliver to the county an agreement to abide by and operate the franchise in accordance with all of the provisions of this article, which shall be in a form and of substance approved by the board of commissioners.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.5-16; Ord. No. 14-02, § 9, 2-4-2014)
Sec. 26-47. - Compliance with other regulations.
Notwithstanding the terms of a franchise, the grantee shall not be required to operate in violation of any rule or regulation of the Federal Communications Commission or any federal or state laws which may be adopted.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.5-17; Ord. No. 14-02, § 10, 2-4-2014)
Sec. 26-48. - Services offered in addition to CATV services.
The franchises granted under the terms of this article shall entitle each of the grantees to use its CATV system to offer services other than basic service, premium service or any other service that would be considered part of cable television services, which its CATV system is capable of providing, including, by way of example and not limitation, Internet access and services, telephone services, security services, energy management, high speed data transmission and wholesale transport and local loop services. If such additional services are offered, the county reserves the right, by amendment of this section or the adoption of additional ordinances, to impose additional franchise fees for the providing of such services to the extent the county is legally authorized to do so. Prior to imposing such additional franchise fees, the county will notify any grantee which would be affected thereby and give it an opportunity to be heard on the matter by the board of commissioners. If any such additional franchise fees are imposed for the providing of services in addition to CATV services, similar fees shall also be charged to any other provider of the same service who is not a CATV service provider, but who uses county property similar to the way the grantee uses county property to provide the service. Before imposing any such additional franchise fees, the board of commissioners shall make a finding that the additional franchise fees are reasonable and are being equitably charged to those providing the service and making similar use of county property.
(Code 1979, § 2-5.5-19; Ord. No. 14-02, § 11, 2-4-2014)
Sec. 26-49. - Payment to county by holders of franchises issued by the State of Georgia.
All holders of cable or video franchises issued by the State of Georgia shall pay to county the maximum franchise fee allowed by law, which as of the adoption of this ordinance [from which this section is derived] is five percent of gross revenues received from the provision of cable or video services generated in the unincorporated areas of the county.
(Ord. No. 14-02, § 12, 2-4-2014)
