ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Animal care and control advisory board, § 14-4; construction board, § 18-131; recreation board, § 62-36 et seq.
State Law reference— Code of ethics for government service, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-1; requirement to prescribe the time, place and dates of regular meetings of governing authority, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d); meetings to be open to public, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1; exemptions from open meeting requirements, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-3.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-31—2-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MEETINGS

Sec. 2-51. - Regular meetings; time, notice.
(a)
The regular meetings of the board of commissioners required by Local Laws section 1-2-6 shall be held at 6:00 p.m. unless otherwise designated by the chairman or, in his absence, the vice-chairman, or by a vote of the board of commissioners. The days and times of the board of commissioners' regular meetings shall be available to the general public and a notice containing such information shall be posted and maintained in a conspicuous place available to the public at the regular meeting places of the board of commissioners.
(b)
Whenever any meeting required to be open to the public is to be held at a time or place other than at the time or place prescribed for regular meetings, the board of commissioners shall cause written notice of such meeting to be posted for at least 24 hours at the places of regular meetings and the giving of written or oral notice at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting to the legal organ in which notices of sheriff's sales are published or at the option of the board of commissioners to a newspaper having general circulation in the county at least equal to that of the legal organ, and upon written request from any local broadcast or print media outlet whose place of business and physical facilities are located in the county, notice by telephone or facsimile to such requesting media outlet at least 24 hours in advance of the called meeting.
(c)
Oral or written notice of any changes in the time or place of a regular meeting of the board of commissioners shall be given to each commissioner at least 24 hours prior to any such meeting.
(Code 1979, § 2-2-1; Ord. No. 99-16, § 2-2-1, 12-16-1999; Ord. No. 17-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 2-6-2018)
Sec. 2-52. - Special meetings and rescheduled regular meetings.
A regular meeting of the board of commissioners may be canceled, rescheduled or moved to a new location within the Appling area for meetings to be held in Appling and in the Martinez-Evans area for meetings to be held in Martinez or Evans by the chairman or the board of commissioners for any reason. Special meetings may be scheduled by the chairman or at the request of two commissioners. Whenever a rescheduled regular meeting or any other special meeting is to be held at a time or place other than the regularly scheduled time or place, written notice of the change shall be posted for at least 24 hours at the place of the regular meeting. In addition, written or oral notice shall be given by the clerk at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting to either the legal organ of the county or a newspaper having a general circulation at least equal to that of the legal organ and to each commissioner. Notice shall also be given to other print or broadcast media in the county as provided in section 2-51.
(Ord. No. 99-16, § 2-2-7, 12-16-1999)
Sec. 2-53. - Emergency meetings.
When special circumstances occur and are so declared by the board of commissioners, the board of commissioners may hold a meeting with less than 24 hours' notice to the public. When such meetings are to be held, the clerk shall provide notice to the legal organ of the county or a newspaper with a general circulation at least equal to that of the legal organ and to each commissioner as soon as possible. The notice shall include the subjects expected to be considered at the meeting. In addition, the minutes shall reflect the reason for the emergency meeting and the nature of the notice given to the media.
(Ord. No. 99-16, § 2-2-8, 12-16-1999)
Sec. 2-54. - Open meetings.
All meetings of the board of commissioners shall be held in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq. The public shall at all times be afforded access to all meetings other than executive sessions.
(Ord. No. 99-16, § 2-2-9, 12-16-1999)
Sec. 2-55. - Decorum.
(a)
All commissioners must conduct themselves in a professional and respectful manner. All remarks shall be directed to the chairman and not to individual commissioners, staff or citizens in attendance. Personal remarks are inappropriate. A commissioner may not speak at a meeting until he has been recognized by the chairman. All comments made by a commissioner shall address the motion that is being discussed.
(b)
The chairman shall enforce these rules of decorum. If a commissioner believes that a rule has been broken, he can raise a point of order. A second is not required. The chairman can rule on the question or he can allow the board of commissioners to debate the issue and decide the issue. Members of the public shall not make inappropriate or offensive comments at a board of commissioners meeting and are expected to comply with the rules of decorum that are established for commissioners. Individuals who violate any rules of the board of commissioners may be ruled out of order by the chairman or on a point of order made by a commissioner. The board of commissioners will rule on the point of order. An individual who violates the rules of decorum may be removed from the meeting at the direction of the chairman.
(Ord. No. 99-16, § 2-2-10, 12-16-1999)
Sec. 2-56. - Public hearings.
The board of commissioners may hold public hearings for the purpose of soliciting public comment on any subject of interest to the board of commissioners. Hearings may be held immediately prior to or following a meeting of the board of commissioners or at such other places and times as the board of commissioners may determine. No official action shall be taken at any such public hearing.
(Ord. No. 99-16, § 2-2-11, 12-16-1999)
Sec. 2-57. - Responsibility for conducting meetings.
The chairman of the board of commissioners, or in his absence, the vice-chairman, is responsible for the orderly conduct of meetings. In order to fulfill this duty, the chairman must enforce the rules of procedure that are adopted by the board of commissioners. The chairman shall be impartial and conduct the meetings in a fair manner.
(Ord. No. 99-16, § 2-2-12, 12-16-1999)
Sec. 2-58. - Agenda.
The county administrator shall prepare an agenda for all regular and special meetings of the board of commissioners. If time permits, a draft of the agenda shall be made available at the county administrator's office to each member of the board of commissioners, the clerk and the county attorney by 4:00 p.m. on the second business day preceding the date of the meeting. This draft agenda marked "draft" shall be available to the public upon request, and shall be posted at the meeting site as far in advance of the meeting as reasonably possible.
(1)
All matters to be included in the agenda shall be submitted to the county administrator by noon on the second business day preceding the meeting at which such matters are to be considered. The agenda shall be divided into a debate agenda which shall consist of unfinished business and new business, with each matter to be discussed and acted on separately, and the consent agenda as set forth section 2-81(6).
(2)
The agenda may be adjusted by the county administrator based upon input from the commissioners and other county officials up to 12:00 noon of the business day next preceding the day set for the meeting, and the prepared agenda shall be available no later than two hours after such time. The adjusted agenda shall be available to the public upon request and shall be posted at the meeting site in place of the draft agenda as far in advance of the meeting as reasonably possible.
(3)
The adjusted agenda may be amended as set forth for in section 2-81(4). Matters not on the agenda (as amended, if applicable) will not be considered at the meeting covered by such agenda.
(Code 1979, § 2-2-2(a); Ord. No. 99-16, § 2-2-2(a), 12-16-1999)
Sec. 2-59. - Minutes.
(a)
The clerk of the board of commissioners shall promptly record the minutes for each board of commissioners' meeting. The minutes shall serve as the official written record of the board of commissioners' meeting and shall be open for public inspection once approved as official by the board of commissioners, but in no case later than immediately following the next regular meeting of the board of commissioners. The minutes shall specify the names of commissioners present at the meeting, a description of each motion or other proposal made and a record of all votes. In the case of a roll call vote, the name of each commissioner voting for or against a proposal shall be recorded, and in all other cases it shall be presumed that the action taken was approved by each commissioner in attendance unless the minutes reflect the name of the commissioners voting against the proposal or abstaining. More detailed information may be included in the minutes at the request of the board of commissioners.
(b)
The board of commissioners must approve the minutes before the minutes can be considered as an official record of the board of commissioners. A copy of the minutes from the previous meeting shall be distributed to the commissioners at least one business day before the following meeting. The minutes of the previous meeting shall be corrected and approved by the board of commissioners at the beginning of each meeting. Conflicts about the content of the minutes shall be decided by a vote of the board of commissioners. Upon being approved, the minutes shall be signed by the chairman and attested to by the clerk of the board of commissioners.
(Code 1979, § 2-2-2(b); Ord. No. 99-16, § 2-2-2(b), 12-16-1999)
Sec. 2-60. - Meeting summary.
A summary of the subjects acted on and the members of the board of commissioners present at a meeting shall be written and made available to the public for inspection within two business days of the adjournment of a meeting.
(Ord. No. 99-16, § 2-2-2(c), 12-16-1999)
Secs. 2-61—2-80. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - RULES OF PROCEDURE

Sec. 2-81. - Order of business.
The order of business for all meetings of the board of commissioners shall be as follows, unless otherwise agreed by a vote of the board of commissioners:
(1)
Call to order. The chairman or, in his absence, the vice-chairman shall, at the hour appointed for the meeting, call the board of commissioners to order.
(2)
Roll call/quorum. Before the commencement of any business by the board of commissioners, the clerk shall take the roll of the members of the board of commissioners, and the names of those present shall be entered in the minutes. The presence of a majority of the members of the board of commissioners shall constitute a quorum at any board of commissioners' meeting. If, during the course of a meeting, a commissioner leaves so that a quorum is no longer present at the meeting, the meeting cannot continue. If a quorum is not attained or ceases to exist for a period of 30 minutes, the meeting, or the remaining portion thereof, will be rescheduled by the chairman with the approval of the commissioners present. Members of the board of commissioners present at a meeting who abstain from voting on a question shall be counted as present for purposes of determining a quorum, but shall not be counted for purposes of determining whether a majority voted for or against the question.
(3)
Approval of minutes of previous meetings. The minutes of the previous meeting shall be considered and errors noted and corrected. The minutes shall be accepted and approved by a majority vote of the members of the board of commissioners present and voting.
(4)
Presentation of agenda. Chairperson shall present the agenda for each meeting of the board of commissioners.
(5)
Presentations, declarations, and/or special recognitions. Matters consisting of presentations, declarations, special recognitions, etc., which have been placed on the agenda shall be presented. There will be a five-minute limit to make each presentation, declaration or special recognition unless the board of commissioners shall otherwise direct.
(6)
Consent agenda. Any committee may, by unanimous vote, request that an item of unfinished or new business be placed on the consent agenda. The items which may be placed on the consent agenda shall be routine, administrative and noncontroversial matters The board of commissioners, upon motion made and seconded, shall vote collectively on the items on the consent agenda. Upon a vote of a majority of the members of the board of commissioners present and voting approving the consent agenda items, each and every item shall stand approved as if voted on individually. Any commissioner, as a matter of right, may remove an item from the consent agenda and place it on the debate agenda, upon notice to the administrator, not later than 12:00 noon on the business day preceding the date of the scheduled meeting. An item may be removed from the consent agenda and placed on the debate agenda by vote of the board of commissioners at any time. Any item may be removed from the consent agenda and be recommitted to a committee by a vote of the board of commissioners.
(7)
Debate agenda. Matters not placed on the consent agenda shall be placed on the debate agenda and shall be taken up as follows:
a.
Unfinished business. The board of commissioners shall take up matters of business previously considered by the board of commissioners but which have not been finalized, need further consideration or action or appear on the agenda for the purpose of reconsideration.
b.
New business. The board of commissioners shall take up matters of business coming before the board of commissioners for the first time.
(8)
Legal matters. Any legal matters which need to be dealt with by the board of commissioners and not previously brought before the meeting shall be presented to the board of commissioners by the county attorney.
(9)
Executive session. Executive sessions of the board of commissioners may be held for the purpose of conducting business excepted from public access requirements as authorized by O.C.G.A. §§ 50-14-2, 50-14-3 and 50-14-4. Where a meeting of the board of commissioners is devoted in part to matters within the authorized exceptions to public access requirements, any portion of the meeting not subject to any such exceptions shall be open to the public. No executive session shall be held except pursuant to a majority affirmative vote of a quorum of the board of commissioners taken in a public meeting. The minutes of the public meeting shall reflect the names of the commissioners present, those voting for the executive session and the specific reasons for the executive session. Minutes of the executive session shall be maintained by the clerk of the board of commissioners. Any such minutes shall be maintained in a confidential file and shall not be subject to disclosure, except that disclosures of such portions of minutes identifying real estate to be acquired by the board of commissioners may only be delayed until such time as the acquisition of the real estate has been completed, terminated or abandoned, or court proceedings have been initiated.
(10)
Public comment. The board of commissioners shall allow for a period of public comment at the end of each meeting in which any person may bring forward business of concern to the county. Any person wishing to address the board of commissioners must give to the county administrator prior to the start of the meeting his name and address and state the subject matter to be addressed. Comments by any individual or group on a particular subject shall be limited to five minutes. In addition, the board of commissioners may allow for public comment at its discretion during the consideration of any item of business coming before the board of commissioners.
(11)
Adjournment. Following the consideration of all business to come before the board of commissioners, and the opportunity for public comment, the board of commissioners shall be adjourned by the chairman.
(Code 1979, § 2-2-3(a); Ord. No. 99-16, § 2-2-3(a), 12-16-1999; Ord. No. 14-15, §§ 1, 2, 11-4-2014; Ord. No. 17-08 , § 2(Exh. B), 2-6-2018)
Sec. 2-82. - Motions.
All official actions of the board of commissioners shall be by motion, as follows:
(1)
When a motion has been made, seconded and stated by the chair, the board of commissioners shall not consider any other business until this motion has been disposed of, except amendments to such motion. If the motion is long and involved, the chairman may ask the maker of the motion to submit it in writing to the clerk rather than stating it aloud.
(2)
The maker of the motion may not withdraw the motion after it has been stated by the chair or presented in writing to the clerk, except with the consent of the board of commissioners.
(3)
All motions must be seconded, which may be done without rising or addressing the chair.
(4)
After the original main motion has been made and seconded, the following motions may be made:
a.
To amend. A motion to amend seeks to change, add or omit words in the original main motion. A motion to amend is debatable. A vote of the board of commissioners is required to amend the main motion. Amendments to motions may be amended.
b.
To commit. A motion to commit seeks to return to a reporting committee or assign to a committee for further consideration the main motion. This motion is debatable and amendable.
c.
To table. A motion to table seeks to postpone consideration of the main motion under discussion temporarily until such time as the main motion is taken up again by a motion to resume consideration. This motion is debatable.
d.
To postpone. A motion to postpone seeks to postpone consideration of the main motion to a definite time specified in the motion to postpone. This motion is debatable.
e.
To reconsider. A motion to reconsider seeks to have a motion already adopted by the board of commissioners brought back to the board of commissioners for reconsideration. Such a motion is in order if it is made at the same meeting or at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the board of commissioners, but such motion must be made by one who voted with the prevailing side. This motion is debatable.
f.
To adjourn. A motion to adjourn seeks to have the meeting at which the motion is made adjourned and is always in order except when a speaker has the floor, when a vote is being taken or when the board of commissioners is in the midst of business which cannot be abruptly stopped. This motion is not debatable.
g.
Point of order. A motion on a point of order is always in order, but can be used only to present an objection to a ruling of the chairman or some matter of parliamentary procedure. After the mover has stated the objection, the chairman shall either sustain or deny the point of order raised. If the mover is not satisfied, he may appeal from the decision of the chairman. A majority or tie vote of those board of commissioners members voting sustains the decision of the chairman as to the point of order.
(Code 1979, § 2-2-3(b); Ord. No. 99-16, § 2-2-3(b), 12-16-1999)
Sec. 2-83. - Rules of debate.
The debate of motions before the board of commissioners shall be conducted under the following procedures:
(1)
No commissioner shall speak more than ten minutes on any question under debate, except by a vote of the board of commissioners, nor more than once on the same question until all who wish to speak have had the opportunity to do so.
(2)
When recognized by the chairman, speakers shall confine themselves to the question under debate and shall avoid all personal or inappropriate remarks.
(3)
No commissioner shall interrupt another while speaking, except to ask for information only or to raise a point of order.
(4)
If a disturbance or similar matter interferes with the orderly conduct of business, the chairman shall have the authority to declare a recess of the meeting for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
(Code 1979, § 2-2-3(c); Ord. No. 99-16, § 2-2-3(c), 12-16-1999)
Sec. 2-84. - Voting on motions.
The chairman, after allowing sufficient time for debate and consideration, shall have the authority to call the question. When this is done, the question before the board of commissioners shall be immediately voted upon. An affirmative vote of a majority of the board of commissioners members present and voting shall be necessary for adoption unless a larger vote is mandated by this Code or other provisions of law. A commissioner who abstains from voting shall be counted as not voting, but shall be counted as present for purposes of determining a quorum. Nothing contained in this section shall be construed as depriving the chairman or any other presiding officer of the right to vote or make motions.
(Code 1979, § 2-2-3(d); Ord. No. 99-16, § 2-2-3(d), 12-16-1999)
Sec. 2-85. - Procedure for adoption of ordinances and resolutions.
(a)
An "ordinance" shall mean a legislative enactment of the board of commissioners which prescribes a general rule or regulation affecting county government or conduct within the county.
(b)
A "resolution" shall mean an enactment of the board of commissioners which deals with a matter of any special or temporary interest.
(c)
All ordinances shall be in writing and prepared or reviewed by the county attorney prior to their adoption by the board of commissioners.
(d)
All proposed ordinances and amendments to ordinances shall be reviewed by the director of each division of county government which would be affected by the ordinance or amendment, and shall be presented to the committee which is administratively responsible for the subject matter of the ordinance or the amendment.
(e)
All ordinances and amendments to ordinances shall be adopted in the following manner:
(1)
The proposed ordinance or amendment shall first be read or submitted in writing to the board of commissioners by either a member of the board of commissioners, the clerk or the county attorney.
(2)
The committees which have reviewed the proposed ordinance or amendment and the directors of the affected divisions of the county government shall give their recommendations.
(3)
Any amendments, modifications or changes to the proposed ordinance or amendment may be introduced and considered.
(4)
With the exception of an ordinance which amends the zoning ordinance by changing the zoning district of a specific parcel of real property, no ordinance or amendment to any existing ordinance shall be adopted unless it has been read or presented in writing in its final form and approved at one meeting of the board of commissioners prior to the meeting at which it is given a second reading or written presentation and receives final approval. Ordinances which only amend the zoning ordinance by changing the zoning district of a particular parcel of real property, and which may set forth conditions for such change, may be adopted at the meeting at which such ordinance is first read or presented in writing in its final form, and no second reading shall be required.
(5)
An affirmative vote of a majority of the board of commissioners present and voting shall be necessary for adoption. A member of the board of commissioners abstaining shall be counted as not voting, but shall be counted as present for the purpose of determining a quorum.
(6)
An ordinance or amendment to an ordinance shall become effective in the form adopted immediately after its passage, or as otherwise provided by law, unless otherwise provided in the ordinance.
(7)
After adoption, the board of commissioners may amend, modify, change or void such ordinance or amendments to ordinances. Any action, other than voiding such ordinance, shall not affect the effective date if it was a delayed date and was not effective on passage thereof.
(f)
All resolutions shall be read or submitted in writing by a member of the board of commissioners, the clerk of the board or the county attorney, at which time the board of commissioners may take such action as it deems appropriate. Any resolution of the board of commissioners which has the effect of increasing fees charged by the county government shall not be adopted unless it has been read or presented in writing in its final form and approved at one meeting of the board of commissioners prior to the meeting at which it is given a second reading or written presentation and receives final approval. All other resolutions may be adopted at the meeting of the board of commissioners at which they are initially made or presented in writing. The clerk shall maintain a separate book of resolutions. Such book shall be maintained in the clerk's office.
(Code 1979, § 2-2-4; Ord. No. 99-16, § 2-2-4, 12-16-1999)
Sec. 2-86. - Amendments.
Any proposed amendments to the rules of procedure must be submitted by a commissioner in writing to the county administrator three business days before a regular meeting of the board of commissioners. The proposed amendment shall be included in the agenda for that meeting and distributed to all members of the board of commissioners. All amendments to the rules of procedure require a two-thirds vote of the board of commissioners to be adopted.
(Ord. No. 99-16, § 2-2-5, 12-16-1999)
Sec. 2-87. - Suspension.
Rules of procedure may be suspended in the case of an emergency. A motion to suspend the rules of procedure requires a second, is debatable and requires a two-thirds vote of those commissioners present and voting. Rules governing quorum (see section 2-81), voting methods and requirements (see sections 2-84 and 2-85(3)(5)), the notification of meetings (see sections 2-51—2-53) and rules necessary for compliance with state law cannot be suspended.
(Ord. No. 99-16, § 2-2-6, 12-16-1999)
Secs. 2-88—2-110. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - COMMITTEES

Sec. 2-111. - Standing committees created.
(a)
Pursuant to the provisions of Local Laws section 1-2-11, the following standing committees are created:
(1)
The public works committee;
(2)
The development and engineering services committee;
(3)
The community and emergency services committee; and
(4)
The management and internal services committee.
(b)
Each of these standing committees shall have two members both of whom shall be members of the board of commissioners. One of the members shall serve as the chairperson of the committee and the other member shall serve as the vice chairperson of the committee. The chairperson of the board of commissioners shall appoint the two commissioners to serve as the members of each committee and shall appoint the chairperson and vice chairperson of each committee. The chairperson of the board of commissioners shall be an ex-officio voting member of each of the standing committees.
(Code 1979, § 2-2-5; Ord. No. 99-16, § 2-2-13, 12-16-1999; Ord. No. 01-1, § 1, 1-16-2001; Ord. No. 01-2, 2-6-2001; Ord. No. 03-5, § 1, 6-2-2003; Ord. No. 17-08 , § 3(Exh. C), 2-6-2018)
Sec. 2-112. - Duties and responsibilities.
The standing committees shall have the following duties and responsibilities:
(1)
Public works committee. The public works committee shall act upon recommendations, presentations and information submitted by water and sewer services.
(2)
Development and engineering services committee. The development and engineering committee shall act upon recommendations, presentations and information submitted by planning services, engineering services and development services.
(3)
Community and emergency services committee. The community and emergency services committee shall act upon recommendations, presentations and information submitted by fire and emergency services and community and leisure services.
(4)
Management and internal services committee. The management and internal services shall act upon recommendations, presentations and information submitted by administration, internal services, technology services and elected officials.
(Code 1979, § 2-2-6; Ord. No. 99-16, § 2-2-14, 12-16-1999; Ord. No. 01-1, §§ 2—4, 1-16-2001, Ord. No. 02-8, § 1, 8-6-2002; Ord. No. 17-08 , § 4(Exh. D), 2-6-2018)
Sec. 2-113. - Citizens' committees.
The board of commissioners shall be authorized to create such citizens' committees or task forces as the board of commissioners deems necessary and appropriate to study specified matters, advise the board of commissioners and carry out such other functions as the board of commissioners shall specify. Such committees or task forces shall be created by resolution of the board of commissioners, which resolution shall appoint the members or provide for the process for appointing the members; shall set forth the duties, functions, mission and authority of such committees or task forces; and shall set out the duration of existence of such committees or task forces, which may be at the pleasure of the board of commissioners or for a specified time.
(Code 1979, § 2-2-7; Ord. No. 99-16, § 2-2-15, 12-16-1999)
Sec. 2-114. - Attendance requirements for members, directors or other similar participants of an authority, board, committee or similar entity.
To assure that the authorities, boards, committees or similar entities to which the board of commissioners appoints members, directors or other participants are staffed by citizens who have demonstrated interest in and commitment to carrying out the functions and duties of such authority, board, committee or other similar entity, any person appointed by the board of commissioners to serve as a member, director or other similar participant on any authority, board, committee or similar such entity who fails, after January, 1, 1997, to attend three consecutive regularly scheduled meetings of such authority, board, committee or similar such entity shall automatically be deemed to have abandoned and resigned such position, and such position shall be vacant. In such event, the board of commissioners shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term for the position in which such vacancy has been created. Anything in this section to the contrary notwithstanding any member of the county construction board created pursuant to section 18-166 of the Code of Ordinances who fails to attend two consecutive regularly scheduled meetings of such board shall automatically be deemed to have abandoned and resigned such position as a member of the county construction board and such position shall be vacant. In such event, the board of commissioners shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term for the vacancy which has been created on the county construction board.
(Code 1979, § 2-2-7.1; Ord. No. 99-16, § 2-2-7.1, 12-16-1999; Ord. No. 01-5, § 2, 8-7-2001)
Secs. 2-115—2-145. - Reserved.
