ARTICLE II. - OFFICERS[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this division is 1965 Ga. Laws, page 2094, as adopted by the Georgia General Assembly. Amendments to this act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 1-3-1. - Salary basis.
The clerk of the superior court, the sheriff and the tax commissioner of Columbia County shall be compensated on a salary basis as hereinafter fixed, allowed and provided.
State Law reference— See O.C.G.A. § 24-2750.
Sec. 1-3-2. - Salary of clerk of superior court.
(a)
The clerk of superior court shall be compensated, including applicable supplements therein, in accordance with state and local law, including, but not limited to, Ga. L. 1993, p. 4582, as amended by Ga. L. 2000, p. 4289, as further amended by 2001 Ga. H.B. 906, and as may be amended hereafter.
(b)
Notwithstanding subsection (a) above, the compensation for an incumbent clerk of superior court shall be the greater of either:
(1)
Such amount calculated in accordance with subsection (a) above; or
(2)
The immediately preceding year's total compensation, as increased by the greater of either (A) the percentage increase granted to employees of Columbia County to reflect cost-of-living adjustments; or (B) that percentage increase granted by state law to reflect cost-of-living adjustments, but not both. Provided, however, that should an incumbent clerk of superior court cease performing the duties for which he or she previously received a supplement under state and local law, such supplement amount, as may have been increased by any cost-of-living adjustments, shall be subtracted from the immediately preceding year's total compensation. Provided, further, that should an incumbent clerk of superior court begin to perform the duties for which he or she shall receive an additional supplement under state or local law, the compensation for performing such duties shall be calculated in accordance with state and local law.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 2105, § 1; Ord. No. 21-01 , § 1, 1-5-2021)
State Law reference— See 1977 Ga. Laws, page 2698, clerk receives $2,500.00 supplement; Ga. Laws, page 4541, corner, compensation, reports; O.C.G.A. § 24-2750.
Sec. 1-3-3. - Salary and commissions of tax commissioner.
(a)
The tax commissioner shall be compensated, including applicable supplements therein, in accordance with state and local law, including, but not limited to, Ga. L. 1993, p. 4582, as amended by Ga. L. 2000, p. 4289, as further amended by 2001 Ga. H.B. 906, and as may be amended hereafter.
(b)
Notwithstanding subsection (a) above, the compensation for an incumbent tax commissioner shall be the greater of either:
(1)
Such amount calculated in accordance with subsection (a) above; or
(2)
The immediately preceding year's total compensation, as increased by the greater of either (A) the percentage increase granted to employees of Columbia County to reflect cost-of-living adjustments; or (B) that percentage increase granted by state law to reflect cost-of-living adjustments, but not both. Provided, however, that should an incumbent tax commissioner cease performing the duties for which he or she previously received a supplement under state and local law, such supplement amount, as may have been increased by any cost-of-living adjustments, shall be subtracted from the immediately preceding year's total compensation. Provided, further, that should an incumbent tax commissioner begin to perform the duties for which he or she shall receive an additional supplement under state or local law, the compensation for performing such duties shall be calculated in accordance with state and local law.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 2105, § 2; Ord. No. 21-02 , § 1, 1-5-2021)
State Law reference— See O.C.G.A. § 92-5301; 1957 Ga. Laws, page 2153; 1965 Ga. Laws, page 2094; 1986 Ga. Laws, page 5636, motor vehicles, staggered registration periods.
Sec. 1-3-4. - Compensation of sheriff.
(a)
The sheriff shall be compensated in accordance with state and local law, including applicable supplements therein. The applicable supplements shall include the supplements set forth in subsections (b) and (c) below.
(b)
The sheriff shall be paid a supplement of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) per year to be paid in equal monthly installments from funds of Columbia County, as provided for in Ga. L. 1977, p. 2719.
(c)
The sheriff shall be paid a supplement of six thousand fifty-eight dollars ($6,058.00) per year to be paid in equal monthly installments from funds of Columbia County.
(d)
The governing authority of Columbia County shall grant the sheriff a percentage increase in compensation equal to (1) the percentage increase it grants to employees of Columbia County to reflect cost-of-living adjustments; or (2) that percentage increase granted by state law to reflect cost-of-living adjustments, whichever is higher, but not both. Such increases shall be granted at the same time increases are granted to county employees. Such percentage increases shall be calculated on the full compensation received by such officers from all sources including, but not limited to, all salary, expenses, allowances, supplements, and longevity and cost-of-living increases. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the percentage increase set forth in this subsection (d) shall not apply to the supplement set forth in subsection (b) above.
(e)
It is the intent of this section to require that the salary of the sheriff be calculated by determining the total amount of compensation such person would receive under state law, adding the supplement specified in subsection (b) and (c), as adjusted by subsection (d).
(f)
Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, the compensation for an incumbent sheriff shall be the greater of either:
(1)
Such amount calculated in accordance with subsections (a) through (e) above; or
(2)
The immediately preceding year's total compensation, as increased by the greater of either (A) the percentage increase granted to employees of Columbia County to reflect cost-of-living adjustments; or (B) that percentage increase granted by state law to reflect cost-of-living adjustments, but not both. Provided, however, that should an incumbent sheriff cease performing the duties for which he or she previously received a supplement under state or local law, such supplement amount, as may have been increased by any cost-of-living adjustments, shall be subtracted from the immediately preceding year's total compensation prior to the cost-of-living adjustment increase. Provided, further, that should an incumbent sheriff begin to perform the duties for which he or she shall receive an additional supplement under state or local law, the compensation for performing such duties shall be calculated in accordance with state or local law.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 2105, § 3; 1977 Ga. Laws 1977, page 2719, § 1; Ord. No. 98-6, 7-7-1998; Ord. No. 13-01, § 1(Exh. A), 3-5-2013; Ord. No. 21-04 , § 1, 1-5-2021)
Editor's note— Section 4 of the 1965 Act was assigned the letter (a), and paragraph (b) added to the section by the editor.
State Law reference— See O.C.G.A. § 24-2831.
Sec. 1-3-5. - Intent.
Except as otherwise provided in this act, the salaries, additional salary and commissions authorized to be received by the officers herein named shall be in lieu of all fees, fines, forfeitures, costs, commissions, allowances, penalties, funds, moneys and all other emoluments and perquisites of whatever kind which shall be allowed said officers after the effective date of this act, and except as otherwise provided in this act, said salaries, additional salary and commissions shall also be in lieu of all fees, fines, forfeitures, costs, commissions, allowances, penalties, funds, moneys and all other emoluments and perquisites of whatever kind which shall be allowed said officers in any capacity whatsoever, including but not limited to their official capacity as clerk of the superior court, tax commissioner and sheriff, respectively, as any ex officio officer, as an official or agent of any court, department or official of Columbia County, as an official or agent of any court, department, bureau or official of the State of Georgia, or as an official of any court, department, bureau or official of the United States of America.
Sec. 1-3-6. - Collection of fees, etc.[,] by officers.
The said officers shall diligently and faithfully collect all fees, fines, forfeitures, costs, commissions, allowances, penalties, funds, moneys or any other emoluments or perquisites of whatever kind formerly allowed as compensation for services in any capacity in their offices and shall receive and hold same in trust for said county as public moneys, and shall, except as otherwise provided herein, pay the same to Columbia County as directed by the board of commissioners of said county on or before the tenth day of each month next following the month in which the same are collected and received. On or before the tenth day of each month said officers shall prepare in duplicate a detailed, itemized statement, under oath, showing the dates, sources and amounts of funds collected by him during the previous month. The original copy of said statement shall be furnished to the board of commissioners of roads and revenues of Columbia County, and a duplicate copy of said statement shall be retained on file as part of the records of said officers.
Sec. 1-3-7. - Accounting statement.
Any county official, officer or employee charged with the responsibility of collecting, receiving or disbursing any fees, fines, forfeitures, costs, commissions, allowances, penalties, funds, moneys or other emoluments or perquisites for the clerk of the superior court, tax commissioner or sheriff of Columbia County, and who pays said funds directly into the county depository (treasury), upon their receipt in lieu of paying the same to said officers, shall on or before the tenth day of each month prepare in triplicate a detailed, itemized statement, under oath, showing the dates, sources and amounts of such funds collected and paid into the county depository (treasury) during the previous month. The original copy of this statement shall be furnished to the board of commissioners of Columbia County, a duplicate copy of said statement shall be furnished to the officer for whom collected, and a duplicate copy of said statement shall be retained on file as a part of the records of said county official, officer or employee.
Sec. 1-3-8. - Collection of fees, etc., for county.
The procedure now or hereafter in force as to collection and distribution of all fees, fines, forfeitures, costs, commissions, allowances, penalties, funds, moneys and other emoluments and perquisites of whatever kind shall be followed, but as herein provided, all sums to which said officers would, but for this act be entitled, shall be collected for the use of said county, and Columbia County shall be subrogated to the rights and claims of said officers in and to the same.
Sec. 1-3-9. - Past due fees.
All fees, fines, forfeitures, costs, commissions, allowances, penalties, funds, moneys or any other emoluments or perquisites of whatever kind which have accrued to said officers at the time this act becomes effective and to which said officers are entitled and which remain uncollected at the time this act becomes effective, shall when collected be paid to said officers. They shall, however, report the collection of same to the board of commissioners of said county.
Sec. 1-3-10. - Appointment and salaries of deputy clerks of court and assistants.
The clerk of the superior court is hereby authorized to appoint five (5) deputy clerks or assistants to assist him in the performance of his duties who shall serve at the pleasure of said clerk. Each of said deputy clerks or assistants shall receive a salary of not less than three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) per annum, payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of Columbia County.
Sec. 1-3-11. - Appointment and salaries of deputy tax commissioners, clerks or assistants.
The tax commissioner is hereby authorized to appoint two (2) deputy commissioners, clerks or assistants to assist him in the performance of his duties who shall serve at the pleasure of said tax commissioner. Each of said deputy commissioners, clerks or assistants shall receive a salary of not less than three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) per annum, payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of Columbia County.
Sec. 1-3-12. - Appointment and salaries of deputy sheriffs and clerks.
The sheriff is hereby authorized to appoint a chief deputy sheriff, three (3) deputy sheriffs and one clerk to assist him in the performance of his duties who shall serve at the pleasure of the sheriff. The chief deputy sheriff shall receive an annual salary of not less than four thousand nine hundred twenty dollars ($4,920.00); each of the deputy sheriffs shall receive an annual salary of not less than four thousand eight hundred dollars ($4,800.00); and the clerk shall receive an annual salary of not less than three thousand dollars ($3,000.00), all of said salaries shall be paid in equal monthly installments from the funds of Columbia County.
Sec. 1-3-13. - Emergency personnel.
In the event of an emergency, the board of commissioners of Columbia County, upon majority vote, may authorize the clerk of the superior court, the sheriff or the tax commissioner to appoint or employ additional personnel as such board deems necessary, at the compensation fixed and allowed by said board. When, in the opinion of a majority of said board, the emergency shall have ceased or terminated, the board may discharge or require the discharge or dismissal of the personnel authorized pursuant to this section. All personnel appointed or employed pursuant to this section shall be paid from the funds of Columbia County.
Sec. 1-3-14. - Automobiles for sheriffs' office.
The board of commissioners shall be authorized to purchase three (3) automobiles fully equipped with communication devices, red lights, sirens, and other special equipment commonly on or in automobiles which are used by law enforcement officers for the use of the sheriff and his deputies in the performance of their duties. Said automobiles shall be the property of Columbia County, and said board shall be authorized to replace said vehicles at such time and in such manner as they may determine. Said board shall be authorized to dispose of the replaced vehicles in such manner as will be most advantageous to Columbia County. In their discretion and subject to their approval, the board of commissioners shall be authorized to provide for the cost of repairs, tires, gasoline, oil, grease, antifreeze and other maintenance and supplies necessary for the operation of said automobile. The funds for purchasing said automobiles and the replacements thereof, supplies, equipment and maintenance of said automobiles, as herein provided, shall be payable from the funds of Columbia County.
Sec. 1-3-15. - Office supplies.
The board of commissioners of Columbia County shall provide necessary books, records, stationery, postage, telephone and other supplies and equipment for the officers named herein; the funds for payment of such supplies and equipment, as herein provided, shall be payable from the funds of Columbia County.
Sec. 1-3-16. - Feeding of prisoners.
The sheriff of Columbia County is hereby charged with the feeding of prisoners confined under his jurisdiction. The commissioners of Columbia County shall fix and allow the sheriff a sufficient amount for the diet of prisoners so that their strength and health should not suffer in consequence of any insufficiency of food. The funds so fixed and allowed shall be payable from the funds of Columbia County.
Sec. 1-3-17. - Expense allowance.
The officers named herein or their deputies in addition to any other compensation herein provided shall receive actual expense when out of the territorial limits of Columbia County attending official business or on business of the county as may be required by general law or as may be authorized by the commissioners. The funds for payment or reimbursement of such expenses shall be payable from the funds of Columbia County.
Sec. 1-3-18. - Payment of bond and insurance premiums.
All premiums for bonds or insurance required of the officers named herein, their deputies or other personnel, shall be payable out of the funds of Columbia County.
Editor's note— 1937-8 Ga. Laws, page 793, reducing bond of sheriff to $2,000.00, has been omitted as obsolete.
Sec. 1-3-19. - Authority to pay out county funds as herein provided.
It shall be proper and lawful for the commissioners of Columbia County or other custodian or depository of county funds, to pay out of the county funds the sums and amounts herein provided and authorized.
Sec. 1-3-20. - Ratification of prior payments.
An act to change from the fee to the salary system in certain counties in Georgia, the clerk of the superior court, the sheriff, and the tax commissioner, approved March 11, 1943 (1943 Ga. Laws, page 433), as amended, is hereby ratified and confirmed and all compensation, fees, allowances, commissions and other expenses heretofore paid and which may be hereafter paid by the board of commissioners or fiscal authority of Columbia County pursuant to the provisions of said act are hereby confirmed, ratified and authorized as if said act had applied only to Columbia County. All other compensation, fees, allowances and expenses heretofore paid by the board of commissioners or fiscal authority of Columbia County to the clerk of the superior court, the sheriff and the tax commissioner, and to the deputies, clerks, assistants and other personnel in their offices, and all compensation, fees, allowances, commissions and other expenses heretofore received by the clerk of the superior court of Columbia County, the sheriff of Columbia County, and the tax commissioner of Columbia County, and the deputies, clerks, assistants and other personnel in their offices are hereby determined to be lawfully paid and received and the payment of same and receipt of same is hereby ratified, confirmed and authorized. The board of commissioners of Columbia County is hereby authorized to continue to pay the compensation, fees, allowances, commissions, and other expenses heretofore paid from the funds of Columbia County to the clerk of the superior court, the sheriff and the tax commissioner and the deputies, clerks, assistants and other personnel in their offices until the effective date of this act.
Sec. 1-3-21. - Severability.
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this act shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases of this act, which shall remain of full force and effect, as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional was not originally a part hereof. The General Assembly hereby declares that it would have passed the remaining parts of this act if it had known that such part or parts hereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
Sec. 1-3-22. - Effective date.
This act shall become effective on the first day of the month following its approval by the governor or its otherwise becoming law.
Sec. 1-3-23. - Repealer—Prior act.
An act to change from the fee system to the salary system in certain counties in Georgia, the clerk of the superior court, the sheriff, and tax commissioner approved March 11, 1943 (1943 Ga. Laws, page 433), as amended, is hereby repealed in its entirety.
Sec. 1-3-24. - Same—Conflicting law.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act are hereby repealed.
Sec. 1-3-25. - Salary for coroner.
(a)
The coroner of Columbia County shall receive an annual salary of $16,000.00 payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of Columbia County. The coroner of Columbia County shall submit a monthly statement to Columbia County listing the number and type of investigations undertaken by the coroner during the preceding month.
(b)
In addition to the compensation provided for in Subsection [(a)], the coroner of Columbia County shall be entitled, upon adequate documentation of the same, to the following transportation fees:
(1)
The greater of $15.00 an hour or $200 to transport deceased persons requiring examination and autopsy by the State Medical Examiner's Office to the State Medical Examiner's Office in Decatur, Georgia from their respective morgue or funeral home and then return such deceased persons to said morgue or funeral home following examination and autopsy.
(2)
The greater of $15.00 an hour or $65 to transport deceased persons requiring examination and autopsy by the State Medical Examiner's Office to the Regional Medical Examiner facility in Augusta, Georgia from their respective morgue or funeral home and then return such deceased persons to said morgue or funeral home following examination and autopsy."
(3)
The fees specified in Subsection (b)(1) and (b)(2) shall be paid to the coroner of Columbia County within two pay periods after receiving adequate written documentation for the same.
(Ord. No. 02-1, § 1, 2-5-2002; Ord. No. 07-05, § 1, 3-6-2007)
Secs. 1-3-26—1-3-49. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - TAX COMMISSIONER[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this division is 1939 Ga. Laws, page 550, as adopted by the Georgia General Assembly. Amendments to this act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act.

Sec. 1-3-50. - Office of tax collector and tax receiver abolished.
The offices of tax collector and tax receiver shall be and they are hereby abolished.
Sec. 1-3-51. - Office created; rights, duties and liabilities.
The office of tax commissioner of Columbia County, Georgia, is hereby created in lieu of said offices, and that the rights, duties and liabilities of said office of tax commissioner of Columbia County shall be the same as the rights, duties and liabilities of the tax receiver and tax collector of said county, and that all laws applicable to said offices shall be applicable to the tax commissioner of said county, so far as the same can apply.
Sec. 1-3-52. - Collection of prior taxes and fi. fas.
All taxes now due and payable, and all tax fi. fas. heretofore issued by the tax collector of Columbia County, Georgia, shall have full force and effect and be collectible as issued.
Sec. 1-3-53. - Entitlement to compensation.
All fees, commissions and all other compensation allowed to the tax receiver and tax collector of Columbia County, Georgia, at the time this act becomes effective, or that might legally be allowed to such officers thereafterward were it not for the provisions of this act, shall accrue to and be collected and be obtained by said county tax commissioner as his compensation as tax commissioner of Columbia County, Georgia.
Sec. 1-3-54. - Term of office; first election.
The term of office of said tax commissioner shall be four years, and the first election of county tax commissioner of Columbia County shall be held at the time fixed by the ordinary of Columbia County as now provided by law for filling vacancies and the office of tax commissioner of Columbia County shall be filled by appointment by the ordinary in the same manner as other county officers are appointed to fill vacancies as now provided by law. This appointment and election shall be as for an unexpired term expiring December 31, 1940, and the successor shall be elected at the regular general election held in November, 1940, and the person elected at such election in 1940 shall be for a term of four (4) years.
Sec. 1-3-55. - Oath and bond.
Before entering upon the duties of his office the said county tax commissioner shall take the oath now prescribed by law for the tax receiver and tax collector, and give the same bonds as are now or may hereafter be required of tax collectors, which bonds shall be signed as surety by a bonding company legally authorized to do business in the State of Georgia, and the fee or cost for suretyship on said bonds shall be paid out of the funds of Columbia County, Georgia, as a part of the expense of county government.
Sec. 1-3-56. - Reports to state authorities.
Said tax commissioner of Columbia County be and he is hereby required to make such reports to the state authorities as are now required or may hereafter be required of tax collectors and tax receivers of this state.
Cross reference— Reports as to fees, etc., § 1-3-7.
Sec. 1-3-57. - Office.
Said tax commissioner shall have an office in the courthouse, which said office shall be kept open at all times except Sundays and legal holidays.
Sec. 1-3-58. - Severability.
If for any reason any portion of this act shall be held by the court of last resort in this state to be unconstitutional, the whole of this act shall not thereby become void, but only so much of the same as may be so held to be unconstitutional.
Sec. 1-3-59. - Repeal of conflicting law.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with his [this] act be and the same are hereby repealed.
