ARTICLE III. - FINANCE[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this division is 1920 Ga. Laws, page 493, as adopted by the Georgia General Assembly. Amendments to this act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act.

Sec. 1-4-1. - Office of treasurer abolished.
From and after the first day of January, 1921, the office of county treasurer in and for the county of Columbia shall be abolished.
Sec. 1-4-2. - Selection of depository annually.
It shall be the duty of the board of commissioners of said Columbia County at the monthly session to be held by them for the transaction of county business during the month of January, 1921, to select and designate a chartered bank located either in the county of Columbia or in an adjoining county, to act as a depository for the funds of the county of Columbia, such selection of such depository to be for the term of one year; and thereafter at the January monthly meeting or session, the board of commissioners for said county of Columbia, or the other authorities in charge of the county affairs for said county, shall in like manner select and designate a duly chartered bank located either in said Columbia County or in an adjoining county to act as such depository for the funds of said county for the succeeding year.
Sec. 1-4-3. - Surety bond.
The bank so selected or designated as depository for the funds of said county shall, before receiving said funds, file with the board of commissioners of said county, or other authorities who may be in charge at the time of the county affairs for the county, a bond with a surety company authorized to do business in this state, as security thereon, in such amount as may be fixed by the board of commissioners, or other authorities in charge, which amount shall be ample to protect all of the funds of the county which may be deposited in said bank, said bond to be conditioned for a faithful performance of its duties and a true accounting for all the funds, assets and property of said county received by said depository; the premiums on said bonds shall be paid out of the county funds.
Sec. 1-4-4. - Transition of office—Delivery of records.
On or before the regular session of the board of commissioners held for the transaction of county business in the month of January, 1921, the present county treasurer for Columbia County shall deliver to the board of commissioners of said county all books and papers belonging to said county and pertaining to said office of county treasurer, and it shall be the duty of said board of commissioners to have with said treasurer a complete accounting and settlement on or prior to the regular meeting in January, 1921; upon his paying over and delivering to the depository selected in the manner herein designated, all of the funds, monies, properties and assets of the county in his possession, and to issue to him a full receipt therefor.
Sec. 1-4-5. - Same—Paying over of funds.
On or before the regular meeting day of the board of commissioners, January, 1921, the present county treasurer of Columbia County shall pay over and deliver to the county depository selected and designated as in this act provided, all funds, property, monies and effects in his hands, possession or control as such county treasurer, and to take from the board of commissioners of said county a receipt therefor.
Sec. 1-4-6. - Receipt of funds.
Such county depository so selected or designated shall receive all monies and funds from the officers and other sources now received and held by the county treasurer, and all persons holding, or who may hereafter come into possession of county monies or funds shall on and after January 1, 1921, pay the same to such depository in the same manner as such funds are now paid to the county treasurer.
Sec. 1-4-7. - Disbursements; records; reports.
Such depository shall hold said monies and disburse the same only upon the warrant of the proper county authorities and when in funds shall pay all orders and warrants issued by the board of commissioners, or other county authorities for said Columbia County, and shall take a receipt for each payment so made and shall keep a well bound book in which all receipts and disbursements shall be entered, stating the dates and amounts and on what account received, and stating all amounts paid out and when and to whom and on what account paid, and shall record copies of all orders of county authorities levying county taxes; and shall render reports to and appear before the board of commissioners or other county authorities of Columbia County whenever notified and before grand juries of said county on request, and exhibit its books, receipts and vouchers when so required either by the board of commissioners or the grand jury of the county.
Sec. 1-4-8. - Compensation.
No bank selected as a depository for the funds of said Columbia County under this act shall receive from the county any compensation as such depository other than that all record books required shall be furnished and paid for by said county, and the premiums on all bonds shall be paid by said county out of the county funds.
Sec. 1-4-9. - Execution of checks and warrants.
All checks or warrants drawn against the county funds in said depository designated under this act shall be drawn and signed or countersigned in the manner which may be prescribed by the board of commissioners of said county or other county authorities of Columbia County by appropriate order placed upon the minutes of such county, a copy of which shall be furnished to said depository. All checks and warrants so drawn on said depository shall be numbered and stubbed, and the check or warrant and each stub shall show for what purpose the warrant or check is drawn, the amount for which drawn and the party to whom drawn. No check shall be honored by any county depository unless in accordance with these provisions.
Sec. 1-4-10. - Transfer of duties.
All other duties now performed by the treasurer of Columbia County shall be performed by the board of commissioners of said county, or other county authorities of Columbia County.
Sec. 1-4-11. - Repeal of conflicting law.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act be and the same are hereby repealed.
