ARTICLE XII. - TREES

Sec. 5-250. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them:
Annual tree permit: That written consent given by the Building Official to a person, public or private, to prune, treat or remove any tree in the city.
Tree: Any woody plant except dogwood that has a single trunk with a caliper of five (5) inches or more at six (6) inches above the ground. A dogwood with a caliper of two (2) inches or more at six (6) inches above the ground is defined as a tree.
Tree protective zone: That portion of any lot covered by the front, side and rear yard requirements as established by the city zoning ordinance, as the same may, from time to time, be amended.
(Code 1963, § 21B-2)
Cross reference— See also App. A, Art. XI-C, § 3.
Sec. 5-251. - Purpose and intent.
(a)
The purpose of this article is to establish protective regulations for trees in the city in order to better control problems of flooding, soil erosion, air pollution, and noise in the city and to make the city a more attractive, healthier and safer place in which to live.
(b)
The intent of this article is to encourage the protection of trees within the city which the city stands to lose unless protective measures are taken. The intent is not punitive, or to cause hardship to any individual or governmental agency, or private or public company, who uses every care and diligence to protect trees within the city; nor is it meant to inflate the cost of development over a reasonable value of the trees involved.
(Code 1963, § 21B-1)
Sec. 5-252. - Enforcing authority.
The Building Official shall be charged with the enforcement of this article.
(Code 1963, § 21B-6)
Sec. 5-253. - General duty of Building Official regarding trees.
The Building Official shall direct, regulate, and control the care of and necessary removal of all trees now or hereafter growing in the city.
(Code 1963, § 21B-3)
Sec. 5-254. - Preparation of tree planting and maintenance regulations.
The Building Official may prepare tree planting and maintenance regulations, supplementary to this article, subject to the approval of the governing body after a public hearing with reasonable notice of the hearing to those affected, to implement this article.
(Code 1963, § 21B-4)
Sec. 5-255. - Submission of site plans for development required; approval; requirements.
(a)
A site plan for the development or improvement of any tract of land in excess of fifty thousand (50,000) square feet located in the city, shall be submitted to the city along with the application for a building permit. No building permit shall be issued until the site plan has been reviewed and approved, in writing, by the Building Official and a permit as provided in section 5-256 has been issued. Such plans shall be reviewed and either approved or denied and a permit as provided in section 5-256 issued or denied within fourteen (14) days of submittal. Otherwise such plans shall be considered approved and such permit considered issued by the Building Official. In the event such plans are denied, the reasons therefor shall be reported, in writing, to the applicant. The site plan shall show, in addition to the usual requirements, the following information:
(1)
All existing trees within the tree protective zone which are at least five (5) inch caliper at six (6) inches above the ground and all dogwood trees which are at least two (2) inch caliper at six (6) inches above the ground.
(2)
Trees to be removed and trees to be maintained.
(3)
Specifications for the removal of existing trees and protection of existing trees during construction.
(4)
Grade changes or other work adjacent to a tree which would affect it adversely, with specifications on how the grade, drainage and aeration will be maintained around the tree.
(b)
The function of the Building Official in the review of site plans will be to assure that trees are retained in lawn or paved areas within the tree protective zone without making demands on the owner which would deny such owner the reasonable use of the land.
(Code 1963, § 21B-5)
Sec. 5-256. - Permit—Required.
A written application for and issuance of a permit by the Building Official is required for any work on or affecting trees as listed in section 5-255.
(Code 1963, § 21B-7)
Sec. 5-257. - Same—Exemptions.
(a)
Public utility companies and private companies employing tree experts shall be exempted from the provisions of this article; provided, however, that such companies or agencies shall obtain from the Building Official an annual permit.
(b)
Such permit shall certify the familiarity of such companies or agencies and their agreement to comply with any supplementary tree planting and maintenance regulations following the issuance and approval.
(c)
The owners of property, or their authorized representatives, of areas zoned R-1 through R-5 will not be subject to obtaining permits for work to be performed on trees located on such property under the provisions of sections 5-255, 5-256 and 5-262; provided, however, that where more than fifty thousand (50,000) square feet are being developed at one time, this exemption shall not apply.
(Code 1963, § 21B-8)
Sec. 5-258. - Same—Waiver in emergencies.
In case of emergencies such as windstorms, ice storms or other disasters, the requirement of section 5-256 may be waived by the Building Official during the emergency period so that the requirements of this article would in no way hamper private or public work to restore order in the city.
(Code 1963, § 21B-9)
Sec. 5-259. - Building moving permits.
The Building Official shall review and approve all applications for building moving permits before the city will grant a tree work permit.
(Code 1963, § 21B-10)
Cross reference— For fee, see § 5-21.
Sec. 5-260. - Protection within tree protective zone.
To prevent the unnecessary destruction of trees during development or redevelopment of any tract or lot within the city, trees shall not be cut, otherwise damaged or destroyed within the tree protective zone except in accordance with the provisions of this article, or to permit vehicular and pedestrian access upon approval of the Building Official; nor shall any person pave with concrete, asphalt, or other impervious material within five (5) feet of the outside diameter of trees. This section may, from time to time be supplemented by tree planting and maintenance regulations.
(Code 1963, § 21B-11)
Sec. 5-261. - Tree protection prior to development.
To prevent the unnecessary destruction of trees on land where a building permit or subdivision approval has not been issued, the destruction, within any five (5) year period, of more than twenty-five (25) per cent of the trees on any one parcel of real property within the city, without prior approval of the Building Official, is prohibited.
In order to prevent the unjustified destruction of natural ground cover, trees and other negative consequences, whenever the plans for a parking area layout are submitted to the Building Official for review, and such plans indicate that the number of parking spaces and/or other paved areas are more than the amount necessary to meet specified off-street parking requirements, those plans shall be forwarded to the planning commission for approval or disapproval, and the applicant shall be required to present justification to the planning commission for such proposed excess parking capacity and/or paved areas.
(Code 1963, § 21B-12; Ord. No. 2014-04, § 1, 2-3-14; Ord. No. 2015-03, § 1, 3-16-15)
Sec. 5-262. - Tree protection during development.
During any building, renovating or razing operations, the builder shall erect suitable protective barriers around all trees specified to be maintained and shall not allow storage of equipment, materials, debris or fill to be placed in this area except as may be necessary for a reasonable time if no other storage space is available. This section may, from time to time, be supplemented by the tree planting and maintenance regulations.
(Code 1963, § 21B-13)
Sec. 5-263. - Appeals.
In the event any person is dissatisfied with a decision of the Building Official adversely affecting such person involving the application of this article, such person may make a written appeal of such decision to the board of zoning appeals. After a full and complete hearing of the complaints of such person, the board of zoning appeals shall render its written opinion affirming, overruling or modifying the decision of the Building Official as may be fit and proper under the existing circumstances.
(Code 1963, § 21B-15)
Sec. 5-264. - Trees that present a dangerous condition.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow to remain on his or her property any tree that presents a dangerous condition. Dangerous trees include but are not limited to:
(1)
A tree or any part of a tree that is likely to fail (fall) as a result of structural defects, root damage, disease, decay, decline or death; and where failure of a tree or any part of a tree would result in potential property damage or injury.
(2)
A tree that by its proximity interferes with traffic or pedestrian sight distance, drainage or utility lines and easements so as to create an unsafe condition on or off the site or easement.
(3)
A tree of any species or variety which, because of any other circumstances, poses a danger to public health or safety.
(b)
The director of the department of inspections (or designee or agent thereof) is authorized and empowered to enter upon any lot or parcel of land in the city for the purpose of inspecting and evaluating any tree which is suspected to present a dangerous condition. It shall be unlawful for any property owner to take any action to prevent or interfere with the inspection and evaluation of potentially dangerous trees.
(c)
The director of the department of inspections (or designee or agent thereof) shall obtain the services of an arborist, who shall be employed by or under contract to perform services for the city, for the purpose of inspecting and evaluating suspected dangerous trees. Such arborist shall be an agent of the department of inspections for such purpose.
(d)
If it is determined by the director of the department of inspections (or designee or agent thereof) that a tree presents a dangerous condition, the director of the department of inspections (or designee or agent thereof) shall serve the owner of record of the lot or parcel of land on which said tree is located, a written notice requiring such owner to take corrective action to remove the tree or its dangerous part(s) to eliminate the dangerous condition. This written notice shall include a time frame to complete the corrective action.
(e)
If a property owner fails, neglects, or refuses to trim or remove such tree within the stated time frame, the city's department of inspections may proceed to take the corrective action and assess the resulting costs to the property owner. The amount of such costs shall be paid by the owner to the city.
(f)
The assessment of the costs of work done by the city against the property owner shall include the actual cost of work performed in addition to the penalties imposed for any violation or noncompliance with any provision of this section, plus administrative fees.
(g)
If the property owner fails to pay the costs assessed by the department of inspections, a lien shall be placed on the subject property for the cost of the work performed, penalties, and fees.
(Ord. No. 2016-17, § 1, 5-16-16)
Secs. 5-265—5-269. - Reserved.
