ARTICLE VI. - FIRE, REMOVAL, GOING-OUT-OF-BUSINESS SALES

Sec. 11-100. - Definitions.
For the purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them:
Fire and other altered goods sale: A sale held out in such manner as to reasonably cause the public to believe that the sale will offer goods damaged or altered by fire, smoke, water or other means.
Going-out-of-business sale: A sale held out in such a manner as to reasonably cause the public to believe that upon the disposal of the stock or goods on hand the business will cease and be discontinued, including but not limited to the following sales: adjuster's, adjustment alteration, assignees', bankrupt, benefit of administrator, benefit of creditors, benefit of trustees, building coming down, closing, creditors committee, creditors, end, executor, final days, forced out, forced out of business, insolvent's last days, lease expires, liquidation, loss of lease, mortgage sale, receiver's, trustee's, and quitting business.
Goods: Any goods, wares, merchandise or other property capable of being the object of a sale regulated hereunder.
Removal of business sale: A sale held out in such a manner as to reasonably cause the public to believe that the person conducting the sale will cease and discontinue business at the place of sale upon disposal of the stock of goods on hand and will then move to and resume business at a new location in the city or will then continue business from another existing location in the city.
(Code 1963, § 14-73)
Sec. 11-101. - Applicability of provisions.
The provisions of this article are intended to augment and be in addition to the provisions of the general licensing regulations of the city and the regulations of this Code. When this article imposes a greater restriction upon persons, premises, businesses or practices than is imposed by the general licensing regulations of the city or other regulations of this Code, this article shall control.
(Code 1963, § 14-72)
Sec. 11-102. - License required.
A license issued by the city clerk shall be obtained by any person before selling or offering to sell any goods at a sale to be advertised or held out by any means to be one (1) of the following kinds:
(1)
Going-out-of-business sale;
(2)
Removal-of-business sale; and
(3)
Fire and other altered-stock sale.
(Code 1963, § 14-74)
Sec. 11-103. - Application for license—Contents.
A person desiring to conduct a sale regulated by this article shall make a written application to the city clerk setting forth and containing the following information:
(1)
Owner of goods: The true name and address of the owner of the goods to be the object of the sale.
(2)
Previous owner of goods: The true name and address of the person from whom applicant purchased the goods to be sold and the price thereof, and if not purchased, the manner of such acquisition.
(3)
Description of premises: A description of the place where such sale is to be held.
(4)
Nature, term of occupant: The nature of the occupancy, whether by lease or sublease and the effective date of the termination of such occupancy.
(5)
Period of sale: The dates of the period of time in which the sale is to be conducted.
(6)
Reason for sale: A full and complete statement of the facts in regard to the sale, including the reason for the urgent and expeditious disposal of goods thereby and the manner in which the same will be conducted.
(7)
Advertising: The means to be employed in advertising such sale together with the proposed content of any advertisement.
(8)
Inventory: A complete and detailed inventory of the goods to be sold at such sale as disclosed by the applicant's records. Said inventory shall be attached to and become part of the required application.
(Code 1963, § 14-75)
Sec. 11-104. - Same—Inventory requirements.
(a)
Bona fide orders: All goods included in the inventory required in section 11-103 shall have been purchased by the applicant for resale on bona fide orders without cancellation privileges and shall not comprise goods purchased on consignment.
(b)
Goods purchased for sale hereunder: Such inventory shall not include goods ordered in contemplation of conducting a sale regulated hereunder. Any unusual purchase, or additions to the stock of goods of the business hereby affected within thirty (30) days before the filing of an application hereunder shall be deemed to be of such character.
(Code 1963, § 14-76)
Sec. 11-105. - Conditions of license issuance, renewal.
A license shall be issued or renewed hereunder on the following terms:
(1)
Licensing period: The license shall authorize the sale described in the application for a period of not more than thirty (30) consecutive days, Sundays and legal holidays excluded, following the issuance thereof.
(2)
Renewal procedure: The city clerk shall renew a license for one (1) period of time only, such period to be in addition to the thirty (30) days permitted in the original license and not to exceed thirty (30) consecutive days, Sundays and holidays excluded, when he finds:
(a)
That facts exist justifying the license renewal.
(b)
That the licensee has filed an application for renewal.
(c)
That the licensee has submitted with the application for renewal a revised inventory showing the items listed on the inventory remaining unsold and not listing any goods not included in the original application and inventory. For the purpose of this subsection, any application for a license under the provisions of this article covering any goods previously inventoried as required hereunder, shall be deemed to be an application for renewal, whether presented by the original applicant, or by any other person.
(3)
Nature of sale: The licensee shall authorize only the type of sale described in the application at the location named therein.
(4)
Saleable goods: The license shall authorize only the sale of goods described in the inventory attached to the application.
(5)
Surrender of general license: Upon being issued a license hereunder for a going-out-of-business sale the licensee shall surrender to the city clerk all other business licenses the licensee may hold at that time applicable to the location and goods covered by the application for such license.
(6)
Nontransferability: Any license herein provided for shall not be assigned or transferable.
(Code 1963, § 14-77)
Sec. 11-106. - Duties of licensee.
A licensee hereunder shall comply with the following requirements:
(1)
Adhere to inventory: Make no additions whatsoever, during the period of the licensed sale, to the stock of goods set forth in the inventory attached to the application for license.
(2)
Advertise properly: Refrain from employing any untrue, deceptive or misleading advertising.
(3)
Adhere to advertising: Conduct the licensed sale in strict conformity with any advertising or holding-out incident thereto.
(4)
Keep duplicate inventory: Keep available at the place of sale a duplicate copy of the inventory submitted with the application and shall present such duplicate to inspecting officials upon request.
(5)
Segregate noninventoried goods: Keep any other goods separate and apart from the goods listed in the filed inventory as being objects of sale and make such distinction clear to the public by placing tags on all inventoried goods in and about the place of sale apprising the public of the status of all goods.
(Code 1963, § 14-79)
Sec. 11-107. - Payment of license fee.
An applicant for a license hereunder shall submit to the city clerk with the application for issuance of a license a fee of seventy dollars ($70.00). Renewal applications under section 11-105 may be granted upon payment of a renewal fee of ten dollars ($10.00).
(Code 1963, § 14-78; Ord. No. 95-8, § 8, 11-7-95)
Sec. 11-108. - Establishing business prerequisite to license.
Any person who has not been the owner of a business advertised or described in the application for license hereunder for a period of at least twelve (12) months prior to the date of the proposed sale shall not be granted a license.
(Code 1963, § 14-88)
Sec. 11-109. - Death of business owner; right of survivors.
Upon the death of a person doing business in the city, such person's heirs, devisees or legatees shall have the right to apply at any time for license hereunder.
(Code 1963, § 14-81)
Sec. 11-110. - Interval between sales prescribed.
Any person who has held a sale, as regulated hereunder, at the location stated in the application, within one (1) year last past from the date of such application, shall not be granted a license.
(Code 1963, § 14-82)
Sec. 11-111. - Sale restricted to one location.
Where a person applying for a license hereunder operates more than one (1) place of business, the license issued shall apply only to the one (1) store or branch specified in the application and no other store or branch shall advertise or represent that it is cooperating with it, or in any way participating in the licensed sale, nor shall the store or branch conducting the licensed sale advertise or represent that any other store or branch is cooperating with it or participating in any way in the licensed sale.
(Code 1963, § 14-83)
Sec. 11-112. - Exempt sales; publication.
The provisions of this article shall not apply to or affect the following persons:
(1)
Sales pursuant to process: Persons acting pursuant to an order or process of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(2)
Sales by public officials: Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public officials.
(3)
Sales by licensed auctioneers: Duly licensed auctioneers, selling at auction.
(4)
Publication of sales: Any publisher or newspaper, magazine or other publication, who publishes in good faith, any advertisement, without knowledge of its false, deceptive or misleading character, or without knowledge that the provisions of this article have not been complied with.
(Code 1963, § 14-84)
Secs. 11-113—11-119. - Reserved.
