Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of Ordinances, City of College Park, Georgia," and may be so cited.
Sec. 1-2. - Rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the governing body:
City. The terms "the city" and "this city" shall mean the City of College Park, Georgia.
Computation of time. Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to be done, a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day on which such notice is given, or such act is done, shall be counted in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be had shall not be counted.
County. The terms "the county" and "this county" shall mean the County of Fulton or the County of Clayton, or both, whichever is proper in the circumstances.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department or other officer or employee of the city to do the same act or make certain inspections it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other officer or employee to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Gender. A word importing one gender shall extend and be applied to the other genders.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by the Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Keeper and proprietor. The words "keeper" and "proprietor" shall mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
Mayor, other official, officer or employee. Whenever the word "mayor", or the title of any other official, officer or employee of the city, is used it shall mean the mayor, or such other official, officer or employee of the City of College Park.
Mayor and council, council, city council, governing body. Whenever the term "mayor and council", "council", "city council", or governing body" is used, it shall be construed to mean the mayor and council of the City of College Park.
Month. The word "month" shall mean a calendar month.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to several persons and things as well as to one (1) person and thing.
Oath. The word "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed".
Or, and. "Or" may be read "and" and "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
Owner. The word "owner," applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" shall include every species of property except real property, as herein described.
Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" shall mean next before and next after, respectively.
Premises. Whenever the word "premises" is used it shall mean place or places.
Property. The word "property" shall include real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" shall mean any park, cemetery, school yard or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available and/or accessible to the public.
Real property. The term "real property" shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The term "residence" shall be construed to mean the place adopted by a person as such person's place of habitation, and to which, whenever such person is absent, such person has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed such person's residence.
Seal. The word "seal" shall mean the city seal, the seal of the corporation.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature or subscription. The signature or subscription of a person shall include a mark when the person can not write.
State. The terms "the state" and "this state" shall be construed to mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public highways in the city.
Tenant, occupant. The words "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Week. The word "week" shall be construed to mean seven (7) days.
Written or in writing. The terms "written" and "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
State Law reference— Rules of construction and definitions, O.C.G.A. §§ 1-3-1—1-3-3.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of section.
The catchlines of the several sections of the Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-enacted.
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1963, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contractor or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the governing body. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts or ordinances passed by the governing body or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. Charter amendments will be included in like manner. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them in a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing sections or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _______ to _______" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-6. - Amendments to code; amendatory language.
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby.
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _______ of the city Code is hereby amended to read as follows:…" The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That the city Code is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _______, which said section reads as follows:…" The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
Sec. 1-7. - Altering code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the governing body, which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby.
Sec. 1-8. - General penalty; continuing violations.
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision of this Code or any such ordinance shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment in the city jail for not more than one hundred and eighty (180) days, or work in the workgang on the public streets or on such public works as the authorities may employ the workgang for not more than thirty (30) days, or by any one or more of these punishments, subject to all limitations contained in the Charter of the City. Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
However, unless otherwise specifically authorized by another city ordinance, the city judge, after prescribing a determinate jail sentence in days or months (if imprisonment is imposed), may not sentence a defendant to serve actual time in the city jail without first considering the extenuating and aggravating factors surrounding the case and the circumstances affecting the individual defendant. In fact, the city judge may suspend any and all jail time where a defendant is sentenced to imprisonment in the city jail if the imposition of such sentence, at the discretion of the judge, will not serve the interest of justice.
In exercising his or her discretion, when determining whether imprisonment of the defendant is in the best interest of justice, the city judge shall consider the extenuating and aggravating factors and circumstances surrounding the case and the individual defendant. Aggravating factors include, but are not limited to, the amount of damages caused by the defendant's actions to third parties, whether the defendant is a multiple offender, whether the defendant has prior criminal convictions, whether the defendant is employed, and such similar factors. Extenuating circumstances shall include, but are not limited to, whether the defendant is a first time offender, whether the defendant has repaired and/or repaid any damages caused as a result of his or her actions, whether the defendant is employed and has the ability to pay a fine, and such similar factors.
In addition to the penalties hereinabove provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any ordinance shall be deemed a public nuisance, and may be abated by the city as provided by law, and each day that such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(Ord. No. 2005-23, § 1, 11-7-05; Ord. No. 2006-06, § 2, 2-6-06)
Charter reference— Provisions as to the city court, operation thereof, Art. VII; penalty limitation, § 7-8.
State Law reference— Organization of public works camps by cities, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-8.
Note— See editor's note to § 1-8.1.
Sec. 1-8.1. - Legislative findings and purpose.
It is the finding of the mayor and council that it is in the best interest of justice that in those cases where a defendant or defendants enter a guilty plea or are found guilty of violating a city ordinance, that they be punished by the imposition of a fine rather than by imprisonment in the city jail. The mayor and council further find that the punishment of imprisonment should be used at the discretion of the judge in those cases in which, under the facts of the case and the circumstances surrounding the individual defendant, a fine may not be the appropriate punishment. The mayor and council further find that there should be guidelines for the judge to help him/her determine whether or not imprisonment is the appropriate punishment under the circumstances of the case after a defendant enters a guilty plea or is found guilty of violating a city ordinance.
Accordingly, the mayor and council find that it is in the best interest of the health, welfare, safety and morals of the community to provide guidelines for the imposition of the punishment of imprisonment in the city jail provided by section 1-8 of this Code of Ordinances. It is a matter of governmental interest and concern and in the interest of the public welfare to use the punishment of imprisonment in those cases in which the court, in its discretion and under the circumstances of the case, considers this punishment fitting in order to properly enforce the city ordinances. To that end, the ordinance from which this section derives is hereby adopted.
This ordinance is not intended as a de facto prohibition of the judge's discretion. This ordinance is intended to guide that discretion given to the judge by section 7-8 of the City Charter.
(Ord. No. 2006-06, § 2, 2-6-06)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2006-06, §§ 1, 2, adopted Feb. 6, 2006, respectively added section 1-8.1 and amended section 1-8.
Sec. 1-9. - Service of summons, issuance by police officer; failure to appear.
(a)
Any police officer of the city is authorized to serve upon any person a copy of charges and summons requiring said person to be and appear before the city court to answer same, where such person has been charged with the commission of any act declared to be unlawful or declared to be an offense by this Code, or where any such person has committed an act prohibited under this Code, or where such person has failed to do any act, the failure of which is declared to be unlawful.
(b)
A police officer of the city is authorized to issue a summons directed to any person who is a witness to the commission of any unlawful or other act made an offense by this Code, requiring such witness to appear before the city court at the time specified for the appearance of the person committing such act as aforesaid, there to testify as a witness upon the trial.
(c)
Whenever any person upon whom a copy of charges has been served by a police officer fails to appear before the city court at the time stated therein, such person shall be guilty of an offense.
(d)
Whenever any person who has been served a summons by a police office to appear as a witness fails to appear pursuant to said summons, such person shall be guilty of an offense.
(Code 1963, § 1-11)
Sec. 1-10. - Appearance bonds, etc.; dismissal of cases.
(a)
Authority; forfeiture; lien. The chief of police shall have authority to release any person arrested for a violation of any law, ordinance, regulation or rule of the municipal government upon such person giving bond payable to the city in an amount and surety to be approved by the chief of police or as directed by the city judge, conditioned for the appearance of such person before the city court at the time and place specified in said bond and from time to time until such person shall have been discharged by the court. If any person so released under appearance bond shall fail to appear for trial at the time named therein, such bond shall be forfeited. However, the person released on appearance bond or the surety shall have thirty (30) days after forfeiture to show cause why such bond should not be forfeited. If no sufficient cause be shown, the forfeiture of said bond shall be final and absolute and execution shall issue for the full amount thereof, and all costs against the principal and sureties thereon. Such execution shall be signed by the city clerk and the city judge, and shall be directed to the chief of police and to all and singular the sheriffs of the state, and the same when so issued shall be a lien upon all property, real or personal of such parties, and of binding effect upon such parties, and the defendants therein as if the same were issued upon judgement in the superior courts, and shall be levied by any officers to whom it shall be directed.
(b)
Continuation of case. The city judge may continue a case to a later court date. Should any case be so continued, the court clerk shall be notified so as to inform parties and witnesses.
(c)
Release on recognizance; surrender of driver's license. The chief of police or any officer authorized by the chief to do so may allow the release of an alleged offender on such alleged offender's own recognizance pending trial, except as other provided herein. The chief of police of any officer authorized by the chief to do so may accept the driver's license of a traffic violation in lieu of bail or bond, in such officer's lawful discretion, as authorized under O.C.G.A. § 17-6-11.
(d)
Cash bonds may be required. The chief of police may, in such officer's discretion, require cash bonds as set by the governing body for the appearance of an arrested person under certain offenses. Upon failure to appear at trial, said cash bond shall be forfeited, unless good cause is shown within thirty (30) days why such cash bond should not be forfeited, such forfeiture being absolute if no good cause is shown.
(e)
Offenses for which cash bonds are permitted; amounts: The defendants in the following cases may be released on payment of cash bonds in the following amounts:
Littering .....$50.00
Crossing fire hose .....20.00
Failure to stop for school bus loading/unloading .....25.00
Speeding cases (over 25 miles requires court appearance)
Per mile .....2.00
Plus
Court .....5.00
Violation of knife ordinance .....20.00
Violation of noise ordinance .....20.00
Violation—Red light .....20.00
Violation—Stop sign .....20.00
Violation—Improper start .....20.00
Laying drags .....50.00
and up
Parking on sidewalk .....10.00
Illegal parking .....8.00
Parking in fire zone .....100.00
Parking in front of dumpsters .....10.00
Blocking traffic .....10.00
Dog leash ordinance, first offense .....10.00
Second offense .....20.00
Third offense .....40.00
Fourth offense .....80.00
Fifth offense .....160.00
Gaming .....50.00
Drunk .....30.00
Drunk on bus .....35.00
Improper passing .....20.00
Violation of truck cover ordinance .....25.00
U-turn or improper turn .....10.00
Improper lane change .....20.00
Disorderly conduct .....50.00
and up
Fighting .....50.00
Occupying a dive .....50.00
Creating disturbance .....50.00
Interfering with officer .....50.00
Other offenses .....25.00
and up
(f)
Property or cash appearance bonds for certain offenses. The following offenses may be released on posting a property bond or cash appearance bond; however, court appearances are required at the discretion of the judge of the city court. Failure to appear may result in the issuance of a bench warrant:
D.U.I. .....$400.00
Allowing a drunk to drive .....400.00
Drunk at the scene of an accident .....400.00
Creating a disturbance .....100.00
Disorderly conduct .....100.00
Fighting .....100.00
Fleeing from police or failing to stop at an officer's signal .....200.00
Failing to yield right-of-way accident .....100.00
Gaming .....100.00
Carrying pistol without license .....100.00
Carrying pistol concealed .....100.00
Criminal trespassing .....200.00
and up
Interfering with officer or obstruction officer .....100.00
Illegal whiskey .....100.00
and up
Knife ordinance .....50.00
No tag or improper tag or improper registration .....100.00
No insurance .....100.00
Permitting nonlicensed driver to drive .....100.00
Public indecency .....500.00
Violation of Georgia Controlled Substance Act
Less than one ounce .....250.00
Over an ounce .....500.00
Reckless driving .....300.00
Other offense .....100.00
and up
(Code 1963, § 2-15; Ord. No. 92-6, § 1, 3-16-93)
Section 1-10.1. - Service of citations, issuance by code enforcement officers.
All code enforcement officers of the City of College Park are authorized to serve, in writing, citations or notices of code violations upon the applicant, permit holder, owner of property affected or owner's agent, and, if applicable, persons in possession or occupancy of affected premises. Where service cannot be personally served by hand delivery, service by registered or certified mail, or statutory overnight delivery to the last known address of the applicant, permit holder, owner, owner's agent, or, if applicable, persons in possession of premises, shall constitute personal service.
(Ord. No. 2006-25, § 1, 8-7-06)
Sec. 1-11. - Severability of parts of Code.
(a)
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that all sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are or were, upon their enactment, believed by the mayor and council to be fully valid, enforceable and constitutional.
(b)
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that, to the greatest extent allowed by law, each and every section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code is severable from every other section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code. It is hereby further declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that, to the greatest extent allowed by law, no section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code is mutually dependent upon any other section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code.
(c)
In the event that any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall, for any reason whatsoever, be declared invalid, unconstitutional or otherwise unenforceable by the valid judgement or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, it is the express intent of the mayor and council that such invalidity, unconstitutionality or unenforceability shall, to the greatest extent allowed by law, not render invalid, unconstitutional or otherwise unenforceable any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of the Code and that, to the greatest extent allowed by law, all remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of the Code shall remain valid, constitutional, enforceable, and of full force and effect.
(Ord. No. 2000-32, § 1, 9-5-00)
Sec. 1-12. - Ordinances, resolutions, other acts not affected by Code adoption.
The adoption of this Code shall not repeal, nor shall affect any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of such Code;
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness;
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(4)
Any ordinance prescribing zoning or subdivision regulations, or zoning particular property, or dedicating or accepting any subdivision plot;
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the city;
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, prescribing the grade of, locating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the city;
(7)
Any appropriation or budget ordinance, or ordinance levying any tax or special assessment;
(8)
Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective only for a stated or limited time;
(9)
Any ordinance annexing territory to the city or discontinuing territory as a part of the city;
(10)
Any ordinance or resolution not in conflict with such Code regulating traffic on specific streets or portions thereof or in specific areas of the city;
(11)
Any ordinance prescribing personnel procedures, policies, salaries or wages not in conflict with this Code;
(12)
Any ordinance establishing any utility board, or prescribing rates or charges for utility service, not in conflict with this Code;
(13)
Any ordinance amending the charter;
(14)
Any ordinance enacted after November 4, 1985.
Sec. 1-13. - Default time limit.
Whenever this Code provides for the performance of any official act or decision by any person or entity, but fails specifically to provide a time limit for performance of the official act or the rendering of the decision, the act shall be performed or the decision rendered within thirty (30) days of the event rendering the performance of the act necessary or possible. If the final day for performance of the act or rendering of the decision falls on a weekend or a legal holiday on which the government offices of the city are closed, then final day shall be extended to the next weekday on which the government offices of the city are open.
(Ord. No. 2000-33, § 1, 9-5-00)
