ARTICLE IX. - FOOD SERVICE STANDARDS

Sec. 11-160. - Food service establishments licensing requirements.
(a)
Proof of pest control service.
(1)
All applicants for an occupational tax license, or renewals of such shall provide required information and pay all applicable fees at the time the application is submitted;
(2)
Prior to the issuance, or renewal of an occupational tax license, a copy of a twelve-month contract with a certified pest control service, registered with the State of Georgia, shall be provided;
(3)
Prior to the issuance of an occupational tax license to new or existing establishments, the applicant shall provide evidence of satisfactory compliance with the provisions of this chapter and all other provisions of laws that apply to the location, construction and maintenance of food service establishments and the safety of persons therein.
(b)
Displaying the inspection report.
(1)
The most current inspection report shall be prominently displayed in public view at all times, within fifteen (15) feet of the front or primary public door and between five (5) feet and seven (7) feet from the floor and in an area where it can be read at a distance of one (1) foot away, and shall be affixed adjacent to the current occupational tax license.
(2)
Food service establishments with drive-thru windows will post the current inspection report, and also have the inspection report posted so that a minimum of the top one-third of a copy of the current inspection report is visible through each window allowing customers to easily read the score, date of inspection and establishment information.
(3)
At food service establishments with no primary or public door, the current inspection report shall be prominently displayed at all times where the documents can be read by the public from a distance of one foot away. If requirements of this paragraph are not possible because of physical restrictions, a location will be determined as approved by the health authority.
(4)
The most current inspection report for mobile food service units and extended food service units issued by the local health authority having jurisdiction for its inspections shall be prominently displayed in public view during all hours of operation. Such inspection reports shall be prominently displayed at the point of service where the documents can be read by the public from a distance of one (1) foot away.
(5)
A food service establishment inspection report addendum need not be displayed, but shall be made available by the food service establishment to the public upon request.
(c)
Property. The permit shall be returned within seven days to the local health authority when the food service establishment ceases to operate, has a change in ownership, is moved to another location or when the permit is revoked.
(d)
Responsibilities of the permit holder. The permit holder shall:
(1)
Post the permit as in a location in the food service establishment that is conspicuous to consumers;
(2)
Comply with the provisions of this chapter including the conditions of a granted variance as specified under DPH Rule 511-6-1-.10(5)(a), and approved plans as specified under subsection (4)(b) of said rule;
(3)
If a food service establishment is required under DPH Rule 511-6-1-.02(5) to operate under a Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) plan, comply with the plan as specified under DPH Rule 511-6-1-.10(5)(c);
(4)
Immediately contact the Fulton County Board of Health to report an illness of a food employee or conditional employee as specified under DPH Rule 511-6-1-.03(4)(b).
(Ord. No. 2019-06, § 2, 4-15-19)
Secs. 11-161—11-179. - Reserved.
