ARTICLE VII. - CITY COURT OF COLLEGE PARK[11]

Footnotes:
--- (11) ---
Cross reference— For provisions redesignating the Recorder's Court as "City Court of College Park," and the recorder as "judge," see § 7-10.
State Law reference— Corporate, police, recorders' and mayors' courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.

Sec. 7-1. - Established; jurisdiction, power; presiding officer.
(a)
From and after the passage of this Act, a city court be, and the same is hereby established for the City of College Park, Georgia, which said court shall have the jurisdiction to try all offenses against the laws and ordinances of the municipal government of said city.
(b)
Said court shall have power to enforce its judgement by inflicting such penalties as may be provided by the ordinances; punish witnesses for nonattendance, and also punish any person who shall counsel or advise, aid, encourage or intimidate a witness whose testimony is material or desired before said court, or who shall absent himself or go away or remove beyond the reach of the processes of the court. Said court shall have full jurisdiction, power and authority throughout the entire County of Fulton [or County of Clayton] for the purpose of compelling the attendance of witnesses before said court, residing anywhere in said County of Fulton [or County of Clayton].
(c)
Said court shall be presided over by the judge, or in his absence or disability or disqualification, by the mayor or mayor pro tem., or any member of the city council. The judge when elected shall be clothed with all the rights, powers and privileges of the mayor as to said City Court of College Park, and shall preside over said court.
(d)
Said court shall have the authority to bind prisoners over to the appropriate court when it appears by probable cause that state law has been violated
(Ga. L. 1916, p. 643, § 1; Ord. No. 05-15, § 1, 6-6-05)
Sec. 7-2. - Administration of city court of College Park.
The city council shall have full power and authority to pass all laws and ordinances, rules and regulations necessary or proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the City Court of College Park.
(Ga. L. 1916, p. 643, § 5)
Sec. 7-3. - City court judges.
(a)
The City Court of College Park shall be presided over by a chief judge and such part-time, full-time, or acting judges as shall be provided by ordinance.
(b)
Judges for the City Court of College Park shall be appointed by the mayor and council of the City of College Park.
(c)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge on the City Court of College Park unless he or she has met all requirements imposed by state law.
(d)
Compensation of the judges shall be fixed by ordinance or resolution of mayor and city council.
(e)
The appointment of any judge to the City Court of College Park shall be of a term of no less than one year. The length of such term shall be established by ordinance, resolution, or written agreement between the judge and the mayor and city council.
(f)
Notwithstanding the duration of the term of the judge, he or she may be removed from office. Such removal shall occur as authorized by state law.
(g)
Notwithstanding the duration of the term of the judge, unless he or she is removed from office or he or she has resigned, he or she shall serve until mayor and city council appoint a successor.
(h)
Before entering upon his or her duties, he or she shall take an oath before some officer authorized to administer oaths, that he or she will faithfully and honestly discharge the duties of his or her office to the best of his or her skill and ability, without fear, favor or affection, reward or the hope thereof, and do justice between the city and the accused. This oath shall be entered on the minutes of the city council.
(Ga. L. 1916, p. 643, § 2; Ga. L. 1929, p. 963, § 5; Ga. L. 1946, p. 454, § 1; Ga. L. 1959, p. 2367, § 4A; Ord. No. 2017-02, § 1, 3-20-17)
Cross reference— Ineligibility of judge as member of civil service plan, § 3-7.
Sec. 7-4. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2, adopted March 20, 2017, repealed § 7-4, which pertained to judge pro tem. See Charter Disposition Table for complete derivation.
Sec. 7-5. - Sessions.
Said City Court of College Park shall be held at any time and as often as may be necessary to try all offenders against the city ordinances.
(Ga. L. 1916, p. 643, § 8)
Sec. 7-6. - Procedure; clerk.
The chief of police of said city, or some member of the police force designated by him, shall attend the sessions of said court in addition to his other duties. The clerk of the council of the said city shall act as the clerk of the said City Court of College Park and shall sign and issue all processes, summonses, subpoenas, attachments, and all other processes issuing out of said court, all of which shall bear teste in the name of the mayor. The ministerial officers of said court shall be the chief of police and the entire police force of said city, any of whom may execute and return the mandates of said court, and to whom, in the alternative, all mesne and final process shall be directed. The chief of police, or some member of the police force designated by him, shall attend all sessions of said court for the purpose of executing the necessary orders thereof and enforcing order therein.
(Ga. L. 1916, p. 643, § 7)
Sec. 7-7. - Appeal and certiorari.
(a)
Generally: Anyone convicted in the City Court of College Park shall have the right of appeal to the city council within four (4) days after conviction, but he shall not be required to appeal from the judgements or decisions of said City Court of College Park before he is entitled to the writ of certiorari to the superior court of said county, with the right of appeal from the judgement of the superior court as in other cases.
(b)
Duty of presiding officer: Whenever any person convicted in said court, or his attorney, shall give notice that he intends to apply for a writ of certiorari it shall be the duty of the mayor or judge or other officer presiding over said court to suspend sentence until said certiorari shall have been heard and determined by said superior court, and in case of appeal from the decision of the superior court to the Supreme Court of the Court of Appeals until there is a final determination of said case, in the said court of last resort.
(c)
Bond required: But no person convicted in said City Court of College Park shall be released from custody until he shall have given a good and sufficient bond and security, to be fixed and approved by the presiding officer of said court for his appearance to carry out and perform said sentence in the event the same is affirmed.
(Ga. L. 1916, p. 643, § 6)
Sec. 7-8. - Imposition of penalties; authority as magistrate.
(a)
Limitation upon penalties: The judge of the City Court of College Park shall have power to impose fines for the violation of any law or ordinance of the City of College Park in an amount not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation, or to imprison offenders in the city jail for a period of not more than one hundred eighty (180) days, or to sentence offenders to labor on the public works or streets of the city for not more than one hundred eighty (180) days, any and all, such fine, imprisonment and labor, in the discretion of the judge. He or she shall also have the same powers as judges of the superior courts of this state to punish for contempt by a fine not exceeding one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) or imprisonment in the city jail not exceeding thirty (30) days.
(b)
Authority as magistrate: The judge shall be to all intents and purposes a magistrate so far as to enable the judge to issue warrants for offenses committed within the corporate limits of the city, which warrants may be executed by any member of the police force of the city, and to try and commit the offenders to jail in the county where the crime is alleged to have been committed, or to admit them to bail in bailable cases, for their appearance at the next term of court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ga. L. 1916, p. 643, § 3; Ga. L. 1951, p. 2797, § 7; Ord. No. 98-04, § 1, 3-2-98)
Cross reference— Fines and executions to enforce collection of delinquent taxes, § 2-4.
Sec. 7-9. - Assessment of costs.
There shall be assessed by said judge in each case tried by him, in which a fine is imposed, a cost [of] two dollars ($2.00), said cost to be paid into the treasury of the city.
(Ga. L. 1916, p. 643, § 2; Ga. L. 1947, p. 1040, § 3; Ga. L. 1949, p. 1961, § 8)
Sec. 7-10. - Recorder's court, presiding officer, redesignated.
(a)
Recorder redesignated judge: The word "recorder" wherever it appears in the Act approved December 16, 1895 (Ga. L. 1895, p. 254 et seq.), establishing a new charter for the City of College Park, and in all Acts amendatory thereof, is hereby stricken, and the word "judge" is substituted in lieu thereof so that, after passage and approval of this Act, the title of the officer who presides over the municipal court of the City of College Park, heretofore known as the recorder's court, shall be judge instead of recorder.
(b)
Recorder's court redesignated City Court of College Park: The words "recorder's court," wherever they appear in the Act or the title of the Act approved December 16, 1895 (Ga. L. 1895, p. 254 et seq.) establishing a new charter for the City of College Park, and in all Acts amendatory thereof, are hereby stricken and the words "City Court of College Park" are substituted in lieu thereof, so that after the passage and approval of this Act, the municipal court of said city, heretofore known as recorder's court, shall be known as the City Court of College Park.
(Ga. L. 1963, p. 2338, § 2)
