ARTICLE IV. - CITY MANAGER[8]

Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
Editor's note— Referendum approving Ga. Laws 1968, P. 2721, from which Art. IV is derived, was held on June 3, 1958.

Sec. 4-1. - Appointment, function.
The mayor and council of the City of College Park shall select and appoint a city manager for the City of College Park, who shall be the chief administrative officer of the municipal government of the City of College Park and responsible for the efficient administration of all departments of said municipal government.
(Ga. L. 1958, p. 2721, § 2; Ord. No. 2019-01, § 2, 1-22-19)
Cross reference— General powers of mayor and council, Art. II.
Sec. 4-2. - Qualifications; eligibility of mayor, councilmembers.
The city manager shall be chosen solely on the basis of ability, training and experience. The city manager shall be a citizen of the United States. At the time of appointment, the city manager need not be a resident of the city or state, but during his or her tenure of office the city manager shall reside within the city.
No person elected to be mayor or councilmember of the City of College Park shall, subsequent to such election, be eligible for appointment as city manager until after one (1) year has elapsed following the expiration of the term for which he or she was elected.
(Ga. L. 1958, p. 2721, § 2; Ord. No. 2002-11, § 5, 3-4-02)
Sec. 4-3. - Term; removal from office, procedure; severance pay; effect of civil service, pension laws.
The city manager shall be appointed for an indefinite term, shall hold office at the pleasure of the mayor and council, and may be removed from office by the mayor and council at their discretion. Upon removal from office, the city manager shall be entitled to not less than sixty (60) days' severance pay. He shall not be subject to civil service. On request, he shall be eligible to participate in the pension plan provided for city employees.
(Ga. L. 1958, p. 2721, § 2; Ga. L. 1959, p. 2363, § 1; Ga. L. 1968, p. 3640, Act No. 1209, § 7; Ord. No. 83-7, 4-4-83; Ord. No. 84-17, 8-20-84)
Sec. 4-4. - Vacancy in office; temporary appointments.
The mayor and council may designate a person or persons to perform the functions and duties of the city manager during his absence or disability. Vacancies in the office of city manager shall be filled by the mayor and council as early as practicable, and until such vacancy is filled, the mayor and council shall have full powers to make a temporary appointment or to perform the functions and duties of his office.
(Ga. L. 1958, p. 2721, § 2)
Sec. 4-5. - Compensation.
The city manager shall receive such compensation as from time to time may be prescribed by ordinance or resolution by the mayor and council.
(Ga. L. 1958, p. 2721, § 2)
Sec. 4-6. - Responsibility.
The city manager shall devote his full time and attention to the affairs of the city, and shall be responsible to the mayor and council for the efficient administration of all the affairs of the city over which he has jurisdiction.
(Ga. L. 1958, p. 2721, § 2)
Sec. 4-7. - Powers, duties.
As the chief administrative officer of the City of College Park, the city manager shall have power and it shall be his or her duty:
(a)
To see that all laws and ordinances are enforced.
(b)
To see that the business and affairs of the city are efficiently organized and handled.
(c)
To exercise administrative control over all regular departments and divisions of the City of College Park, including the appointment, removal and disciplining of department heads; provided, however, that the city manager shall not have or exercise any control over the College Park planning commission, board of zoning appeals, recreation commission or other special board, commission, committee, authority or body set up under any general law or any ordinance or agreement of the mayor and council.
(d)
To appoint, as required, department heads for departments authorized by the mayor and council. Department heads with the approval of the city manager shall appoint and remove all subordinate officers and employees in their respective offices and departments; provided however, they shall be guided in their actions by the City of College Park civil service laws and regulations. Upon failure of such department heads and/or the city manager to act in making such appointments and recommendations, the mayor and council shall have full authority and power to act. Nothing herein shall prevent the mayor and council from creating, abolishing, consolidating, altering or modifying departments.
(e)
To attend the meetings of the mayor and council, with the right to take part in all discussions, but having no vote.
(f)
To recommend to the mayor and council for adoption such measures as he may deem necessary or expedient.
(g)
To prepare and submit to the mayor and council an annual budget.
(h)
To keep the mayor and council fully advised as to the financial condition and needs of the city.
(i)
To make and execute all lawful contracts on behalf of the City of College Park as to matters within his jurisdiction, except such as may be otherwise provided by law or by ordinance or resolution of the mayor and council; provided that no contract, purchase or obligation involving more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) shall be valid or binding until provided by the mayor and council; and provided further that without approval of the mayor and council neither the city manager nor other officer or employee shall in any calendar month expend or obligate for any purpose any sum or sums in excess of the monthly budget, or one-twelfth ( 1/12 ) of the annual budget therefor, as fixed by the mayor and council.
(j)
To make to the mayor and council monthly written reports showing his acts and doings, the operations of the city, and all city disbursements, purchases, contracts and obligations.
(k)
To perform such other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance or resolution of the mayor and council.
(l)
To give bond in the penal sum fixed by the mayor and council with surety approved by the mayor and council, payable to the City of College Park, and its successors and assigns, for the benefits of the said City of College Park and for the use and benefit of the public to secure and indemnify the City of College Park and each and all of the public, by reason of his default, misfeasance, malfeasance and/or nonfeasance in the performance of his duties. The premium of such bond shall be paid by the City of College Park.
(Ga. L. 1958, p. 2721, § 2; Ga. L. 1968, p. 3640, Act No. 1209, § 8; Ord. No. 89-17, § 1, 6-19-89; Ord. No. 2019-01, § 3, 1-22-19)
