ARTICLE VI. - PUBLIC UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SERVICES[9]

Footnotes:
--- (9) ---
Cross reference— General powers of mayor and council, Art. II; street repaving, etc., Art. IX.

Sec. 6-1. - Authority of mayor and council.
(a)
Agreements: Mayor and council of the City of College Park, said municipal corporation and its governing authorities, are hereby authorized and empowered to enter into and perform agreement or agreements with any other municipal corporation or corporations and/or subdivision or subdivisions of the State of Georgia, for the joint and/or common construction, maintenance, operation and/or use of garbage disposal plant or plants, water-works line or lines, waterworks system or systems, and/or any other public utility or utilities or public service or services, and any extension or enlargement thereof, or addition thereto, either wholly or partly within the corporate limits of the City of College Park or beyond said corporate limits, and/or wholly or partly within the corporate limits of such other municipal corporation or corporations and/or political subdivision or subdivisions, for the joint and/or common disposal of garbage; the acquisition, furnishing and use of water and water supply and/or any other public utility or utilities or public service or services, respectively, in, by and from said City of College Park and/or other municipal corporation or corporations and/or political subdivision or subdivisions, or in and from any territorial parts or sections thereof, under such terms and conditions as to character of construction, maintenance, operation and/or use, the cost thereof, the division of said cost between the parties thereto, and/or otherwise, as may be provided by said agreement or agreements.
(b)
Bonds authorized: [10] Mayor and council of the City of College Park, the municipal corporation aforesaid, and its governing authorities, are hereby authorized and empowered to provide for the payment of its portion of the cost of any joint and/or common construction, maintenance, operation and/or use of any of the garbage disposal plant or plants; waterworks line or lines, or system or systems, and/or any other public utility or public service, plant or plants, system or systems, and any extension or enlargement thereof, or any addition thereto, constructed under agreement or agreements entered into by said mayor and council of the City of College Park, said municipal corporation, or its governing authorities pursuant to the provisions of section 2 [subsection (a)] of this Act [section], either in whole or in part by the issuance of bonds for such purpose under and pursuant to the charter of said City of College Park and the constitution and laws of said state, and/or from the general tax and/or other revenues of said city lawfully subject to use therefor.
(Ga. L. 1937-1938 Ex. Sess., p. 1050, §§ 2, 3)
Footnotes:
--- (10) ---
Cross reference— Authority as to issuance of bonds generally, § 8-12.

Sec. 6-2. - Improvements; assessment; execution; contest of assessment.
(a)
Authority: The mayor and council of said city shall have the power and authority at any time in their discretion, to grade, pave, macadamize, or otherwise improve, for travel or drainage, the streets, alleys and public parks, within the corporate limits of said City of College Park; and to carry into effect the authority herein granted, the said mayor and council shall have full power and authority to assess the actual total costs of grading, paving, or otherwise improving said streets, alleys, or public parks against the real estate abutting on each side of said street, alley or park, upon which said work is done, in just proportions to the frontage by the foot of said property. Whenever the mayor and council of said city shall determine to pave, grade or otherwise improve, any street or alley or public park of said city, the city clerk shall notify in writing all persons owning property abutting on or fronting on such street or alley or public park of such intention, together with a statement of the amount assessed against said property therefor; and the said city shall proceed at once to do said paving or otherwise improve such streets, etc., or cause it to be done. Said mayor and council shall have full and complete power and authority to require any street or alley to be paved in such manner and with such material as may be determined by resolution or ordinance.
(b)
Assessment constitutes lien: The amount of the assessment on each piece of real estate shall be a lien thereon from the date of the passage of the ordinance providing for the work and making the assessment, which lien shall be superior to all other liens, except for taxes. Said mayor and council shall have full power and authority to enforce the collection of any assessment so made for work, either upon the streets, alleys or public parks, by execution to be issued by the city clerk against the real estate and against the owner thereof, for the amount so assessed, which execution shall be levied and the property advertised and sold in the same manner as tax executions are now levied, and the property sold thereunder by said City of College Park.
(c)
Contest of assessment: Should any owner of any property upon which such an execution is levied desire to contest the amount of the assessment, they may do so by filing with the levying officers an affidavit of illegality and stating therein the cause of such illegality and the amount admitted to be due, which amount admitted to be due shall be paid to the levying officer before the affidavit shall be received and the affidavit shall be returned to the superior court of the county in which said property is located, to be tried and determined as in other cases of illegality, subject to the penalties for delay in such cases made and provided, and it shall be the duty of the judge of the Superior Court of said county to give preference to these cases over all other pending cases in said court. Said mayor and council shall in all cases, in their discretion, have the power to grant a stay of execution for said assessment for such times as they may see fit, and collect the interest on the same at the rate of seven (7) per cent per annum.
(Ga. L. 1913, p. 682, § 13; Ga. L. 1922, p. 642, § 6; Ga. L. 1951, p. 2797, § 5)
Annotation—In Holland v. City of College Park, 105 Ga. App. 427. 124 S.E. 2d 693, the Court of Appeals in 1962 held that a writ of fieri facias issued pursuant to authority of an ordinance assessing paving costs, enacted pursuant to the charter, was valid.
Cross reference— Repaving, curbing and guttering, Art. IX.
Sec. 6-3. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Senate Bill No. 289 of 1964, § 5 repealed Ga. L. 1923, p. 548, § 5; Ga. L. 1927, p. 957, § 2; Ga. L. 1929, p. 963, § 7; and Ga. L. 1951, p. 2797, § 4, from which § 6-3 was derived. Said section related curbs and gutters, a subject now covered by Art. IX of this compilation.
Sec. 6-4. - Sidewalks—Regulation of specifications; condemnation, removal, relaying.
The mayor and council of the City of College Park shall have the power and authority to provide for, regulate and enact ordinances with respect to the character, specifications, and conditions and manner of laying of sidewalks in said city; and said mayor and council shall also have the power and authority to provide by ordinance for the condemnation and removal, after notice and hearing, of sidewalks in said city which are not laid in accordance with the laws or requirements of said city, and also for the relaying of sidewalks in the place of condemned sidewalks, and the assessment, lien, collection and enforcement of the payment of the cost thereof; provided, however, that nothing in this section of this Act shall operate to repeal the present charter provisions of said city with respect to laying sidewalks therein, and the assessment and collection of the cost thereof.
(Ga. L. 1927, p. 957, § 3)
Cross reference— Power of eminent domain, § 2-3.
Sec. 6-5. - Same—Improvements; assessments; execution; contest of assessment.
The mayor and council of the City of College Park shall have the power and authority, at any time in their discretion, to grade and pave any and all of the sidewalks of said city now or hereafter opened, laid out or constructed, and to provide for the kind and manner of such grading and paving and to carry into effect the power and authority herein granted. Said mayor and council shall have the full power and authority to assess fifty (50) per cent of the actual total cost of grading and paving any sidewalk against the real estate abutting thereon on the side of the street on which such sidewalk is laid out or constructed, and the owners thereof in just proportions to the frontage by foot of said property. The city shall pay fifty (50) per cent of the total cost of such sidewalk laid out or constructed, provided however that corner property shall be assessed, as follows:
(a)
Where the sidewalk abuts property only on the front, the property shall be assessed for the amount of the frontage; and
(b)
Where the sidewalk abuts property on both the front and the side, the property shall be assessed for the frontage and for the side, but one hundred (100) feet of the side shall be exempted from assessment.
In determining the actual cost of grading and paving any sidewalk, that portion that lies beyond the property line and between the property line and the street or curbline shall be so included.
The mayor and council shall have full power and authority to determine the manner, materials and methods to be employed in the laying out or construction of sidewalks. Whenever the mayor and council determine to lay out or construct sidewalks within the city, they shall direct the city clerk to notify the owners of the property abutting such sidewalk of the determination to do such work. Such notice may be given by publishing same once in the official newspaper of the city, not less than seven (7) days prior to the date of adoption of an ordinance to do so, or such notice may be given by mailing written notice to each of such owners at least seven (7) days prior to the date of the adoption of said ordinance. If notice is mailed, addressing same to the owners of abutting property at their last address according to the tax records of the city by first class mail in a properly addressed envelope with adequate postage thereon shall be sufficient. Notice however given shall state a general description of the improvement, its location, its estimated cost per front foot, shall state the proportionate amount to be assessed against the abutting real estate and the time and place at which the adoption of an ordinance to do the work shall come up for consideration. The ordinance providing for doing the work may be adopted at any regular meeting after notice has been given as provided; when such sidewalk construction has been completed, the mayor and council shall adopt an ordinance assessing and apportioning fifty (50) per cent of the actual total cost thereof in just proportions to the frontage by the foot against the abutting real estate. The cost of such construction shall not constitute a lien against the abutting real estate until the work has been completed and an ordinance has been adopted assessing the cost thereof, but after such time, said assessment shall constitute a lien against the abutting real estate superior to all other liens, except liens for taxes and such liens shall be enforceable and the assessments collectible by execution in the same manner as provided for collection of delinquent taxes due the city.
(Ga. L. 1895, p. 251; Ga. L. 1922, p. 642, § 6; Ga. L. 1927, p. 957, § 1; Ga. L. 1951, p. 2797, § 3; Ord. No. 71-66, § 1, 12-6-71)
Sec. 6-6. - Same—Authority to use city employees, to contract with others.
The mayor and council shall have the right and power to make the improvements provided for in section 13(a) [section 6-5] of this Act, by and through its own employees, or enter into a contract or contracts for said improvements with any person, firm or corporation, and in payment thereof, may assign and transfer to such person, firm or corporation bills or executions covering assessments made against the abutting property and the owners thereof for said improvements.
(Ga. L. 1922, p. 642, § 6; Ga. L. 1947, p. 1040, § 5; Ga. L. 1949, p. 1961, § 9)
Sec. 6-7. - Same—Repairs.
The mayor and council of said city shall have the power and authority, at any time in their discretion, to repair or cause to be repaired, in the manner and to the extent necessary, any of the public sidewalks in said city which in their opinion are in need of repair and the city shall bear the cost of such repairs.
(Ga. L. 1949, p. 1961, § 10; Ga. L. 1968, p. 3640, Act. No. 1209, § 6)
Sec. 6-8. - Streets—Increasing width; assessment; execution; contest of assessment.
The mayor and council of the City of College Park shall have the power and authority at any time in their discretion to increase the pavement width of streets within the City of College Park; to grade, pave, macadamize or otherwise improve the portions of streets where the pavement width is increased; to reset or establish new curbing and guttering on portions of streets where the pavement width is increased; and to carry into effect the authority herein granted, the said mayor and council shall have full power and authority to assess fifty (50) per cent of the total cost of increasing the pavement width of streets, including the cost of grading, paving, macadamizing, resetting old curb, providing new curbing, guttering, or otherwise improving such area, against the real estate abutting on each side of street upon which the work is done in just proportions to the frontage by the foot of said property.
Whenever the mayor and council of said city shall determine to increase the pavement width of any street and to pave, grade, or otherwise improve such portion of any street, the city clerk shall notify all persons owning abutting property on or fronting on such street of such intention, together with a statement of the amount assessed against said property therefor; and said city shall proceed to do said paving, etc., or cause it to be done. Said mayor and council shall have full power and authority to require the portion of any street wherein the pavement width is increased to be paved and curbed in such manner and with such material as may be determined by resolution or ordinance.
The amount of the assessment on each piece of real estate shall be a lien thereon from the date of the passage of the ordinance providing for the work and making the assessment, which lien shall be superior to all other liens, except for taxes. Said mayor and council shall have full power and authority to enforce the collection of any assessment so made by execution to be issued by the city clerk against the real estate and against the owner thereof, for the amount so assessed, which execution shall be levied and the property advertised and sold in the same manner as tax executions are now levied and the property sold thereunder by said City of College Park.
Should any owner of any property upon which such an execution is levied desire to contest the amount of the assessment, he may so do by filing with the levying officers an affidavit of illegality and stating thereon the cause of such illegality and the amount admitted to be due, which amount admitted to be due shall be paid to the levying officer before the affidavit shall be received and the affidavit shall be returned to the Superior Court of Fulton County to be tried and determined as in other cases of illegality, subject to the penalties for delay in such cases made and provided, and it shall be the duty of the judge of the superior court of said county to give preference to those cases over all other pending cases in said court. Said mayor and council shall in all cases, in their discretion, have the power to grant a stay of execution for said assessment for such time as they may see fit, and collect the interest on the same at the rate of six (6) per cent per annum.
(Ga. L. 1895, p. 251; Ga. L. 1956, p. 2922, § 3; Ord. No. 71-66, § 2, 12-6-71)
Sec. 6-9. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Senate Bill No. 289 of 1964, § 5 repealed Ga. L. 1952, p. 2454 and Ga. L. 1958, p. 2668, from which § 6-9 was derived. Said section related to repaving, a subject now covered by Art. IX.
Sec. 6-10. - Water, light, sewerage systems—Construction, operation.
The mayor and council of said City of College Park, be, and they are hereby authorized and empowered to purchase, build, contract for, establish, maintain and operate waterworks, electric light and sewerage systems, for said city, within or without the limits of said city, either or both, for all purposes usual and incident to waterworks, electric lights and sewerage systems, for municipal corporations, and to furnish and supply lights, heat, power, water and electrical current for such purposes as may be practicable to said city and to private parties, and to charge and collect for the same; and generally to operate, maintain, manage and conduct said waterworks, electric lights and sewerage systems, as the mayor and council of said city, may in their discretion, deem best and proper; and to acquire the necessary property, franchises, rights and easements therefor. The mayor and council shall by regulations provide the method and manner of assessment and collecting such maintenance fee, service charge or taxes and for the issuance of fi. fa. therefor, if necessary, and the collection thereof. Any delinquent tax, maintenance fee or service charge for lights, heat, power, water, electrical current or sewerage service shall become a lien on the property served by said city and subject to foreclosure.
(Ga. L. 1908, p. 547, §§ 1, 2; Ga. L. 1913, p. 682, § 10; Ord. No. 79-19, § 1, 6-4-79)
Editor's note— Secs. 6-10 through 6-15 herein are derived from Ga. Laws 1913, page 682, §§ 10—12 and 5—7, § 10 superseding Ga. Laws 1908, page 547, §§ 1 and 2, and § 11 superseding § 5 of Ga. Laws 1908, page 547. Secs. 2—4 of said Act, abolishing the waterworks and electric light commission, vesting the powers whereof in the mayor and council, and providing for continuing liability on the bonds of the commissioners, have not been codified. Likewise, the provisions of Ga. L. 1910, No. 408, p. 473, approved Aug. 11, 1910, creating the commission, designating its powers and duties have been omitted from this codification.
Sec. 6-11. - Same—Acquisition of property; eminent domain.
The mayor and council of said city, be, and they are hereby authorized and empowered to purchase, acquire and hold, any and all property, both within and without the corporate limits of said city, necessary or expedient in the discretion of the mayor and council of said city, for the purpose of an electric light system or a waterworks and sewerage system, either or both, and for any and all other purposes necessary or expedient, for the good of said city, as said mayor and council may in their discretion deem proper, and to exercise the power of eminent domain as hereinbefore set out, whenever necessary for the proper maintenance, operation, management or control of said waterworks, electric lights or sewerage systems.
(Ga. L. 1908, p. 547, § 5; Ga. L. 1913, p. 682, § 11)
Sec. 6-12. - Same—Regulation, protection of systems.
(a)
The mayor and council of said City of College Park shall have full power and authority to enact and enforce such rules, regulations and ordinances as may be necessary to protect said waterworks, electric light and sewerage systems, and all their parts, whether located within or without the corporate limits of said city. The mayor and council of said city be, and they are hereby authorized and empowered to do and perform all acts and things necessary and incident to the building, operation, maintenance and control of said waterworks, electric light and sewerage system.
(b)
It is the purpose and intent of this Act to confer upon said mayor and council the right to exercise the necessary police power and regulations over the waterworks, electric light and sewerage systems of said city, whether the same be situated within or without the corporate limits of said city and said right is hereby so conferred.
(Ga. L. 1908, p. 547, § 6; Ga. L. 1913, p. 682, § 12)
Sec. 6-13. - Same—Contracts, personnel, rates.
The mayor and council of said city shall have the authority to regulate the water and light rates in and for said city, shall have authority to make any and all contracts with any individual, firm, corporation or municipality for the supply of water and electric current either to or by said city. Said mayor and council shall have full and entire control of the waterworks, electric light and sewerage systems of said city, shall name the several employees, shall fix their salaries, prescribe their duties, and shall have the right to discharge any employee in said department.
(Ga. L. 1913, p. 682, § 5)
Sec. 6-14. - Same—Revenues.
All moneys derived from the operation of said waterworks, electric light and sewerage systems over and above the operating expenses, shall become a part of the general revenue of the City of College Park. In case the revenue from said waterworks, electric light and sewerage systems, shall not be sufficient to meet the current expenses or necessary expenses incurred in operating said waterworks, electric light and sewerage systems, then and in that event, it shall be the duty of said mayor and council to appropriate such sum for the purpose indicated, as may to them seem proper.
(Ga. L. 1913, p. 682, § 6)
Sec. 6-15. - Same—Management, discontinuance of service.
The mayor and council of said city may enact such rules and regulations, either by resolution or ordinance, as to them may seem proper for the management and control of said waterworks, electric light and sewerage systems, and shall have the right and power to punish all persons for violations of the same. Said mayor and council may require payment in advance for the use of water and electric current, or at maturity, in their judgement, and in case payment shall not be made as required, may shut off lights and water from all buildings, places and premises, and may keep the same shut off in their discretion, until all arrears, with interest and other proper charges thereon, shall be fully paid.
(Ga. L. 1913, p. 682, § 7)
Sec. 6-16. - Sewer lines, systems; sewage disposal; construction, operation, extension.
(a)
Agreements authorized: Mayor and council of the City of College Park, said municipal corporation, and its governing body, are hereby authorized and empowered to enter into and perform agreement or agreements with any other municipal corporation or corporations and/or political subdivision or subdivisions of the State of Georgia, for the joint and/or common construction, maintenance, operation and/or use of sewer line or lines and/or sewerage system or systems and/or sewage disposal plant or plants, and/or any extension or extensions and/or any enlargement or enlargements thereof, and/or any addition or additions thereto, either wholly or partly within the corporate limits of the City of College Park or beyond said corporate limits, and/or wholly or partly within the corporate limits of such other municipal corporation or corporations and/or political subdivision or subdivisions, for the joint and/or common disposal and/or treatment of sewage and sewage matter in and from said City of College Park and/or other municipal corporation or corporations and/or political subdivision or subdivisions, or in or from any territorial part or section thereof, under such terms and conditions as to character of construction, maintenance, operation, and/or use, the cost thereof, the division of said cost between the parties thereto, and/or otherwise, as may be provided by said agreement or agreements.
(b)
Bonds authorized: Said mayor and council of the City of College Park, the municipal corporation aforesaid, and its governing body, are hereby authorized and empowered to provide for the payment of its portion of the cost of any joint and/or common construction of any sewer line or lines, sewerage system or systems, and/or sewage disposal plant or plants, and/or of any extension or extensions and/or any enlargements thereof, and/or any addition or additions thereto, constructed under agreement or agreements entered into by said mayor and council of the City of College Park, said municipal corporation, or its governing body, pursuant to the provisions of section one [subsection (a)] of this Act [section], either in whole or in part by the issue of bonds for such purpose under and pursuant to the charter of said City of College Park and the constitution and laws of said state and/or from the general tax and/or other revenues of said city lawfully subject to use therefor.
(c)
Sale, lease of lines, system: Said mayor and council of the City of College Park, the municipal corporation aforesaid, and its governing body, are hereby authorized and empowered to sell or lease its sewer line or lines and/or sewerage system or systems and/or sewage disposal plant or plants, in whole or in part, or any interest therein, to, or otherwise permit its or their use by, other municipal corporation or corporations and/or political subdivision or subdivisions of the State of Georgia, under such terms and conditions as may be determined by said mayor and council or the City of College Park, and/or its governing body.
(Ga. L. 1913, p. 723, §§ 1—3)
Sec. 6-17. - Sewer improvements; assessment; execution; contest of assessment.
(a)
Authority: The mayor and council of said city shall have power and authority at any time, in their discretion, to lay or cause to be laid, sewers down any street or alley in said city which they see fit, and to carry into effect the authority herein granted. The said mayor and council shall have full power and authority to assess the cost of laying said sewer against the real estate abutting on each side of the street or alley down which such sewer is laid in just proportion to the frontage by the foot of said property; provided, corner property shall be assessed as follows:
(1)
Where the sewer abuts property only on the front, the property shall be assessed for the amount of frontage;
(2)
Where the sewer abuts property on both the front and the side, the property shall be assessed for the frontage, and the first one hundred fifty (150) feet of the side shall be exempted from assessment;
(3)
Where the sewer abuts property only on the side the first one hundred fifty (150) feet of the side shall be exempted from assessment; provided further, that whenever property has been exempted from assessment for abutting sewers and such property should thereafter be so improved or the condition thereof changes, or the situation is such, that the owner thereof desires a sewer connection from the sewer for which no assessment against such property was made, the owner shall be required to pay the amount said property would have assessed except for the exemption recognized.
(b)
Assessment constitutes lien: The amount of the assessment on each piece of real estate shall be a lien thereon from the date of the passage of the ordinance providing for the work and making the assessment, which lien shall be superior to all other liens except for taxes. Said mayor and council shall have full power and authority to enforce the collection of any assessment so made for laying sewers, by execution to be issued by the city clerk against the real estate and against the owner thereof, for the amount so assessed, which execution shall be levied and the property advertised and sold in the same manner as tax executions are now levied and the property sold thereunder by said City of College Park.
(c)
Contest of assessment: Should any owner of any property upon which such an execution is levied desire to contest the legality or amount of the assessment, they may do so by filing with the levying officer an affidavit of illegality, and stating therein the cause of such illegality and the amount, if any, admitted to be due, which amount admitted to be due shall be paid the levying officer before the affidavit shall be received, and the affidavit shall be returned to the superior court of the county in which said property is located, to be tried and determined as in other cases of illegality, subject to the penalties for delay in such cases made and provided; and it shall be the duty of the judge of the superior court to give preference to those cases over all other pending cases in said court.
Said mayor and council shall in all cases, in their discretion, have the power to grant a stay of execution for said assessment for such times as they may see fit, and collect the interest on the same at the rate of seven (7) per cent per annum.
(d)
Authority to contract: Said mayor and council shall have the right and power to make the improvements provided for in this section of this Act, by and through its own employees, or enter into a contract or contracts for said improvements with any person, firm or corporation, and in payment thereof may assign and transfer to such person, firm or corporation, bills or executions covering assessments made against the abutting property and the owners thereof for said improvements.
(Ga. L. 1913, p. 682, § 7; Ga. L. 1929, p. 963, § 6; Ga. L. 1951, p. 2797, § 2; Ga. L. 1952, p. 2520, § 1; Ga. L. 1960, p. 2801, § 2)
Cross reference— Authority to levy sanitary taxes, § 8-5.
Sec. 6-18. - Charge for use of sewer system; assessment; execution; contest of assessment.
The mayor and council of the City of College Park shall have full power and authority to provide for the assessment and collection of a charge for the use and maintenance of the sewer system of the City of College Park. The amount of all such assessments may be collected by execution, levy and sale as in the case of assessments for street improvements and the defendant in such an execution shall have the right to file an affidavit, denying that the whole or any part of the amount for which the execution is issued, is due, stating what amounts he admits to be done, which amount so admitted to be due shall be paid or collected before the affidavit is received, and the affidavit so received shall be returned to the Superior Court of Fulton County and there tried and the issue determined as in cases of illegality, subject to all the pains and penalties provided in cases of illegality for delay. All such assessments shall constitute a lien upon the real estate.
(Ga. L. 1956, p. 2922, § 2)
Cross reference— Sanitary tax authorized, § 8-5.
Sec. 6-19. - Sewer connections, taps; regulation, assessment of cost.
The mayor and council of the City of College Park shall have the power and authority to provide for, regulate and enact ordinances with respect to the making of connections with, or the tapping of, the sewer lines or sewerage system of said city; the laying of sewer stubs or laterals from the sewer lines of said city to properties to be served thereby; the character, conditions, specifications and manner of making of such connections or taps, and for laying such sewer stubs or laterals; and also to provide for the assessment, lien, collection and enforcement of the payment of the cost of such connections, taps, sewer stubs and laterals.
(Ga. L. 1927, p. 957, § 4)
