ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Workers' compensation coverage of certain officials.
Certain elected officials of the county shall be covered under the Association of County Commissioners of Georgia Group Self-Insured Workers' Compensation Fund. While performing their elected duties, the board of commissioners, sheriff, probate judge, clerk of court, magistrate judge, state court judge, volunteer firemen and coroner shall be covered under the workers' compensation laws of the state.
(Res. of 11-17-87, § I)
Sec. 2-2. - Office of purchasing agent established.
The office of purchasing agent is hereby established.
(Mo. of 2-19-85)
State Law reference— Public works contracts, O.C.G.A. § 36-10-1 et seq.; bonds for public contractors, O.C.G.A. § 36-82-100 et seq.; competition for public work bids, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-84-1, 36-84-2; local political subdivision purchases through the state, O.C.G.A. § 50-5-100 et seq.; contract for acquisition or lease of property of United States, O.C.G.A. § 50-16-81.
Sec. 2-3. - Standards of conduct for contracts, expenditures.
(a)
There is hereby adopted a standard of conduct which shall govern officers, employees or agents of the county in contracting with and expending P. L.-566, F.P. and R.C. & D. Funds. Such standards of conduct are as follows:
(1)
No official, employee or agent of the county shall solicit or accept gratuities, favors or anything of monetary value from any contractor or potential contractor.
(2)
No contract shall be awarded to any person in whom any official of the county or any member of the official's immediate family has a direct or indirect interest in the recurring profits or contracts of such person.
(b)
Any official, agent or employee of the county who knowingly violates these standards of conduct shall be dismissed from his official capacity.
(Res. of 9-22-76, §§ 1—3)
Sec. 2-4. - County ordinance officer.
The office of county ordinance officer is hereby established. Such officer shall enforce the laws or ordinances relating to litter, nuisances and dangerous dogs and shall have such additional responsibilities as may be assigned to him.
(Mo. of 3-21-89)
Cross reference— Nuisances, § 9-26 et seq.; litter control, § 15-61 et seq.
Sec. 2-5. - Defense of officers and employees against claims, suits.
(a)
It shall be the policy of the county to defend its officers and employees against civil claims and judgments, and to satisfy same either through insurance or otherwise, unless it is determined that the officer or employee wilfully:
(1)
Acts or fails to act because of actual fraud, corruption or actual malice;
(2)
Acts or fails to act as a result of, or at a time when, his own self-indulgence substantially impaired his judgment (as, for example, an officer or employee who causes damage or injury while intoxicated or under influence of drugs while on the job);
(3)
Acts or fails to act, except in emergencies or the existence of extenuating circumstances, directly contrary to instructions from his superiors, or directly contrary to advice of the county attorney; or
(4)
Acts or fails to act in such manner as to constitute a criminal act (as, for example, misappropriation of property or funds).
(b)
The county administrator or his designee shall determine whether or not a claim or suit filed against an officer or employee meets the requirements specified herein for providing a defense for such officer or employee.
(c)
The board of commissioners, pursuant to the standards herein set forth, shall determine whether or not a claim or judgment entered against an officer or employee shall be paid by the county.
(d)
The terms "officer" and "employee" as used herein shall mean:
(1)
Present or past officers or employees who might now or hereafter have claims or judgments filed or entered against them.
(2)
Any and all persons appointed by the board of commissioners to serve on any board, commission or authority, excluding only members of tthe county hospital authority.
(e)
The policies specified herein shall not be applicable unless notice of the claim or suit is given to the county through the county administrator or county attorney prior to the time the claim is settled or civil suit is litigated and judgment is entered, except as to any claim now existing on the effective date of the resolution from which this provision derives.
(f)
This section shall not be interpreted in any way to relieve any insurance company of its obligation under any insurance policy to protect the interests of any insured under the policy, or to reduce or eliminate the rights of any officer or employee of the county against any other party. Further, except as expressly stated herein, this section is not to be interpreted as a waiver of any rights the county has against any party.
(Res. of 8-6-81; Res. of 8-18-81)
Secs. 2-6—2-30. - Reserved.
