ARTICLE II. - OCCUPATION TAXES AND REGULATORY FEES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Charter reference— Occupation taxes and business license fees, § 6.12.

Sec. 22-21. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative fee means a component of any occupation tax which approximates the reasonable cost of handling and processing the occupation tax.
Dominant line means the type of business, within a multiple-line business, from which the greatest amount of income is derived.
Employee means an individual whose work is performed under the direction and supervision of the employer and whose employer withholds FICA, federal income tax or state income tax from such individual's compensation or whose employer issues to such individual for purposes of documenting compensation a form I.R.S. W-2, but not a form I.R.S. 1099.
Location or office means and includes any structure or vehicle where a business, profession or occupation is conducted, but shall not include a temporary or construction worksite which serves a single customer or project or a vehicle used for sales or delivery by a business or practitioner of a profession or occupation which has a location or office.
Occupation tax means a tax levied on persons, partnerships, corporations or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession or business for revenue raising purposes.
Person means and includes sole proprietors, corporations, partnerships, nonprofit associations or any other form of business organization. "Person" shall not include charitable organizations exempt from taxation pursuant to section 22-32.
Practitioner of profession or occupation is one who by state law requires state licensure regulating such profession or occupation. "Practitioner of professions and occupations" shall not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business, if the business pays an occupation tax.
Regulatory fees means payments, whether designated as license fees, permit fees or by another name, which are required by a local government as an exercise of its police power and as a part of or an aid to regulation of an occupation, profession or business. The amount of a regulatory fee shall approximate the reasonable cost of the actual regulatory activity performed by the city. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee. Development impact fees as defined by O.C.G.A. § 36-71-2(8) or other costs or conditions of zoning or land development are not regulatory fees.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 2, 1-9-95; Ord. No. 18-1995, § 2, 12-11-95)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-22. - Tax required for business dealings in the city.
For the year 1995 and succeeding years thereafter, each person engaged in any business, trade, profession or occupation in the city, whether with a location in the city; or in the case of an out-of-state business with no location in the state which exerts substantial efforts within the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, shall pay an occupation tax for such business, trade, profession or occupation. This tax and any applicable registration shall be displayed in a conspicuous location in the place of business, if the taxpayer has a permanent business location in the city. If the taxpayer has no permanent business location in the city, such business tax registration shall be shown to the city clerk, business license clerk or to any police officer of the city upon request.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 1, 1-9-95)
Sec. 22-23. - Purpose and scope of tax.
The occupation tax levied in this article is for revenue purposes only and is not for regulatory purposes, nor is the payment of the tax made a condition precedent to the practice of any such profession, trade or calling. The occupation tax only applies to those businesses and occupations which are covered by the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-5 to 48-13-26. All other applicable businesses and occupations are taxed by the local government pursuant to the pertinent general and/or local law and ordinance.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 10, 1-9-95)
Sec. 22-24. - Tax levied; restrictions.
(a)
An occupation tax shall be levied upon those businesses, practitioners and occupations with one or more locations or offices in the state, corporate limits of the city or upon the applicable out-of-state businesses with no location or office in the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7 based upon the number of employees of the business, trade, profession or occupation.
(b)
Occupation tax computation:
(1)
Number of employees. The tax rate is determined by the number of employees for each business, trade, profession or occupation and is approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges.
(2)
Full-time or part-time employees. For purposes of determining the number of employees of a business or practitioner as computed for a full-time position basis or full-time equivalent basis, for the purposes of the computation an employee who works 40 or more hours weekly shall be considered a full-time employee. The average weekly hours of employees who work less than 40 hours weekly shall be added and such sum shall be divided by 40 to produce full-time position equivalents. In determining employee numbers, if there has been a fluctuation of employees during the calendar year, the average number of employees for the last 12 months shall be used.
In computing the occupation tax due, the average number of employees from the date of notice of occupation tax due of each business for the preceding 12-month period shall be used to determine the amount of tax to be paid.
(c)
If the business has more than one location, each separate location shall be subject to the tax pursuant to section 22-28. No occupation tax shall be required from those real estate brokers, real estate agents or real estate companies whose offices are located outside the jurisdiction of the city and who sell property inside the jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 4, 1-9-95; Ord. No. 9-1995, 4-10-95; Ord. No. 18-1995, § 4, 12-11-95; Ord. No. 7-2019 , § 2(Exh. A), 12-9-19)
Sec. 22-25. - Administrative and regulatory fee structure; occupation tax structure.
(a)
A nonprorated, nonrefundable administrative fee as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges shall be required on all business and occupation tax accounts for the initial startup, renewal or reopening of those accounts.
(b)
A regulatory fee will be imposed as provided under O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9 on the applicable businesses. A regulatory fee shall not include an administrative fee.
(c)
A regulatory fee as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission for persons in following occupations and professions are in the schedule of fees and charges:
(1)
Taxicab and limousine operators/licensees;
(2)
Pawnbrokers;
(3)
Firearm dealers;
(4)
Peddlers;
(5)
Transient merchants;
(6)
Live entertainment establishments;
(7)
Pawnshops and dealers in used or secondhand goods;
(8)
Massage practitioners;
(9)
Reflexologists;
(10)
Tattoo artists.
(d)
Individual background checks for city regulatory licenses. A fee as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges will be imposed for each individual background check performed on any principals or resident or any other legal entity applying for city regulatory licenses. A renewal fee as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges will be imposed for each individual background check performed on any principals or resident or any other legal entity applying for city regulatory licenses.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 3, 1-9-95; Ord. No. 18-1995, § 3, 12-11-95; Ord. No. 5-1998, § II, 2-9-98; Ord. No. 13-2000, § 4, 10-9-00; Ord. No. 22-2008, § 1, 12-8-08; Ord. No. 6-2012, § II, 6-11-12; Ord. No. 11-2012, § 2, 8-13-12; Ord. No. 15-2012, § 6, 10-8-12; Ord. No. 7-2019 , § 2(Exh. A), 12-9-19)
Sec. 22-26. - Paying tax of business with no location in the state.
Registration and assessment of an occupation tax is hereby imposed on those businesses and practitioners of professions with no location or office in the state if the business's largest dollar volume of business in the state is in the city and the business or practitioner:
(1)
Has one or more employees or agents who exert substantial efforts within the jurisdiction of the city for the purpose of soliciting business or serving customers or clients; or
(2)
Owns personal or real property which generates income and which is located within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 5, 1-9-95)
Sec. 22-27. - Each line of business to be identified on business registration.
The business registration of each business operated in the city shall identify the line of business conducted by the registrant. No license holder shall conduct any line of business without first having that line of business registered with the city. Any such line of business shall be noted by the city upon the business registration form which is to be displayed by the business owner.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 6, 1-9-95)
Sec. 22-28. - The number of businesses considered to be operating in the city.
Where a person conducts business at more than one fixed location, each location or place shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of occupation tax.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 7, 1-9-95)
Sec. 22-29. - Tax due from professionals as classified in state law.
Practitioners of professions as described in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1) through (18) shall elect as their entire occupation tax one of the following:
(1)
The occupation tax based on number of employees as set forth in section 22-24; or
(2)
A fee of $400.00 per practitioner who is licensed to provide the service, such tax to be paid at the practitioner's office or location; provided, however, that a practitioner paying according to this subsection shall not be required to provide information to the local government relating to the gross receipts of the business or practitioner. The per-practitioner fee applies to each person in the business who qualifies as a practitioner under the state's regulatory guidelines and framework.
This election is to be made on an annual basis and must be done by October 1 for the following year's taxation.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 8, 1-9-95; Ord. No. 18-1995, § 5, 12-11-95)
Sec. 22-30. - Practitioners exclusively practicing for a government.
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, a municipality or county of the state, instrumentalities of the United States, the state or a municipality or county of the state shall not be required to obtain a license or pay an occupation tax for that practice.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 9, 1-9-95)
Sec. 22-31. - When tax due and payable; penalties; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
Each occupation tax shall be for the calendar year 1995 and succeeding calendar years thereafter unless otherwise specifically provided. Such registration and occupation tax shall be payable January 1 of each year and shall, if not paid by April 1 of each year, be subject to penalties for delinquency as prescribed in this article. On any new profession, trade or calling begun in the city in 1995 or succeeding years thereafter, the registration and tax shall be delinquent if not obtained immediately upon beginning business and a ten percent penalty imposed. The tax registration provided for in this section shall be issued by the city clerk, and if any person whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after such registration or occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the city, any of the kind of profession, trade or calling subject to this article without having first obtained registration, such offender shall, upon conviction by the municipal court, be punished as provided in section 1-13.
(b)
In addition to the remedies set forth in subsection (a) of this section, the marshal may proceed to collect in the same manner as provided by law for tax executions.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 11, 1-9-95)
Sec. 22-32. - Exemption for state and local authorities or nonprofit organizations.
The city shall not levy any occupation tax or administrative fee on any state or local authority or any nonprofit organization. Any "authority" shall be deemed to include all authorities created under any and all provisions of state law, such authorities being duly registered with the department of community affairs (DCA). A "nonprofit organization" shall be any organization which is exempt for federal and state income tax purposes by virtue of a nonprofit status and Internal Revenue Service or similar nonprofit certification. Evidence of this certification shall be furnished, upon request, to the city.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 12, 1-9-95; Ord. No. 18-1995, § 6, 12-11-95)
Sec. 22-33. - Evidence of state registration required if applicable; state registration to be displayed.
(a)
Each person who is licensed by the secretary of state pursuant to title 43 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated (O.C.G.A. § 43-1-1 et seq.) shall provide evidence of proper and current state licensure before the city registration may be issued.
(b)
Each person who is licensed by the state shall post the state license in a conspicuous place in the licensee's place of business and shall keep the license there at all times while the license remains valid.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 13, 1-9-95)
Sec. 22-34. - Evidence of qualification required if applicable.
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualification, certificates of competency or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the issuance of a city business registration, show evidence that such requirements have been met.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 14, 1-9-95)
Sec. 22-35. - Liability of officers and agents; registration required; failure to obtain.
All persons subject to the occupation tax levy pursuant to this article shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for such business as described in this article. Agents, officers or duly authorized officials shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons who fail to obtain registration. Every person commencing business in the city after January 1 of each year shall likewise obtain the registration in this article provided for before commencing business. Any person transacting, or offering to transact in the city, any of the kinds of business, trade, profession or occupation without first having obtained such registration shall be subject to all penalties provided in this article.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 15, 1-9-95)
Sec. 22-36. - When registration and tax due; effect of transacting business without registration and/or when tax delinquent.
(a)
Each such registration shall be for the calendar year in which the registration was obtained unless otherwise specifically provided. There is hereby imposed a penalty upon each business which fails to apply for and obtain an appropriate business registration and pay all tax and fees as provided in this article before February 1 of each year. Every person commencing business in the city after January 1 of each year shall obtain the registration and license fees required before commencing business. Any person transacting or offering to transact in the city any business, trade, profession or occupation without first having obtained said registration shall be subject to the penalties provided in section 1-13. Such penalties shall be in addition to all other penalties, civil and criminal, provided in this article. These penalties may be collected by the remedies provided in this article for collection of the occupation tax, and shall have the same lien and priority as the occupation tax to which the penalty is applied.
(b)
The registration provided for in this article shall be issued by the city clerk, or staff person of the city. If any person whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after such occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the city, any business, trade, profession or occupation without having first obtained such registration, such offender shall be subject to the penalties provided in subsection (a) of this section.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 16, 1-9-95)
Sec. 22-37. - Subpoena and arrest powers of city officers.
The city, its duly designated officers, inspectors or successors, shall be classified as deputy marshal-business inspectors with full subpoena and arrest powers in conjunction with any violation pertaining to this article.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 8, 1-9-95)
Sec. 22-38. - Exemptions from article.
The following businesses are not covered by the provisions of this article, but may be assessed an occupation tax or other type of tax pursuant to the provisions of other general laws of the state or by local law:
(1)
Those businesses regulated by the state public service commission.
(2)
Those electrical service businesses organized under O.C.G.A. § 46-3-1 et seq.
(3)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including agribusiness.
(4)
Cooperative marketing associations governed by O.C.G.A. § 2-10-1105.
(5)
Insurance companies governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8 et seq.
(6)
Motor common carriers governed by O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15.
(7)
Those business governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355: businesses that purchase carload lots of guano, meats, meal, flour, bran, cottonseed or cottonseed meal and hulls.
(8)
Agricultural products and livestock raised in the state governed by O.C.G.A. § 58-5-356.
(9)
Depository financial institutions governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(10)
Facilities operated by a charitable trust governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-55.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 19, 1-9-95)
Sec. 22-39. - Occupation tax inapplicable where prohibited by law or provided for pursuant to other existing law.
An occupation tax shall not apply to the gross receipts of any part of a business where such levy is prohibited or exempted by the laws of the state or of the United States.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 20, 1-9-95)
Sec. 22-40. - Amount of fee or tax due for businesses commencing after July 1.
When any business commences operation on and after July 1 in any tax year, the regulatory fee and the occupation tax for the remaining portion of that year shall be 50 percent of the tax imposed for the entire year. The city shall collect any administrative fee due as a component of an occupation tax charge, without reduction.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 21, 1-9-95)
Sec. 22-41. - Payment of occupation tax by newly established businesses.
In the case of a business subject to occupation tax for a calendar year, which was not conducted for any period of time in the corporate limits of the city in the preceding year, the owner, proprietor, manager or executive officer of the business liable for occupation tax shall estimate the number of employees from the commencing date to the end of the calendar year, and such tax shall be paid.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 22, 1-9-95)
Sec. 22-42. - More than one place or line of business.
Where a business is operated at more than one location and where the business includes more than one line, such business shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for each location and each line. An occupation tax in accordance with the prevailing taxing method and tax rate shall be charged for each location and each line.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 23, 1-9-95)
Sec. 22-43. - Tax registration to be revoked for failure to pay tax, file returns.
Upon the failure of any business to pay such occupation tax or any part thereof before it becomes delinquent, or upon failure to make any of such returns within the time required in this article, or upon failure to make a true return, or upon failure to amend a return to set forth the truth, any business tax registration granted by the city under this article permitting the owner of such business to do business for the current year shall be, ipso facto, revoked. No new business tax registration shall be granted by the city for the operation of a business for which any part of the occupation tax provided for in this section is at that time unpaid, or to an individual who has failed to submit adequate records as requested by the city clerk. In the case of those practitioners where a local government cannot suspend the right of the practitioner to conduct business, the imposition of civil penalties shall be available to the city for any delinquent tax due.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 24, 1-9-95)
Sec. 22-44. - Effect of failure to comply with article provisions; continuing in business after tax registration revocation.
Any persons, their officers, managers, agents or employees, who do business in the city after the registration of this business has been revoked; who are required to make occupation tax returns and fail to make said returns within the time and in the manner provided in this article; who refuse to amend any returns so as to set forth the truth; or who shall make false returns; or refuse to permit an inspection of books in their charge when any representative of the city requests such inspection, during business hours, for the purpose of determining the accuracy of the returns provided for in this article, shall be subject to penalties provided in the Code. In the case of those practitioners where the local government cannot suspend the right of the practitioner to conduct business, the imposition of civil penalties shall be permitted and pursued by the city in the case of delinquent occupation tax. These penalties may consist of either a percentage of the amount due or a flat fee fine. Each day of violation may be considered for separate fines and/or penalties.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 25, 1-9-95)
Sec. 22-45. - Lien taken for delinquent occupation tax.
In addition to the other remedies provided in this article for the collection of the occupation tax levied in this article, the city clerk, upon any tax becoming delinquent and remaining unpaid, shall issue execution for the correct amount of such tax against the persons liable for such tax, which such execution shall bear interest at the rate of 1.5 percent per month from the date when such tax or installment becomes delinquent, and the lien shall cover the property in the city of the person liable for such tax. The lien of such occupation tax shall become fixed on and date from the time when such tax or any installment thereof becomes delinquent. The execution shall be levied by the marshal or other appropriate officer of the city upon the property of the defendant located in such jurisdiction, and sufficient property shall be advertised and sold to pay the amount of such execution, with interest and costs. All other proceedings in relation thereto shall be accomplished by the Code of the city and the laws of the state. The defendant in such execution shall have rights of defense, by affidavit of illegality and otherwise, which are provided by the applicable laws in regard to tax executions. When a nulla bona entry has been entered by proper authority upon an execution issued by the city clerk against any person defaulting on the occupation tax, the person against whom the entry was made shall not be allowed or entitled to have or collect any fees or charges whatsoever for services rendered after the entry of the nulla bona. If, at any time after the entry of nulla bona has been made, the person against whom the execution issues pays the tax in full together with all interest and costs accrued on the tax, the person may collect any fees and charges due him as though he had never defaulted in the payment of the taxes.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 26, 1-9-95; Ord. No. 18-1995, § 7, 12-11-95)
Sec. 22-46. - Amendment, repeal of article.
This article shall be subject to amendment or repeal, in whole or in part, at any time, and no such amendment or repeal shall be construed to deny the right of the commission to assess and collect any of the taxes or other charges prescribed. Such amendment may increase or lower the amounts and tax rates of any occupation and may change the classification thereof. The payment of any occupation tax provided for shall not be construed as prohibiting the levy or collection by the city of additional occupation taxes upon the same person, property or business.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 27, 1-9-95)
Sec. 22-47. - Applications of article to prior ordinance.
This article does not repeal or affect the force of any part of any ordinance heretofore passed where taxes levied under such prior ordinance have not been paid in full. So much and such parts of ordinances heretofore and hereinafter passed as provided for the issuing and enforcing of execution for any tax or assessment required by such ordinances, or that imposed fines or penalties for the nonpayment of such tax, or for failure to pay regulatory fees provided for in said ordinance or ordinances, or failure to comply with any other provisions hereof, shall continue and remain in force until such tax, regulatory fee or assessment shall be fully paid.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 28, 1-9-95)
Sec. 22-48. - Enforcement of article.
It is hereby made the duty of the city clerk and police department to see that the provisions of this article relating to occupation taxes are observed; and to summon all violators of the same to appear before the municipal court. It is hereby made the further duty of the city clerk and police department, and their assistants, to inspect all registrations issued by the city as often as may be necessary to determine whether the registration is proper for the business sought to be transacted.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 29, 1-9-95)
Sec. 22-49. - Article to remain in full force and effect until changed by commission.
This article shall remain in full force and effect until changed by amendment adopted by the commission. All provisions hereto relating to any form of tax levied in this article shall remain in full force and effect until such taxes have been paid in full.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 30, 1-9-95)
Sec. 22-50. - Requirement of public hearing before tax increase.
After January 1, 1996, the commission shall conduct at least one public hearing before adopting any ordinance or resolution which will increase the rate of occupation tax as set forth in this article and pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-6(c).
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 31, 1-9-95)
Sec. 22-51. - Option to establish exemption or reduction in occupation tax.
The commission may be subsequent ordinance or resolution provide for an exemption or reduction in occupation tax to one or more types of businesses, practitioners of occupations or professions as part of a plan for economic development, or attracting or encouraging newly created types of businesses, or practitioners of newly created occupations or professions. Such exemptions or selected reductions in occupation tax shall not be arbitrary or capricious, and the reasons shall be only for newly created businesses as set forth in the minutes of the commission.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 32, 1-9-95)
Sec. 22-52. - Penalty for article violation.
Any person violating any provisions of this article shall, upon conviction before the municipal court, be fined in an amount as contained in section 1-13, subject to the provisions of section 22-31 or other penalty provision in this article.
(Ord. No. 1-1995, § 17, 1-9-95)
Sec. 22-53. - Penalty; suspension or revocation.
(a)
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in section 1-13 of the Cedartown Code of Ordinances.
(b)
In addition to the general penalties provided in section 1-13 of the Cedartown Code of Ordinances, the Cedartown City Commission shall have the right, after notice, and hearing to take action against any business license or occupational tax certificate issued pursuant to this article.
(Ord. No. 12,2010, § 1, 7-12-10)
Sec. 22-54. - Grounds for suspension or revocation.
Grounds for the revocation and/or suspension of any business license or occupational tax certificate issued by the city shall include, but not be limited to:
(1)
Violation of any provision of this chapter;
(2)
Violation of any provision of the Cedartown Code of Ordinances;
(3)
Violation of any laws, ordinances, statutes, regulations of the city pertaining to the carrying on of such businesses as would affect the health, safety, welfare, and morals of the public or the city;
(4)
Violation of a law of the United States or the state which affects the public's health, welfare, safety and morals of the citizens of the city;
(5)
Fraudulent business practices;
(6)
A misstatement or misrepresentation of any kind contained in the business application and any supporting documents submitted to the city in connection with a request for a business license and/or occupational tax certificate, or any other documents authorizing the conduct of a business within the city limits of the City of Cedartown;
(7)
A nuisance caused by the operation of the business. For purposes of this Code section, the term "nuisance" shall be defined pursuant to Georgia statutes and appellate case authority.
(Ord. No. 12,2010, § 1, 7-12-10)
Sec. 22-55. - Investigation; hearing.
(a)
Where it is reported to any city official that the holder of a city business license or occupational tax certificate is engaged in any activity which could form a basis for the suspension or revocation of said business license or certificate under this chapter, the building inspector shall conduct a preliminary investigation in order to determine whether there is a basis for such reports. If the building inspector's preliminary investigation reveals that there may be a basis for a revocation or suspension of the license or certificate, the holder will be notified to appear before the city manager for a hearing.
(b)
If city officials believe that the licensee's alleged violations constitute or otherwise pose an immediate threat to the health, safety, or welfare of any citizen, then the city manager may schedule a preliminary hearing to address these concerns. No suspension or revocation shall take effect until written notice of the alleged violation has been provided to the licensee no less than 48 hours prior to the time of the preliminary hearing. If the evidence before the city manager at such hearing demonstrates an imminent threat or danger to the health, safety, or welfare of any citizen, and further that such violations are likely to continue, then it shall be grounds for an immediate temporary suspension of the license or certificate pending a full administrative hearing on the issue.
(c)
All administrative hearings with respect to alleged violations of this article and possible suspension or revocation of a business license or occupational tax certificate shall be held no later than ten business days from the date of notice of said violations. If the city manager has held a preliminary hearing as set forth in subsection (b) above, then the administrative hearing shall be no less than ten business days from the date of said preliminary hearing.
(d)
At the time set for said administrative hearing, the city manager shall receive all relevant testimony and evidence from city personnel, interested parties, and from the licensee. The city manager shall make findings of fact as to whether or not a violation of the Code has occurred and notify the licensee, in writing, of its findings and decision within five business days of the hearing.
(e)
Upon finding that a violation justifying a suspension or revocation of the license or certificate has occurred, the city manager shall have the authority to take such action as it may deem appropriate with regard to the license or certificate, including, but not limited to, warnings, suspension, revocation, probation, or the imposition of other conditions designed to deter future violations of the Code.
(f)
Any license holder aggrieved by the decision of the city manager shall have the right to appeal in writing to the city commission within ten (10) days of the date of the manager's decision. The city commission shall review the evidence submitted to the city manager and issue a decision on the appeal within ten days. The decision of the city commission shall be final.
(Ord. No. 12,2010, § 1, 7-12-10)
