ARTICLE VIII. - MASSAGE PRACTITIONERS[8]

Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
State Law reference— Deceptive trade practices with respect to health spas, O.C.G.A. § 10-1-392 et seq.; Georgia Physical Therapy Act, O.C.G.A. § 43-33-1 et seq.; levy of occupational tax on practitioners of massage and physiotherapy only at place of principal office, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5; giving massages in places used for lewdness, prostitution, assignation or masturbation for hire, O.C.G.A. § 16-6-17; establishment, maintenance or use of building, structure or place for unlawful sexual purposes, O.C.G.A. § 41-3-1.

Sec. 22-201. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Apprenticeship means a regulated program taught by a certified massage practitioner. This program must be at least two years in length and conducted within a state that has a regulatory body which established state apprentice programs and standards.
License means the authority to perform services under the terms of this article, which is hereby deemed to be a privilege license granted at the sole discretion of the city commission with no vested right of the licensee.
Licensee means any person holding a license granted under this article.
Massage means the manipulation of the human body's soft tissue through manual, mechanical or electrical means or similar treatment to the human trunk or limbs.
Massage practitioner includes, but is not limited to, masseurs, masseuses and massage therapists and includes any person who manipulates the body's soft tissue through manual, mechanical or electrical massage or similar treatment to the human trunk or limbs. However, it shall not include any person who diagnoses or performs a service, who holds an unlimited license to practice medicine, surgery, chiropractic or podiatry or any employee or athletic trainer, technical or physical therapist who acts under the prescription or supervision of a medical doctor, chiropractor or podiatrist.
(Ord. No. 5-1993, § 3(13-301), 4-12-93)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-202. - Violations; penalty.
(a)
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable pursuant to the provisions of section 1-13.
(b)
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article subjects any other license under this article to revocation or suspension.
(c)
Every violation of the terms of this article shall be deemed a nuisance and a continuing nuisance for each day so long as such violation may be continued, and such violation may be subject to abatement as a nuisance as provided by the laws of the state.
(d)
The violation of any provision of this article may be enjoined by proceedings in courts of competent jurisdiction in this state. Such actions may be maintained notwithstanding that other adequate remedies at law exist.
(e)
Each of the above is cumulative and is not to be construed as curtailing the right of any person, resident, property owner or other persons from bringing any proper action of enforcement of this article.
(Ord. No. 5-1993, § 3(13-309), 4-12-93)
Sec. 22-203. - License required; application.
Any person desiring to engage in the business, trade or profession of a masseur shall, before engaging in such business, trade, or profession, file an application for a license addressed to the city commission. Such application shall be in writing and shall set forth the following:
(1)
The applicant must be fingerprinted by the police department and a character reference run on the applicant and all persons to operate as massage practitioner and all employees, supervisors or working owners who have interest in the operation. Fingerprints must be made not more than 15 days prior to issuance of the license to allow for investigation of the applicant and employees.
(2)
Name and address of the applicant.
(3)
Name and address and phone number of any person having previously employed the applicant during the previous two years.
(4)
If the applicant is a corporation, the addresses of the corporation as well as the names and addresses of agents and employees of the corporation including all persons who will conduct the proposed massage business for a period of two years immediately prior to the filing of the application.
(5)
Qualifications must be plainly stated, together with the required exhibits annexed to the application.
(6)
A certificate certifying as to the good moral character of the applicant signed by three currently qualified and registered voters of good moral character of the county. Such letters shall not be required for annual renewals of licenses issued under this article.
(7)
If the applicant is a corporation, the corporation shall also submit with the application a certificate, executed as described in subsection (6) above, certifying as to the good moral character of the employees and agents of the corporation who are actually engaged in the business for the corporation.
(8)
The applicant shall be required to sign an acknowledgment that he has received, read and understands the provisions of this article prior to issuance of any license.
(Ord. No. 5-1993, § 3(13-302), 4-12-93; Ord. No. 13-2000, § 1, 10-9-00)
Sec. 22-204. - Regulatory fee.
The massage practitioner regulatory fee shall be as set forth in section 22-25(c) in this Code. Said fee shall be nonrefundable.
(Ord. No. 5-1993, § 2(13-302.9), 4-12-93; Ord. No. 13-2000, § 1, 10-9-00)
Sec. 22-205. - Investigation.
The police department shall investigate the criminal record, background and credentials reference check of the applicant and each employee of the applicant prior to the issuance of any license under this article.
(Ord. No. 5-1993, § 3(13-303), 4-12-93)
Sec. 22-206. - Qualifications of applicant.
(a)
An applicant under this article, prior to making application for a license, must have the following qualifications:
(1)
The applicant must be of good moral character, and if the applicant is a corporation, the corporation must be created in or licensed to do business in the state by the laws of the state. As to such corporate applicant, all employees or agents of the corporation who shall conduct the massage business shall likewise be of good moral character.
(2)
The applicant must furnish a current health certificate (within 90 days of exam) from a medical doctor which shall accompany such application as an exhibit. Should the applicant be a corporation, it shall furnish two certificates for all of its agents or employees actually engaged and working under such license for each year of operation.
(3)
The applicant must furnish a photostatic copy of a diploma of graduation from a school accredited by the state board of education and meeting American Massage Therapy Association (AMTA) accreditation or equivalent criteria as an exhibit to such application. The diploma must be representative of the fact that the applicant attended a course of study of not less than six months wherein such course of study consisted of a curriculum of physical culture, massage, hydrotherapy, electrotherapy, hygiene, health service management and other such subjects. If the applicant is a corporation, the employee or agent of the corporation who is to be the manager of the establishment must furnish a photostatic copy of the diploma of graduation as set forth in this subsection.
(4)
If the applicant should not have such diploma, the applicant must have had an apprenticeship and practical experience for a period of not less than two years in a regularly licensed massage or physical culture studio in which the applicant has received training and experience in physical culture, massage, hydrotherapy, electrotherapy, hygiene, health service management and other such subjects. If the applicant is a corporation and if the agent or employee who is to be the manager of the establishment does not have such diploma, then such manager must have had the apprenticeship and practical experience as set forth in this subsection.
(b)
The applicant, or the manager if the applicant is a corporation, must furnish with the application his affidavit of previous employment together with an affidavit of the persons under whom such apprenticeship or practical experience was obtained, specifying that the applicant has satisfied the above requirements.
(Ord. No. 5-1993, § 3(13-304), 4-12-93)
Sec. 22-207. - License issuance; fee.
(a)
If an application under this article is submitted in proper form and is approved by the city commission, the business license department or officer is authorized to issue a business license to such applicant upon the payment of a regulatory fee as provided for in section 22-25(c) of this Code.
(b)
The license shall be prominently displayed in the licensee's place of business so as to be capable of being viewed by clients and customers.
(Ord. No. 5-1993, § 3(13-303), 4-12-93; Ord. No. 13-2000, § 1, 10-9-00)
Sec. 22-208. - Information concerning employees to be filed with business license department.
It shall be the duty of all persons holding a license under this article to file with the business license department the names of all employees, their home addresses, home telephone numbers and places of employment. Changes in the list of employees with the names of new employees must be filed with the business license department or officer within ten days from the date of any such change. All new employees shall meet the criteria for holding a license.
(Ord. No. 5-1993, § 3(13-304), 4-12-93)
Sec. 22-209. - Hours and place of operation.
(a)
No massage shall be performed by any massage practitioner or any of his employees as a part of the conduct of the business in the home of any client or in any place except the place of business of a licensee under this article, unless a written memorandum is first made in a log or record book kept at the place of business for the purpose of recording consecutively the date, time of treatment, place of treatment, name and address of the person to receive treatment, type of treatment to be received, name of the person to render treatment and the time the practitioner leaves to render treatment. The practitioner shall record the time each treatment was completed immediately upon return to the place of business.
(b)
No business of a massage practitioner shall be located upon any realty unless it is zoned a commercial classification under the zoning ordinance of the city, chapter 94 of this Code.
(c)
No business of a massage practitioner shall be engaged in and no place of business shall be open for business except within and between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., Eastern Standard time or daylight savings time.
(Ord. No. 5-1993, § 3(13-305), 4-12-93)
Sec. 22-210. - Prohibited contact.
No massage practitioner nor any of his employees shall manipulate, fondle or handle the sexual organs of any person.
(Ord. No. 5-1993, § 3(13-306), 4-12-93)
Sec. 22-211. - Right of inspection.
The city, through its employees of the police department, license department or code enforcement division shall have the right to inspect the place of business and records of any licensee under this article, during the hours authorized under this article for conduct of business, to ensure compliance with this article.
(Ord. No. 5-1993, § 3(13-307), 4-12-93)
Sec. 22-212. - Restrictions on license transfers.
No license under this article shall be transferable.
(Ord. No. 5-1993, § 3(13-308), 4-12-93)
Secs. 22-213—22-250. - Reserved.
