Chapter 37 - ELECTIONS

Sec. 37-1. - Compliance with law.
All municipal primaries, elections, and referenda shall be held in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq., known as the "Georgia Election Code," and as said chapter may be amended from time to time in the future and in accordance with the provisions of the charter of this city and the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 7-2001, § 1, 2-12-01)
Sec. 37-2. - Polling place.
All elections held according to law for federal, state, or municipal offices, and to be held under the provisions of this chapter, shall be conducted at the Goodyear Civic Center on Prior Street in the City of Cedartown. This location shall be maintained and used as a polling place until changed as provided by law.
(Ord. No. 7-2001, § 1, 2-12-01)
Sec. 37-3. - Absentee ballots.
In all elections in accordance with this chapter, absentee ballots shall be used and the provisions governing absentee voting shall be in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq., known as the "Georgia Election Code," and as may be amended from time to time in the future.
(Ord. No. 7-2001, § 1, 2-12-01)
Sec. 37-4. - Qualification fee of candidates of city commission.
(a)
Each candidate seeking election as a city commissioner in any special or general election, shall pay a qualification fee of three percent of the annual salary of the office of the city commissioner at the time of qualification. Such fee shall be paid to the municipal elections superintendent at the time a candidate files his notice of candidacy.
(b)
A candidate who is not able to pay a qualification fee may file a pauper's affidavit instead of paying such qualification fee. Said pauper's affidavit shall affirm the candidates poverty and his resulting inability to pay a qualifying fee otherwise required hereunder. To be acceptable under this section, a pauper's affidavit must show on its face that the candidate has neither the assets nor the income to pay the qualifying fee otherwise required.
(Ord. No. 7-2001, § 1, 2-12-01)
