DIVISION 14. - SPECIAL USE CLASSIFICATION

Sec. 94-375. - Special use classification.
(a)
A "special use classification" shall be defined as a district which creates, adjacent to abutting residential, commercial or industrial zones, a certain new classification of property based upon a special use of such property, or special stipulations concerning the use of the property, since the property, because of its unique character, location or use, does not fit within the general use requirements by district, as contained in article V of this chapter. This use classification is based upon either special conditions for the use of the property, certain restrictions that will be applied to the use or other similar circumstances so that the property thereafter will be designated with the special use. As an example, an R-1 use could have a further classification of SU appended to it in that the residential single-family dwellings to be built upon the property shall be based upon lots with either additional setback requirements as those contained in the subdivision regulations, square footage use restriction or other similar restrictions that may be placed by the developer of the property; or special uses placed upon the property by the city in connection with any review and approval of zoning of the property.
(b)
The use to be permitted by this designation either as a special district under this article, or as a designation within any other residential, commercial or industrial district, shall consider the following uses and matters affecting the property:
(1)
The use and zoning of surrounding property.
(2)
The need for a special buffer, special circumstances with regard to the zoning classification, or other special use requirements of the property based upon location, terrain, size, topography or similar criteria.
(3)
The overall zoning development plan of the city as it relates to the geographical district within one square mile radius of the location of the property.
(4)
Environmental conditions, uses, concerns or similar requirements.
(5)
The submitted development plan, or proposed building plan of the property.
(6)
Other criteria as may be established by the planning commission or building inspector of the city in a review of any requested zoning.
Secs. 94-376—94-384. - Reserved.
