ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 70-1. - Obstructions; removal.
No person shall place any trash, lumber, wood, glass, boxes, kegs, or other obstructions, in any public street, lane, alley or way in the city or on any sidewalk. Any person who shall place any obstruction aforesaid, failing or refusing to remove the obstruction within six hours after being notified by the chief of police or any member of the police force, or having removed the obstruction, shall replace the same or similar obstructions, shall on conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-13.
(Code 1969, § 20-1)
Sec. 70-2. - Encroachments; removal.
All persons who have encroached or who may hereafter encroach on any of the streets and alleys of the city by any building, porch, steps, cellar door, railings, palings, platform or enclosure of any kind, shall remove the encroachment within one month.
(Code 1969, § 20-2)
Sec. 70-3. - Planting trees, shrubs prohibited in certain areas.
For the purpose of promoting safety and sanitation and for the protection of persons, pedestrians and vehicles using the avenues, alleys and lanes of the city, it shall be unlawful for any person to plant, or cause or allow to be planted, in, on or along any street, avenue, alley or lane, right-of-way in the city, or in, on or along any grassplot separating any paved sidewalk or walkway and curb, any tree, shrub, or plant of any kind whatever; however, the words "tree," "shrub" and "plant" as used in this section shall not be construed to mean any variety of grass that may be cut with a lawnmower or similar machine. Any tree, shrub or other plant planted in violation of this section may be destroyed by the city or its authorized agents or employees at any time, without payment of any sum whatever to the person having any claim to such tree, shrub or other plant prohibited by this section.
(Code 1969, § 20-6)
Sec. 70-4. - Injury to pavement.
It shall be unlawful for any person to cut, burn gasoline, oil, leaves, trash or otherwise injure in any manner whatsoever any asphalt pavement in the streets of the city without the consent of the city manager.
(Code 1969, § 20-7)
Sec. 70-5. - Certain types of fencing prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to build, erect or maintain any barbed wire, electric or concertina fencing within any residential area, public establishment or along or adjacent to any sidewalk or street in the city. Any commercial or industrial establishment requesting a variance or waiver from the strict enforcement of this section may obtain such a waiver upon written request and approval of the city commission, after notice and hearing to the public. Anyone having such type of fencing shall remove same within 24 hours of notice thereof by the city. Upon failure to do so, each day that the fence continues to be maintained in the city shall be considered a separate violation of this section for which a party may be fined, upon conviction, pursuant to the provisions of section 1-13. After notice and opportunity for hearing, the chief of police, or other agent or employee of the city, shall have the right to remove or destroy such type of fencing at the expense of the owner thereof.
(Code 1969, § 20-4)
Sec. 70-6. - Gasoline on asphalt paving; spilling, burning prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to pour or spill gasoline or oil on any street paved with asphalt in the city.
(Code 1969, § 20-8)
Sec. 70-7. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 1-2016, § 1, adopted Jan. 11, 2016, repealed § 70-7, which pertained to use of city equipment, and derived from Code 1969, § 20-9.
Sec. 70-8. - Streets in subdivisions.
(a)
The streets, lanes and avenues of all subdivisions in the city shall be tied to existing streets, and on the plats and plans of such subdivisions shall be shown accurate angles and measurements of such streets, lanes and avenues. All such plats and plans shall be submitted to and approved by the planning commission and approved by and accepted by the city commission, before same shall become official, and before any building lots are sold in such subdivisions. No offsets in streets, lanes or avenues shall be permitted unless approved by the city engineer and approved and accepted by the city commission; and where a continuation of a present street, land or avenue is involved, its width and cross section shall remain constant.
(b)
All persons, whether owners or purchasers of lots in such subdivisions, shall be bound by the provisions of this section.
(Code 1969, § 20-13)
Sec. 70-9. - Driveway access work.
All traverse driveway piping, bridges or other access from any street to a private lot of any person shall be accomplished by such person, with the supervision and approval of the building inspector or his designee of the city. Any applicable costs shall be paid in advance or upon deposit as might be required, for the completion of any access road, drive or other work to any private property.
(Code 1969, § 20-25)
Sec. 70-10. - Disturbing surface or subsurface of streets prohibited.
No person shall dig or excavate any street within the city, install anything under the surface of any street, or do any work which requires the removal or breaking of the surface or subsurface of any street except as specifically authorized by the city manager.
(Code 1969, § 20-26)
Sec. 70-11. - Street cuts; replacement by city.
(a)
When any excavation or opening is made in any street or sidewalk of the city for the purpose of making water connections or for any other purpose, it shall be the duty of the person making such excavation or opening to immediately fill in and replace any paving disarranged or taken up, so as to leave the street or sidewalk in as good condition as it was in before the excavation or opening was made.
(b)
Upon failure of such person to replace such pavement within such time and in accordance with specifications of the city, the cost of replacing such removed pavement shall be charged to and collected from the person removing or causing such pavement to be removed. The cost to the city of replacing such removed pavement, together with the cost of removing any inferior pavement constructed by such person that does not conform to such specifications shall become a lien against the real estate abutting on the street, lane, alley, driveway or sidewalk from which the pavement was removed and also against the owner of such real estate. Such lien shall be enforced by execution issued by the secretary of the city commission, which execution shall bear teste in the name of the chairman of the city commission, and shall bear interest at the maximum rate authorized by law.
(Code 1969, § 20-27)
Sec. 70-12. - Maintenance of railroad crossings, common areas, access points.
It shall be the duty of any railroad with trackage which traverses any parts of the city, and specifically at any point where it crosses a city alley, street or other right-of-way, to maintain such crossings in good order and repair. Further, all bridges, abutments or other similar crossings shall likewise be maintained by any railroad company in a good condition and state of repair.
(Code 1969, § 20-28)
Sec. 70-13. - Damage to city streets, sidewalks, and improvements by contractors; reimbursement to city.
(a)
Any contractor, sub-contractor, or any person or firm engaged in the construction or renovation of any building, structure, or any other improvement on real property located with the corporate limits of the City of Cedartown shall be responsible for any damages caused to city streets, sidewalks, or other municipal improvements by said construction or renovation. The city shall have the right to demand reimbursement for any costs it must incur to repair any damage done to city streets, sidewalks, or other improvements by contractors or builders as described in this Code section, including, but not limited to, materials, labor, consulting fees, engineering fees, or any other costs associated with making said repairs.
(b)
Upon completion of the repairs necessitated by damage described in subparagraph (a) of this Code section, the city shall demand reimbursement, from the contractor, builder, or other person or firm who caused the damage, and payment shall be made within 30 days of the date of demand. If payment is not made within this time period, then the city shall have the right to withdraw any permits, licenses, or any other documents evidencing permission to the contractor by the city to continue with said construction or improvements, and shall withhold the issuance or renewal of any further licenses until such time as the contractor or builder makes payment in accordance with the city's demand.
(Ord. No. 2-1999, § 1, 3-8-99)
Sec. 70-14. - Horses on city streets.
Any person riding a horse on any city street, alley, sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare shall adhere to the following regulations:
(1)
All riders and horses must wear reflective vests or other reflective gear so that they may be easily seen by drivers in their vehicles on city streets, after dusk.
(2)
No rider shall ride any horse so as to create an impediment to the normal flow of vehicular traffic. All riders shall ride horses, to the extent possible, on the far right-hand side of the city street or roadway, in the same direction as the normal traffic flow. No rider shall ride any horse against or in the opposite direction of the flow of traffic or on any city sidewalk.
(3)
Any rider who allows any horse excrement to be deposited onto any street surface, gutter, alley, driveway, curb, or sidewalk during any city sponsored/sanctioned event and/or any other activity shall immediately remove and properly dispose of same.
(4)
All persons who fail to abide by this section shall be punished as provided in Section 1-13 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 11-2011, § 1, 8-8-11; Ord. No. 15-2011, § 1, 12-12-11)
Secs. 70-15—70-30. - Reserved.
