ARTICLE IV. - SEWER USE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 82-61. - Definitions.
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used in this article shall be as follows:
Biochemical oxygen demand and BOD mean the quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under EPA approval laboratory procedure in five days at 20 degrees Celsius, expressed in milligrams per liter.
Building drain means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the walls of buildings and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
Building sewer means the extension from the building drain to the public sewer or other place of disposal, also called house connection or service connection.
Combined sewer means a sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
Customer means every person who is responsible for contracting (expressly or implicitly) with the city in obtaining, having, or using sewer connections with, or sewer tap to, the sewer system of the city and in obtaining, having, or using water and other related services furnished by the city for the purpose of disposing of wastewater and sewage through said system. The terms shall include the occupants of each unit of a multiple-family dwelling unit building as a separate and distinct customer.
Easement means an acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
Floatable oil means oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable oil if it is properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection system.
Flush toilet means the common sanitary flush commode in general use for the disposal of human excrement.
Garbage means the animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
Health officer means the director of the county board of health or other person designated by the board of commissioners and their duly appointed assistants.
Industrial wastes means the wastewater from industrial processes as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
Infiltration/inflow means groundwater and surface water which leaks into the sewers through cracked pipes, joints, manholes, or other openings.
Municipality means the governmental body having jurisdiction over the maintenance and operations of the water and sanitary sewer system within the city and adjacent areas of county.
Natural outlet means any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface water or groundwater.
Normal wastewater means wastewater discharged into the sanitary sewers in which the average concentration of total suspended solids is not more than 240 milligrams per liter, BOD 5 is not more than 240 milligrams per liter, total phosphorous is not more than 15 milligrams per liter, total Kjeldahl nitrogen is not more than 20 milligrams per liter, and the total flow is not more than 25,000 gallons per day.
pH means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration.
Pit privy means shored, vertical pit in the earth completely covered with a flytight slab on which is securely located a flytight riser covered with hinged flytight seat and lid.
Properly shredded garbage means the wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
Public sewer means a common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public utility.
Sanitary sewer means a sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions together with minor quantities of groundwater, stormwater and surface water that are not intentionally admitted.
Septic tank means a subsurface impervious tank designed to temporarily retain sewage or similar waterborne wastes together with:
(1)
A sewer line constructed with solid pipe, with the joints sealed, connecting the impervious tank with a plumbing stub out; and
(2)
A subsurface system of trenches, piping and other materials constructed to drain the clarified discharge from the tank and distribute it underground to be absorbed or filtered.
Sewage means the spent water of a community. The equivalent term is "wastewater."
Sewage works and sewerage mean all facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of sewage.
Sewer means a pipe or conduit that carries wastewater.
Slug means any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceed for any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection system and/or performance of the wastewater facilities.
Storm drain and storm sewer mean a drain or sewer for conveying water, groundwater, subsurface water, or unpolluted water from any source and excluding sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
Superintendent means the utilities superintendent or his authorized deputy, agent or representative.
Suspended soils means total suspended matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and that is removable by laboratory filtration as approved by EPA and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
Unpolluted water means water of quality equal to or better than the effluent criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
Wastewater means the spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
Wastewater facilities means the structures, equipment and processes required to collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent.
Watercourse means a natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, §§ 2.1—2.35, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-62. - Right of entry of inspectors.
(a)
Duly authorized employees or agents of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing pertinent to discharge to the public sewer system in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(b)
While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in this section, the authorized employees or agent of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the employees except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required by this article.
(c)
Duly authorized employees or agents of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds an easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, §§ 8.1—8.3, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-63. - Compliance with state and federal regulations.
The provisions of this article shall not be deemed as alleviating compliance with applicable state and federal regulations. Specific user charge and industrial cost recovery requirements, promulgated pursuant to Public Law 92-500, shall be considered as a part of this article upon official adoption. All nonresidential users will be required to comply with pretreatment standards as outlined in CFR title 40, part 403; or such applicable state and/or federal regulations hereafter adopted.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 9.1, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-64. - Conflicts with requirements of other jurisdictions.
If a wastewater discharge is made to a publicly owned treatment works (POTW) under the jurisdiction of an approved sewer use ordinance for another governing authority, the more restrictive requirement shall prevail.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, §§ 12.1—12.3, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-65. - Service charges.
It is hereby determined necessary to fix and collect sewer service charges from customers. Such charges shall be as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges. The revenue received shall be used for operation, maintenance, debt retirement and other authorized expenses.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 10.1, 8-28-96; Ord. No. 7-2019 , § 2(Exh. A), 12-9-19)
Sec. 82-66. - Authority to disconnect service.
(a)
The city reserves the right to terminate water and wastewater disposal services and disconnect a customer from the system when:
(1)
Acids or chemicals damaging to sewer lines or treatment process are released into the public sewer causing rapid deterioration of these structures or interfering with proper conveyance and treatment of wastewater;
(2)
A governmental agency informs the city that the effluent from the wastewater treatment plant is no longer of a quality permitted for discharge into a watercourse, and it is found that the customer is discharging wastewater into the public sewer that cannot be sufficiently treated or requires treatment that is not provided by the city as normal domestic treatment; or
(3)
The customer:
a.
Discharges industrial waste or wastewater that is in violation of the permit issued by the approving authority;
b.
Discharges wastewater at an uncontrolled, variable rate in sufficient quantity to cause an imbalance in the wastewater treatment process;
c.
Fails to pay monthly bills for sanitary sewer service when due;
d.
Repeats a discharge of prohibited wastes into public sewers.
(b)
Whenever a customer has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this article or an order or permit, water service to the customer may be severed and service will only recommence at the user's expense, after it has satisfactorily demonstrated its ability to comply.
(c)
Notification processes for discontinuance of service are presented in section 82-164.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, §§ 11.1, 11.2, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-67. - Damaging or tampering with wastewater facilities.
No person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is a part of the wastewater facilities. Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest and the penalties set forth in this Code.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 7.1, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-68. - Use of public sewers required.
(a)
All premises shall be provided, by the owner thereof, with at least one toilet. All toilets shall be kept clean and in a sanitary working condition.
(b)
No person shall dispose of human excrement except in a toilet.
(c)
It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any wastewater or other polluted water, including septic tank effluent or cesspool overflow to any open drain or well-penetrating, water-bearing formation, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this article.
(d)
Except as provided in this article, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
(e)
The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the city jurisdiction and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city is hereby required at the owner's expense to install suitable toilet facilities herein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this article, within 30 days after date of official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within 100 feet of the property line.
(f)
All sinks, dishwashing machines, lavatories, basins, shower baths, bathtubs, laundry tubs, washing machines and similar plumbing fixtures or appliances shall be connected to the public sewer; provided, that where no sewer is available, septic tanks or other private subsurface disposal facilities approved by the health officer may be used.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, §§ 3.1—3.6, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-69. - Flush toilets.
Every flush toilet shall be connected to a public sewer where available or to a septic tank. Flush toilets shall be provided at all times with sufficient running water under pressure to flush the toilet clean after each use.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 4.9, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-70. - Violations; penalty.
(a)
Penalty; liability for damages. Violations of this article shall be punishable as provided in section 1-13. Each day of continuing violation shall be considered a separate offense. Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city by reason of violation.
(b)
Notice to correct violation. In the event of violation of this article, the health officer or authorized employees may verbally instruct the owner as to the necessary corrective action. If the owner fails to carry out verbal instructions in a timely manner or if a serious violation or hazard to public health exists, the health officer or the city may issue to the owner a written order stating the nature of the violation, the corrective action and the time limit for completing the corrective action. The record of the mailing of the notice or order shall be prima facie evidence thereof, and failure of the owner to receive the notice or order shall in no way affect the validity of any proceedings conducted pursuant to this article.
(c)
Failure to comply with order. Failure to comply with any written order duly issued by the health officer or the city pursuant to this article will constitute a separate misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punishable as provided in section 1-13. Compliance with this article is required notwithstanding the fact that a written order might not have been issued.
(d)
Injunction. The violation of any provisions of this article may be enjoined by instituting appropriate proceedings for injunction in the courts of competent jurisdiction in this state. Any public nuisance which is injurious to the public health, safety or comfort may be abated by instituting appropriate proceedings for injunction in the court of competent jurisdiction in this state. Such actions may be maintained notwithstanding the fact that such violation also constitutes a crime, and notwithstanding that other adequate remedies at law exist. Such actions may be instituted in the name of the city.
(e)
Demand for hearing.
(1)
Upon receipt of a notice of a violation of this article or order of the city requiring an act or thing to be done or to cease, the owner of any premises then in question may, in writing, demand a hearing before the city to present the evidence challenging the validity of the city order. The owner may appear in person, by agent or by attorney. The demand must be filed with the city clerk and be made within five days from the receipt of the order being challenged. Upon receipt of a demand for a hearing, the city will set a date, time and place for the hearing, to be not less than 21 days from the date of filing of the demand.
(2)
The hearing provided for in this section shall apply to any customer's complaint, dispute or challenge of the city's rules, regulations, resolutions, ordinances or policies. Upon a customer's written complaint filed with the clerk, the city shall set a hearing as provided in this section or at a time agreed upon by the parties.
(f)
Evidence at hearings. Evidence before the city at any hearing conducted pursuant to subsection (e) of this section shall be admitted in accordance with the rules of evidence of the superior courts of the state; provided, however, the city may take official notice of any order, rule or regulation, or any other document, record or entry contained in its official record or minutes for evidentiary purposes.
(g)
Conflicts between decision of city and health officer. For the purposes of this article, the decision of the city will prevail in any instance in which there is a conflict between the city and the health officer on any issue of sanitation, or the lack of it, and its effect on human health or well-being.
(Ord. No. 11-1995, §§ 10.1—10.7, 4-10-95)
Secs. 82-71—82-90. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL

Sec. 82-91. - Generally.
Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of section 82-68, the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal system complying with the provisions of the city and the state department of human resources.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 4.1, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-92. - Septic tank permit; approval of work.
No person shall construct, repair, alter, or enlarge any septic tank unless he shall hold a valid permit for such work issued by the health officer. The health officer may withhold the issuance of such a permit pending the inspection and approval by the health officer of the site and location of the proposed work. Before any septic tank or any part thereof may be covered after it has been constructed, repaired, altered, or enlarged, it shall be inspected and approved by the health officer.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 4.3, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-93. - Specifications for septic tanks.
Septic tanks shall be constructed, repaired, altered, enlarged and maintained in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the health officer. Septic tanks shall be maintained in sanitary working order.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 4.2, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-94. - Design standards; minimum lot area.
The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the department of human resources of the state. No permit shall be issued for any private wastewater disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than 15,000 square feet in municipal zones R-2 and R-3 and 20,000 square feet minimum in zone R-1. The discharge from a septic tank or cesspool to any natural outlet is prohibited.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 4.4, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-95. - Installation prohibited on premises where public sewer available or use deemed menace to health.
No septic tank or other subsurface disposal facility shall be installed where a public sewer is accessible to the premises involved.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 4.5, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-96. - Connection to public sewer.
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer within 30 days after notice. Any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal facilities shall then be cleaned of sludge and filled with suitable material.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 4.6, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-97. - Maintenance.
The owners shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 4.7, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-98. - Authority of health officer to prohibit hazardous installations.
No subsurface disposal facilities shall be installed in any place where the health officer deems the use of such facilities to be a menace to human health or well being.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 4.8, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-99. - Pit privies.
No pit privy shall be installed in the following locations:
(1)
Where a public sewer is accessible to the premises involved;
(2)
In areas where the health officer deems the use of pit privies to constitute a nuisance or menace to the public health;
(3)
Where a pit privy may pollute any water supply; or
(4)
Where the use of pit privies is not in keeping with the standards of sanitation in adjacent areas.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 4.10, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-100. - Discharge of contents of septic tanks in sewer system.
(a)
Restricted. It shall be unlawful to empty, dump, throw or otherwise discharge, into any manhole, catchbasin or other opening, into the city sewer system, or any system connected with and discharging into the sewer system, the contents of any septic tank, sludge, sewage, or other similar matter or material, except as provided in subsection (b) of this section.
(b)
Permits. The superintendent is hereby authorized to grant permits to discharge the contents of septic tanks at certain locations under the city's supervision. The superintendent may also revoke these permits at any time if, in the opinion of the superintendent, continued dumping would have a deleterious or injurious effect on the sewer system and/or treatment process.
Furthermore, each and every authorized septic tank waste hauler must have a city issued business license and comply with a list of rules, regulations, and/or policies promulgated by the superintendent regarding septic waste quality and unloading. Said regulations shall be made available to septic tank waste haulers upon request.
(c)
Fees. A charge shall be made for the privilege of dumping the contents of septic tanks into the city's wastewater treatment system, as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges. A record shall be kept of such dumpings and statements rendered at the first of each month, the amount of such statements shall be payable within ten days after rendition. Failure to pay the amounts due within such ten-day period shall be cause for revoking the permit.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 4.11, 8-28-96; Ord. No. 9-2001, § 1, 2-12-01; Ord. No. 20-2002, § 3, 11-11-02; Ord. No. 20A-2002, § 3, 11-11-02; Ord. No. 7-2019 , § 2(Exh. A), 12-9-19)
Sec. 82-101. - Correction of unsanitary condition.
Any premises that has a septic tank, privy, or any other sewage, industrial waste, or liquid waste disposal system, located thereon that does not function in a sanitary manner shall be corrected within 30 days from the receipt of written notification from the health officer and that the system is not functioning in a sanitary manner and order that said system be corrected.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 4.12, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-102. - Premises with private water systems.
Premises with private water systems shall not be connected with the public sewer system.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 4.13, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-103. - Authority to imposes additional requirements.
No statement contained in this division shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the health officer.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 4.14, 8-28-96)
Secs. 82-104—82-120. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS

Sec. 82-121. - Determination of sewer availability and establishment of fees.
The city will define the availability of sewers and any costs associated with sewer permits or construction.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 5.11, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-122. - Connection permit required.
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 5.1, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-123. - Application for connection permit; fee.
The owner or his agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgement of the superintendent. A permit and inspection fee as specified in the schedule of fees and charges as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission shall be paid at the time the application is filed.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 5.2, 8-28-96; Ord. No. 7-2019 , § 2(Exh. A), 12-9-19)
Sec. 82-124. - Payment of costs; indemnification of city.
All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 5.3, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-125. - Separate building sewer required for every building; exception.
A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every building; except, where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer, but the city does not and will not assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such single connection.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 5.4, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-126. - Use of old building sewers for new buildings.
Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the superintendent, to meet all requirements of the article.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 5.5, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-127. - Construction standards for building sewers.
The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer and the methods to be used in construction shall all conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the county. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) and Water Pollution Control Federation (WPCF) Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply. Additionally, the following materials and methods shall apply to building sewers within the city supervision:
(1)
The building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe, ASTM Specification A74, latest revision, or equal; ductile iron pipe, American National Standards Institute (ANSI) Specification A21.51, latest revision, or equal; or polyvinyl chloride (PVC) sewer pipe, ASTM Specification D3034, latest revision. All joints shall be tight and waterproof. Any part of the building sewer that is located within ten feet of a water service pipe shall be constructed of cast iron soil pipe or ductile iron pipe with bolted mechanical joints may be required by the superintendent where the sewer is exposed to damage by tree roots. If installed in filled or unstable ground, the building sewer shall be of cast iron soil pipe, except that plastic pipe may be acceptable if laid on a suitable concrete bed or cradle as approved by the superintendent.
(2)
The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the approval of the superintendent, but in no event shall the diameter be less than four inches. The slope of such four-inch pipe shall not be less than one-eighth inch per foot. Furthermore, the appropriate requirements of the Occupational Health and Safety Act (OSHA) shall be followed.
(3)
The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost and the building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and with straight alignment insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with properly curved pipe and fittings. Building sewers shall not be placed in the same trench with water service lines.
(4)
An excavation required for the installation of a building sewer shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the superintendent. Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM Specification C12, latest revision, except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected and approved.
(5)
All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight Push-on joints for cast iron soil pipe shall have neoprene gaskets in accordance with the requirements of ASTM C-564. Push-on joints for ductile iron pipe shall also have neoprene gaskets and be installed according to the manufacturer's recommendations. PVC pipe joint material shall be of the bell and spigot type, sealed with a rubber "O"-ring gasket, having a composition and texture which is resistant to the common ingredients of sewage, industrial wastes (including oils) and groundwater, and which will endure permanently under the conditions likely to be imposed by this use. Installation of the gasket shall be done in accordance with the pipe manufacturer's instructions using all the necessary materials, lubricants and equipment recommended by the manufacturer. Other jointing materials may be used only when approved by the superintendent.
(6)
The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at the "Y" branch, if such a branch is available at a suitable location. If the public sewer is 12 inches in diameter or less, and no properly located "Y" branch is available, the city shall, at the owner's expense, cut a neat hole into the public sewer, with entry in the downstream direction at an angle of about 45 degrees, and install a 45-degree elbow with the spigot end cut so as not to extend past the inner surface of the public sewer. The invert of the building sewer at the point of connection shall be at an elevation of at least one-tenth foot above the invert of the public sewer. A neat smooth joint shall be made, and the connection made secure and watertight by encasement in concrete. Special fittings may be used for the connection only when approved by the superintendent.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 5.6, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-128. - Elevation of building sewer.
Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall which might thereby be weakened. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building sewer.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 5.7, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-129. - Connection of sources of runoff or groundwater to sanitary sewer.
No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer unless such connection is approved for purposes of disposal of polluted surface drainage.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 5.8, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-130. - Supervision of connection and testing.
The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the superintendent or his representative.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 5.9, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-131. - Excavations.
All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 5.10, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-132. - Specifications for connections.
The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the city or the procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight and verified by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the superintendent before installation.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 5.12, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-133. - Control of infiltration and inflow.
If any house sewer permits the entrance of infiltration or inflow, the city may:
(1)
Require the owner to repair the house sewer.
(2)
Charge the owner a sewer rate that reflects the costs of the additional expense of sewage treatment from the owner's property.
(3)
Require the owner to disconnect his sewer from the city sewer system.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 5.13, 8-28-96)
Secs. 82-134—82-150. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - DISCHARGE REGULATIONS

Sec. 82-151. - Discharge of unpolluted water to sanitary sewer.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted waters such as stormwater, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 6.1, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-152. - Discharge of sewage to storm sewer.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any sanitary wastewater into a storm sewer system.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 6.2, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-153. - Prohibited discharges.
(a)
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following described water or wastes to any public sewers:
(1)
Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the municipal wastewater collection and POTW, including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed-cup flashpoint of less than 140 degrees Fahrenheit (60 degrees Celsius) using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21.
(2)
Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 10 standard units, or otherwise causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment, or endangering city personnel.
(3)
Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case solids greater than two inches or five centimeters in any dimension.
(4)
Any wastewater containing pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.), released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause interference with either the POTW, or any wastewater, treatment or sludge process, or which will constitute a hazard to humans or animals.
(5)
Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150 degrees Fahrenheit (66 degrees Celsius), or which will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104 degrees Fahrenheit (40 degrees Celsius).
(6)
Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass-through.
(7)
Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and safety problems.
(8)
Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated by the city manager in accordance with Section 3.5 of the IPO.
(9)
Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to create a public nuisance, a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance and repair, or would in anyway cause health or safety problems for city workers.
(10)
Any wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant's effluent thereby violating the city's NPDES permit. Color, in combination with turbidity, shall not cause the treatment plant effluent to reduce the depth of the compensation point for photosynthetic activity by more than ten percent from the seasonably established norm for aquatic life.
(11)
Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except as specifically approved by the city manager in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
(12)
Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, artesian wellwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized water, noncontact cooling water and unpolluted industrial wastewater, unless specifically authorized by the superintendent.
(13)
Any sludge, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of industrial wastes.
(14)
Any medical wastes, except as specifically, authorized by the city manager in a wastewater discharge permit.
(15)
Any wastewater alone or in conjunction with other sources causing the treatment plant's effluent to fail a toxicity test.
(16)
Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents, or other substances which may cause excessive foaming in the POTW.
(17)
Any discharge of fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin is limited to 100 milligrams per liter.
(18)
Any discharge that would result in the exceedance of ten percent of the lower explosive level (LEL) at the POTW.
(b)
Wastes prohibited by this section shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged to the POTW. All floor drains located in process or materials storage areas must discharge to the industrial user's pretreatment facility before connecting with the POTW.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 6.3, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-154. - Acceptance of prohibited wastes.
If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in section 82-153 and which in the judgement of the city, may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater facilities, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city may:
(1)
Reject the wastes;
(2)
Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the public sewers;
(3)
Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; or
(4)
Require surcharge payment to cover added cost of handling and treating the wastes.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 6.4, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-155. - Grease, oil and sand interceptors.
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the city, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the superintendent and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintenance of these interceptors, the owner shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and shall maintain records of the dates and means of disposal which are subject to review by the superintendent Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not performed by owner's personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 6.5, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-156. - Responsibilities of industrial users.
It shall be the responsibility of the person discharging industrial waste into the city sewer system to:
(1)
Build a control structure in the discharge line from his premises, immediately prior to the entrance of the discharge line into the city sewer system, suitable for the sampling and measuring of wastes. Plans for this structure must be approved by the city. This requirement may be waived if deemed unnecessary by the city. If no special manhole is required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
(2)
Contact the superintendent prior to operation changes which will materially alter the characteristics of the waste from the last prior sampling.
(3)
Make timely, periodic payments to the city of surcharges for excessive loadings as detailed in the city user charge system.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 6.13, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-157. - Sampling facilities for industrial users.
When required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure, together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such structure, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with approved plans. The structure shall be installed by the owner at his expense and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times. This requirement will be on a case-by-case basis.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 6.6, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-158. - Submission of information by industrial users.
Industrial users may be required to provide information needed to determine compliance with this article. These requirements may include:
(1)
Wastewater discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time period;
(2)
Chemical analyses of wastewaters;
(3)
Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting wastewater volume and quality;
(4)
Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent or other materials important to the sewer use control;
(5)
A plot plan of sewers of the user's property showing sewer and pretreatment facility location;
(6)
Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and
(7)
Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials through spills to the public sewer.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 6.7, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-159. - Special agreements for acceptance of industrial waste.
No statement contained in this division shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 6.8, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-160. - Measurements, tests and analyses.
All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this article shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association. Sampling methods, location, time, durations and frequencies are to be determined on an individual basis, subject to approval by the city.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 6.9, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-161. - Pretreatment of industrial wastes.
(a)
Persons discharging industrial wastes into the sewer system may be required to pretreat such wastes. Plans for all pretreatment facilities shall be approved by the superintendent or the state environmental protection division prior to construction. At the time written plans are submitted for approval written maintenance plans shall also be submitted and approved by the superintendent. The facilities shall be allowed to operate only as long as they are maintained in accordance with the approved maintenance plans. Pretreatment requirements shall be determined on a case-by-case basis and shall include the following facilities as a minimum:
(1)
Neutralization. If plans are submitted for neutralization of strong acid or alkaline wastes, the plans shall include the necessary instrumentation and controls to ensure compliance with the above regulations at all times.
(2)
Equalization. Holding tanks or equalization basins shall be required ahead of the receiving manhole of the city sewer system when deemed necessary by the superintendent to prevent peak flows that exceed the capacity of the system or that result in operational problems.
(b)
All pretreatment facilities shall be operated and maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his expense.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 6.10, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-162. - Variances.
There shall be no provision for the granting of variances for discharge of incompatible wastes. If a user begins to violate any of the provision of division, it shall be his responsibility to apply to the superintendent who can issue a temporary permit along with a compliance schedule for planning and construction of necessary treatment or pretreatment works. Each case will be carefully evaluated with respect to its effect on the wastewater treatment system and the environment prior to issuance of a temporary permit and compliance schedule.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 6.11, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-163. - Dilution of discharge.
Any dilution of the wastewater by the user for the purpose of decreasing the concentrations of toxic materials shall be considered as a violation of this article.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 6.11, 8-28-96)
Sec. 82-164. - Discontinuance of service for failure to correct violations.
Failure to comply with the provisions of this division shall be cause for the discontinuance of sewer or water service to the offending person. The procedure shall be as follows: A written notice, signed by the superintendent, shall be delivered personally to the person then responsible for the offending use, outlining the conditions of the wastes which violate the city ordinances. If the person in charge will not accept the notice, it shall be conveyed by registered mail to the responsible person. The person notified shall have 24 hours from the time of receipt of the notice, either personally delivered or received by registered mail to correct the offending conditions. If correction is not made or a request for extension is not received by the city within 24 hours, it shall be mandatory that water or sewer service shall be discontinued to the offending person without further notice. If a request for an extension of time is received by the city within 24 hours of the above notice and if circumstances are such that, in the opinion of the superintendent the best interest of the city would be served by extending the time for correction of the offending condition, then he may grant an extension of time up to a maximum limit of 30 days.
(Ord. No. 11-1996, § 6.12, 8-28-96)
Secs. 82-165—82-174. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - ILLICIT DISCHARGE AND ILLEGAL CONNECTION

Sec. 82-175. - General provisions.
(a)
Purpose and intent. The purpose of this division is to protect the public health, safety, environment and general welfare through the regulation of nonstormwater discharges to the city separate storm sewer system to the maximum extent practicable as required by federal law. This division establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the city separate storm sewer system in order to comply with requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit process. The objectives of this division are to:
(1)
Regulate the contribution of pollutants to the city separate storm sewer system by any person;
(2)
Prohibit illicit discharges and illegal connections to the city separate storm sewer system;
(3)
Prevent nonstormwater discharges, generated as a result of spills, inappropriate dumping or disposal, to the city separate storm sewer system; and
(4)
To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance, monitoring and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this division.
(b)
Applicability. The provisions of this ordinance shall apply throughout the incorporated area of the city.
(c)
Compatibility with other regulations. This division is not intended to modify or repeal any other ordinance, rule, regulation, other provision of law. The requirements of this division are in addition to the requirements of any other ordinance, rule, regulation, or other provision of law, and where any provision of this division imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulation, or other provision of law, whichever provision is more restrictive or imposes higher protective standards for human health or the environment shall control.
(d)
Severability. If the provisions of any section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision or clause of this division shall be adjudged invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall not affect or invalidate the remainder of any section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision or clause of this division.
(e)
Responsibility for administration. The city manager shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this division.
(Ord. No. 8-2011, § 1, 8-8-11)
Sec. 82-176. - Definitions.
Accidental discharge means a discharge prohibited by this division which occurs by chance and without planning or thought prior to occurrence.
Clean Water Act means the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
Construction activity means activities subject to the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act or NPDES general construction permits. These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance. Such activities include, but are not limited to, clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
Illicit discharge means any direct or indirect nonstormwater discharge to the city separate storm sewer system, except as exempted in section 82-177.
Illegal connection means either of the following:
(a)
Any pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which allows an illicit discharge to enter the storm drain system including, but not limited to, any conveyances which allow any nonstormwater discharge including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain system, regardless of whether such pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance has been previously allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency; or
(b)
Any pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance connected to the city separate storm sewer system which has not been documented in plans, maps, or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
Industrial activity means activities subject to NPDES Industrial Permits as defined in 40 CFR, Section 122.26 (b)(14).
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) stormwater discharge permit means a permit issued by the Georgia EPD under authority delegated pursuant to 33 USC § 1342(b) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or general area-wide basis.
City separate storm sewer system means any facility designed or used for collecting and/or conveying stormwater, including, but not limited to, any roads with drainage systems, highways, city streets, curbs, gutters, inlets, catch basins, piped storm drains, pumping facilities, structural stormwater controls, ditches, swales, natural and manmade or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures, and which is:
(a)
Owned or maintained by the city;
b)
Not a combined sewer; and
c)
Not part of a publicly-owned treatment works.
Nonstormwater discharge means any discharge to the storm drain system that is not composed entirely of stormwater.
Person means, except to the extent exempted from this division, any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, city, county or other political subdivision of the State, any interstate body or any other legal entity.
Pollutant means anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; petroleum hydrocarbons; automotive fluids; cooking grease; detergents (biodegradable or otherwise); degreasers; cleaning chemicals; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; liquid and solid wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or structure; concrete and cement; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
Pollution means the contamination or other alteration of any water's physical, chemical or biological properties by the addition of any constituent and includes, but is not limited to, a change in temperature, taste, color, turbidity, or odor of such waters; or the discharge of any liquid, gaseous, solid, radioactive, or other substance into any such waters as will or is likely to create a nuisance or render such waters harmful, detrimental or injurious to the public health, safety, welfare, or environment, or to domestic, commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational, or other legitimate beneficial uses, or to livestock, wild animals, birds, fish or other aquatic life.
Premises means any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
State waters means any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface and subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the state which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single person.
Stormwater runoff or stormwater means any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation.
Structural stormwater control means a structural stormwater management facility or device that controls stormwater runoff and changes the characteristics of that runoff including, but not limited to, the quantity and quality, the period of release or the velocity of flow.
(Ord. No. 8-2011, § 2, 8-8-11)
Sec. 82-177. - Prohibitions.
(a)
Prohibition of illicit discharges. No person shall throw, drain, or otherwise discharge, cause, or allow others under its control to throw, drain, or otherwise discharge into the city separate storm sewer system any pollutants or waters containing any pollutants, other than stormwater.
The following discharges are exempt from the prohibition provision above:
(1)
Water line flushing performed by a government agency, other potable water sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising groundwater, groundwater infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped groundwater, foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs, natural riparian habitat or wetland flows, and any other water source not containing pollutants;
(2)
Discharges or flows from firefighting, and other discharges specified in writing by the city manager or his/her designee as being necessary to protect public health and safety;
(3)
The prohibition provision above shall not apply to any nonstormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit or order issued to the discharger and administered under the authority of the state and the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any discharge to the city separate storm sewer system.
(b)
Prohibition of illegal connections. The construction, connection, use, maintenance or continued existence of any illegal connection to the city separate storm sewer system is prohibited.
(1)
This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illegal connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of connection.
(2)
A person violates this divisioin if the person connects a line conveying sewage to the city separate storm sewer system, or allows such a connection to continue.
(3)
Improper connections in violation of this division must be disconnected and redirected, if necessary, to an approved on-site wastewater management system or the sanitary sewer system upon approval of the city manager or his/her designee.
(4)
Any drain or conveyance that has not been documented in plans, maps or the equivalent, and which may be connected to the storm sewer system, shall be located by the owner or occupant of that property upon receipt of written notice of violation from the city manager or his/her designee requiring that such locating be completed. Such notice will specify a reasonable time period within which the location of the drain or conveyance is to be completed, that the drain or conveyance be identified as storm sewer, sanitary sewer or other, and that the outfall location or point of connection to the storm sewer system, sanitary sewer system or other discharge point be identified. Results of these investigations are to be documented and provided to the city manager or his/her designee.
(Ord. No. 8-2011, § 3, 8-8-11)
Sec. 82-178. - Industrial or construction activity discharges.
Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the city manager or his/her designee prior to allowing discharges to the city separate storm sewer system.
(Ord. No. 8-2011, § 4, 8-8-11)
Sec. 82-179. - Access and inspection of properties and facilities.
The city manager or his/her designee shall be permitted to enter and inspect properties and facilities at reasonable times as often as may be necessary to determine compliance with this division.
(1)
If a property or facility has security measures in force which require proper identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the owner or operator shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access to representatives of the city.
(2)
The owner or operator shall allow the city manager or his/her designee ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, photography, videotaping, examination and copying of any records that are required under the conditions of an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater.
(3)
The city manager or his/her designee shall have the right to set up on any property or facility such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the city manager or his/her designee to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of flow discharges.
(4)
The city manager or his/her designee may require the owner or operator to install monitoring equipment and perform monitoring as necessary, and make the monitoring data available to the city manager or his/her designee. This sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the owner or operator at his/her own expense. All devices used to measure flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
(5)
Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the property or facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the owner or operator at the written or oral request of the city manager or his/her designee and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the owner or operator.
(6)
Unreasonable delays in allowing the city manager or his/her designee access to a facility is a violation of this divisioin.
(7)
If the city manager or his/her designee has been refused access to any part of the premises from which stormwater is discharged, and the city manager or his/her designee is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this division, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this division or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety, environment and welfare of the community, then the city manager or his/her designee may seek issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. 8-2011, § 5, 8-8-11)
Sec. 82-180. - Notification of accidental discharges and spills.
Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible for a facility, activity or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a facility, activity or operation has information of any known or suspected release of pollutants or nonstormwater discharges from that facility or operation which are resulting or may result in illicit discharges or pollutants discharging into stormwater, the city separate storm sewer system, state waters, or waters of the U.S., said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release so as to minimize the effects of the discharge.
Said person shall notify the authorized enforcement agency in person or by phone, facsimile or in person no later than 24 hours of the nature, quantity and time of occurrence of the discharge. Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to the city manager or his/her designee within three business days of the phone or in-person notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three years. Said person shall also take immediate steps to ensure no recurrence of the discharge or spill.
In the event of such a release of hazardous materials, emergency response agencies and/or other appropriate agencies shall be immediately notified.
Failure to provide notification of a release as provided above is a violation of this division.
(Ord. No. 8-2011, § 6, 8-8-11)
Sec. 82-181. - Violations, enforcement and penalties.
(a)
Violations. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this division. Any person who has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this division may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in this section or may be restrained by injunction or otherwise abated in a manner provided by law.
In the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, the city manager or his/her designee is authorized to enter upon the subject private property, without giving prior notice, to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property. The city manager or his/her designee is authorized to seek costs of the abatement as outlined in subsection (e).
(b)
Notice of violation. Whenever the city manager or his/her designee finds that a violation of this division has occurred, the city manager or his/her designee may order compliance by written notice of violation.
(1)
The notice of violation shall contain:
a.
The name and address of the alleged violator;
b.
The address when available or a description of the building, structure or land upon which the violation is occurring, or has occurred;
c.
A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
d.
A description of the remedial measures necessary to restore compliance with this ordinance and a time schedule for the completion of such remedial action;
e.
A statement of the penalty or penalties that shall or may be assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed; and
f.
A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed to the mayor and commission of the city by filing a written notice of appeal within 30 days of service of notice of violation.
(2)
Such notice may require without limitation:
a.
The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
b.
The elimination of illicit discharges and illegal connections;
c.
That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and desist;
d.
The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
e.
Payment of costs to cover administrative and abatement costs; and,
f.
The implementation of pollution prevention practices.
(c)
Appeal of notice of violation. Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of the city manager or his/her designee. The notice of appeal must be received within 30 days from the date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the mayor and commission of the city shall take place within 15 days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The decision of the mayor and commission shall be final.
(d)
Enforcement measures after appeal. If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within 30 days of the decision of the mayor and commission upholding the decision of the city manager or his/her designee, then the city manager or his/her designee or other representatives of the city may enter upon the subject private property and are authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the government agency or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth above.
(e)
Costs of abatement of the violation. Within 30 days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative costs. The property owner may file a written protect [protest] to the city manager or his/her designee, objecting to the assessment or to the amount of the assessment within 15 days of such notice. If the property owner objects to the decision by the city manager or his/her designee concerning said written protect [protest] within 30 days from such decision by the city manager or his/her designee, the property owner may file a written appeal to the mayor and commission. If the amount due is not paid within 30 days after receipt of the notice, or if an appeal is taken, within 30 days after a decision by the mayor and commission on said appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the assessment.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article [division] shall become liable to the city by reason of such violation.
(f)
Civil penalties. In the event the alleged violator fails to take the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or otherwise fails to cure the violations described therein within ten days, or such greater period as the city manager or his/her designee shall deem appropriate, after the city manager or his/her designee has taken one or more of the actions described above, the city manager or his/her designee may impose a penalty not to exceed $1,000.00 (depending on the severity of the violation) for each day the violation remains remedied after receipt of the notice of violation.
(g)
Criminal penalties. For intentional and flagrant violations of this division, the city manager or his/her designee or the city police department may issue a citation to the alleged violator requiring such person to appear in municipal court to answer charges for such violation. Upon conviction, such person shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or imprisonment for 60 days or both. Each act of violation and each day upon which any violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense.
(h)
Violations deemed a public nuisance. In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this division is a threat to public health, safety, welfare, and environment and is declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief as provided by law.
(i)
Remedies not exclusive. The remedies listed in this division are not exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable federal, state or local law and the city manager or his/her designee may seek cumulative remedies.
The city manager or his/her designee may recover attorney's fees, court costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement of this division, including sampling and monitoring expenses.
(Ord. No. 8-2011, § 7, 8-8-11)
Secs. 82-182—82-190. - Reserved.
