DIVISION 11. - JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES

Sec. 82-400. - Judicial remedies; injunctive relief; civil penalties.
(a)
If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes into the wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of this ordinance or any order or permit issued hereunder, the superintendent, through the city attorney, may commence an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the Superior Court for Polk County.
(b)
Whenever an industrial user has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this article or permit or order issued hereunder, the superintendent, through counsel, may petition the court for the issuance of a preliminary or permanent injunction or both (as may be appropriate) which restrains or compels the activities on the part of the industrial user. The superintendent shall have such remedies to collect all reasonable fees involved in this action, as it has to collect other sewer service charges.
(c)
Any industrial user who has violated or continues to violate this ordinance or any order or permit issued hereunder, shall be liable to the superintendent for a civil penalty of not more than the maximum amount authorized under state law and the ordinances of the city, presently up to $1,000.00 per day, plus actual damages incurred by the POTW per violation per day for as long as the violation continues. In addition to the above described penalty and damages, the superintendent may recover reasonable attorney's fees, court costs and other expenses associated with the enforcement activities, including sampling and monitoring expenses.
(d)
The superintendent shall petition the court to impose, assess and recover such sums as described herein. In determining amounts of liability, the superintendent should request the court to take into consideration all relevant circumstances; including, but not limited to, the extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration, any economic benefit gained through the industrial user's violation, corrective actions by the industrial user, the compliance history of the user and any other factor as justice requires.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 11(11.1), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-401. - Criminal prosecution.
(a)
Any industrial user who willfully or negligently violates any provision of this article or any orders or permits issued hereunder shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine up to at least $1,000.00 per violation per day or imprisonment for not more than one year or both.
(b)
Any industrial user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations or certifications in any application, record, report, plan or other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this article or a wastewater permit, or who falsifies, tamper with or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this article shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of no more than $1,000.00 per violation per day or imprisonment for not more than one year or both.
(c)
In the event of a second conviction, the user may be punished by a fine which is the maximum allowable under Georgia law governing municipal enforcement actions and may be imprisoned for the maximum period of time allowed for violation of municipal ordinance offenses. However, the superintendent may, in his discretion, ask that a second violation be submitted to the enforcement authorities for criminal violations within the Tallapoosa Judicial Circuit for felony prosecution, if permitted by Georgia law, of any industrial user who, for a second time, willfully or negligently violates any provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 11(11.2), 10-13-08)
Secs. 82-402—82-414. - Reserved.
