ARTICLE VIII. - SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY[13]

Footnotes:
--- (13) ---
Editor's note— Provisions in this policy are consistent with requirements specifically set forth in 49 CFR Part 655, [o]r Part 40, as amended; and the Drug-Free Workplace Act (49 CFR Part 29). Additional provisions are set forth under the authority of the McIntosh Trail Regional Transit System.

Sec. 2-2-330. - Policy.
Lamar County (separately and as a member of the McIntosh Trail Regional Transit System) is dedicated to providing safe, dependable, and economical transportation services to our transit system passengers. County employees are our most valuable resource and it is our goal to provide a healthy, satisfying working environment which promotes personal opportunities for growth. In meeting these goals, it is our policy to:
(1)
Assure that employees are not impaired in their ability to perform assigned duties in a safe, productive, and healthy manner;
(2)
Create a workplace environment free from the adverse effects of drug abuse and alcohol misuse;
(3)
Prohibit the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of controlled substances; and
(4)
Encourage employees to seek professional assistance any time personal problems, including alcohol or drug dependency, adversely affect their ability to perform their assigned duties.
(Ord. of 2-19-02, § 1.0)
Sec. 2-2-331. - Purpose.
The purpose of this policy is to assure worker fitness for duty and to protect our employees, passengers, and the public from the risks posed by the misuse of alcohol and use of prohibited drugs. This policy is also intended to comply with all applicable federal regulations governing workplace antidrug and alcohol programs in the transit industry. The Federal Transit Administration (FTA) of the U.S. Department of Transportation has published 49 CFR Part 655, as amended, that mandates urine drug testing and breath alcohol testing for safety-sensitive positions and prohibits performance of safety-sensitive functions when there is a positive test result. The U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) has also published 49 CFR Part 40, as amended, that sets standards for the collection and testing of urine and breath specimens. In addition, the federal government published 49 CFR Part 29, "The Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988," which requires the establishment of drug-free workplace policies and the reporting of certain drug-related offenses to the FTA. This policy incorporates those requirements for safety-sensitive employees and others when so noted.
(Ord. of 2-19-02, § 2.0)
Sec. 2-2-332. - Applicability.
This policy applies to all safety-sensitive and non-safety-sensitive transit system employees, paid part-time employees, contract employees, and contractors when they are on transit property or when performing any transit-related safety-sensitive or non-safety-sensitive business. This policy applies to off-site lunch periods or breaks when an employee is scheduled to return to work. Visitors, vendors, and contractor employees are governed by this policy while on transit premises and will not be permitted to conduct transit business if found to be in violation of this policy.
A safety-sensitive function is any duty related to the safe operation of mass-transit service including the operation of a revenue-service vehicle (whether or not the vehicle is in revenue service), dispatch, maintenance of a revenue-service vehicle or equipment used in revenue service, security personnel who carry firearms, and any other employee who holds a commercial driver's license. Maintenance functions include the repair, overhaul, and rebuild of engines, vehicles and/or equipment. A list of safety-sensitive positions that perform one (1) or more of the above-mentioned duties is attached.
(Ord. of 2-19-02, § 3.0)
Sec. 2-2-333. - Prohibited substances.
"Prohibited substances" addressed by this policy include the following:
(1)
Illegally used controlled substances or drugs. The use of any illegal drug or any substance identified in schedules I through V of section 202 of the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. 812), as further defined by 21 CFR 1300.11 through 1300.15 is prohibited at all times unless a legal prescription has been written for the substance. This includes, but is not limited to: marijuana, amphetamines, opiates, phencyclidine (PCP), and cocaine, as well as any drug not approved for medical use by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration or the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Illegal use includes use of any illegal drug, misuse of legally prescribed drugs, and use of illegally obtained prescription drugs. Safety-sensitive employees will be tested for marijuana, cocaine, amphetamines, opiates, and phencyclidine as described in section 2-2-335 of this article.
(2)
Legal drugs. The appropriate use of legally prescribed drugs and nonprescription medications is not prohibited. However, the use of any substance which carries a warning label that indicates that mental functioning, motor skills, or judgment may be adversely affected must be reported to a transit system supervisor. In addition, the employee must obtain a written release from the attending physician releasing the person to perform their job duties any time they obtain a performance-altering prescription.
A legally prescribed drug means that individual has a prescription or other written approval from a physician for the use of a drug in the course of medical treatment. It must include the patient's name, the name of the substance, quantity/amount to be taken, and the period of authorization. The misuse or abuse of legal drugs while performing transit business is prohibited. Also the use of medical marijuana and hemp products which present levels of drugs or drug metabolites above the DOT minimum thresholds is considered a violation of this policy.
(3)
Alcohol. The use of beverages containing alcohol or substances including any medication, mouthwash, food, candy, or any other substance such that alcohol is present in the body while performing transit business is prohibited. The concentration of alcohol is expressed in terms of alcohol per 210 liters of breath as measured by an evidential breath-testing device.
(Ord. of 2-19-02, § 4.0)
Sec. 2-2-334. - Prohibited conduct.
(1)
Manufacture, trafficking, possession, and use. Transit system employees are prohibited from engaging in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of prohibited substances on transit authority premises, in transit vehicles, in uniform or while on transit authority business. Employees who violate this provision will be discharged. Law enforcement shall be notified, as appropriate, where criminal activity is suspected.
(2)
Intoxication/under the influence. Any safety-sensitive or non-safety-sensitive employee who is reasonably suspected of being intoxicated, impaired, under the influence of a prohibited substances, or not fit for duty shall be suspended from job duties pending an investigation and verification of condition. Employees found to be under the influence of a prohibited substance or who fail to pass a drug or alcohol test shall be removed from duty and subject to disciplinary action. A drug or alcohol test is considered positive if the individual is found to have a quantifiable presence of a prohibited substance in the body above the minimum thresholds defined in 49 CFR Part 40, as amended.
(3)
Alcohol and drug use. No safety-sensitive or non-safety-sensitive employee should report for duty or remain on duty when his/her ability to perform assigned safety-sensitive functions is adversely affected by alcohol or when his/her breath alcohol concentration is four one-hundredths (0.04) or greater. No safety-sensitive or non-safety-sensitive employee shall use alcohol while on duty, in uniform, while performing safety-sensitive functions, or just before or just after performing a safety-sensitive function. No safety-sensitive or non-safety-sensitive employee shall use alcohol within four (4) hours of reporting for duty, or during the hours that they are on call.
All safety-sensitive employees are prohibited from reporting for duty or remaining on duty any time there is a quantifiable presence of a prohibited substance in the body above the minimum thresholds defined in 49 CFR Part 40, as amended. Violation of these provisions is prohibited and punishable by disciplinary action up to and including termination.
(4)
Compliance with testing requirements. All safety-sensitive and non-safety-sensitive employees will be subject to urine drug testing and breath alcohol testing as a condition of employment. Any safety-sensitive or non-safety-sensitive employee who refuses to comply with a request for testing shall be removed from duty and their employment terminated. Any safety-sensitive or non-safety-sensitive employee who is suspected of providing false information in connection with a test, or who is suspected of falsifying test results through tampering, contamination, adulteration, or substitution will be required to undergo an observed collection. Verification of falsifying test results will result in the employee's removal from duty and their employment terminated.
The following items will be considered as a test refusal:
□ Employee fails to appear for any test within a reasonable time after being directed to do so (the amount of time it takes to travel from the worksite to the testing site).
□ Fails to remain at the testing site until the process is complete.
□ Fails to provide a urine specimen for any drug test required by Part 40 or DOT regulations.
□ Fails to provide a sufficient amount of urine when directed, and it has been determined, through a required medical evaluation, that there was no adequate medical explanation for the failure.
□ Fails to undergo a medical examination or evaluation, as directed by the MOR as part of the verification process, or as directed by the DER as part of the "shy bladder" procedures.
□ Fails to cooperate with any part of the testing process (e.g., refuses to follow instructions from medical staff or behaves in a confrontational way that disrupts the collection process).
□ If the MRO reports that there is a verified adulterated or substituted test result.
□ In the case of a directly observed or monitored collection in a drug test, fails to permit the observation or monitoring of your provision of a specimen.
Drug tests can be performed any time a safety-sensitive employee is on duty. An alcohol test can be performed when the safety-sensitive employee is actually performing a safety-sensitive duty, just before, or just after the performance of a safety-sensitive duty.
(5)
Treatment requirements. All employees are encouraged to make use of the available resources for treatment for alcohol misuse and illegal drug use problems. Under certain circumstances, employees may be required to undergo treatment for substance abuse or alcohol misuse. Any employee who refuses or fails to comply with transit system requirements for treatment, after care, or return to duty shall be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination. The cost of any treatment or rehabilitation services will be paid for directly by the employee or their insurance provider. Employees will be allowed to take accumulated sick leave and vacation leave to participate in the prescribed rehabilitation program.
(6)
Notifying the transit system of criminal drug conviction. All employees are required to notify the transit system of any criminal drug statute conviction for a violation occurring in the workplace within five (5) days after such conviction. Failure to comply with this provision shall result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
(7)
Proper application of the policy. The transit system is dedicated to assuring fair and equitable application of this substance abuse policy. Therefore, supervisors/managers are required to use and apply all aspects of this policy in an unbiased and impartial manner. Any supervisor/manager who knowingly disregards the requirements of this policy, or who is found to deliberately misuse the policy in regard to subordinates, shall be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
(Ord. of 2-19-02, § 5.0)
Sec. 2-2-335. - Testing procedures.
Analytical urine drug testing and breath testing for alcohol may be conducted when circumstance warrant or as required by federal regulations. All safety-sensitive and non-safety-sensitive employees shall be subject to testing prior to employment, for reasonable suspicion, and following an accident as defined in subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this policy. In addition, all safety-sensitive and non-safety-sensitive employees will be tested prior to returning to duty after failing a drug or alcohol test and after completion of the substance abuse professional's recommended treatment program and subsequent release to duty. Follow-up testing will also be conducted following return to duty for a period of one (1) to five (5) years, with at least six (6) tests performed during the first year.
Those employees who perform safety-sensitive functions as defined in the attachment to this policy shall also be subject to testing on a random, unannounced basis.
Testing shall be conducted in a manner to assure a high degree of accuracy and reliability and using techniques, equipment, and laboratory facilities which have been approved by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Service (DHHS). All testing will be conducted consistent with the procedures put forth in 49 CFR Part 40, as amended. The procedures will be performed in a private, confidential manner and every effort will be made to protect the employee, the integrity of the drug testing procedure, and the validity of the test result.
The drugs that will be tested for include marijuana, cocaine, opiates, amphetamines, and phencyclidine. Urine specimens will be collected using the split specimen collection method described in 49 CFR Part 40. Each specimen will be accompanied by a DOT chain of custody and control form and identified using a unique identification number that attributes the specimen to the correct individual. An initial drug screen will be conducted on the primary urine specimen. For those specimens that are not negative, a confirmatory gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) test will be performed. The test will be considered positive if the amounts present are above the minimum thresholds established in 49 CFR Part 40, as amended. Attachment 3 lists the minimum thresholds established for each drug and/or its metabolites. The test results from the laboratory will be reported to a medical review officer. A medical review officer (MRO) is a licensed physician with detailed knowledge of substance abuse disorders and drug testing. The MRO will review the test results to ensure the scientific validity of the test and to determine whether there is a legitimate medical explanation for a confirmed positive test result. The MRO will contact the employee, notify the employee of the positive laboratory result, and provide the employee with an opportunity to explain the confirmed test result. The MRO will subsequently review the employee's medical history/medical records to determine whether there is a legitimate medical explanation for a positive laboratory result. If no legitimate medical explanation is found, the test will be verified positive and reported to the company program manager. If a legitimate explanation is found, the MRO will report the test result as negative. The split specimen will be stored at the initial laboratory until the analysis of the primary specimen is completed. If the primary specimen is negative, the split will be discarded. If the primary is positive, the split will be retained for testing if so requested by the employee through the medical review officer.
Observed collections. Consistent with 49 CFR part 40 collection under direct observation (by a person of the same gender) with no advance notice will occur if:
1.
The laboratory reports to the MRO that a specimen is invalid, and the MRO reports to Lamar County that there was not an adequate medical explanation for the result; or
2.
The MRO reports to Lamar County that the original positive, adulterated, or substituted test result had to be cancelled because the test of the split specimen could not be performed.
a.
Lamar County may direct a collection under direct observation of an employee if the drug test is a return-to-duty rest or a follow-up test.
b.
The collector, must immediately conduct a collection under direct observation if:
i.
They are directed by Lamar County to do so; or
ii.
The collector observes materials brought to the collection site or the employee's conduct clearly indicates an attempt to tamper with a specimen; or
iii.
The temperature on the original specimen was out of range; [or]
iv.
The original specimen appeared to have been tampered with.
In instances where there is a reason to believe an employee is abusing a substance other than the five (5) drugs listed above, the transit system reserves the right to test for additional drugs under the transit system's own authority using standard laboratory testing protocols.
Tests for breath alcohol concentration will be conducted utilizing a National Highway Traffic Safety Administration-approved testing device operated by a trained technician. If the initial test indicates an alcohol concentration of two one-hundredths (0.02) or greater, a second test will be performed to confirm the results of the initial test. The confirmatory test will be performed using an NHTSA-approved evidential breath testing device (EBT) operated by a trained breath alcohol technician (BAT). The EBT will identify each test by a unique sequential identification number. This number, time, and unit identifier will be provided on each EBT printout. The EBT printout along with an approved alcohol testing form will be used to document the test, the subsequent results, and to attribute the test to the correct employee. The test will be performed in a private, confidential manner as required by 49 CFR, Part 40, as amended. The procedure will be followed as prescribed to protect the employee and to maintain the integrity of the alcohol testing procedures and validity of the test result.
A safety-sensitive or non-safety-sensitive employee who has a confirmed alcohol concentration of greater than two one-hundredths (0.02) but less than 0.04 (four one-hundredths) will be removed from his/her position for eight (8) hours unless a retest results in a concentration measure of less than two one-hundredths (0.02). The inability to perform safety-sensitive duties due to an alcohol test result of greater than two one-hundredths (0.02) but less than four one-hundredths (0.04) will be considered an unexcused missout subject to transit system disciplinary procedures. An alcohol concentration of four one-hundredths (0.04) or greater will be considered a positive alcohol test and in violation of this policy and a violation of the requirements set forth in 49 CFR, Part 654, for safety-sensitive employees.
Any safety-sensitive or non-safety-sensitive employee that has a confirmed positive drug or alcohol test will be removed from his/her position, informed of educational and rehabilitation programs available, and referred to a substance abuse professional (SAP) for assessment. A positive drug and/or alcohol test will also result in disciplinary action up to and including termination.
The transit system affirms the need to protect individual dignity, privacy, and confidentiality throughout the testing process. In addition, if at any time the integrity of the testing procedures or the validity of the test results is compromised, the test will be cancelled.
(a)
Employee requested testing. Any safety-sensitive or non-safety-sensitive employee who questions the results of a required drug test under subsections (2) through (7) of this policy may request that the split sample be tested. This test must be conducted at a different DHHS-certified laboratory. The test must be conducted on the split sample that was provided by the employee at the same time as the original sample. All costs for such testing are paid by the employee unless the result of the split sample test invalidates the result of the original test or the employee cannot afford to pay the cost. The method of collecting, storing, and testing the split sample will be consistent with the procedures set forth in 49 CFR, Part 40, as amended. The employee's request for a split sample test must be made to the medical review officer within seventy-two (72) hours of notice of the original sample verified test result. Requests after seventy-two (72) hours will only be accepted if the delay was due to documentable facts that were beyond the control of the employee.
(b)
Pre-employment testing. All safety-sensitive and non-safety-sensitive position applicants shall undergo urine drug testing prior to hire or transfer into a safety-sensitive position. Receipt by the transit system of a negative drug test result is required prior to employment. Failure of a pre-employment drug test will disqualify an applicant for employment for a period of one hundred twenty (120) days. Evidence of the absence of drug dependency from a substance abuse professional that meets with the approval of the company and a negative pre-employment drug test will be required prior to further consideration for employment. The cost for the assessment and any subsequent treatment will be the sole responsibility of the individual. A pre-employment/pre-transfer test will also be performed anytime an employee's status changes from an inactive status in a safety-sensitive position to an active status in a safety-sensitive position (i.e., return from worker's comp, return from leave of absence).
In addition, FTA requires all safety-sensitive employees who have been off duty for ninety (90) or more days for any reason are required to successfully pass a pre-employment drug test prior to the performance of an active status in a safety-sensitive position (i.e. Return from worker's comp, return from leave of absence).
(c)
Reasonable suspicion testing. All safety-sensitive and non-safety-sensitive employees may be subject to a fitness for duty evaluation, and urine and/or breath testing when there are reasons to believe that drug or alcohol use is adversely affecting job performance. A reasonable suspicion referral for testing will be made on the basis of documented objective facts and circumstances which are consistent with the short-term effects of substance abuse or alcohol misuse. Examples of reasonable suspicion include, but are not limited to, the following:
1.
Physical signs and symptoms consistent with prohibited substance use or alcohol misuse.
2.
Evidence of the manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of controlled substances, drugs, alcohol, or other prohibited substance.
3.
Occurrence of a serious or "potentially" serious accident that may have been caused by prohibited substance abuse or alcohol misuse.
4.
Fights (to mean physical contact), assaults, and flagrant disregard or violations of established safety, security, or other operating procedures.
Reasonable suspicion referrals must be made by a supervisor who is trained to detect the signs and symptoms of drug and alcohol use and who reasonably concludes that an employee may be adversely affected or impaired in his/her work performance due to possible prohibited substance abuse or alcohol misuse.
(d)
Post-accident testing. All safety-sensitive employees will be required to undergo urine and breath testing if they are involved in an accident with a Lamar County vehicle (regardless of whether or not the vehicle is in revenue service) that results in a fatality. This includes all surviving safety-sensitive employees that are operating the vehicle and any other whose performance could have contributed to the accident. In addition, a post-accident test will be conducted if an accident results in injuries requiring immediate transportation to a medical treatment facility or one (1) or more vehicles incurs disabling damage unless the employee can be completely discounted as a contributing factor to the accident. The accident definition may include some incidents where an individual is injured even though there is no vehicle collision.
Following an accident, the safety-sensitive employees will be tested as soon as possible, but not to exceed eight (8) hours for alcohol testing and thirty-two (32) hours for drug testing. Any safety-sensitive employee involved in an accident must refrain from alcohol use for eight (8) hours following the accident or until he/she undergoes a post-accident alcohol test. Any safety-sensitive employee who leaves the scene of the accident without justifiable explanation prior to submission to drug and alcohol testing will be considered to have refused the test and their employment terminated. Employees tested under this provision will include not only the operations personnel, but any other covered employee whose performance could have contributed to the accident.
If the transit system is unable to perform a FTA drug and alcohol test (e.g., employee is unconscious, employee is detained by law enforcement agency), the transit system may use drug and alcohol post-accident test results administered by state and local law enforcement officials. The state and local law enforcement officials must have independent authority for the test and the employer must obtain the results in conformance with state and local law.
(e)
Random testing. Employees in safety-sensitive positions will be subjected to random, unannounced testing. The selection of safety-sensitive employees for random testing will be made using a scientifically valid method that ensures each covered employee that they will have an equal chance of being selected each time selections are made. The random tests will be unannounced and spread throughout the year. Tests can be conducted at any time during an employee's shift (i.e. beginning, middle, end). Employees are required to proceed immediately to the collection site upon notification of their random selection.
(f)
Return-to-duty testing. All safety-sensitive and non-safety-sensitive employees who previously tested positive on a drug or alcohol test must test negative (below two one-hundredths (0.02) for alcohol) on a return-to-duty test and be evaluated and released to duty by a substance abuse professional before returning to work. A substance abuse professional (SAP) is a licensed physician or certified psychologist, social worker, employee assistance professional, or addition counselor certified by the National Association of Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Counselors Certification Commission or by the International Certification Reciprocity Consortium/Alcohol and Other Drug Abuse. The SAP must also have clinical experience in the diagnosis and treatment of drug and alcohol related diseases. Before scheduling the return to duty test, the SAP must assess the employee and determine if the required treatment has been completed.
(g)
Follow-up testing. Safety-sensitive and non-safety-sensitive employees will be required to undergo frequent, unannounced urine and/or breath testing following their return to duty. The follow-up testing will be performed for a period of one (1) to five (5) years with a minimum of six (6) tests to be performed the first year. The frequency and duration of the follow-up tests beyond the minimum, will be determined by a qualified substance abuse professional.
(Ord. of 2-19-02, § 6.0)
Sec. 2-2-336. - Employment assessment.
Any safety-sensitive or non-safety-sensitive employee who tests positive for the presence of illegal drugs or alcohol above the minimum thresholds set forth in 49 CFR, Part 40, as amended, will be referred for evaluation by a substance abuse professional (SAP). A SAP is a licensed or certified physician, psychologist, social worker, employee assistance professional, or addiction counselor with knowledge of and clinical experience in the diagnosis and treatment of alcohol and drug-related disorders. The SAP will evaluate each employee to determine what assistance, if any, the employee needs in resolving problems associated with prohibited drug use or alcohol misuse.
Assessment by a SAP or participation in the company's employee assistance program does not shield an employee from disciplinary action or guarantee employment or reinstatement with the transit system. The Lamar County Disciplinary Code should be consulted to determine the penalty for performance-based infractions and violation of policy provisions.
If a safety-sensitive or non-safety-sensitive employee is allowed to return to duty, he/she must properly follow the rehabilitation program prescribed by the SAP, the employee must have negative return-to-duty drug and alcohol tests, and be subject to unannounced follow-up testing for a period of one (1) to five (5) years. The cost of any treatment or rehabilitation services will be paid directly by the employee or their insurance provider.
Employees will be allowed to take accumulated sick leave and vacation leave to participate in the prescribed rehabilitation program.
(Ord. of 2-19-02, § 7.0)
Sec. 2-2-337. - Information disclosure.
To be considered for employment, all applicants will be asked to give consent to (McIntosh Trail Transit System) for a background check of the applicant's previous DOT-covered employer over the past two (2) years. The information requested will include:
1.
Alcohol test results of four one-hundredths (0.04) or higher alcohol concentration.
2.
Verified positive drug tests.
3.
Refusals to be tested (including verified adulterated or substituted drug test results.)
4.
Other violations of DOT agency drug and alcohol testing regulations.
5.
With respect to any employee who violated a DOT drug and alcohol regulation, documentation of the employee's successful completion of DOT return-to-duty requirements (including follow-up tests).
All drug and alcohol testing records will be maintained in a secure manner so that disclosure of information to unauthorized persons does not occur. Information will only be released in the following circumstances:
1.
To a third party only as directed by specific, written instruction of the employee;
2.
To the decision-maker in a lawsuit, grievance, or other proceeding initiated by or on the behalf of the employee tested;
3.
To a subsequent employer upon receipt of a written request from the employee;
4.
To the National Transportation Safety Board during an accident investigation;
5.
To the DOT or any DOT agency with regulatory authority over the employer or any of its employees, or to a state oversight agency authorized to oversee rail fixed-guideway systems; or
6.
To the employee, upon written request.
7.
Records will be released if requested by federal, state, or local safety agency with regulatory authority over Lamar County or the employee.
8.
If a party seeks a court order to release a specimen or part of a specimen contrary to any provision of Part 40, necessary legal steps to contest the issuance of the order will be taken.
(Ord. of 2-19-02, § 8.0)
Sec. 2-2-338. - Employee and supervisor training.
All safety-sensitive employees will undergo a minimum of sixty (60) minutes of training on the signs and symptoms of drug use including the effects and consequences of drug use on personal health, safety, and the work environment. The training must also include manifestations and behavioral cues that may indicate prohibited drug use.
Supervisors will also receive sixty (60) minutes of reasonable suspicion training on the physical, behavioral, and performance indicators of probable drug use and sixty (60) minutes of additional reasonable suspicion training on the physical, behavioral, speech, and performance indicators of probable alcohol misuse.
Information on the signs, symptoms, health affects and consequences of alcohol misuse is presented in attachment 2 of this policy.
(Ord. of 2-19-02, § 9.0)
Sec. 2-2-339. - Re-entry contracts.
Employees who re-enter the workforce must agree to a re-entry contract. That contract may include (but is not limited to):
1.
A release-to-work-statement form [from] the substance abuse professional.
2.
A negative test for drugs and/or alcohol.
3.
An agreement to unannounced frequent follow-up testing for a period of one (1) to five (5) years with at least six (6) tests performed the first year.
4.
A statement of work-related behaviors.
5.
An agreement to follow specified after-care requirements with the understanding that violation of the re-entry contract is grounds for termination.
(Ord. of 2-19-02, § 10.0)
Sec. 2-2-340. - System contact.
Any questions regarding this policy or any other aspect of the drug-free and alcohol-free transit program should contact the following transit system representative:
EXPAND
Program Manager:
Name: Robert C. Hiett
Title: Manager
Address: McIntosh Trail Regional Development Center
P.O. Box 818
Griffin, Georgia 30224-0818
Telephone Number: (770) 227-6300
FAX Number: (770) 227-6488
Medical Review Officer:
Name: Benjamin Gerson
Address: 5301 Tacony Street
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19137
Telephone Number: (800) 624-3784
FAX Number:
Substance Abuse Professional:
Name: Jill Rasmussen & Sheila Harding
Title: Social Workers
Address: 3500 Riverside Drive
P.O. Box 7067
Macon, Georgia 31210
Telephone Number: (478) 757-4238
FAX Number:
  (Ord. of 2-19-02, § 1.0)
Attachment 1
Safety-Sensitive Functions *
Administrator (if performs dispatch functions)
Operations manager
Transportation dispatcher (if performs dispatch or driver functions)
Full-time bus drivers
Part-time bus drivers
Leadman/mechanic
Mechanic
Bus washer/fueler
* Or any others who operate a revenue service vehicle (whether or not the vehicle is in revenue service), dispatch (anyone who controls revenue service vehicles' movement), maintenance of a revenue service vehicle or equipment used in revenue service, security personnel who carry firearms, and any other employee who holds a commercial driver's license.
Attachment 2
Alcohol Fact Sheet
Alcohol is a socially acceptable drug that has been consumed throughout the world for centuries. It is considered a recreational beverage when consumed in moderation for enjoyment and relaxation during social gatherings. However, when consumed primarily for its physical and mood-altering effects, it is a substance of abuse. As a depressant, it slows down physical responses and progressively impairs mental functions.
Signs and symptoms of use.
• Dulled mental processes
• Lack of coordination
• Odor of alcohol on breath
• Possible constricted pupils
• Sleepy or stuporous condition
• Slowed reaction rate
• Slurred speech
(Note: Except for the odor, these are general signs and symptoms of any depressant substance.)
Health effects. The chronic consumption of alcohol (average of three (3) servings per day of beer [twelve (12) ounces], whiskey [one (1) ounce], or wine [six-ounce glass]) over time may result in the following health hazards:
• Decreased sexual functioning
• Dependency (up to ten (10) percent of all people who drink alcohol become physically and/or mentally dependent on alcohol and can be termed "alcoholic")
• Fatal liver diseases
• Increased cancers of the mouth, tongue, pharynx, esophagus, rectum, breast, and malignant melanoma
• Kidney disease
• Pancreatitis
• Spontaneous abortion and neonatal mortality
• Ulcers
• Birth defects (up to fifty-four (54) percent of all birth defects are alcohol-related).
Social issues.
• Two-thirds (⅔) of all homicides are committed by people who drink prior to the crime.
• Two (2) to three (3) percent of the driving population is legally drunk at any one time. This rate is doubled at night and on weekends.
• Two-thirds (⅔) of all Americans will be involved in an alcohol-related vehicle accident during their lifetimes.
• The rate of separation and divorce in families with alcohol dependency problems is seven (7) times the average.
• Forty (40) percent of family court cases are alcohol-problem-related.
• Alcoholics are fifteen (15) times more likely to commit suicide than are other segments of the population.
• More than sixty (60) percent of burns, forty (40) percent of falls, sixty-nine (69) percent of boating accidents, and seventy-six (76) percent of private aircraft accidents are alcohol-related.
The annual toll.
• Twenty-four thousand (24,000) people will die on the highway due to the legally impaired driver.
•  Twelve thousand (12,000) more will die on the highway due to the alcohol-affected driver.
• Fifteen thousand eight hundred (15,800) will die in nonhighway accidents.
• Thirty thousand (30,000) will die due to alcohol-caused liver disease.
• Ten thousand (10,000) will die due to alcohol-induced brain disease or suicide.
• Up to another one hundred twenty-five thousand (125,000) will die due to alcohol-related conditions or accidents.
Workplace issues.
• It takes one (1) hour for the average person (one hundred fifty (150) pounds) to process one (1) serving of an alcoholic beverage from the body.
• Impairment in coordination and judgment can be objectively measured with as little as two (2) drinks in the body.
• A person who is legally intoxicated is six (6) times more likely to have an accident than a sober person.
Attachment 3
Minimum Thresholds
EXPAND
Initial Test Cutoff
Levels (ng/ml)
Marijuana metabolites    50
Cocaine metabolites   300
Opiate metabolites 2,000
Phencyclidine    25
Amphetamines 1,000
  EXPAND
Confirmatory Test
Cutoff Levels (ng/ml)
Marijuana metabolites 1    15
Cocaine metabolites 2   150
Opiates:
Morphine 2,000
Codeine 2,000
Phencyclidine    25
Amphetamines:
Amphetamines   500
Methamphetamine 3   500
  1 Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol-9-carboxylic acid.
2 Benzoylecgonine
3 Specimen must also contain amphetamine at a concentration greater than or equal to 200 ng/ml.
