DIVISION 8. - TEMPORARY OUTDOOR ACTIVITY

Sec. 12-240. - License required.
No person, firm or corporation shall conduct or operate a temporary outdoor activity except as allowed under the provisions of this division.
(Code 2005, § 32-209(1); Ord. of 2-6-2006)
Sec. 12-241. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Goods and merchandise means tangible or movable personal property, other than money.
Temporary means for a period of not to exceed 20 consecutive days. A second permit for a temporary outdoor activity on the same property may not be applied for or renewed within six months from the date of any prior approval of a temporary outdoor activity.
Temporary outdoor activity means for-profit activities involving the temporary outside sale of goods and merchandise in association with an existing business located on the premises as the principal use of the premises. The term "temporary outdoor activity" includes the sale of farm produce, carnivals, or sale of Christmas trees or Halloween pumpkins from property which is vacant or which contains a separate and distinct primary use, such activities continuing for a period not exceeding 20 consecutive days, except Christmas tree sales shall be allowed between November 1 and December 31 and pumpkin sales shall be permitted from September 15 and October 31. Temporary outdoor activities shall occur in non-enclosed areas.
Temporary outdoor activity permit means written authorization by the Director of Planning, Zoning, and Inspections, or his designee, for the applicant to engage in temporary outdoor activities at a specific, fixed location meeting all the requirements of this division.
(Code 2005, § 32-209(2); Ord. of 2-6-2006)
Sec. 12-242. - Conditions of issuance.
No license under this section shall be issued until the following conditions have been met:
(1)
Peddling goods and merchandise not customarily sold on a day-to-day basis in the business which constitutes the principal use of the premises is prohibited.
(2)
Mobile food services and the preparation of food on site shall not be permitted as temporary outdoor activities.
(3)
No display shall be erected or installed, nor shall any temporary outdoor activity take place, within 50 feet of a City, County or State right-of-way.
(4)
Temporary outdoor activities shall be permitted only within the City's BG, HSB, and BGC Zoning Districts.
(5)
No temporary structure or covering shall be erected as a part of a temporary outdoor activity. Display tables may be used. Exemptions to this requirement are made for Christmas tree and Halloween pumpkin sales lots.
(6)
No operator, employee, or representative of the operator of a temporary outdoor activity shall solicit directly from the motoring public.
(7)
Temporary outdoor activities shall be permitted only on property where such activities shall not disrupt controlled vehicular ingress and egress or occupy required off-street parking spaces.
(8)
No more than one temporary outdoor activity shall be permitted simultaneously on a parcel.
(9)
Temporary outdoor activities shall be conducted on a paved surface and not on grassed or landscaped areas. Exemptions to this requirement are Christmas tree and Halloween pumpkin sales lots.
(10)
No evidence of the temporary activity shall remain on a parcel of property for more than 12 consecutive hours of any calendar day. Exemptions to this requirement are Christmas tree and Halloween pumpkin sales lots.
(11)
Charitable or nonprofit events for which sale proceeds benefit charitable organizations are not regulated by this article. Furthermore, the Lawrenceville Tourism and Trade Association (LTTA) is specifically exempt from the requirements of this division.
(Code 2005, § 32-209(3); Ord. of 2-6-2006)
Sec. 12-243. - Inspections.
It shall be the duty of the Police Chief or his designate to see that all conditions under this division are met.
(Code 2005, § 32-209(4); Ord. of 2-6-2006)
Secs. 12-244—12-264. - Reserved.
