ARTICLE XIII. - RISK MANAGEMENT[28]

Footnotes:
--- (28) ---
Cross reference— Finance, § 2-906 et seq.
State Law reference— Interlocal risk management agencies, O.C.G.A. § 36-85-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-1741. - Policy.
It shall be the policy of the city to minimize the financial burden incurred by its citizens and taxpayers as a result of fortuitous or accidental loss to which the city is exposed and to protect the assets, operations and employees of the city to the maximum extent from the adverse consequences of such loss, including such loss as may result from vehicular accidents, physical damage to property, injury in the workplace, fraud, criminal acts or liability to members of the public, which may arise out of the operations of the city.
(Code 1977, § 7-3041)
Sec. 2-1742. - Implementation and maintenance of policy.
The risk management policy shall be implemented and maintained through the application of the risk management process, which includes but is not limited to a systematic and continuous effort to:
(1)
Identify exposures to fortuitous or accidental loss.
(2)
Analyze and evaluate those exposures in terms of probable frequency and severity.
(3)
Measure incurred losses against appropriate loss ratio standards.
(4)
Develop and implement the most appropriate combination of risk control and risk financing techniques, consistent with the primary objectives and activities of the operating units of the city, thereby reducing and controlling the adverse human and financial consequences of risk.
(5)
Monitor the effectiveness of the program, adjusting as deemed appropriate and necessary to attain the risk management objectives.
(Code 1977, § 7-3042)
Sec. 2-1743. - Responsibility of chief financial officer.
(a)
The chief financial officer is assigned the overall responsibility for the development, implementation and maintenance of effective and responsible risk management program within the city government. Authority is granted for the utilization of any combination of risk financing and risk control techniques which in the chief financial officer's best judgment will most effectively protect the assets and operations of the city.
(b)
The chief financial officer shall employ a risk manager for the purpose of carrying out the risk management duties and responsibilities as stated in this section.
(Code 1977, § 7-3043)
Sec. 2-1744. - Applicability to all operations of the city.
Each department head, agency head, bureau director and supervisor is charged with the duty and responsibility to actively support and enforce the risk management policy adopted by the city, and to implement and enforce all risk management directives, standards, reporting requirements and procedures recommended by the risk management executive committee. All employees shall be held responsible for carrying out all risk management procedures, for practicing safe work habits in the performance of duty and for reporting all unsafe conditions, actions or procedures to their supervisors for the purpose of preventing accidental loss to any person or property.
(Code 1977, § 7-3044)
Sec. 2-1745. - Risk management identification, measurement and analysis of loss exposures.
(a)
The risk manager shall develop and maintain procedures for conducting risk management reviews which include but are not limited to regular physical inspections of facilities, investigations and analyses of incurred losses, checklists, personal contact with managers and employees and periodic review of the financial records of the city.
(b)
The risk manager shall develop and implement procedures for measuring the frequency and severity rate of losses on a citywide and departmental basis and establish mutual goals and timetables to assist the various departments in developing a management plan for achieving and maintaining those acceptable loss levels.
(c)
A risk management executive committee shall be established and shall review and determine appropriate corrective action based on safety committee reports and recommendations. The risk management executive committee shall have as members persons on the level of department head or bureau director. The risk management executive committee shall be responsible for the review and implementation of specific recommendations that result in a citywide policy or procedure change.
(Code 1977, § 7-3045(a), (b), (d))
Sec. 2-1746. - Claims administration.
The risk manager is responsible for all workers' compensation claims. All other insured or self-insured claims resulting in loss or damage to city property or loss resulting from fraud or employee dishonesty shall be the responsibility of the risk manager.
(Code 1977, § 7-3046)
Sec. 2-1747. - Risk management and claims information system.
The risk manager shall be responsible for developing and maintaining a comprehensive, computerized risk management and claims information network and information on all accidents which result or may result in financial loss to the city and for communicating the resulting statistical loss data as necessary and desirable for effective risk management.
(Code 1977, § 7-3047)
Sec. 2-1748. - Contractual transfer of risk.
The risk manager shall review and approve insurance provisions and requirements to hold the city harmless in city contracts prior to execution of the contracts, monitor insurance requirements in city contracts and establish and modify procedures to ensure compliance with those requirements.
(Code 1977, § 7-3048)
Sec. 2-1749. - Risk management communications.
(a)
The risk manager shall develop, distribute and maintain a risk management policy and procedures manual.
(b)
The risk manager shall prepare an annual risk management report to the office of the mayor and city council which summarizes the major activities of the risk management programs, including but not limited to identified loss exposures, actual losses incurred, insurance coverage and cost, loss control procedures implemented or recommended and savings resulting from such procedures.
(Code 1977, § 7-3049)
Secs. 2-1750—2-1780. - Reserved.
