ARTICLE VIII. - TRANSITION PROVISIONS

Section 8-101. - Special election of first officials.
(a)
A special election shall be held on a date fixed by the county election superintendent but not later than 120 days following the date of approval of this charter as provided in Section 8-110 of this charter, for the purpose of electing the first members of the Commission of the unified government. The Superintendent of elections shall publish notice of the call for such election in the newspaper in which the Quitman County Sheriff's advertisements appear at least 30 days prior the date of such election. Candidates may qualify until 15 days before the date of the election.
(b)
In all other respects, the election shall be held in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," applicable to county elections. Within 30 days following the approval of this charter as provided in Section 8-110 of this charter, the election superintendent of Quitman County shall prepare a list of qualified voters for the five county wide posts. The official elected at such election shall commence the term of their office on the effective date of this charter.
(c)
The qualifications for office for such initial election shall be as prescribed by applicable Provisions of this charter.
(d)
Any elected official of Quitman County or of any municipality lying wholly or partially therein who is otherwise qualified under this charter shall be entitled to qualify and run for an office of the unified government.
Section 8-102. - Initial terms of office.
The initial terms for Posts 1 and 2 of the first Commissioners of the unified government shall expire at the end of the first even-numbered year after their election. The initial terms for Posts 3, 4, and 5 shall expire at the end of the second even-numbered year after their election. All terms thereafter shall be four years.
Section 8-103. - Effective date of charter.
This charter shall become effective upon the election of members of a Commission of Georgetown-Quitman County, Georgia, and their taking office as the governing authority of the unified government.
Section 8-104. - Cooperation of former governments.
All officials, and employees of the Former City of Georgetown and Quitman County shall cooperate and assist the Commission, the Manager, and the other officers of Georgetown-Quitman County, Georgia:
(1)
In planning the unification of departments, boards, commissions, and agencies of said former governments and in transferring the functions, duties, and responsibilities of such departments, boards, commissions, authorities, and agencies to the appropriate agencies of he unified government of Georgetown-Quitman County, Georgia; and
(2)
In all respects in order that the transfer of the governments shall be entitled to most orderly manner possible. The officers of the unified government shall be entitled to examine all records, files, and other data in the possession of the former governments and of all officers, officials, employees, and departments thereof. The former governments shall, to the extent possible, provide working areas and facilities for the officers of the unified government.
Section 8-105. - Existing ordinances and resolutions continued in effect.
(a)
Subject to subsection (d) of this section, existing ordinances and resolutions of the Commission of Quitman County and existing rules and regulations of county departments or agencies, not inconsistent with the provisions of this charter, shall continue in effect as ordinances, resolutions, rules, or regulations of Georgetown-Quitman County, Georgia, or the appropriate department or agency thereof until they have been repealed, modified, or amended.
(b)
Subject to subsection (d) of this section, existing ordinances and resolutions of the City of Georgetown, not inconsistent with the provisions of this charter, shall continue in effect as ordinances and resolutions within the former boundaries of the City of Georgetown, until they have been repealed, modified, or amended.
(c)
Subject to subsection (d) of this section, in the event of a conflict between any of the ordinances or resolutions continued by this section, the provisions thereof shall apply only to the territory of the unified government that such ordinance or resolution applied prior to the effective date of this charter and until such ordinance or resolution is repealed, changed, or amended to eliminate the conflict.
(d)
The Commission shall review all ordinances and resolutions and take whatever action is needed to remove any conflicts between ordinances and resolutions continued by this section in order to produce a uniform body of ordinances and resolutions, free of any conflicts or contradictions between such provisions.
Section 8-106. - Contracts and obligations.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, all contracts, orders, leases, bonds, and other obligations or instruments entered into by Quitman County or for its benefits prior to the effective date of this charter shall continue in effect according to the terms thereof as obligations and rights of the unified government; provided, however, any obligation created by Quitman County to become effective after the date of approval of this Charter shall be subject to ratification and approval by the Commission of the unified government within six months following the effective date of this Charter.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, contracts, orders, leases, bonds, and other obligations or instruments entered into by the City of Georgetown or for its benefit prior to the effective date of this charter, shall continue in effect according the terms thereof as obligations and rights of the unified government; provided, however, any obligation created by the City of Georgetown to become effective after the date of approval of this Charter shall be subject to ratification and approval by the Commission of the unified government within six months following the effective date of the Charter.
(c)
No pending action or proceeding of any nature (whether civil, criminal, judicial, administrative, or other) by or against the City of Georgetown or Quitman County or agency or department thereof shall be abated or otherwise affected by the adoption of this charter, and the unified government stand substituted as a party in lieu thereof.
Section 8-107. - Dissolution of existing governments.
On the effective date of this charter, the Board of Commissioners of Quitman County and the Mayor and Council of the City of Georgetown and all the officers thereof and the offices thereof not continued under this charter are abolished, and all emoluments appertaining thereto shall cease. Thereupon, the governments of Quitman County and the City of Georgetown shall terminate as separate political entities and all powers, functions, duties, and obligations thereof shall be transferred to and vested in the unified government created by this charter.
Section 8-108. - Transfer of records and equipment.
When an agency of the City of Georgetown or of Quitman County is abolished or unified by this charter, all books, papers, maps, charts, plans, records, other equipment, and personal property in possession of the same shall be delivered to the agency to which its rights, powers, duties, and obligations are transferred.
Section 8-109. - Officers serve until successors qualify.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this charter, any officer performing duties under the government of the City of Georgetown or Quitman County may continue to perform the duties thereof until a successor, whether under the same title or office of another, shall be elected or appointed and the qualified to perform the duties, it being the intention hereof that no duty or service shall lapse or be abandoned because of lack of an officer to perform same.
Section 8-110. - Referendum on the charter.
(a)
Not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days after receipt of the certified copy of the proposed charter and after receipt of approval by the Department of Justice of such proposed charter, it shall be the duty of the Quitman County election superintendent shall election for approval or rejection of the proposed charter. The election superintendent shall set the date of the election for a day not less than 30 days nor more than 90 days after the issuance of the call. The election superintendent shall cause the date and purpose of the election to be published once a week for two calendar weeks immediately preceding the date thereof in the official legal organ of Quitman County. The ballot shall have written or printed thereon the following:
"( ) YES—-Shall the charter unifying the governments of the City of Georgetown and Quitman County and creating a single county-wide government to
( ) NO supersede and replace those governments be approved?"
(b)
All persons desiring to vote for approval of the charter shall vote "YES," and those persons desiring to vote for rejection of the charter shall vote "NO." If more than one-half of the votes cast by the qualified voters of Quitman County residing within the corporate limits of the City of Georgetown are for approval of the charter and if more than one-half of the total votes cast by all the qualified voters of Quitman County are for approval of the charter, then the charter shall become effective. Otherwise, it shall be void and of no force and effect. The expense of such election shall be borne equally by the City of Georgetown and Quitman County.
(c)
The special election shall be conducted pursuant to Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," except to the extent specifically provided otherwise by this Charter.
(d)
A qualified voter, as used herein, shall mean a voter of Quitman County qualified to vote for members of the General Assembly of Georgia. The election superintendent shall certify the returns to the Secretary of State. The election superintendent shall also furnish a certified copy of the charter to the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State shall issue a proclamation showing and declaring the result of the election on the approval or rejection of the charter. One copy of the proclamation shall be attached to the copy of the charter certified to the Secretary of State. One copy of the proclamation shall be delivered to the clerk of the governing authority of the City of Georgetown who shall attach the same to the copy of the charter previously certified to him or her. One copy of the proclamation shall be delivered to the clerk of the governing authority of Quitman County who shall attach the same to the copy of the charter previously certified to him or her.
(e)
Whenever a charter for the unification of the governments of the City of Georgetown and Quitman County has been accepted, the above-certified copies thereof, with the proclamation of the Secretary of State of Georgia attached thereto, shall be deemed duplicate original copies of the charter of the unified government for all purposes. The certified copy of the charter and proclamation deposited with the clerk of the governing authority of the City of Georgetown and the certified copy of the charter and proclamation deposited with the clerk of the governing authority of Quitman County shall subsequently be delivered by them to the successor government. The successor government may issue certified copies of the charter and any copy so certified shall be deemed a duplicate original copy of the charter of the unified government for all purposes. The Secretary of State is authorized to issue certified copies of the charter on file, and copies so certified shall be deemed duplicate original copies of the charter of the unified government for all purposes.
Duly approved and adopted by a majority vote of the members of the Georgetown-Quitman County Charter and Unification Commission, this date, May 16, 2006.
EXPAND
/s/
      David Kinsey, Chairman
    Georgetown-Quitman County Charter and Unification Commission
Certified true and correct copy, this date, May 16, 2006.
