ARTICLE III. - ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1. - OFFICERS

Section 3-101. - Manager; appointment; qualifications; compensation.
The Manager shall be appointed as the full-time administrative officer of the unified government. No person holding an elective office in Georgetown-Quitman County shall be eligible for appointment until one year after leaving elective office. Such appointment shall be by a majority vote of the total membership of the Commission. The Manager shall be prohibited from engaging in any political activity, and the Manager shall not be eligible to qualify as a candidate for an elective office in Georgetown-Quitman County for one year after leaving office. The Manager shall be appointed for a term of not less than one year and not more than three years; may succeed himself or herself; and at any time may be removed from office for cause after written notice and hearing by a majority vote of the entire Commission.
The Manager must have one or more of the following qualifications:
(1)
Municipal, county or other governmental entity executive level management experience of one year or more; or
(2)
Municipal, county or other governmental entity mid-level management experience of two years or more, if the Commission determines that such experience is similar to the duties of Manager; or
(3)
A degree in municipal or county management or business administration from an accredited college; or
(4)
Executive and administrative qualifications in private business and industry with special reference to actual experience in, and knowledge of, accepted practices in respect to the duties of Manager; and
(5)
Additional qualifications that may be fixed by ordinance or resolution of the Commission.
(Ord. No. 01-07, ยง 1, 5-22-07; Ord. No. 2-2016 , ยง 1, 7-12-16)
Section 3-102. - Manager; powers and duties.
(a)
The Manager shall be responsible for:
(1)
The management and coordination of the operations and activities of the various departments and agencies of the unified government;
(2)
The appointment and removal of all directors of departments who are subject to his or her control and direction as provided for by this Charter but only after having first obtained the advice and consent of the commission;
(3)
The preparation of the proposed annual budget;
(4)
Keeping the Commission at all times fully advised as to the financial condition and needs of the unified government; including a monthly financial report to the commission;
(5)
Conducting studies and investigations and making reports thereon to the Commission concerning the operations of the departments, offices, and agencies of the unified government;
(6)
Requiring any department, board, commission, or agency under the Manager's jurisdiction to submit written reports and to provide other information as deemed necessary;
(7)
Prescribing, requiring, publishing, and implementing standards of administration, management, and operating practices and procedures to be followed and adhered to all offices, departments, boards, commissions, authorities, and other agencies of the unified government which are subject to the Manager's supervision and jurisdiction;
(8)
Acting as the purchasing agent of Georgetown-Quitman County; and
(9)
Maintaining all required records of the operations and activities of Georgetown-Quitman County, including the minutes of all meetings of the Commission of Georgetown-Quitman County;
(10)
Perform such other duties as may be required by law, this Charter, Ordinance or resolution of the Commission;
(11)
Directing and supervising the administration of the construction, maintenance, and operation of public streets, sidewalks, roads, bridges drains and buildings and other public works.
(b)
Excerpt for the purpose of inquiry, investigations, or safety violations the Commission shall deal with employees of the unified government who are subject to appointment and removal by the Manager solely through the Manager and shall not give orders or directions to any such employee, either publicly or privately, directly or indirectly.
Section 3-103. - Attorney; appointment; term; qualifications; duties; compensation.
(a)
The Attorney shall be appointed for one year at the first meeting in January by a majority vote of the entire Commission and at any time may be removed for cause after written notice and hearing by a majority vote of entire Commission.
(b)
The Attorney shall be active member of the State Bar of Georgia in good standing and shall satisfy any other qualifications established by ordinance and shall have had at least five (5) years of experience in active practice of the law.
(c)
The Attorney shall be the legal counsel to the unified government and shall perform such other duties as may be required by this charter or by ordinance.
(d)
The compensation of the Attorney shall be as prescribed by a duly adopted ordinance or resolution.
Section 3-104. - Sheriff.
The Sheriff of Quitman County in office on the effective date of this charter shall be the Sheriff of Georgetown-Quitman County, Georgia. The Sheriff shall serve for the same term as provided by law, and the compensation shall be fixed as provided by law. Subsequent elections for Sheriff shall be on he same basis as provided by law for the election of sheriffs generally. The Sheriff shall be responsible for the operation of the jail, the transport of prisoners, the service of process, and such other duties being provided on the effective date of this charter. The Sheriff shall have such other or different powers and duties as provided by the Constitution and laws of Georgia.
Section 3-105. - Judge of the probate court.
The Judge or the Probate Court of Quitman County in office on the effective date of this charter shall be the Judge of the Probate Court of Georgetown-Quitman County, Georgia. The Judge of Probate Court shall serve for the same term as provided by law, and the compensation shall be fixed by provided law. Subsequent elections for the Judge of the Probate Court shall be on the same basis as provided by law for the election of probate judges generally. The Judge of the Probate Court shall perform the same duties and exercise the same powers as conferred on probate judges generally by the Constitution and laws of Georgia.
Section 3-106. - Clerk of superior court.
The Clerk of Superior Court of Quitman County in office on the effective date of this charter shall be the Clerk of Superior Court of Georgetown-Quitman County, Georgia. The Clerk of Superior Court shall serve for the same term as provided by law, and the compensation shall be fixed as provided by law. Subsequent elections for the Clerk of Superior Court shall be on the same basis as provided by law for the election of clerks of superior court generally. The Clerk of Superior Court shall perform the same duties and exercise the same powers as conferred on clerks of superior court generally by the Constitution and laws of Georgia.
Section 3-107. - Tax commissioner.
The Tax Commissioner of Quitman County in office on the effective date of this charter shall be the Tax Commissioner of Georgetown-Quitman County, Georgia. The Tax Commissioner shall serve for the same term as provided by law, and the compensation shall be fixed as provided by law. Subsequent elections for Tax Commissioner shall be on the same basis as provided by law for the election of tax commissioners generally. The Tax Commissioner shall perform the same duties and exercise the same powers as conferred on tax commissioners generally by the Constitution and laws of Georgia.
Section 3-108. - Coroner.
The Coroner of Quitman County in office on the effective date of this charter shall be the Coroner of Georgetown-Quitman County, Georgia. The Coroner shall serve for the same term as provided by law, and compensation shall be fixed as provided by law. Subsequent elections for Coroner shall be on the same basis as provided by laws for the election of coroners generally. The Coroner shall perform the same duties and exercise the same powers as conferred on coroners generally by the Constitution and laws of Georgia.
CHAPTER 2. - ADMINISTRATIVE AND SERVICE DEPARTMENTS

Section 3-201. - Creation and functions; generally.
Except as otherwise provided by this charter or by law, the administrative and service departments of the unified government shall be created and established by ordinance or resolution and shall perform such functions, duties, services, and responsibilities as enumerated therein and as prescribed by administrative regulations.
Section 3-202. - Administrative reorganization.
The Commission may, by ordinance or resolution, reorganize, combine, consolidate, or discontinue any department or agency of the unified government subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission and may, by ordinance or resolution, prescribe the functions and duties thereof and may establish, abolish, or alter all non-elective offices and positions of employment as necessary for the proper administrative of the unified government.
Section 3-203. - Appointment of directors of departments.
All directors of departments under the supervision and direction of the Manager shall be appointed by the Manager subject to the advice and consent of the Commission. The directors of all such departments shall serve at the pleasure of the Manager subject to the advice and consent of the Commission.
Section 3-204. - Departments under state law.
All departments which are created pursuant to state and federal law and which administer various state and federal programs and services shall continue their operations without interruption resulting from the adoption of this charter.
CHAPTER 3. - MERIT SYSTEM OF PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION

Section 3-301. - Establishment of merit system.
(a)
The Commission may establish, by ordinance, a Merit System of Personnel Administration for Georgetown-Quitman County, Georgia. In such case, all positions in the service of Georgetown-Quitman, Georgia, shall be in the Classified (Merit System) Service except the following which are declared to be in the Unclassified Service:
(1)
Officers elected by the people and persons appointed to fill vacancies in elected offices;
(2)
Members of boards and commissions;
(3)
Directors of departments;
(4)
Persons temporarily employed in a professional or scientific capacity or to conduct a special inquiry, investigation, examination, or installation;
(5)
Temporary and part-time employees; and
(6)
Such other employees as may be excluded from coverage under the merit system as provided by ordinance or resolution or other applicable law.
(7)
The manager and attorney.
(b)
The Merit System of Personnel Administration, if so established, shall provide for classification of positions, the manner and method of publicizing appointing personnel, the qualifications of employees, employee performance evaluations salaries, hours of employment, vacations, sick leave, special workers' compensation, job security, promotion, demotion, disciplinary procedures, transfer, layoff, removal, welfare of employees, retirement policy, payment of premiums of employee insurance benefits, grievance procedures, service awards, training leave, and any other measures that promote the hiring and retaining of capable, diligent, and honest career employees, all of which shall be in accordance with the concept of affirmative action as provided by federal law.
CHAPTER 4. - BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AND AUTHORITIES

Section 3-401. - Certain boards, commissions, and authorities continued.
All existing boards, commissions, and authorities are continued without interruption on the effective date of this charter.
