ARTICLE I. - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL

Sec. 6-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcohol means ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
Alcoholic beverage means and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverage, wine or fortified wine.
Applicant means any one or more persons making application for a Georgetown-Quitman County or state for alcoholic beverage license of any type or renewal thereof.
Application means those forms, statements and applications authorized or required under the terms and conditions of this chapter, other applicable laws and regulations of Georgetown-Quitman County and those applicable requirements of the state.
Church shall include synagogue, and any other place of permanent public religious worship which shall exist if a valid building permit has been obtained and substantial construction is underway.
College, school means those state, county, city, church or other colleges or schools teaching the subjects common in schools or colleges of the state.
County clerk means the Clerk of the Commission of Georgetown-Quitman County.
Due cause means cause for suspension, revocation, cancellation or denial of any alcoholic beverage license which shall consist of any violation of this chapter or any laws or ordinances of Georgetown-Quitman County or state, prohibiting or regulating the business of selling, transporting or dealing in alcoholic beverages or violation of ordinances, laws or regulations made pursuant to authority granted for the purpose of regulation of such businesses; or for the violation of any Georgetown-Quitman County, state or federal law involving moral turpitude, controlled substances or violation of Georgetown-Quitman County ordinances other than traffic ordinances. It shall also consist of willfully false statements or conduct of applicant for an alcoholic beverage license or renewal thereof or willful concealment of material matters of fact of obtaining or preventing another from obtaining a license hereunder.
Immediate family or member of immediate family means all persons related to each other by consanguinity or affinity within the first degree, as computed according to the civil law.
Inspector or license inspector means that person designated as license inspector of Georgetown-Quitman County and his representatives.
Interest or financial interest means a pecuniary interest and shall include any present or future, whole or partial, legal or beneficial, direct or indirect, right, power or authority or control of or in any Class I, Class II, Class III, Class IV or Class V alcoholic beverage application for license and/or license issued; it shall apply to the outright owner, co-owner, member of a partnership, or stockholder in a corporation, organized or in the process of organizing, for pecuniary gain, which owns or is to own any financial interest in any class of alcoholic beverage application and/or license issued for any class of such license within the limits of Georgetown-Quitman County and shall include any such interest in the premises from which such alcoholic beverages are sold. If any of the income from the sales of alcoholic beverages is shared, or rent, lease, etc., on which land is, or is to be paid on the basis of sales of alcoholic beverages on such land, and anyone sharing in any income or corpus of any trust fund or estate having any interest in such applications, licenses or premises shall have a financial interest therein. Also, it shall include a lender of money or other thing of value to such applicant or licensee, to anyone else for the benefit of such applicant or licensee, on interest in excess of the highest level rate allowable in this state.
License means a license granted by Georgetown-Quitman County and/or state, granted or issued upon the basis of the alleged truth of a written application therefore to sell alcoholic beverages of any kind or nature within Georgetown-Quitman County.
License year means that 12-month period for and with respect to which licenses under this chapter shall be issued. Such license year shall commence on January 1 of each year and end at midnight on the December 31 next following.
Licensee means that person duly licensed or having interest therein as licensed, by Georgetown-Quitman County to distribute, transport, sell at wholesale, retail or by the drink, alcoholic beverages of any kind or nature within Georgetown-Quitman County.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than six percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer, and strong beer. The term does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Manufacturer means any maker, producer or bottler of an alcoholic beverage. The term also means:
(1)
In the case of malt beverages, any brewer.
(2)
In the case of wine, any vintner.
Minor means any person under 21 years of age.
Off-premises sales of alcoholic beverages means the sale of alcoholic beverages of any kind or nature, kind or class in sealed, unbroken containers for consumption not on the premises of the licensee.
On-premises sales of alcoholic beverages means the sale, giving or dispensing of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises of the licensee.
Original/initial, when used in connection with an application for an alcoholic beverage license, means the first license granted for a given location or first use or application for use or change of use of a given application for use of a location previously licensed or approved for a license hereunder.
Package means a bottle, can, keg, barrel or other original consumer container.
Park means property utilized for passive and/or active recreational use by the public.
Premises means those lots, plots or tracts of land upon which any structure, building, store, mobile trailer, etc., is located from which alcoholic beverages are sold, dispensed, stored, consumed or given to the public including, but not limited to, that building, structure, room or closed or partitioned-in locality whether a room, shop, structure or building wherein alcoholic beverages are sold, dispensed, stored, consumed or given to the public.
Private dwelling means a house or dwelling or structure wherein one or more persons reside at the time of the filing of an application under this chapter.
Renewal, when used in connection with an application for a license or a location, means an unrevoked alcoholic beverage license issued hereunder to a designated licensee for a designated location, on expiration of which unrevoked license the identical owners thereof, but no others, may be entitled to a new annual license for the same, but no other location.
Residence means domicile.
Restaurant means any public place kept, maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place where meals are served and where meals are actually and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such place being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen, bathrooms and dining room equipment and seating capacity of at least 50 people, having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests. Serving of such meals shall be the principal business conducted, with the serving of alcoholic beverages to be consumed on the premises as only incidental thereto. No alcoholic beverages shall be sold or served unless regular meals are also being served with the alcoholic beverages. No brown bagging or "bring your own" shall be allowed. No premises shall be considered to be a restaurant if there is a distinct room set up as primarily as a drinking area rather than an eating area such that there appears to be a restaurant area and a "bar" area. To qualify as a restaurant and an eating establishment under this section, such establishment must derive at least 60 percent of its total annual gross sales of food and beverage from the sales of prepared meals and foods. A restaurant shall have a general liability policy from an insurer licensed to do business in the State of Georgia in the amount of $2,000,000.00.
Satisfactory proof means adequate or sufficient evidence to convince an unbiased, impartial, enlightened judge of the existence or nonexistence of a fact, situation or condition.
Store means a room or area wherein only the sale at retail of alcoholic beverages in the original unbroken packages, bottles, containers, etc., may be authorized under this chapter and the Revenue Tax Act to legalize and control alcoholic beverages.
Wholesale distributor of alcoholic beverages means that license issued by Georgetown-Quitman County enabling the licensee to distribute, sell, offer to sell to a bona fide Class II, Class III, Class IV or Class V license holder, at wholesale prices, alcoholic beverages in unbroken packages or containers.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines, and like products. The term does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at that point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to the definition of wine contained in this section.
(Ord. No. 02-14, 10-14-14)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 6-2. - License constitutes grant or privilege.
(a)
All licenses shall be a mere grant or privilege to carry on such business during the term of the license subject to all the terms and conditions imposed by this division and related laws, and other ordinances and resolutions of the Commission of Georgetown-Quitman County relating to such business.
(b)
The distributing, selling, handling, and otherwise dealing in or possessing alcoholic beverages are declared to be privileges within the boundaries of the Georgetown-Quitman County and not rights; however, such privileges shall not be exercised except in accordance with the licensing and regulatory requirements of this chapter.
(c)
All licenses shall be and shall have printed on the front these words: "This license is a mere privilege subject to be suspended, revoked, canceled or annulled by the Commission of Georgetown-Quitman County, and is subject to any future ordinances enacted by Georgetown-Quitman County, Georgia."
(Ord. No. 02-14, 10-14-14)
Sec. 6-3. - Penalty for violation of chapter.
The violation of the terms and conditions of this chapter by any applicant, licensee, his manager, director, operator, agents, assigns or employees for which such applicant and/or licensee is deemed responsible shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.00 and/or imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed ten days in the discretion of the court and shall be subject to sections 6-166 and 6-167.
(Ord. No. 02-14, 10-14-14)
Sec. 6-4. - Illegal acts on licensed premises.
No holder of a license authorizing the sale of alcoholic beverages within Georgetown-Quitman County, nor any agent, representative or employee of such licensee, shall perform any of the acts following which are hereby declared illegal:
(1)
Sell alcoholic beverages to a minor.
(2)
Sell alcoholic beverages to any person while such person is in an intoxicated condition.
(3)
Sell alcoholic beverages upon the licensed premises or permit consumption thereon, on any day or at any time when such sales or consumption is prohibited by law.
(4)
Permit on the licensed premises any disorderly conduct; breach of peace; or any lewd, immoral, improper entertainment, conduct or practices.
(5)
Dispense in any way to minors. It shall be unlawful for the licensee to sell, attempt to sell, give, distribute or dispense alcoholic beverages to a minor.
(6)
Purchase for minor. It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase alcoholic beverages on behalf of a minor.
(7)
Possession by minor. It shall be unlawful for any minor to have in his possession, care or custody any alcoholic beverage.
(8)
Spurious credentials. It shall be unlawful for any minor to exhibit fake, forged, borrowed or otherwise illegal credentials in an effort to obtain alcoholic beverages in any manner to which he is not legally entitled.
(9)
Acquiesce, permit or allow, the bringing into, use of, sale, possession, dispensing, storing or in any other manner condone the presence of controlled substances/illicit drugs, narcotics, cocaine, crack, marijuana or any other substances declared illegal by Georgetown-Quitman County, state or U.S. Government. Failure of the owner, operator, manager, representative, agents or employees of same to insure compliance with this section shall, within 24 hours of such finding by the governing body, the state or the U.S. Government, result in immediate revocation of the alcoholic beverage license and closing of the business so licensed.
(10)
Permit or allow any person to bring into licensees' place of business any form of alcoholic beverages and/or consume the alcoholic beverages brought into the licensed premises. The intent and purpose of this prohibition is to prohibit what is commonly referred to as brown bagging.
All violations of this section are, in addition to the above, subject to all penalties provided for in this chapter and/or ordinances, laws, regulations of Georgetown-Quitman County, state and U.S. Government.
(Ord. No. 02-14, 10-14-14)
State Law reference— Furnishing to, purchase of, or possession by persons under 21 years of age of alcoholic beverages; use of false identification; proper identification for sale of alcoholic beverages; dispensing, serving, etc., of alcoholic beverages by persons under 21 years of age in the course of employment; seller's duty to request proper identification, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23; public indecency, O.C.G.A. § 16-6-8; prohibited conduct on licensed premises, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-40 et seq.; age of legal majority, O.C.G.A. § 39-1-1.
Sec. 6-5. - Enforcement personnel; right of entry.
The Commission of Georgetown-Quitman County, or its designee, the Sheriff of Quitman County, or his or her designee, as well as those personnel of the alcoholic beverage enforcement division of the state, and of the U.S. Government, are hereby authorized to enter into or upon the premises of any class of alcoholic beverage licensed location at any time the enforcement agencies herein noted deem necessary in the enforcement of this chapter or other Georgetown-Quitman County, state or U.S. Government, laws, ordinances, rules or regulations.
(Ord. No. 02-14, 10-14-14)
Sec. 6-6. - Sale to minors, intoxicated or incompetent persons.
No licensee shall give, sell, offer to sell, dispense or otherwise permit the same to any person under 21 years of age or those otherwise defined as minors under the laws of the state or to anyone who is noticeably intoxicated, or who is of unsound mind.
(Ord. No. 02-14, 10-14-14)
Sec. 6-7. - Employment of persons under 18 years of age.
(a)
No person shall allow or require a person in his employment under 18 years of age to dispense, serve, sell or take orders for any alcoholic beverages.
(b)
This section shall not prohibit persons under 18 years of age who are employed in supermarkets, markets, convenience stores, gas stations, or drugstores from selling or handling alcoholic beverages which are sold for consumption off the premises.
(Ord. No. 02-14, 10-14-14)
Sec. 6-8. - Days, hours of sale.
No person shall sell, offer for sale, give, dispense or distribute alcoholic beverages at the following times:
(1)
Class II and Class III licenses from 12:59 a. m. to 11:30 a.m. on Sunday.
(2)
Class IV and Class V licenses (consumption on-premises) from 12:59 a.m. 11:30 a.m. each day.
(3)
At any time prohibited by state or federal law.
(Ord. No. 02-14, 10-14-14; Ord. No. 04-15 , § 1, 8-11-15; Ord. No. 04-17 , 12-12-17)
Sec. 6-9. - Closing, clearing of premises.
All owners, managers, operators, representatives, agents or employees of a holder of a Class II, Class III, Class IV or Class V alcoholic beverage license shall cease the sales, offer to sell, give, dispense, or distribute any alcoholic beverages on or from the premises for which a Class IV or Class V license has been issued by Georgetown-Quitman County and/or the state as of 11:55 p.m. of each day of the week on which sales are not prohibited in section 6-8, and shall require all patrons or parties to vacate the premises from which a Class IV or Class V alcoholic beverage license has been issued by 12:00 a.m. (midnight).
(Ord. No. 02-14, 10-14-14)
Sec. 6-10. - Penalty for sales during closed days and hours.
Violation of sections 6-6, 6-7, 6-8 or 6-9 shall result in due cause for revocation of any and all alcoholic beverage licenses held by the owner, lessee or renter of the premises found in violation hereof and shall subject same to all penalties contained in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 02-14, 10-14-14)
Sec. 6-11. - Display of license.
The license under this chapter shall at all times be kept plainly exposed to view at the place of business of the licensee.
(Ord. No. 02-14, 10-14-14)
Sec. 6-12. - Sales in licensed premises only.
No alcoholic beverage licensee shall sell or deliver any alcoholic beverage to any person except in the licensee's place of business.
(Ord. No. 02-14, 10-14-14)
Sec. 6-13. - Means and places of receipt of delivery to retail licensee; place of sale.
Alcoholic beverages shall be received at or delivered to the premises of the retail licensee by no means other than conveyance owned and operated by a wholesale dealer with a permit from the governing body to make deliveries in Georgetown-Quitman County. Transportation of alcoholic beverages by any other means shall be grounds for revocation of a retail license and/or wholesale permit. No retail sales or deliveries of alcoholic beverages shall be made except in the place of business in which such sales and deliveries are authorized.
(Ord. No. 02-14, 10-14-14)
Sec. 6-14. - Licensee identification signs.
Each person licensed to sell alcoholic beverages at retail shall have printed or plainly painted on the front window of the licensed premises the full legal name of the licensee, together with the inscription of his correct Georgetown-Quitman County license number inserted in the blank space therefore, e.g., "Georgetown-Quitman County Retail License No. 07" in uniform letters not less than four inches in height; provided, if a licensee desires, he may have his full and correct legal name displayed on the inside of the front window in neon or other electric lights. Such sign shall be parallel with the window and so constructed as not to extend more than six inches from the window.
(Ord. No. 02-14, 10-14-14)
Sec. 6-15. - Display of prices and/or penal sections generally.
Each Class II and Class III licensee shall have conspicuously displayed within the interior of the licensed premises not less than four copies of the printed price list of the alcoholic beverages offered for sale and printed copy of the penal sections of this chapter; provided, however, that a licensee, in lieu of having four copies of a printed price list may have the prices of the alcoholic beverages offered for sale located and placed on the bottles, or on the bottom of the shelf directly under such bottles wherein such alcoholic beverages are exhibited for sale.
(Ord. No. 02-14, 10-14-14)
Sec. 6-16. - Outside display of prices prohibited.
No sign advertising any brand or price of alcoholic beverages shall be permitted on the exterior of any licensed premises, and no placard or sign visible from the exterior of the licensed premises shall refer to the price of any alcoholic beverages for sale therein. Any interior window signs shall be discreet and shall not reflect the price of any alcoholic beverage.
(Ord. No. 02-14, 10-14-14)
Sec. 6-17. - Interior visibility, Class IV or Class V license.
No screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall be permitted in the window or upon the doors of a Class IV and Class V licenses licensed premises which shall prevent a clear view into the interior of such premises from the street or road at all times and no booths, screen, partition or other obstruction shall be permitted within the interior of such licensed premises that blocks such view which shall plainly permit visibility from the street or road day and night.
(Ord. No. 02-14, 10-14-14)
Sec. 6-18. - Interior light switch, proximity to front door, Class IV and Class V license.
There shall be installed and maintained within 24 inches of the front door of all Class IV or Class V on-premises licensed establishments and not more than five feet from the floor, a single light switch that will actuate, but not deactivate, without a key thereto, all interior lighting of the licensed establishment.
(Ord. No. 02-14, 10-14-14)
Sec. 6-19. - Front entrance location, Class IV or Class V license.
No license shall be granted for Class IV or Class V alcoholic beverage sales hereunder unless the front entrance to the premises is clearly visible from a public street, and the premises around the building of the licensee shall be on all corners thereof, lit with a minimum of 250-watt high pressure sodium lighting.
(Ord. No. 02-14, 10-14-14)
Sec. 6-20. - Gambling devices, slot machines, etc.
Within the premises of a Class II, Class III, Class IV or Class V license holder there shall be no illegal gambling or in any room adjoining the same, owned, leased or controlled by licensee. Any violation of this section shall be cause for suspension or revocation of the license. Nothing contained herein shall restrict the presence of amusement games and/or video machine games or the Georgia Lottery within the premises of a Class II, Class III, Class IV or Class V license holder.
(Ord. No. 02-14, 10-14-14)
Sec. 6-21. - Sales in central business district.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, distribute or otherwise dispense of any alcoholic beverage within the central business district area unless the person holds a Class IV and Class V license under this chapter for a restaurant. For purposes of this chapter, the central business district area is defined as that area within 1,000 feet of the Quitman County Courthouse.
Sec. 6-22. - Possession or consumption of an open container in public place.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drink or to attempt to drink any alcoholic, malt or vinous liquors or any intoxicant from a can, bottle or glass or any other container or to possess an opened can, bottle, glass or other container containing any alcoholic, malt or vinous liquor or any intoxicant on the streets, sidewalks, rights-of-way or designated public parking areas, on the premises of any registered business with the Unified Government of Georgetown-Quitman County, within the corporate limits of the Unified Government of Georgetown-Quitman County. All Class IV and Class V alcohol licensees are exempt from this provision on licensed premises. All state laws concerning open container in vehicles shall be adhered to.
(Ord. No. 02-14, 10-14-14)
Sec. 6-23. - Location for the sale of alcohol.
(a)
Class II, Class III, Class IV or Class V license premises must be located in a C-1 (commercial zone) zoning district.
(b)
In addition to being located in a C-1 (commercial zone) zoning district, Class III license premises must be located on a tract or parcel of land that adjoins and abuts U.S. Route 82.
(Ord. No. 02-14, 10-14-14)
Secs. 6-24—6-45. - Reserved.
