Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Any contract or obligation assumed by the county saved from repeal, § 1-10(3); any ordinance, consistent with this Code, providing for the levy or collection of taxes or for an annual budget or appropriation saved from repeal, § 1-10(6); community development, ch. 18; courts, ch. 22; law enforcement, ch. 30; personnel, ch. 34; administration of waste management; litter control, § 42-33; utilities, ch. 50; legal status provisions, app. A, art. XVIII.
State Constitution reference— Counties and municipal corporations, Ga. Const. art IX; home rule for counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I.
State Law reference— County government, O.C.G.A. title 36; emergency interim successors to officials, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-50.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Office hours.
The hours that all county offices located in the courthouse will be open to the public will be from 8:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, with one hour for lunch.
(Ord. of 4-13-1993)
State Law reference— Courthouse to remain open during normal working hours, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-12.
Sec. 2-2. - County legal organ.
The legal organ for the county shall be the Eufaula Tribune, effective January 1, 2008.
(Res. of 7-29-1998; Res. No. 13-07, 10-9-07)
Secs. 2-3—2-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-31—2-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MEETINGS; ORGANIZATION; PUBLIC ACCESS

Sec. 2-51. - Open meetings.
All meetings of the board of commissioners shall be held in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq. The public shall at all times be afforded access to all meetings other than executive sessions.
(Ord. of 5-14-1996, § 1-01)
Sec. 2-52. - Quorum.
A quorum must be present for conducting meetings of the board. A quorum is a majority of all of the members of the board then in office. It is the duty of the chairman to enforce this rule. Any commissioner may raise a point of order directed to the chairman if he believes that a quorum is not present. If, during the course of a meeting, a commissioner leaves and a quorum no longer exists, the meeting cannot continue. If a quorum is not attained within 30 minutes, the meeting will be rescheduled by the chairman with the approval of the commissioners present.
(Ord. of 5-14-1996, § 1-02)
Sec. 2-53. - Voting; majority.
Passage of a motion shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of commissioners present and voting at a meeting at which a quorum is present. Unless otherwise specified in these procedures, a majority shall mean at least half of the commissioners present excluding abstentions. Where a two-thirds majority is specified, a majority vote shall mean at least two-thirds of the commissioners present excluding abstentions. In the event of a tie vote, the chairman shall vote to break the tie.
(Ord. of 5-14-1996, § 1-03)
Sec. 2-54. - Abstentions.
A commissioner shall vote on all motions unless he has a conflict of interest which would prevent him from making a decision in a fair and legal manner. If a conflict of interest does exist, the commissioner shall explain for the record his decision to abstain on any vote.
(Ord. of 5-14-1996, § 1-04)
Sec. 2-55. - Chairman.
The chairman of the board of commissioners is responsible for the orderly conduct of the meeting. In order to fulfill this duty, the chairman must enforce the rules of procedure that are adopted by the board of commissioners. The chairman shall be impartial and conduct the meetings in a fair manner. The chairman may not introduce motions or second a motion except that the chairman may introduce or second a motion to go into executive session as authorized by section 2-68. The chairman shall not vote except to break a tie.
(Ord. of 5-14-1996, § 1-05)
Sec. 2-56. - Vice-chairman.
The board shall select a vice-chairman from the board members at the beginning of each calendar year. The vice-chairman shall fulfill the duties of the chairman if the chairman is not in attendance. If the chairman and the vice-chairman are absent and a quorum is present, the remaining commissioners shall select a commissioner to serve as temporary chairman of the meeting until either the chairman or vice-chairman is present at the meeting.
(Ord. of 5-14-1996, § 1-06)
Sec. 2-57. - Agenda.
(a)
The county manager, with the advice of the chairman and the commissioners, shall prepare an agenda of subjects to be acted on for each meeting. An agenda work session shall be held by the county manager to finalize the agenda. The chairman and all commissioners may participate in the work session. Whenever a quorum of the board is present for an agenda work session, the meeting shall be open to the public and all notice and recordkeeping requirements applicable to an open meeting must be met. The agenda shall be made available to the commissioners at least one business day before every board meeting.
(b)
Members of the public may request that a particular subject be placed on the agenda for the following meeting. To be considered, this request must be submitted in writing to the county manager and received at least three business days before the meeting.
(c)
The order of the agenda may be changed during a meeting by a majority vote of the board. A new subject that requires attention may be added to the agenda during a meeting by a two-thirds vote of the board.
(d)
A copy of the agenda and a list of those members present shall be made available to the public for inspection within two business days of the adjournment of any meeting.
(Ord. of 5-14-1996, § 1-07)
State Law reference— Agenda, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(e)(1).
Sec. 2-58. - Consent agenda.
(a)
A consent agenda may be prepared by the county manager for the board to unanimously adopt motions on routine items. Any items of business that are expected to receive unanimous approval and where no debate is expected may be placed on a consent agenda.
(b)
At the appropriate time of the meeting, the chairman shall read all of the items on the consent agenda. If a commissioner objects to an item being on the consent agenda, the chairman shall move that particular item to the regular agenda. Following the reading of the consent agenda, the chairman will ask for unanimous approval of the items on the consent agenda. If there are no objections, all the items on the consent agenda will be adopted by unanimous consent.
(Ord. of 5-14-1996, § 1-08)
Sec. 2-59. - Minutes.
(a)
The clerk of the board shall promptly record the minutes for each board meeting. The minutes serve as the official written record of the board meeting and shall be open for public inspection once approved as official by the board but in no case later than immediately following the next regular meeting of the board. The minutes shall specify the names of commissioners present at the meeting, a description of each motion or other proposal made at the meeting, the commissioner who proposed each motion, the commissioner who seconded each motion, and a record of all votes. In the case of a roll-call vote, the name of each commissioner voting for or against a proposal shall be recorded. It shall be presumed that a commissioner has voted in the affirmative unless the minutes show otherwise. More detailed information may be included in the minutes at the request of the board.
(b)
The board must approve the minutes before they can be considered as an official record of the board. A copy of the minutes from the previous meeting shall be distributed to the commissioners at least one business day before the following meeting. The minutes of the previous meeting shall be corrected and approved by the board at the beginning of each meeting. A majority vote is required for approval. Conflicts about the content of the minutes shall be decided by majority vote. Upon being approved, the minutes shall be signed by the chairman and attested to by the clerk of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 5-14-1996, § 1-09)
State Law reference— Minutes, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(e)(2).
Sec. 2-60. - Order of business.
All regular board meetings should follow an established order of business. The order is as follows:
(1)
Call to order.
(2)
Minutes.
(3)
Invited guests.
(4)
Reports from committees and departments.
(5)
Consent agenda.
(6)
Old business.
(7)
New business.
(8)
Public comments.
(9)
Adjournment.
(Ord. of 5-14-1996, § 1-10)
Sec. 2-61. - Decorum.
All commissioners must conduct themselves in a professional and respectful manner. All remarks shall be directed to the chairman and not to individual commissioners, staff or citizens in attendance. Personal remarks are inappropriate. A commissioner may not speak at a meeting until he has been recognized by the chairman. All comments made by a commissioner shall address the motion that is being discussed. The chairman shall enforce these rules of decorum. If a commissioner believes that a rule has been broken, he can raise a point of order. A second is not required. The chairman can rule on the question or he can allow the board to debate the issue and decide the issue by majority vote.
(Ord. of 5-14-1996, § 1-11)
Sec. 2-62. - Public participation.
Public participation in meetings of the board of commissioners shall be permitted in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(1)
Public comments. The final agenda item of the meeting shall be reserved for comments from the public. All members of the public who wish to address the board must submit their name and the topic of their comments to the county manager at least three business days before the board meeting. These individuals will be allotted five minutes to make their comments and their comments must be limited to their chosen topic. These limits can be waived by a majority vote of the board.
(2)
Public participation on agenda items. By a majority vote, the board may allow public comment on an agenda item at the time the item is being considered by the board. These comments must be limited to the subject that is being debated. Members of the public may speak for five minutes and may only speak once. These limits can be waived by a majority vote of the board. Anyone wishing to speak at any board meeting must be recognized by the chairman before addressing the board.
(3)
Decorum. Members of the public shall not make inappropriate or offensive comments at a board meeting and are expected to comply with the rules of decorum that are established for commissioners. Individuals who violate any rules of the board may be ruled out of order by the chairman or on a point of order made by a commissioner. An individual who violates the rules of decorum may be removed from the meeting at the direction of the chairman.
(4)
Public hearing. The board may schedule public hearings for the purpose of soliciting public comment on any subject of interest to the board. Hearings may be held immediately prior to or following a meeting of the board or at such other places and times as the board may determine. No official action shall be taken at any such public hearing.
(Ord. of 5-14-1996, § 1-12)
Sec. 2-63. - Parliamentarian.
The county attorney shall serve as the parliamentarian for board meetings.
(Ord. of 5-14-1996, § 1-13)
Sec. 2-64. - Amendments to rules.
Any amendments to the rules of order must be submitted by a commissioner in writing to the county manager three business days before a regular meeting of the board. The proposed amendment shall be included in the agenda for that meeting and distributed to all board members. All amendments require a two-thirds vote of the board to be adopted.
(Ord. of 5-14-1996, § 1-14)
Sec. 2-65. - Regular meetings.
Regular meetings of the board of commissioners shall be scheduled to take place at 7:00 p.m. on the second Tuesday of each month at the Board of Commissioner's Board Room located at 25 Old School Road in Georgetown, Georgia. A notice containing the foregoing information shall be posted and maintained in a conspicuous place available to the general public at the regular meeting place of the board. The commissioners shall cause the same to be published in the county organ.
(Ord. of 5-14-1996, § 1-15; Res. No. R02-07, 4-3-2007)
State Law reference— Regular meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d).
Sec. 2-66. - Special meetings and rescheduled regular meetings.
A regular meeting of the board of commissioners may be canceled, rescheduled or moved to a new location within the county by the chairman for any reason. Other special meetings may be scheduled by the chairman or at the request of two commissioners. Whenever a rescheduled regular meeting or any other special meeting is to be held at a time or place other than the regularly scheduled time or place, written notice of the change shall be posted for at least 24 hours at the place of the regular meetings. In addition, written or oral notice shall be given by the clerk at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting to either the legal organ of the county or a newspaper having a general circulation at least equal to that of the legal organ and to each member of the county governing authority.
(Ord. of 5-14-1996, § 1-16)
State Law reference— Special meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d).
Sec. 2-67. - Emergency meetings.
When emergency circumstances occur, the board may hold a meeting with less than 24 hours' notice to the public. When such meetings are to be held, the clerk shall provide notice to the legal organ of the county or a newspaper with a general circulation at least equal to that of the legal organ and to each member of the county governing authority as soon as possible. The notice shall include the subjects expected to be considered at the meeting. In addition, the minutes shall reflect the reason for the emergency meeting and the nature of the notice given to the media.
(Ord. of 5-14-1996, § 1-17)
State Law reference— Emergency meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d).
Sec. 2-68. - Executive sessions.
(a)
Executive sessions of the board may be held for the purpose of conducting business expected from public access requirements as authorized by O.C.G.A. §§ 50-14-2 and 50-14-3. Where a meeting of the board is devoted in part to matters within the authorized exceptions to public access requirements, any portion of the meeting not subject to any such exceptions shall be open to the public. The minutes of such portions of meetings not subject to any such exception provided by law shall be taken, recorded and open to public inspection as provided in O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(e).
(b)
No executive session shall be held except pursuant to a majority affirmative vote of the board of commissioners taken in a public meeting. The minutes of the public meeting shall reflect the names of the commissioners present, those voting for the executive session and the specific reasons for the executive session. Minutes of the executive session may be maintained by the clerk of the board of commissioners at the direction of the chairman. Any such minutes shall be maintained in a confidential file and shall not be subject to disclosure, except that disclosures of such portions of minutes identifying real estate to be acquired by the board may only be delayed until such time as the acquisition of the real estate has been completed, terminated or abandoned or court proceedings have been initiated.
(Ord. of 5-14-1996, § 1-18)
State Law reference— Procedure when meeting closed, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-4.
Sec. 2-69. - Suspending the rules of order.
Rules of order may be suspended in the case of an emergency. A motion to suspend the rules requires a second, is debatable and requires a two-thirds vote of the board. Rules governing quorum in section 2-52, voting methods and requirements in sections 2-53 and 2-54, the notification to commissioners of meetings in sections 2-66 and 2-67 and rules necessary for compliance with state law cannot be suspended.
(Ord. of 5-14-1996, § 1-19)
Sec. 2-70. - Committees.
The chairman, with the concurrence of the board, may create committees of members of the board to study any issue before the board. Any such committees may make recommendations to the board of commissioners but no committee shall be empowered to make any final decision on any matter before it for consideration. In addition to board members, committees may include other county officials, staff or citizens at large. Whenever a committee is created, its duties, any limitation on the scope of its duties, and the times, places and periods of time for which the committee may operate shall be determined by the chairman with the concurrence of the board. The chairman shall serve as an ex officio member of all committees.
(Ord. of 5-14-1996, § 1-20)
Sec. 2-71. - Visual and sound recordings.
Visual, sound and visual and sound recordings shall be permitted for all public meetings.
(Ord. of 5-14-1996, § 1-21)
State Law reference— Recording of meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(c).
Sec. 2-72. - Rules of procedures.
The Unified Government of Georgetown-Quitman County Georgia Board of Commissioners adopts as rules of procedures, first the laws of the State of Georgia as amended from time to time, secondly by the Charter of The Unified Government of Georgetown-Quitman County, as amended from time to time and lastly by Robert's Revised Rules of Order as amended.
(Res. No. R01-07, 4-3-2007)
Secs. 2-73—2-90. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE

Sec. 2-91. - Main motion.
In order for the board to take any official action on any subject, a commissioner must propose a main motion. A proposed main motion will not be recognized by the chairman until another commissioner agrees to second the motion. A second does not require the commissioner seconding the motion to support the motion. A commissioner may withdraw a main motion that he has made at any time before the board has voted on that motion.
(Ord. of 4-8-1997, § 1-01)
Sec. 2-92. - Debate.
(a)
After the main motion, as described in section 2-91, is recognized by the chairman, the board shall debate the motion. The debate shall be managed by the chairman in a manner that is fair to all members of the board. Commissioners can participate in the debate only when they are recognized by the chairman.
(b)
During the course of debate, commissioners may introduce subsidiary motions that propose that the board take a particular action on a motion as described in section 2-95. There are two classes of subsidiary motions: debatable subsidiary motions and undebatable subsidiary motions. Debatable subsidiary motions consist of motions to postpone indefinitely, amend, refer to committee, and postpone to a time certain. Debatable subsidiary motions require a second before they can be voted on or debated. There are three undebatable subsidiary motions: limit debate, vote immediately and lay on the table. They require a second and cannot be debated.
(c)
Commissioners may also introduce privileged motions as described in section 2-96. Privileged motions facilitate the running of the meeting and can be introduced during the course of debate. Privileged motions consist of a motion to raise a question of privilege and motions to recess and adjourn. The motions to recess and adjourn require a second. Debate is not allowed on privileged motions.
(Ord. of 4-8-1997, § 1-02)
Sec. 2-93. - Voting procedure.
Voting on debatable motions and voting on undebatable motions shall take place in accordance with the following provisions:
(1)
Debatable motions. In the case of debatable motions, the vote can be proposed in one of two ways:
a.
If debate has been completed and no other commissioner wishes to speak, the chairman can call for a vote. If there are no objections then the chairman can proceed with the vote.
b.
If the chairman calls for the vote and there is an objection, a member of the board may move to vote immediately (move the previous question). If this motion is seconded and approved by a two-fifths vote, debate will stop. The chairman will then read the proposed motion to the board and ask for the votes of the commissioners.
(2)
Undebatable motions. In the case of undebatable motions, the vote shall occur immediately after the motion is recognized by the chairman. The chairman shall read the proposed motion to the board and then call for a vote.
(Ord. of 4-8-1997, § 1-03)
Sec. 2-94. - Ranking of motions.
(a)
Each subsidiary and privileged motion is assigned a specific rank. A motion of higher precedence can interrupt a motion of lower precedence. The higher motion must be decided before the board returns to consider the motion of lower precedence.
(b)
A main motion has the lowest rank and does not take precedence over any other motion. A motion to adjourn has the highest rank and will take precedence over all other subsidiary and privileged motions. The order of precedence of motions shall be in accordance with this section. Motions at the top of the following list take precedence over motions at the bottom of the list:
(1)
Highest rank.
a.
Privileged motions (undebatable):
1.
Adjourn.
2.
Recess.
3.
Question of privilege.
b.
Subsidiary motions (undebatable):
1.
Lay on the table (postpone temporarily).
2.
Vote immediately (previous question).
3.
Limit debate or extend.
c.
Subsidiary motions (debatable):
1.
Postpone to a time certain (postpone definitely).
2.
Refer to committee (commit).
3.
Amend.
4.
Postpone indefinitely.
d.
Other motions.
(2)
Lowest rank: Main motion.
(Ord. of 4-8-1997, § 1-04)
Sec. 2-95. - Subsidiary motions.
During the course of debate, commissioners may introduce motions that propose that the board take a particular action on a main motion. These motions are called subsidiary motions and they allow a board to reach a conclusion of the main motion. Subsidiary motions require a second before they can be voted on or debated. Three subsidiary motions, amend, limit debate and vote immediately, also can apply to other subsidiary motions.
(1)
Postpone indefinitely. If a commissioner believes that the main motion should not be considered by the board, that commissioner may move to postpone the consideration of the main motion indefinitely. If the motion is successful, consideration of the main motion stops and the main motion is tabled for the duration of the meeting. A motion to postpone indefinitely may be debated but it cannot be amended. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
(2)
Amend. If a commissioner believes that a main motion that is on the table should be changed in order to make it more acceptable, he can move to amend the motion. Amendments must be closely related to the original motion and must not change the nature of the motion that they amend. Motions to refer, amend, postpone to a time certain and the motion to recess can also be amended. A motion cannot be amended more than two times. Debate is allowed on a motion to amend only if the original motion is debatable. Debate is limited to the proposed amendment. A majority vote is required for the board to adopt an amendment. If the amendment is adopted, then the board shall consider the amended version of the motion.
(3)
Refer to a committee (commit). If a commissioner believes that further information is needed before the board can act on a main motion, he may propose that the motion be referred to a specific committee or department for further study. If an appropriate committee does not already exist, then a committee may be formed as a part of the motion. A motion to commit should specify the date that the committee or department will report back to the board. This motion is debatable and amendable. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
(4)
Postpone to a time certain (postpone definitely). A motion to postpone to a certain time may be proposed if a commissioner believes that the main motion should not be considered until a future time. This motion shall set a particular time for the main motion to be considered again. It is debatable and can be amended. If this motion is passed, the chairman will bring the original motion back to the board for consideration at the specified time which may be at the same meeting, at a subsequent meeting, or upon the occurrence of a specified event. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
(5)
Limit or extend limits of debate. A motion to limit debate places a time constraint on the length of debate. The details of such motion are to be decided by the commissioner who makes the motion. This motion can also be used to extend the limits of debate if a limit on debate already exists. Debate is not allowed on this motion and a two-fifths vote is required.
(6)
Vote immediately (previous question). If a commissioner believes debate on a motion should end and that the motion that is being considered should be voted on, the commissioner can move to vote immediately. The motion is undebatable and a vote of two-fifths of the board is required for the motion to pass.
(7)
Lay on the table (postpone temporarily). A motion to lay on the table proposes that the consideration of a main motion be posted until a later time in the same meeting. The main motion can be brought back for consideration only if a motion to resume consideration is accepted by the board during the same meeting. The motion will die if it is not taken up during the meeting. Debate is not allowed on this motion and the motion is not amendable. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
(Ord. of 4-8-1997, § 1-05)
Sec. 2-96. - Privileged motions.
Privileged motions facilitate the running of the meeting. They do not address or relate to the main motion and can be introduced whether or not there is a main motion under consideration. Privileged motions take precedence over all subsidiary motions. Debate is not allowed on these motions.
(1)
Question of privilege. A formal question addressed to the chairman concerning the rights of a commissioner or of the board as a whole is referred to as a question of privilege. It does not require a second and cannot be debated or amended. The chairman is required to make a ruling on the question.
(2)
Recess. A motion to recess proposes that the meeting be suspended for a particular amount of time when business is still pending. It is a temporary intermission of the proceedings. The motion must specify the length of the recess. The motion must also be seconded. Debate is not allowed on this motion, but the motion can be amended. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
(3)
Adjourn. In order for a meeting to come to a close, a commissioner must make a motion to adjourn. The motion to adjourn has the highest rank of any motion and as a result it can be introduced at any time. The motion requires a second, but is not debatable or amendable. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
(Ord. of 4-8-1997, § 1-06)
Sec. 2-97. - Incidental motions.
Incidental motions allow commissioners to exert their rights as a member of the board. Incidental motions can be introduced at any time during a meeting.
(1)
Appeal. If a commissioner disagrees with a ruling that is made by the chairman, that commissioner may appeal the decision. If the appeal is seconded, the appeal will be considered by the board. The chairman has the opportunity to explain the ruling that has been challenged. The board may then debate the appeal. The board shall decide by majority vote if the chairman's decision is to be upheld or overturned. An appeal is high in precedence and can only be interrupted by a privileged motion or by a motion to lay on the table.
(2)
Parliamentary inquiry. If a commissioner has a question about the rules of order, he may ask the chairman to give an opinion on that question. This question should take the form of a parliamentary inquiry and should relate to the current business of the board. This motion takes precedence over all motions except privileged motions. This motion does not require a second and is not debatable or amendable.
(3)
Point of order (question of order). If a commissioner believes that a violation of the rules of parliamentary procedure has occurred, he can raise a point of order. A second is not required. The chairman can make a ruling on the question or can allow the board to debate and then rule on the question by a majority vote. A point of order can only be interrupted by a privileged motion or a motion to lay on the table.
(4)
Point of information (request for information). These motions allow the board to act on a main motion that has either been passed or tabled by the board. These motions are considered to be main motions but differ from usual main motions in the ways specified.
(Ord. of 4-8-1997, § 1-07)
Sec. 2-98. - Supplementary main motions.
(a)
Reconsider. The motion to reconsider allows the board to debate whether or not to overturn a decision made at the meeting that is in progress. It allows the board to consider new information that may affect the decision that has already been made. Any commissioner can make a motion to reconsider and any commissioner may second the motion. The motion is debatable but it cannot be amended. A majority vote of the board is required for the motion to pass. If a motion to reconsider is passed, the original decision will be voided and the board will return to debate and re-vote the original motion.
(b)
Rescind. A motion to rescind proposes that the board overturn a motion passed at a previous meeting. A motion to rescind can be made by any commissioner. It is in order as long as the original motion has not been implemented. An announcement of the intention to rescind a motion may be made at the meeting where the decision was made, or the commissioner seeking to rescind may place the matter on the agenda for the next meeting. The motion to rescind will formally be made. If it is seconded, then the board shall debate and vote on rescission. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass. If a motion to rescind is passed, the original decision will be voided.
(c)
Resume consideration. The motion to resume consideration allows the board to consider a motion that has been temporarily postponed. This motion requires a second and is not debatable or amendable. It is a main motion but ranks higher than any debatable motion. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
(Ord. of 4-8-1997, § 1-08)
Secs. 2-99—2-120. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OTHER BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Animal control board, § 10-54.

Secs. 2-121—2-150. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance, consistent with this Code, prescribing regulations, compensation, positions, classification, retirement and other matters pertaining to county officers or employees saved from repeal, § 1-10(9); dog control officer, § 10-55.

Secs. 2-151—2-180. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - FINANCE[4]
Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— At the request of the county, art. V, divs. 1 and 2 has been removed from the Code. Former divs. 1 and 2 pertained to purchasing and collection policies, which derived from P1-14 adopted May 13, 2014; and P-1-2015, adopted Feb. 10, 2015.
Cross reference— Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county or any evidence of the county's indebtedness saved from repeal, § 1-10(2); any ordinance, consistent with this Code, establishing fees, rates, deposits, service charges or other charges saved from repeal, § 1-10(12).

DIVISION 1. - COUNTY-ISSUED PURCHASING CARD AND CREDIT CARDS

Sec. 2-181. - Intent and scope.
The ordinance codified in this division is intended to comply with the policy requirements of O.C.G.A. § 36-80-24 regarding the use of county-issued government purchasing cards and credit cards.
(Ord. No. 05-2015 , § I, 3-8-16; Ord. No. 01-2017 , 10-9-17)
Sec. 2-182. - Definitions.
"Authorized elected official" means an elected official designated by public vote of the board of commissioners to receive a county issued government purchasing card or credit card.
"Card administrator" means the purchasing card and credit card administrator designated by the Georgetown-Quitman County Board of Commissioners.
"County" means Georgetown-Quitman County and/or the board of commissioners.
"County purchase card," "county p-card" or "county credit card" means a financial transaction card issued by any business organization, financial institution, or any duly authorized agent of such organization or institution, used by a county official to purchase goods, services and other things of value on behalf of the county.
"Financial transaction card" means an instrument or device as the term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 16-9-30(5).
"User agreement" means the required agreement between the board of commissioners and the authorized elected officials which restricts the use of a county purchasing card or credit card.
(Ord. No. 05-2015 , § II, 3-8-16; Ord. No. 01-2017 , 10-9-17)
Sec. 2-183. - Designated elected officials.
(a)
The Georgetown-Quitman County Board of Commissioners ("county"), in its discretion, may authorize specific county elected officials to use a county purchasing card or credit card by adoption of a resolution in a public meeting.
(b)
No authorized elected official may use a county purchasing card or credit card until and unless he or she has executed the county's purchasing card and credit card user agreement.
(c)
The county will not make payments to any business organization, financial institution, or any duly authorized agent of such organization or institution, for amounts charged by an elected official to any purchasing cards or credit cards that are not issued pursuant to this division or for any purchases that are not authorized by the ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. No. 05-2015 , § III, 3-8-16; Ord. No. 01-2017 , 10-9-17)
Sec. 2-184. - Card administrator.
The board of commissioners shall designate a county purchasing card and credit card administrator. The responsibilities of the card administrator include:
(1)
Manage county-issued purchasing cards and credit cards.
(2)
Serve as the main point of contact for all county purchasing card and credit card issues.
(3)
Serve as liaison to the elected officials authorized to use a purchasing card or credit card and their staff, as well as to the issuer of the purchasing card or credit card.
(4)
Provide training on card policies and procedures to the elected officials authorized to use a purchasing card or credit card and their staff.
(5)
Develop internal procedures to ensure timely payment of cards.
(6)
Assist authorized elected officials to dispute transactions when necessary.
(7)
Establish internal procedures to ensure compliance with this division, county procurement ordinances and policies, county purchasing card and credit card user agreements, applicable agreements with the business organization, financial institution, or any duly authorized agent of such organization or institution, issuing card, and state law, specifically, O.C.G.A. §§ 16-9-37 and 36-80-24.
(8)
Document internal controls, audits and other measures to prevent and detect misuse or abuse of the cards.
(9)
Review and reconcile transactions monthly.
(10)
Maintain records for at least seven years or as otherwise provided by the county's record retention policy.
(Ord. No. 05-2015 , § IV, 3-8-16; Ord. No. 01-2017 , 10-9-17)
State Law reference— Designation of a purchasing card or credit card administrator, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-24(c)(6).
Sec. 2-185. - Use of cards.
(a)
Authorized purchases.
(1)
County purchase cards and credit cards may be used to purchase goods and services directly related to the public duties of the authorized elected official only. All purchases are subject to the terms of the ordinance codified in this division, the county purchasing card and credit card user agreement, county procurement policies and ordinances, and the adopted budget.
(2)
Only authorized elected officials may use a county purchase card or credit card for purchases or payments. The cards, and use of the cards, are not transferrable to employees. The authorized elected official shall use care to ensure that others do not have access to the card account number, expiration date and security code.
(b)
Unauthorized purchases. County purchasing cards and credit cards shall not be used for goods and services not directly related to the official responsibilities of the authorized elected official. Additionally, cards shall not be used to avoid compliance with the county's purchasing ordinances and procedures, to purchase goods and services that are not approved in the county's budget, to purchase goods and services exceeding the per transaction or per month limit, or to make purchases not in compliance with the county purchasing card and credit card user agreement.
(c)
Receipts and documentation. Receipts, invoices and other supporting documentation of all purchases made with a county purchasing card or credit card shall be obtained and maintained by the authorized county elected official for five years or as otherwise provided by the county's record retention policy. If an original or duplicate cannot be produced, a sworn affidavit of the authorized elected official may be substituted. The documentation must include the supplier or merchant information (i.e., name and location), quantity, description, unit price, total price, price paid without sales tax, and an explanation of the purchase sufficient to show that the expense was in the performance of official county duties.
(d)
Public records. All receipt and other documentation of purchases are public records and subject to the requirements of O.C.G.A. § 50-18-70 et seq.
(Ord. No. 05-2015 , § V, 3-8-16; Ord. No. 01-2017 , 10-9-17)
Sec. 2-186. - Review of purchases.
Proper documentation of purchases, internal controls and other measures prevent and allow detection to misuse or abuse of county-issued purchase cards and credit cards. Authorized elected officials and staff that process payments under this program shall cooperate and comply with the procedures established by the county.
(1)
Review of purchases. All purchases shall be reviewed according to the following procedure: Approval of purchases by elected official; approval by card administrator that the elected official has approved purchase.
(2)
Review. The card administrator shall perform an annual review of the card program to ensure adequacy of internal policies and procedures, cardholder spending limits, monthly reconciliation procedures and documentation for transactions. Elected officials and staff shall cooperate with such review.
(Ord. No. 05-2015 , § VI, 3-8-16; Ord. No. 01-2017 , 10-9-17)
Sec. 2-187. - Violations.
(a)
An elected official shall reimburse the county for any purchases made with a county-issued purchase card or credit card in violation of this division or the user agreement.
(b)
In the discretion of the county governing authority, failure to comply with the procedures outlined in this division may result in:
(1)
A warning;
(2)
Suspension of the elected official's authority to use a county purchase card or credit card; or
(3)
Revocation of the elected official's authority to use a county purchase card or credit card.
(c)
Nothing in this division shall preclude the county governing authority from referring misuse of a purchase card or credit card for prosecution to the appropriate authorities.
(Ord. No. 05-2015 , § VII, 3-8-16; Ord. No. 01-2017 , 10-9-17)
Secs. 2-188—2-195. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - RESERVED

Secs. 2-196—2-210. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - CODE OF ETHICS

Sec. 2-211. - Act in the public interest.
Recognizing that stewardship of the public interest must be their primary concern, members will work for the common good of the people of Georgetown-Quitman County and not for any private or personal interest, and they will assure fair and equal treatment of all persons, claims, and transactions coming before the Commission of the Unified Government of Georgetown-Quitman County, Georgia, authorities, boards, commissions and committees.
(Res. No. R06-07, § 1, 4-3-2007)
Sec. 2-212. - Comply with the law.
Members shall comply with the laws of the nation, the State of Georgia and the Unified Government of Georgetown-Quitman County, Georgia in the performance of their public duties. These laws include, but are not limited to: the United States and Georgia Constitutions; the Code of the State of Georgia; the Charter of the Unified Government of Georgetown-Quitman County, Georgia, laws pertaining to conflicts of interest, election campaigns, financial disclosures, employer responsibilities, and open processes of government; and the ordinances and policies of the Unified Government of Georgetown-Quitman County, Georgia.
(Res. No. R06-07, § 2, 4-3-2007)
Sec. 2-213. - Conduct of members.
The professional and personal conduct of members must be above reproach and avoid even the appearance of impropriety. Members shall refrain from abusive conduct, personal charges or verbal attacks upon the character or motives of other members of the Commission of the Unified Government of Georgetown-Quitman County, Georgia, authorities, boards, commissions, and committees, the staff or public.
(Res. No. R06-07, § 3, 4-3-2007)
Sec. 2-214. - Respect for process.
Members shall perform their duties in accordance with the processes and rules of order established by the Commission of the Unified Government of Georgetown-Quitman County, Georgia and authorities, boards, committees, and commissions governing the deliberation of public policy issues, meaningful involvement of the public, and implementation of policy decisions of the Commission of the Unified Government of Georgetown-Quitman County, Georgia by the manager and staff of the unified government.
(Res. No. R06-07, § 4, 4-3-2007)
Sec. 2-215. - Conduct of public meetings.
Members shall prepare themselves for public issues; listen courteously and attentively to all public discussions before the body; and focus on the business at hand. They shall refrain from interrupting other speakers; making personal comments not germane to the business of the body; or otherwise interfering with the orderly conduct of meetings.
(Res. No. R06-07, § 5, 4-3-2007)
Sec. 2-216. - Decisions based on merit.
Members shall base their decisions on the merits and substance of the matter at hand, rather than on unrelated considerations.
(Res. No. R06-07, § 6, 4-3-2007)
Sec. 2-217. - Communication.
Members shall publicly share substantive information that is relevant to a matter under consideration by the Commission of the Unified Government of Georgetown-Quitman County, Georgia or authorities, boards, committees and commissions, which they may have received from sources outside of the public decision making process.
(Res. No. R06-07, § 7, 4-3-2007)
Sec. 2-218. - Conflict of interest.
In order to assure their independence and impartiality on behalf of the common good, members shall not use their official positions to influence government decisions in which they have a material or financial interest, or where they have an organizational responsibility or personal relationship that may give the appearance of a conflict of interest. In accordance with the law, members shall disclose investments, interests in real property, sources of income, and gifts. Should any member be financially or otherwise closely associated with an issue, said member shall disqualify himself/herself from participating in considering the issue and shall not sit with the commission, board or committee during such consideration and they shall abstain from participating in deliberations and decision-making where conflicts may exist. A member may raise the question of conflict of interest of another member regarding a specific issue. A majority vote of those without such conflict shall determine if such conflict does exist.
(Res. No. R06-07, § 8, 4-3-2007)
Sec. 2-219. - Gifts and favors.
Members shall not take any special advantage of services or opportunities for personal gain, by virtue of their public office, which are not available to the public in general. They shall refrain from accepting any gifts, favors or promises of future benefits which might compromise their independence of judgment or action or give the appearance of being compromised.
(Res. No. R06-07, § 9, 4-3-2007)
Sec. 2-220. - Confidential information.
Members shall respect the confidentiality of information concerning the property, personnel or affairs of the unified government. They shall neither disclose confidential information without proper legal authorization, nor use such information to advance their personal, financial or other private interests.
(Res. No. R06-07, § 10, 4-3-2007)
Sec. 2-221. - Use of public resources.
Members shall not use public resources that are not available to the public in general, such as staff time, equipment, supplies or facilities, for private gain or personal purposes.
(Res. No. R06-07, § 11, 4-3-2007)
Sec. 2-222. - Representation of private interests.
In keeping with their role as stewards of the public interest, members shall not appear on behalf of the private interests of third parties before any authority, board, committee, commission or proceeding of the unified government, nor shall members of boards, committees or commissions appear before their own bodies or before any authority, board, committee, commission or pro ceeding of the unified government on behalf of the private interests of third parties on matters related to the areas of service of their bodies.
(Res. No. R06-07, § 12, 4-3-2007)
Sec. 2-223. - Advocacy.
Members shall represent the official policies or positions of the commission of the unified government, authorities, boards, commissions or committees to the best of their ability when designated as delegates for this purpose. When presenting their individual opinions and positions, members shall explicitly state they do not represent their body or the Unified Government of Georgetown-Quitman County, nor will they allow the inference that they do.
(Res. No. R06-07, § 13, 4-3-2007)
Sec. 2-224. - Policy role of members.
The Commission of the Unified Government of Georgetown-Quitman County, Georgia determines the policies of the unified government with the advice, information and analysis provided by the public, authorities, boards, commissions, and committees, and unified government staff. The commission of the unified government delegates authority for the administration of the unified government to the manager of the unified government. Members therefore shall not interfere with the administrative functions of the unified government or the professional duties of unified government staff; nor shall they impair the ability of staff to implement the policy decisions of the commission of the unified government.
(Res. No. R06-07, § 14, 4-3-2007)
Sec. 2-225. - Positive work place environment.
Members shall support the maintenance of a positive and constructive work place environment for employees of the unified government and for citizens and businesses dealing with the unified government. Members shall recognize their special role in dealings with employees of the unified government and in no way create the perception of inappropriate direction to staff.
(Res. No. R06-07, § 15, 4-3-2007)
Sec. 2-226. - Implementation.
As an expression of the standards of conduct for members expected by the unified government, the Georgetown-Quitman County Code of Ethics is intended to be self-enforcing. It therefore becomes most effective when members are thoroughly familiar with it and embrace its provisions. For this reason, ethical standards shall be included in the regular orientations for candidates for the commission of the unified government, applicants to authorities, boards, committees and commissions, and newly elected and appointed officials. Members entering office shall sign a statement affirming they have read and understood the Georgetown-Quitman County Code of Ethics. In addition, the commission of the unified government, authorities, boards, committees and commissions, shall annually review the code of ethics and the commission of the unified government shall consider recommendations from boards, committees and commissions to update it as necessary.
(Res. No. R06-07, § 16, 4-3-2007)
Sec. 2-227. - Compliance and enforcement.
The Georgetown-Quitman County Code of Ethics expresses standards of ethical conduct expected of members of the commission of the unified government, authorities, boards, committees and commissions. Members themselves have the primary responsibility to assure that ethical standards are understood and met, and that the public can continue to have full confidence in the integrity of the unified government. The chairs of authorities, boards, committees and commissions and the chair of the commission of the unified government have the additional responsibility to intervene when actions of members that appear to be in violation of the code of ethics are brought to their attention. The commission of the unified government may impose sanctions on members whose conduct does not comply with the unified government's ethical standards, such as reprimand, formal censure, loss of seniority or committee assignment, or budget restriction. Where allowed by law, the Commission of the Unified Government of Georgetown-Quitman County, Georgia also may remove members of appointed authorities, boards, committees and commissions from office. A violation of this code of ethics shall not be considered a basis for challenging the validity of a decision of the commission of the unified government, authority, board, committee or commission. Refusal to sign the member statement will result in the disqualification of an appointee.
(Res. No. R06-07, § 17, 4-3-2007)
Secs. 2-228—2-250. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - COUNTY VEHICLES, EQUIPMENT; PROPERTY
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-251—2-280. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - COUNTY VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT USE GUIDELINES

Sec. 2-281. - Use of county vehicles.
(a)
The employee to whom a Georgetown-Quitman County vehicle is entrusted is responsible for its proper operation and upkeep. Automotive service shall be authorized by supervisors. The employee to whom the vehicle is entrusted is responsible for seeing that servicing is authorized and obtained.
(b)
County vehicles shall be used only to perform "official county business". Commuting to and from work, where applicable, meal breaks while on duty and to accommodate personal physical needs when such facilities are not available on the job site and like breaks employees may need while attending meetings, conferences, seminars, etc., representing Georgetown-Quitman County shall be considered "official county business. All vehicles will be allocated by the department head or county manager in compliance with this policy.
(c)
The following restrictions will be adhered to:
(1)
In order to take home a county vehicle, the individual must be subject to call-back or emergencies and the department head must be sure that this use is justified based on past evidence of their need to be called in outside of their normal shift.
(2)
Individuals will only be permitted to take a vehicle home if they live within Quitman County.
(Ord. No. 01-10, § I, 3-9-10)
Sec. 2-282. - Criteria for take home vehicle.
(a)
Required due to equipment and response need (i.e., K-9 unit, SWAT team, investigators, etc.).
(b)
Required due to call-backs.
(c)
Department head or elected officials, who are approved by the board of commissioners.
(d)
Exceptions:
(1)
Temporary emergency is justified and approved by the department director or elected official.
(2)
Upon board approval.
(e)
Marked police and sheriffs office vehicles within county, the board of commissioners finds that a public safety need is addressed by the presence of marked vehicles within the county.
(Ord. No. 01-10, § II, 3-9-10)
Sec. 2-283. - Rules for county vehicle use.
(a)
Drivers are permitted to use the vehicle only for "official county business". Care should be taken to minimize the county's liability at all times.
(b)
Department heads must maintain documentation to support the need for personnel to have take home vehicles. Lack of this support may result in denial or retraction of permission for vehicle to be taken home. All county vehicles shall be based or housed in Georgetown-Quitman County only.
(c)
Only county employees, age 18 or over, are permitted to drive a county vehicle (unless the county commission has pulled their approval to operate a county vehicle).
(d)
There is "no smoking" in county vehicles in accordance with county policy.
(e)
Employees authorized to take home a county vehicle must provide an "off-street" area at the employee's home to park the vehicle overnight.
(f)
The driver must possess and maintain a valid driver's license approved for the class appropriate for the vehicle (and provide a copy to the county commission office of such license).
(g)
The employee is personally responsible for all traffic citations received while driving a county vehicle, such violation must be reported to the department head and county manager promptly and the employee must pay any adjudged fines.
(h)
The employee must comply with the operator responsibilities, accident reporting requirements and other county procedures.
(i)
Seat belt. Per Georgia State law, anyone operating or riding in Georgetown-Quitman County vehicles are required wear seat belts at all times.
(j)
Drivers shall refrain from transporting excessive loads or unsecured luggage, equipment or other moveable items.
(k)
Drivers must perform a complete walk-around inspection each time they operate a county vehicle, this inspection shall record all vehicle damage as well as check fuel and fluid levels, external lights, signals and tires, and ensure a current insurance card, and first-aid kit, are inside the vehicle at all times.
(l)
Drivers must participate in a defensive driving course at least once every three years.
(m)
Drivers must report any accident that involves injuries or damage to the county vehicle, any passengers, to someone else or their property immediately upon returning to the department or work site on the "accident/incident report" and turn the report in to their supervisor. Also, the police should be called to prepare an official report. In addition, the driver should notify their immediate supervisor and a county manager.
(n)
All drivers should utilize a backup person where available to assist with backing, especially large trucks. Do not depend solely on mirrors; physically look at your surroundings before backing.
(o)
When driving and operating a cellular telephone, use voice-activated dialing, or have frequently called numbers programmed into the device.
(p)
Drivers may transport officers, officials, employees, clients, prisoners, detainees, program participants (typically in vans), passengers or guests of the county so long as the purpose is official county business.
(q)
Drivers may not transport items or cargo having no relation to the conduct of official business.
(r)
Drivers may not transport acids, explosives, weapons, ammunition, or highly flammable material except in an emergency, law enforcement situation, or performance of an authorized task in the normal scope of duties.
(Ord. No. 01-10, § III, 3-9-10)
Sec. 2-284. - Penalties for violation of this division.
Any employee or person violating any of the provisions of this division shall become liable to the unified government for any expense, loss, damage, fine, penalty or fees occasioned by the unified government, by reason of such violation or violations including, but not limited to, any fee, penalty or fine assessed against the unified government by any state or federal agency as a result of such violation or violations. All unified government officials and employees may face a disciplinary action up to dismissal of employment and/or $100.00/incident fine.
(Ord. No. 01-10, § IV, 3-9-10)
