Chapter 82 - SOLID WASTE[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; businesses, ch. 22; environment, ch. 38; health and sanitation, ch. 50; natural resources, ch. 62.
State Law reference— Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; local and regional solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; scrap tire disposal restrictions, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.1; yard trimmings disposal restrictions, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.2; Georgia Hazardous Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-60 et seq.; Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40; transporting garbage or waste across state or county boundaries without permission, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-16; authorization to provide garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const., art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3; littering highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-249; transportation of biomedical waste, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-253.1; solid waste management education program; establishment of Georgia Clean and Beautiful Advisory Committee and Interagency Council on Solid Waste Management, O.C.G.A. § 50-8-7.3.

Sec. 82-1. - Dumping prohibited.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to place, deposit or dump, or cause to be placed, deposited or dumped, any garbage, swill, cans, bottles, papers, ashes, refuse, carcass of any dead animal, offal, trash or rubbish or any noisome, nauseous or offensive matter in or upon any public or private highway or road, including any portion of the right-of-way thereof, or in or upon any private property without the consent of the owner, or in or upon any public park or other public property other than property designated or set aside for such purpose by the county governing authority, in accordance with applicable state and federal regulations.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to place, deposit or dump, or cause to be placed, deposited or dumped, any rocks or dirt in or upon any private highway or road, including any portion of the right-of-way thereof, or any private property, without the consent of the owner, or in or upon any public park or other public property, without the consent of the state or local agency having jurisdiction over such highway, road or property.
Sec. 82-1.5. - Definition.
Solid waste means putrescible and nonputrescible wastes, except water-carried body waste and materials destined for recycling, and shall include garbage, rubbish (paper, cartons, boxes, wood, tree branches, yard trimmings, furniture and appliances, metal, tin cans, glass, crockery, or dunnage), ashes, street refuse, dead animals, sewage sludges, animal manures, industrial wastes (waste materials generated in industrial operations), residue from incineration, food processing wastes, demolition wastes, abandoned automobiles, dredging wastes, construction wastes, and any other waste material in a solid or semi-solid state not otherwise defined in these regulations.
Sec. 82-2. - Exemptions.
Provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any individual disposing of solid waste originating from his own residence onto land or facilities owned by him, when disposal of such waste does not thereby create a nuisance or adversely affect the public health or the environment or is not in violation of applicable state and federal laws, rules and regulations.
Sec. 82-3. - Collection.
All persons who provide collection services in the county shall provide such collection service a minimum of at least once per week. All vehicles utilized to transport such waste within the confines of the county shall be covered.
Sec. 82-4. - Open burning.
Open burning shall be prohibited at all disposal sites operated under county authority.
Cross reference— Fire prevention and protection, ch. 42.
Sec. 82-5. - Receptacles.
(a)
The garbage receptacles, known as dumpsters, bins and green boxes, located within various areas of the county are to be used only for the purpose of disposal of certain domestic household waste.
(b)
Items which are expressly excluded and prohibited from being deposited into county garbage receptacles shall include, but not be limited to, the following: dead animals, furniture, appliances, mattresses, springs, tree limbs, wire, tires, used paint cans, materials defined as hazardous waste by EPD regulations, building debris or other items of like character. Certain items not allowed for disposal in county garbage receptacles may be accepted at convenience centers operated by the county if their rules and regulations so permit.
(c)
The privilege of utilizing the garbage receptacles is reserved exclusively to individual residents of the county for disposal of their own household garbage. No commercial garbage collectors shall be permitted to dump into the receptacles.
(d)
All garbage shall be deposited into the receptacle and any spillage shall be removed by the individual before leaving the receptacle site.
(e)
No scavenging shall be permitted unless authorized in writing by the governing authority of the county and shall be limited to recyclable materials only.
(f)
No signs erected by the county at the receptacle site shall be destroyed, defaced or otherwise altered.
Cross reference— Location of solid waste receptacles in subdivisions, § 86-65.
Sec. 82-6. - Penalty for violation.
Violation of any section of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor. Upon conviction, violators shall be punished in accordance with section 1-13.
(Ord. of 5-13-97)
