ARTICLE VII. - DISTILLED SPIRITS BY THE DRINK

Sec. 6-111. - Locations where permitted.
No distilled spirits may be sold by the drink for consumption on the premises where sold except in a site that is zoned commercial, industrial or planned unit development and:
(1)
Has certified "Resort Status" as defined by applicable Georgia State law;
(2)
That is an eating establishment regularly serving prepared food with a full service kitchen. A full service kitchen will consist of a three-compartment pot sink, a stove or grill permanently installed, and a refrigerator, all of which must be approved by the environmental health department. Such restaurant will regularly serve food every hour the restaurant is open and shall derive at least 50 percent of the establishment's total annual gross sales from food;
(3)
That is an indoor commercial recreation establishment regularly serving prepared food with a full service kitchen. A full service kitchen will consist of a three-compartment pot sink, a stove or grill permanently installed, and a refrigerator, all of which must be approved by the environmental health department. Such establishment will regularly serve food every hour the eating establishment is open and shall derive at least 50 percent of its total annual gross revenue from the sale of prepared meals or food and recreation activities; or
(4)
That is an indoor publicly owned civic and cultural center capable of serving prepared food, with a full service kitchen. A full service kitchen will consist of a three-compartment pot sink, a stove or grill permanently installed, and a refrigerator, all of which must be approved by the environmental health department; prepared to serve food every hour they are open and deriving at least 50 percent of its total annual gross sales from the sale of prepared meals or foods and recreation activities. When eating establishments are located in hotels or motels, every entrance to the establishment shall be from a public lobby, hallway, mall or other publicly used interior portion of the primary use structure.
(Ord. of 8-6-13, § 1)
Sec. 6-112. - Hours and days of sale.
EXPAND
(a) Monday 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
(b) Tuesday 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
(c) Wednesday 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
(d) Thursday 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
(e) Friday 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
(f) Saturday 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
(g) Sunday No sales.
(h) Distilled spirits shall not be sold for consumption at any time in violation of any local ordinance or regulation or of any special order of the board of commissioners.
  (Ord. of 8-6-13, § 1)
Sec. 6-113. - Consumption sales only.
Persons holding a license to sell distilled spirits for consumption on the premises shall not be permitted to sell or distribute any distilled spirit by the package or bottle.
(Ord. of 8-6-13, § 1)
Secs. 6-114—6-120. - Reserved.
