Chapter 54 - LAW ENFORCEMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6; amusements and entertainments, ch. 10; animals, ch. 14; civil emergencies, ch. 30; emergency services, ch. 34; fire prevention and protection, ch. 42; offenses, ch. 66; traffic and vehicles, ch. 94.
State Law reference— Law enforcement officer appreciation day, O.C.G.A. § 1-4-6; peace officer memorial day; police week, O.C.G.A. § 1-4-7; authority to exercise police power, Ga. Const., art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3(a)(1); county police, O.C.G.A. § 36-8-1.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 54-1. - Criminal history background checks.
(a)
The county sheriff's department is hereby authorized and empowered to charge and collect a fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges for each criminal history background check it conducts on behalf of a handgun seller concerning the criminal history of a proposed handgun purchaser.
(b)
Each seller of a handgun in the county who, in accordance with the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act, requests a criminal background check from the county sheriff's department is required to forward payment in an amount set forth in the schedule of fees and charges to the county sheriff's department with each submitted original copy of "Statement of Intent to Obtain a Handgun." No criminal background check requested pursuant to the Brady Bill shall be prepared without payment of the fee set forth in the schedule of fees and charges. The county sheriff's department may not at any time or under any circumstances accept a request for a criminal background check over the telephone.
Secs. 54-2—54-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CODE AND ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.

Sec. 54-31. - Creation.
There is hereby created the position of code and ordinance enforcement officer for the county.
Sec. 54-32. - Duties, responsibilities and powers.
(a)
The duties and responsibilities of the code and ordinance enforcement officer shall be to enforce any and all codes and ordinances enacted by the county board of commissioners, to issue citations for violations of any codes or ordinances and to prosecute such violations with or without a prosecuting attorney. In all instances where such officer desires the assistance of a prosecuting attorney, the county attorney shall serve in that capacity. Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, the county code and ordinance enforcement officer shall have no arrest powers. If arrest becomes necessary, such officer shall immediately turn the matter over to the county sheriff's department.
(b)
Each citation issued by the county code and ordinance enforcement officer shall state the time and place at which the accused is to appear for trial, shall identify the offense with which the accused is charged, shall have an identifying number by which it shall be filed with the court, shall indicate the identity of the accused and the date of service and shall be signed by the county code and ordinance enforcement officer or an agent thereof. The prosecution for violations of county codes and ordinances upon the citation issued by the enforcement officer shall be commenced by the completion, signing and service of a citation by the county code and enforcement officer. The original of the citation shall be personally served upon the accused if the accused resides in the county, and by registered mail if the accused resides outside of the county. A copy shall promptly be filed with the magistrate court, who shall try all violations.
(c)
Any defendant who fails to appear for trial shall be arrested thereafter on the warrant of the magistrate and required to post a bond for his future appearance.
(d)
Execution may issue immediately upon any fine imposed by the magistrate court and not immediately paid. The county sheriff shall receive and house all persons sentenced to confinement for contempt or arrested or sentenced to confinement for violation of county codes or ordinances.
(e)
Review of convictions shall be by certiorari to the county superior court.
(Ord. of 5-11-94, §§ 1, 2)
