ARTICLE XIII. - FAMILY CONNECTION AUTHORITY[13]

Footnotes:
--- (13) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1998 Ga. Laws, page 4348 which created the Family Connection Authority. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Section 1. - Creation.
(a)
There is created the Carroll County Family Connection Authority. The authority shall be composed of 28 members as follows:
(1)
Three members shall be appointed by the Carroll County legislative delegation to serve for an initial term of two years, one of which shall be from each of the following fields or professions: legislative, media, and child advocacy groups;
(2)
Two members shall be appointed by the judge of the Juvenile Court of Carroll County to serve for an initial term of one year, which members shall be selected from the fields of education, religion, community development, or social work;
(3)
Two members shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Carroll County, which members shall be one of the commissioners from said board or a designee of the board and one consumer of family services at large who shall each serve for an initial term of two years;
(4)
One member shall be appointed by each of the governing authorities of the following Carroll County cities: Bowdon, Carrollton, Mount Zion, Roopville, Temple, Villa Rica, and Whitesburg who shall each serve for an initial term of one year;
(5)
One member shall be appointed by the Carroll County Chamber of Commerce who shall represent business or civic interests and who shall serve for an initial term of one year;
(6)
One member shall be appointed by the Carroll County Board of Health who shall serve for an initial term of one year;
(7)
The district medical director of District 4 of the Department of Human Resources Public Health Division, the judge of the Juvenile Court of Carroll County, the director of the Carroll County Department of Family and Children Services, the director of the Carrollton Housing Authority, the director of the Villa Rica Housing Authority, the director of the Bowdon Housing Authority, the superintendent of the Carrollton School System, the superintendent of the Carroll County School System, the president of the State University of West Georgia, and the president of the Carroll Technical Institute;
(8)
One attorney to be appointed by the Carroll County Bar Association who shall serve for an initial term of two years; and
(9)
One member who shall be appointed by the board of the Carroll County Emergency Shelter and who shall serve an initial term of two years.
(b)
Following the initial terms of office, all appointments shall be made for a term of two years and until a successor is appointed and qualified. Members of the authority shall be eligible for reappointment.
(c)
All appointments to the authority shall be made within 30 days after the effective date of this Act. All persons appointed to serve on the Carroll County Family Connection Authority shall be Carroll County residents except those persons filling the professional positions outlined within this Act who may or may not be county residents.
Section 2. - Duties.
The authority shall undertake annual and ongoing studies of the needs, issues, and state of the well-being of children, families, and youth in Carroll County. The authority shall gather, publicize, and disseminate data on issues pertinent to families and children; identify outstanding issues and areas of concern and assist the community in establishing the implementing strategic and annual plans for addressing these issues collaboratively; design and propose comprehensive programmatic strategies for addressing conditions of families and children; secure and expand funds for implementing priority strategies; and identify, coordinate, and enhance integration of existing resources to improve results for families and children. The authority shall adopt such rules or procedures as it finds necessary or desirable for the governance of its operation. The members of the authority shall serve without compensation.
Section 3. - Authorization of funding.
The authority is authorized to receive, accept, and expend funds from public or private sources for implementing strategies to benefit the children and families of Carroll County. The authority is authorized to expend such funds to employ a coordinator, who shall not be a member of the authority, for the execution of the authority's duties. The salary and administrative sponsorship for such coordinator shall be set by the authority.
Section 4. - Annual report.
The authority shall make an annual report on July 1 of each year of its findings and recommendations to the Carroll County legislative delegation, the judge of the Juvenile Court of Carroll County, the Board of Commissioners of Carroll County, the governing authority of each municipality in Carroll County, the Carroll County Chamber of Commerce, the director of the Carroll County Department of Family and Children Services, the Board of Health, and to any individual or group providing funds to the authority.
Section 5. - Oath.
Each member of the authority shall be given the following oath to be administered by the senior judge of the Superior Court of Carroll County:
"Recognizing the fact that there are many social, economic, and educational issues that prevent our children and their families from achieving their potential and desiring to play a part in improving the outcomes for families and children, I _______, do solemnly swear that, as a member of the Carroll County Family Connection Authority, I will fulfill the duties and responsibilities of my appointment to the best of my ability."
Section 6. - Meetings; executive committee.
The entire authority shall meet at least quarterly. There shall be a five-member executive committee elected by the authority on an annual basis. The executive committee shall be headed by a chair and vice chain. The executive committee shall act for the authority on routine matters and shall meet at least monthly and report its recommendations and actions to the entire authority. The authority coordinator shall act as facilitator and recorder for all meetings.
Section 7. - Effective date.
This Act shall become effective upon its approval by the Governor or upon its becoming law without such approval. This Act shall be reviewed every third year for the purpose of assessing benchmark improvements and conditions for families and children in Carroll County. This Act shall be repealed, unless extended by legislative action, six years from the effective date of this Act.
