ARTICLE IV. - DEFINITIONS

Sec. 113-41. - Use of words and interpretation.
(1)
For the purposes of these regulations, the following shall apply to the use of all words:
a.
When appropriate to the context, words used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural the singular; words used in the present tense shall include the future tense, and vice versa.
b.
Words in the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
c.
The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary.
d.
The word "may" is permissive.
e.
Use of the word "and" is inclusive and requires that all of the component phrases so connected must be present or fulfilled for sufficiency.
f.
Use of the word "or" is not exclusive (as in" either ... or"), and requires that at least one of the component phrases so connected must be present or fulfilled for sufficiency. The word "or" may allow more than one component phrase to be present or fulfilled, as is implied by the common term "and/or."
(2)
The following shall control the interpretation of words and phrases as used in these regulations:
a.
Words and phrases defined in this article shall be interpreted as defined herein.
b.
Words or phrases not defined herein shall be interpreted as defined in the city's zoning ordinance, soil erosion and sediment control, buffer, tree preservation, floodplain, stormwater, or other applicable city ordinance, or the latest illustrated book of development definitions as applicable to the use of the word within the context of these regulations.
(Ord. No. 2009-06-18, (4.1), 6-29-2009)
Sec. 113-42. - Definitions of words and phrases.
Certain words or phrases in these regulations are defined for their use herein as follows:
AASHTO. The American Association of State Highway Transportation Officials.
Alley or service drive. A minor permanent, public service-way which is used primarily for vehicular service access to the back or the side for properties otherwise abutting on a street.
Access improvement. Any improvement or facility that is planned and designed to provide service or access for a particular project and which is necessary for the use and convenience of the occupants or users of the project and is not a system improvement. A project access improvement includes but is not limited to: pedestrian access improvements; site driveways; new streets; median cuts; right turn lanes, left turn lanes, acceleration lanes, and deceleration lanes made necessary to serve site driveways or new streets leading to or from the project; traffic control measures made necessary to serve site driveways or new streets; intersection improvements whose primary purpose at the time of construction is to provide access to the project; and, necessary right-of-way dedications required for any project access improvement.
Applicant. A person, either the owner or the bona fide representative of the owner of land or structures governed by these regulations, who seeks authority to use, develop, construct upon or otherwise enjoy the use of property through any of the procedures established under these regulations.
Arterial. A principal arterial, major arterial, or minor arterial street as defined and designated in the comprehensive plan of the city.
"As-built" survey. See "Public record drawing".
Base flood. A flood which has a one percent probability of occurring in any calendar year. (i.e., the 100-year frequency flood).
Base flood elevation. The highest water surface elevation anticipated at any given point during the base flood.
Bike paths. These paths serve to separate bicycle riders from vehicle and pedestrian traffic. Bike paths can meander through wooded areas, traverse the edge of open areas, and may parallel existing roadways or walks.
Block. A piece or parcel, or several parcels of land comprising an area entirely surrounded by public streets, other than alleys.
Buffer:
a.
State waters buffer. An area along the course of any state waters to be maintained in an undisturbed and natural condition.
b.
Stream buffer. An area along the course of any conveyance which is determined to be a stream, as defined in the stream buffer regulations, which is to be maintained in an undisturbed and natural condition.
c.
Tributary buffer. A protection area adjoining the tributaries of the Chattahoochee River.
d.
Zoning buffer. See zoning ordinance.
Buildable area. That portion of a lot where buildings and specified structures may be located after all minimum yards, buffers, landscape strips, and other setbacks have been met.
Buildable lot of record. A lot that has been lawfully divided under the regulations in place at the time of filing and appears on a deed or plat recorded in the official records of the clerk of the superior court.
Building setback line. A line across a lot parallel to a street right-of-way or other property line establishing the minimum open space to be provided between any principal building and the street or other property line. All building setback lines shall be at least as restrictive as the corresponding minimum yard setbacks required in the zoning ordinance or as approved by the city council or other governing board.
Certificate of development conformance. Final approval issued by the department for completion of land development activities for a subdivision or development project for which a land disturbance permit was issued.
Certificate of occupancy. Final approval by the department for the use or occupancy of a structure for which a building permit was issued.
City. City of Johns Creek, Georgia.
City arborist. The agent(s) of the city having the primary responsibilities of administration and enforcement of the tree preservation ordinance.
City council. The mayor and city council of Johns Creek, Georgia.
City of Johns Creek Comprehensive Plan 2009—2030. A plan summarizing and illustrating the adopted goals and objectives of the city regarding the future location and character of anticipated land uses, transportation, and other public facilities in the city. The term "comprehensive plan" includes component or functional plans for the city, including but not limited to a plan for land use (i.e., land use plan) or a plan for transportation facilities, and includes the classification of streets and thoroughfares as shown on the adopted long range road classification map.
Clearing. The removal of trees or other vegetation, but not including grubbing activities.
Collector. A through street having the primary function of connecting subdivisions or other areas to arterial streets or other major thoroughfares, or functioning as a central route within a subdivision channeling traffic from the local streets to an abutting major thoroughfare or another collector street. For the purposes of these regulations, a central but non-through route within a subdivision or other project will be considered as a collector, if the average daily traffic generated by the development on the route will exceed 4,000 trips.
Completed application. An application shall be deemed complete when all application or reviews fees have been paid, application forms completed and all necessary documentation has been submitted in order to determine compliance with these regulations and all other codes and ordinances adopted by the city.
Conceptual plan. A drawing which shows the overall concept (e.g., a conceptual plan) of a proposed development, and which may include lots and streets in a subdivision or the general location of buildings and improvements for a multi-family or nonresidential project. As it relates to the platting process a conceptual plan shall include a drawing in sufficient detail to indicate its workability and feasibility, but is not in final form for recording, pursuant to these regulations.
Condominium. A form of property ownership in which the buildings or portions of the buildings, whether residential or nonresidential in use, are owned by individuals separate from the lands which surround the buildings, said lands held in common ownership by the owners of the several buildings.
Conveyor car wash. A commercial car wash where the car moves on a conveyor belt during the wash. The driver of the vehicle can remain in the vehicle or wait outside of the vehicle.
County. Fulton County, Georgia.
Crosswalk. A right-of-way dedicated to public use, four feet or more in width, that crosses a street and furnishes a specific area for pedestrian movements at an intersection.
Cul-de-sac. A street having one end open to traffic and being permanently terminated by a vehicular turnaround. For the purpose of designation, a cul-de-sac street shall be interpreted to begin at the intersection of two or more streets nearest to the vehicular turnaround.
Department. The community development department for the city.
Developer. Any person, individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, estate, trust, or any other group or combination acting as a unit who directs the undertaking or purposes to undertake development activities as herein defined, whether the development involves the subdivision of the land for sale to individual users, the construction of buildings or other improvements on a single land ownership, or both.
Development. All activities associated with the conversion of land or the expansion or replacement of an existing use to any new use intended for human operation, occupancy or habitation, other than for agricultural purposes devoted strictly to the cultivation of the land. Such activities include land disturbance (clearing and grubbing the land of vegetation and stumps, and grading) and the construction of improvements such as, but not limited to, streets, driveways or parking areas, water or sewer mains, stormwater drainage facilities, sidewalks or other structures permanently placed on or in the property.
Where appropriate to the context, the term "development" also may be used to denote a specific subdivision or project which is a single entity or intended to be constructed as an interrelated whole, whether simultaneously or in phases.
Development agreement. A written contract between the city and a property owner or developer, that specifies the system improvements to be provided by the developer for a specific project.
Development plans. The detailed and professional plans showing the layout and design, site work and construction activities proposed for a project (other than architectural building plans) and including the preliminary plat or site plan (as applicable), grading plan, tree preservation/replacement plan, erosion and sediment control plan, buffer and landscape plan, and construction drawings for streets, stormwater drainage facilities, sanitary sewers, water supply facilities, and other site improvements.
Director. The director of the community development department or his/her designee, except where specifically noted otherwise.
Drainage improvements. Those facilities and structures intended to control and direct the passage of stormwaters and other surface water flows from and across or under a property; including, but not limited to, swales and ditches, cross drains and other piping systems, catch basins, detention ponds, and velocity dissipation devices.
Driveway. A vehicular access way in private ownership, other than a private street, which provides access primarily to only one property or project, or to no more than three single-family detached residences.
Easement. Recorded authorization for a specified purpose by a property owner for the use of any designated part of the real property by another entity.
Erosion and sedimentation control ordinance. The ordinance adopted by the city that regulates soil erosion and its conveyance to state waters.
Excavation. Any manmade cavity or depression in the earth's surface, including its sides, walls, or faces, formed by earth removal and producing unsupported earth conditions as results of the excavation. If installed forms or similar structures reduce the depth to width relationship, an excavation may become a trench.
Fee simple. Absolute title to land, free of any other claims against the title, which one can sell or pass to another by will or inheritance.
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The federal agency which administers the National Flood Insurance Program. This agency prepares, revises and distributes the maps and studies referenced in these regulations.
Final plat. A finished drawing of a subdivision showing completely and accurately all legal and boundary information and certifications required by these regulations.
Fire marshal's office. A section of the fire department charged with the responsibility of enforcing the city's fire prevention and protection code, the standard fire prevention code, the national fire prevention code and Georgia Accessibility Code.
Freeboard. The distance between the base flood elevation and the top of a stormwater detention structure.
GDOT. The Department of Transportation of the State of Georgia.
Grading. The movement, removal or addition of earth on site by the use of mechanical equipment.
Grubbing. The removal of stumps or roots from a property.
Fulton County Health Department. The Environmental Health Services Division of the Georgia Department of Human Resources for Fulton County, Georgia.
Hotspot. An area where the use of the land has the potential to generate highly contaminated runoff, with concentrations of pollutants in excess of those typically found in stormwater or to violate water quality standards.
Impervious surface. Any paved, hardened or structural surface, including but not limited to, buildings, dams, decks, driveways, parking areas, patios, streets, swimming pools, tennis courts, walkways, and other structures.
In-bay automatic car wash. A commercial car wash where the driver pulls into the bay and parks the car. The vehicle remains stationary while a machine moves back and forth over the vehicle to clean it, instead of the vehicle moving through the tunnel.
Land disturbing activity. Any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and movement of sediments into state water or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land but not including agricultural practices as described in the city's soil erosion and sedimentation control ordinance.
Land disturbance permit. Any permit issued by the city that authorizes land disturbing activities on a site or portion of a site.
Lot. The basic lawful unit of land, identifiable by a single deed established by plat, subdivision, or as otherwise permitted by law, to be separately owned, used, developed or built upon. In determining the area and dimensions of a lot, no part of the right-of-way of a road or crosswalk may be included.
Lot, corner. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
Lot, double/multiple frontage. A lot other than a corner lot abutting upon two or more streets that may or may not intersect at that lot.
Lot, minimum lot size. The smallest permissible lot area established by the zoning ordinance or conditions of zoning.
Major intersection. The intersection of two or more public streets in which at least one of the streets is an arterial or collector as designated by the comprehensive plan.
Major thoroughfare. Any public street, existing or proposed, which is shown in the comprehensive plan as an arterial or collector.
Minor plat. A finished drawing of a subdivision of no more than three lots that, at the time of subdivision, does not necessarily, but may involve a land disturbance permit, new streets, the extension of a utility or other municipal facility and depicts all legal and engineering information required by these regulations.
MUTCD. The Manual for Uniform Traffic Control Devices, latest edition.
OSHA. The U.S. Department of Labor, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or successor agency.
Owner. A person having a majority fee simple interest in real property, or a majority interest through any other form of ownership.
Pedestrian way. A right-of-way within a block dedicated to public use, intended primarily for pedestrians and from which motor propelled vehicles are excluded.
Person. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal organization, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate, or other group or combination acting singly or collectively for a common purpose, and the duly authorized agents thereof.
Plat. A map indicating the subdivision, re-subdivision, or recombination of land.
Preliminary plat. A drawing which shows the perimeter boundary, topography, lot arrangements, street layout, and other features of a proposed subdivision, as specified in these regulations.
Project. A principal building or structure, or group of buildings or structures, planned and designed as an interdependent unit together with all accessory uses or structures, utilities, drainage, access, and circulation facilities, whether built in whole or in phases. Examples include: a principal building on a lot, a residential subdivision, a multi-family development, a shopping center or an office park.
Public record drawing. A survey or other drawing based on a field survey which shows existing features/components and horizontal or vertical information (grades or location of improvements).
Public works director. The director of the department of public works or his/her designee, except where specifically noted otherwise
Rain sensor shut off switch. An electric device that detects and measures rainfall amounts and overrides the cycle of an irrigation system so as to turn off such system when a predetermined amount of rain has fallen.
Recycled water system. A water system that captures and reuses water previously used in wash or rinse cycles.
Redevelopment. Development on a previously developed site; but excludes ordinary maintenance activities, remodeling of existing building interiors, resurfacing of paved areas, and exterior building changes or improvements which do not materially increase or concentrate stormwater runoff, or cause additional non-point source pollution.
Residential site plan. A drawing showing lot information and all improvements, as outlined in article X [of this chapter].
Responsible party. In the context of enforcement procedures, a person (as defined above) who is alleged to have committed, caused, continued or created a violation of the terms, requirements, regulations, or provisions of these regulations whether as a direct act, through lack of action or neglect, or at the direction of or on behalf of others. A responsible party may be the owner of a premises where a violation has occurred; an occupant whether through ownership, lease or other tenancy; a contractor, builder or developer; an agent of or person otherwise acting on behalf of the aforementioned parties; or other person acting in violation of these regulations.
Road. See "Street, public".
Roadway. The paved portion of a street from back of curb to back of curb (or edge to edge of pavement for streets not having curbs) but excluding driveway aprons, bridges, and large single and multi-cell culverts which in a hydrologic sense can be considered to function as a bridge.
Self-service car wash. A commercial car wash where the customers wash their cars themselves with spray wands and brushes.
Sheet flow. Diffused water running overland to a defined watercourse.
Site work. Development activity to prepare a property for construction of buildings or finished structures, including clearing, grubbing, grading, and installation of soil sedimentation and erosion control facilities.
Standard details. Illustrative minimum standards for land development activities authorized under these regulations or other codes of the city. These standards shall not supersede more restrictive or prudent design requirements or good engineering practices as applied to specific situations on a case-by-case basis.
State waters. Any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the state, which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation.
Street, private. An access way similar to and having the same function and design as a public street, providing access to more than one property, but held in private ownership(as distinct from a "driveway").
Street, public. A right-of-way dedicated to and accepted by the city for vehicular traffic or over which the city may hold a prescriptive easement for public access, and including designated and numbered U. S. and state highways. For the purposes of these regulations, the term "public street" shall be limited to those which afford or could afford a direct means of vehicular access to abutting property, and exclude limited access roadways which abut a property but from which direct access may not be allowed under any circumstances.
Street, local nonresidential. A surface street intended primarily to provide local access to adjacent existing or planned commercial or industrial development and not for through traffic.
Street, local residential. A surface street intended primarily to provide local access to adjacent residential development and not for through traffic.
Street, marginal access. A local street which is parallel to and adjacent to a major thoroughfare and which provides access to adjacent properties and protection from through traffic.
Stub-out street. A street having one end open to traffic and being temporarily terminated at the other. Stub-outs generally do not have, but may be required to have, a temporary vehicular turn-around. This temporary termination is to provide connectivity to future developments and may be constructed without curb and gutter provided such stub-out street meets the standards of the fire department.
Sub-divider. Any person, individual, firm partnership, association, corporation, estate, trust, or any other group or combination acting as a unit dividing or proposing to divide land so as to constitute a subdivision as herein defined, including an agent of the sub-divider.
Subdivision. Any division or re-division of a lot, tract or parcel, regardless of its existing or future use, into two or more lots, tracts or parcel. The term, "subdivision" shall mean the act or process of dividing property. Lots that do not abut or are not directly across a public street from other sub-divided lots shall be considered a separate distinct subdivision with a separate name.
Where appropriate to the context, the term "subdivision" also may be used in reference to the aggregate of all lots held in common ownership at the time of division.
Subdivision entrance. A public street, or publicly approved private street, that provides access to subdivided lots.
System improvement. Any improvement or facility such as streets, bridges, or rights-of-ways identified on the long range road classification map (i.e. "the system"),and any traffic control measures, landscaping or other features to the same, that is included in the comprehensive plan and which is further designed to provide service to the community at large.
Thoroughfare. See "Major thoroughfare".
Trails, pedestrian or others. Extended and usually continuous strips of land established independently of other routes of travel and dedicated, through fee simple ownership or easement, to recreational travel including, but not limited to, hiking, horseback riding.
Trench. A narrow excavation made below the surface of the ground. In general, the depth is greater than the width, but the width of the trench is not greater than 15 feet.
Watercourse. A channel with a defined bed and banks, including lakes, ponds and marshes.
Wetlands. Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and under normal circumstances does support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs and similar areas. The ecological parameters for designating wetlands include hydric-soils, hydrophytic vegetation, and hydrological conditions that involve a temporary or permanent source of water to cause soil saturation.
Zoning ordinance. The adopted zoning ordinance of the City of Johns Creek, Georgia, as amended from time-to-time.
(Ord. No. 2009-06-18, (4.2), 6-29-2009; Ord. No. 2011-03-06, § 1, 3-28-2011)
Secs. 113-43—113-50. - Reserved.
