ARTICLE X. - FINANCE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-658. - Fiscal year.
The City shall operate on a fiscal year that shall begin on November 1 and end on October 31.
State Law reference— Requirement for governing authority to establish a fiscal year, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-3.
(Code 1978, § 2-407)
Sec. 2-659. - Officers authorized to sign checks.
All checks drawn on the bank accounts of the City shall be invalid unless signed by one of the following officers of the City: the City Manager, Assistant City Manager or the City Clerk.
(Code 1978, § 2-406)
Sec. 2-660. - Annual financial statement.
Within six months after the close of the fiscal year, a statement of revenues and expenditures, that fairly represents the financial condition of the City and that shows all municipal accounts as of the close of such preceding fiscal year, shall be made available for public inspection and shall be filed with all agencies as required by law.
(Code 1978, § 2-414)
State Law reference— Requirement to prepare and file an annual finance report with the Department of Community Affairs, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-7; copy of audit report to be available for public inspection, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-7(e).
Secs. 2-661—2-678. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BUDGET[11]

Footnotes:
--- (11) ---
State Law reference— Budgets, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-679. - Procedures for adoption of budget.
The municipal budget shall be adopted and amended by ordinance passed by not less than a majority of the full membership of the Mayor and City Council. The procedure shall be as follows:
(1)
Preparation. The proposed municipal budget shall be prepared by the City Manager and presented to the Mayor and City Council no later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the ensuing fiscal year.
(2)
Public budget hearing. The City Council shall hold a public budget hearing prior to final adoption of the proposed budget. Such hearing shall provide an opportunity for all interested citizens to provide oral and written comments. At least one week prior to the budget hearing the City shall publish a notice in a newspaper setting forth the date, time and place of the hearing. The publication notice shall also include a summary of the proposed budget.
(3)
Amendments.
a.
The Mayor and City Council may amend the budget, except that no proposed amendment shall be effective without first conducting a public hearing as herein prescribed if the proposed amendment shall:
1.
Add a new item of appropriation in an amount in excess of one percent of the total amount of appropriations as stated in the initially adopted budget;
2.
Increase or decrease any item of appropriation by more than 25 percent; or
3.
Increase the amount needed to be raised by taxes by more than five percent.
b.
Notice of hearing on any amendment shall be advertised at least three days before the date set therefor. The publication shall include the time, place and location of such hearing and state the availability of the proposed amendment details.
(4)
Adoption. The municipal budget shall be adopted not later than 30 days subsequent to the beginning of the fiscal year. Upon adoption, the budget shall constitute an appropriation for the purposes stated therein and an authorization of the amount to be raised by taxation for the purpose of the City.
(Code 1978, § 2-408)
Sec. 2-680. - Form and content of the budget.
(a)
The municipal budget shall be prefaced by a clear general summary of its contents and shall show in detail all estimated income, indicating the proposed property tax levy, and all proposed expenditures for the ensuing fiscal year. It shall be so arranged as to show comparative figures for actual and estimated income and expenditures of the preceding fiscal year. Separate items shall be included for at least the following:
(1)
Administration, operation and maintenance expenses of each department or office of the City, including a breakdown for salaries and wages for each such unit;
(2)
Interest and debt redemption charges;
(3)
Proposed capital expenditures, detailed by departments and offices when practicable;
(4)
Cash deficits of the preceding year;
(5)
Contingent expenses in an amount not more than three percent of the total amount of administration, operation, and maintenance expenses; and
(6)
Such reserves as may be deemed advisable by the Mayor and City Council.
(b)
The sum of estimated revenues and appropriated fund balances shall be equal to appropriations.
(Code 1978, § 2-409)
Sec. 2-681. - Capital program.
(a)
A five-year capital program may be submitted to the City Council at the same time that the budget is introduced for approval. Such capital program shall include:
(1)
A clear general summary of its contents;
(2)
A list of all capital improvements which are proposed to be undertaken for the five fiscal years next ensuing, with appropriate supporting information as to the necessity for such improvements;
(3)
Cost estimates, method of financing, and recommended time schedules for each such improvement; and
(4)
The estimated annual cost of operating and maintaining the facilities to be constructed or acquired.
(b)
The above information may be revised and extended each year with regard to capital improvements still pending or in process of construction or acquisition.
(Code 1978, § 2-410)
Sec. 2-682. - Transfer of appropriations.
The City Manager with the advice and consent of the Mayor and City Council may at any time during the fiscal year transfer part or all of any unencumbered appropriation balance among programs within a department or office, and the Mayor and City Council may by ordinance transfer part or all of any unencumbered appropriation balance from one department or office to another, except that no appropriation for debt service or capital improvements may be reduced or transferred during any fiscal year, and under no circumstances may the expenditures exceed the total of the budget.
(Code 1978, § 2-411)
Sec. 2-683. - Emergency appropriations.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, the Mayor and City Council may make emergency appropriations after the adoption of a budget, for a purpose which was not foreseen at the time of the adoption thereof, or for which adequate provisions were not made therein. Such an appropriation shall be made only to meet a public emergency affecting life, health, safety, property or the public peace, and shall be made only out of actual unappropriated revenue or surplus. If there is no surplus, then temporary borrowing in notes may be made; provided, that any such borrowed amounts are included as an appropriation in the next succeeding year's budget.
(Code 1978, § 2-412)
Sec. 2-684. - Lapse of appropriations.
Every appropriation, except an appropriation for a capital expenditure, shall lapse at the close of the next succeeding year to the extent that it has not been expended or encumbered. An appropriation for a capital expenditure shall continue in force until the purpose for which it was made has been accomplished or abandoned; the purpose of any such appropriation shall be deemed abandoned if three years pass without any disbursement from or encumbrance of the appropriation.
(Code 1978, § 2-413)
Sec. 2-685. - Notice of budget availability.
Within 30 days of adoption of the budget, a notice shall be published advising of the availability of the budget for public inspection.
(Code 1978, § 2-415)
