ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 22-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
100-year floodplain means land in the floodplain subject to a one percent or greater statistical occurrence probability of flooding in any given year.
Addition (to an existing building) means any walled and roofed expansion to the perimeter of a building in which the addition is connected to a common load-bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing walls is new construction.
Aggrieved person means a person whose property is the subject of the action appealed from or a person's who has a substantial interest in the action appealed from that is in danger of suffering special damage or injury not common to all property owners similarly situated.
Agricultural operations means those practices involving the establishment, cultivation, or harvesting of products of the field or orchard, the preparation and planting of pasture land, farm ponds, dairy operations, livestock and poultry management practices and the construction of farm buildings.
Alley means a minor way, which is used primarily for vehicular service access to the back or side of properties otherwise fronting on a street.
Appeal means a review authorized by this chapter of any final order, requirement, or decision of the community development director or the mayor based on or made in the enforcement of this chapter, excluding section 22-34.
Applicant means any person who acts in the person's own behalf or as the agent of an owner of property and engages in alteration of land or vegetation in preparation for construction activity.
As-built drawings means amended site plans specifying the location, dimensions, elevations, capacities and operational capabilities of public improvements, including water, sewer, road and drainage structures and stormwater management facilities as they have been constructed.
Bank (stream bank) means the sloping land that contains the stream channel and the normal flows of the stream.
Basement means a space having one-half or more of its floor-to-ceiling height below the average level of adjoining ground and with a floor-to-ceiling height of not less than 6½ feet.
Best management practices (BMPs) means a collection of structural practices and vegetative measures which, when properly designed, installed and maintained, will provide effective erosion and sedimentation control. The term "properly designed" means designed in accordance with the hydraulic design specifications contained in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia specified in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6(b).
BNR means the board of natural resources.
Bicycle lane means that part of a street or highway adjacent to the roadway, designated by official signs or markings for use by persons riding bicycles.
Block means a piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highways or streets, other than alleys. In cases where the platting is incomplete or disconnected, the community development director may delineate the outline of the block.
Board means the mayor and city council of the City of Tucker, Georgia.
Breakaway wall means a wall that is not part of the structural support of the building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under specific lateral loading forces without causing damage to the elevated portion of the building or the supporting system.
Buffer area means that portion of a lot set aside for open space and/or visual screening purposes, pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Code and all conditions of zoning, to separate different use districts, or to separate uses on one property from uses on another property of the same use district or a different use district.
Buffer, city, means an area of land 50 feet in width immediately adjacent to the state buffer. The first 25 feet adjacent to the state buffer shall be undisturbed. The outer 25 feet may be disturbed but shall contain no impervious surfaces.
Buffer, state, means an area of land 25 feet in width immediately adjacent to the banks of state waters in its natural state of vegetation, which facilitates the protection of water quality and aquatic habitat.
Buffer, stream, means the state buffer and the city buffer as measured horizontally from the top of the stream bank.
Buildable area means the area of a lot remaining after all setback requirements, including buffer areas, have been met.
Builder as used in sections 22-183 and 22-184 means a person who constructs a structure or dwelling for residential occupancy by humans.
Building means any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and intended for the shelter, housing, or enclosure of any individual, animal, process, equipment, goods, or materials of any kind.
Building permit means required written permission issued by the development director for construction, repair, alteration, or addition to a structure.
Building setback line means the minimum horizontal distance required between the public right-of-way or the utility easement abutting a private street and the principal building or structure on a lot or any projection thereof except projections that are authorized exceptions to building setback line requirements in chapter 46 and any zoning conditions approved by the mayor and city council pursuant thereto. The size of the utility easement for a private street shall be equal to the required size of the public right-of-way and shall not be any smaller in width or length than what would be required for a public right-of-way.
CPESC means a certified professional in erosion and sediment control with current certification by Certified Professional in Erosion and Sediment Control, Inc., a corporation registered in North Carolina, which is also referred to as CPESC or CPESC, Inc.
Caliper means the diameter of a tree trunk, applied only to new or replacement plantings that is taken six inches above the ground for up to and including four-inch caliper size, and 12 inches above the ground for larger sizes.
Certified personnel means a person who has successfully completed the appropriate certification course approved by the state soil and water conservation commission.
Channel means a natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks that conduct continuously or periodically flowing water.
Channel protection means the protection of stream channels, in accord with the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual, from bank and bed erosion and degradation by preserving or restoring the applicable stream buffer, by providing extended detention, and by integrating erosion prevention measures such as energy dissipation and velocity control.
City means the City of Tucker, Georgia, a political subdivision of the State of Georgia. When appropriate to the context, the term "city" also includes authorized officers, employees and agents thereof.
City arborist means the city official having the primary responsibilities of administration and enforcement of the tree protection ordinance.
City separate storm sewer system means a stormwater conveyance or system of stormwater conveyances that are all of the following:
(1)
Owned or maintained by the county; designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater;
(2)
Is not a combined sewer;
(3)
Not part of a publicly-owned treatment works (POTW); and not located within the boundaries of a city located within the county or owned or operated by any other government entity.
City stormwater management manual means the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual.
City zoning ordinance or zoning ordinance means the zoning ordinance of the city.
Collector street means a street or road designated as a collector street in the thoroughfare plan.
Commission means the state soil and water conservation commission.
Comprehensive plan means the city comprehensive plan adopted by the mayor and city council, as it may be amended from time to time, which divides the city into land use categories and which constitutes the official policy of the city regarding long-term planning and use of land.
Conservation easement means a restriction or limitation on the use of real property which is expressly recited in any deed or other instrument of grant or conveyance executed by or on behalf of the owner of the land described therein and whose purpose is to preserve land or water areas predominantly in their natural scenic landscape or open condition or in an agricultural farming, forest or open space use and includes conservation easements authorized by state law.
Construction means any alteration of land for the purpose of achieving its development or changed use, including particularly any preparation for, building of or erection of a structure.
Construction waste means waste building materials and rubble resulting from construction, remodeling, repair and demolition operations on pavements, houses, commercial buildings and other structures. Such waste includes, but is not limited to, asbestos-containing waste, wood, tree stumps, tree tops, bricks, metal, concrete, wall board, paper, cardboard, glass, wire, plastics, and other typical construction waste products and refuse.
Critical root zone means an area of root space that is within a circle circumscribed around the trunk of a healthy tree using a radius of one foot per inch DBH.
Crosswalk means a right-of-way within a block dedicated to public use, ten feet or more in width, intended primarily for pedestrians and from which motor-propelled vehicles are excluded, and which is designed to improve or provide access to adjacent roads or lots.
Cut means a portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation; the depth below original ground surface to excavated surface. Also known as excavation.
DBH (diameter at breast height) means the diameter of a tree trunk measured in inches at a height of 4½ feet above the ground. If a tree splits into multiple trunks below 4½ feet, then the trunk is measured at its most narrow point beneath the split.
DNR means the department of natural resources of the state.
Deck, elevated means an open, unenclosed structure elevated above pervious natural grade that is attached to the primary structure.
Density factor means a unit of measurement used to prescribe the calculated required tree coverage on a site.
Department means the community development department.
Design professional means a professional licensed by the state in the field of engineering, architecture, landscape architecture, forestry, geology, or land surveying; or a person that is a certified professional in erosion and sediment control (CPESC) with a current certification by Certified Professional in Erosion and Sediment Control, Inc.
Detention means the temporary storage of stormwater runoff in a stormwater management facility for the purpose of controlling the peak discharge of the stormwater, as the term "detention" is defined by state law, the city stormwater management manual or this Code.
Detention facility means a facility that provides for storage of stormwater runoff and controlled release of this runoff during and after a flood or storm.
Developer means any person who acts in the person's own behalf or as the agent of an owner of property and engages in alteration of land or vegetation in preparation for construction activity.
Development means all activities associated with the conversion of land or the expansion of replacement of an existing use to any new use intended for human operation, occupancy, or habitation, other than for agricultural purposes devoted strictly to the cultivation of land, dairying or animal husbandry. Such activities include, but are not limited to, land-disturbance (clearing and grubbing the land of vegetation and stumps, and grading) and the construction of improvements such as, but not limited to, streets, driveways or parking areas, water sewer mains, stormwater drainage facilities, sidewalks or other structures permanently placed in or on the property. Where appropriate to the context, development also may be used to denote a specific subdivision or project which is a single entity or intended to be constructed as in interrelated whole, whether simultaneously or in phases.
Development permit means any permit that authorizes land-disturbance for the use, construction thereon or alteration of any real property within the limits of the city.
Director means the director of the community development department, or his designee.
Director, EPD, means the director of the environmental protection division of the department of natural resources.
District means the county soil and water conservation district.
Division means the environmental protection division of the department of natural resources.
Drainage means the removal of surface or subsurface water from a given area, either by gravity or by pumping, commonly applied herein to surface water.
Drainage easement means an easement appurtenant or attached to a tract or parcel of land allowing the owners of adjacent tracts or other persons to discharge stormwater runoff onto the tract or parcel of land subject to the drainage easement.
Drainage plan means a plan prepared using appropriate and commonly accepted engineering standards, which specifies the means for alteration or development of a drainage system.
Drainage structure means a device composed of a virtually nonerodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water from one place to another by intercepting the flow and carrying it to a release point for stormwater management, drainage control, or flood control purposes.
Drainage system means the surface and subsurface system for the removal of water from the land, including, but not limited to, both the natural elements of streams, marshes, swales and ponds, whether of an intermittent or continuous nature, and the manmade element which includes culverts, ditches, channels and detention facilities that comprise the storm drainage system.
EPD means the environmental protection division of the department of natural resources.
Elevated building means a nonbasement building built to have the lowest floor elevated above ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls, pilings, columns (posts and piers), and/or shear walls.
Erosion means the process by which land surface is worn away by the action of wind, water, ice or gravity.
Erosion and sedimentation control plan means a plan for the control of soil erosion and sedimentation resulting from a land-disturbing activity and that conforms to the requirements of the Manual for Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control in Georgia.
Exceptional and historical trees means those trees or stands of trees which are exceptional representatives of their species in terms of size, age or unusual botanical quality, or are associated with historically notable events.
Existing manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was completed before June 6, 1974.
Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision means the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
Extended detention means the detention of stormwater runoff for an extended period, typically 24 hours or greater.
Extreme flood protection means measures taken to prevent adverse impacts from large low-frequency storm events with a return frequency of 100 years.
Fill means a portion of land surface to which properly compacted soils have been added, the depth above the original ground.
Final stabilization means that all soil-disturbing activities at the site have been completed, and that for unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent structures and areas located outside the waste disposal limits of a landfill cell that has been certified by EPD for waste disposal, 100 percent of the soil surface is uniformly covered in permanent vegetation with a density of 70 percent or greater, or equivalent permanent stabilization measures (such as the use of rip rap, gabions, permanent mulches or geotextiles) have been used. Permanent vegetation shall consist of planted trees, shrubs, perennial vines, a crop of perennial vegetation appropriate for the time of year and region, or a crop of annual vegetation and a seeding of target crop perennials appropriate for the region. Final stabilization applies to each phase of construction.
Finished grade means the final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting or filling and conforming to the proposed design.
Flood or flooding means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the usual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
Flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) means an official map of a community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard have been defined as Zone A.
Flood hazard map means the official city map designating the elevation and boundaries of flooding and associated floodways under base flood conditions maintained by the city, based upon the flood insurance study for the city, the United States Corps of Engineers or other reputable reports accepted by the roads and drainage director, and based upon competent engineering studies prepared by a currently state-registered professional engineer, or the city.
Flood insurance rate map (FIRM) means an official map of a community, on which the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
Flood insurance study is the official report provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the flood boundary floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
Floodplain, in article III of this chapter, means any land area susceptible to flooding, which would have at least a one percent probability of a flooding occurrence in any calendar year based on the basin being fully developed as shown on the current land use plan; i.e., the regulatory flood.
Floodway means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
Floor means the top surface of an enclosed area in a building (including basement), i.e., the top of slab in concrete slab construction or top of wood flooring in wood frame construction. The term "floor" does not include the floor of a garage used solely for parking vehicles.
Footpath, in article III of this chapter, means any unpaved, narrow and pervious trail in a stream buffer allowing for pedestrian travel.
Frontage, lot, means the distance for which the front boundary line of the lot and the street line are coincident.
Functionally dependent facility means a facility which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood processing facilities. The term "functionally dependent facility" does not include long-term storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
Georgia Stormwater Management Manual is the manual adopted by the mayor and city council that provides the criteria, technical design specifications and standards for the proper implementation of the requirements of this chapter.
Governing authority means the mayor and city council.
Grading means altering the shape of ground surfaces to a predetermined condition. This includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling and shaping or any combination thereof and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
Ground elevation means the original elevation of the ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
Highest adjacent grade means the highest natural elevation of the ground surface, prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a building.
Historic structure. See chapter 8.
Impervious surface means any surface that is highly resistant to infiltration by water, including, but not limited to, surfaces such as concrete or asphalt as well as most conventionally surfaced streets, roofs, sidewalks, driveways, parking lots, and other similar structures.
Infiltration means the process of percolating stormwater runoff into the soil.
Inspection and maintenance agreement means a written agreement executed by an owner in a form approved by the director that will provide the long-term inspection and maintenance of stormwater management facilities and practices on a site or with respect to a land development project, which, when properly recorded in the deed records, constitutes a restriction on the title to a site or other land involved in a land development project.
Intermediate regional flood (IRF) means a 100-year frequency flood as defined on the flood hazard map which has a probability of occurring once every 100 years or having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Also known as the base flood, or 100-year flood.
Intermediate regional floodplain means the land area within the floodplain within a community subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year as defined on the flood hazard map. Also known as area of special flood hazard, or 100-year floodplain.
Land-disturbing activity means any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land, but not including agricultural practices as described in section 22-33(b)(3)e.
Larger common plan of development or sale means a contiguous area where multiple separate and distinct construction activities are occurring under one plan of development or sale. For the purposes of this definition, the term "plan" means an announcement, piece of documentation such as a sign, public notice or hearing, sales pitch, advertisement, drawing, permit application, zoning request, computer design, or physical demarcation such as boundary signs, lot stakes, or surveyor markings indicating that construction activities may occur on a specific plot.
Live detention means that quantity of water capable of being effectively contained by a designated facility for stormwater storage for a specified period of time.
Local issuing authority means the governing authority of the city.
Local street means a street used primarily for access to abutting properties in residential, industrial or other developments.
Lot means a designated parcel, tract, or area of land legally established by plat, subdivision, or as otherwise permitted by law, to be separately owned, used, developed, or built upon.
Lot, corner, means a lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection or upon two parts of the same street forming an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
Lot, double-frontage, means a lot that abuts two parallel streets or that abuts two streets that do not intersect at the boundaries of the lot. A double-frontage lot may also be referred to as a through lot.
Lowest floor means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including basement. An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable nonelevation design requirements of 44 CFR 60.3.
Maintenance of detention facility means preserving the enclosed walls or impounding embankments of the detention facility in good condition; ensuring structural soundness, functional adequacy and freedom from excessive sediment; removing obstructions affecting operation of outlet devices and rectifying any unforeseen erosion problems.
Major thoroughfare/major arterial means a street, road or highway shown as a major thoroughfare in the City of Tucker Transportation and Thoroughfare Plan.
Manufactured home means a new or used structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on-site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except that the term "manufactured home" includes any structure which meets all the requirements of this definition except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 USC 5401 et seq.
Mean sea level means the average height of the sea for all stages of the tide. It is used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain. For purposes of this chapter, the term "mean sea level" is synonymous with national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD).
Metropolitan River Protection Act (MRPA) means a state law found at O.C.G.A. § 12-5-440 et seq., which addresses environmental and developmental matters in certain metropolitan river corridors and their drainage basins.
Minor subdivision plat means the combination of two lots or the subdivision of one lot into to two lots, any subdivision of three or more lots is a major subdivision. See Subdivision.
Minor thoroughfare/minor arterial means a street, road or highway shown as a minor thoroughfare in the transportation and thoroughfare plan.
Multi-phase residential development means any development undertaken by a single developer or a group of developers acting in concert, to develop lots for sale in a residential subdivision where such land is developed pursuant to multiple preliminary or final plats and such land is contiguous or is known, designated, or advertised as a common unit or by a common name.
Multiuse trail means a recreation corridor intended for the use of non-motorized forms of transportation such as, but not limited to, walking, running, bicycles, in-line skates, as identified in a master plan for multiuse trails in the city approved by the mayor and city council.
NOI means a notice of intent form provided by EPD for coverage under the state general permit.
NOT means a notice of termination form provided by EPD to terminate coverage under the state general permit.
National geodetic vertical datum (NGVD), as corrected in 1929, is a vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain.
Natural ground surface means the ground surface in its original state before any grading excavation or filling.
Nephelometric turbidity units (NTUs) means numerical units of measure based upon photometric analytical techniques for measuring the light scattered by finely divided particles of a substance in suspension. This technique is used to estimate the extent of turbidity in water in which colloidally dispersed particles are present.
New construction means any structure for which the permitted date of construction commenced after adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived.
New manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after June 6, 1974.
Nonpoint source pollution means a form of water pollution that does not originate from a discrete point such as a sewage treatment plant or industrial discharge, but involves the transport of pollutants such as sediment, fertilizers, pesticides, heavy metals, oil, grease, bacteria, organic materials and other contaminants from land to surface water and groundwater via mechanisms such as precipitation, stormwater runoff, and leaching. Nonpoint source pollution is a by-product of land use practices such as agricultural, silvicultural, mining, construction, subsurface disposal and urban runoff sources.
Nonstructural stormwater management practice or nonstructural practice means any natural or planted vegetation or other nonstructural component and practice of the stormwater management plan that provides for or enhances stormwater quantity and/or quality control or other stormwater management benefits, and includes, but is not limited to, riparian buffers, open and greenspace areas, overland flow filtration areas, vegetated channels and natural depressions.
Off-site facility means a stormwater management facility located outside the boundaries of the site.
On-site facility means a stormwater management facility located within the boundaries of the site.
Open space means that portion of a lot, including yards, established pursuant to the requirements of this chapter as open space, which is open and unobstructed from ground level to the sky, with the exception of natural foliage or accessory recreational facilities or walkways, which is accessible to all persons occupying a building on the lot and is not a part of the roof of any portion of any building.
Operator means the parties that have:
(1)
Operational control of construction project plans and specifications, including the ability to make modifications to those plans and specifications; or
(2)
Day-to-day operational control of those activities that are necessary to ensure compliance with a stormwater pollution prevention plan for the site or other permit conditions, such as a person authorized to direct workers at a site to carry out activities required by the stormwater pollution prevention plan or to comply with other permit conditions.
Outfall means the location where stormwater in a discernible, confined and discrete conveyance, leaves a facility or site or, if there is receiving water on-site, becomes a point source discharging into that receiving water.
Overbank flood protection means measures taken to prevent an increase in the frequency and magnitude of out-of-bank flooding (i.e., flow events that exceed the capacity of the channel and enter the floodplain), and that are intended to protect downstream properties from flooding for the two-year through 25-year frequency storm events.
Owner means the person in whom is vested the fee ownership, dominion or title of property, the proprietor; the term "owner" may also include a tenant, if chargeable under the lease for maintenance of the property, and any agent of the owner or tenant including a developer.
Parcel, in article III of this chapter, means any plot, lot or acreage shown as a unit on the latest county tax assessment records.
Permit means the authorization necessary to conduct a land-disturbing activity under the provisions of this chapter.
Person means any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, state agency, municipality or other political subdivision of this state, any interstate body or any other legal entity.
Phase or phased means subparts or segments of construction projects where the subpart or segment is constructed and stabilized prior to completing construction activities on the entire construction site.
Planning commission means the planning commission of the city.
Planning director means the director of the community development department of the city or designee.
Post-development refers to the time period, or the conditions that may reasonably be expected or anticipated to exist, after completion of land development activity on a site as the context may require.
Potential purchaser, as used in sections 22-183 and 22-184, means a person purchasing property in a residential subdivision or a multi-phase residential development from a developer and/or builder for occupancy as a residence or as a residence to be rented or leased to others.
Predevelopment refers to the wooded conditions of a site.
Project means the entire proposed development project regardless of the size of the area of land to be disturbed.
Properly designed means designed in accordance with the design requirements and specifications contained in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia, published by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted and amendments to the manual as approved by the commission up until the date of NOI submittal.
Protected zone means all areas of a parcel required to remain in open space, including all areas required as yard areas, buffer areas, stream buffers, state buffer zones or landscaped areas according to provisions of the city zoning ordinance or by conditions of zoning or variance approval.
Public facilities means the roads, water, sewer, schools, traffic control devices, and electrical service.
Public works director means the director of the public works department or designee.
Qualified personnel means any person who meets or exceeds the education and training requirements of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-19.
Reach means a longitudinal segment of a stream or river measured along specified points on the stream or river.
Reasonable access means a 15-foot access easement from the public right-of-way to the stormwater management facility and a ten-foot drainage and maintenance easement on all four sides of the stormwater management facility.
Recreation areas means those portions of open space designed and intended for active recreational use, such as sports fields and other play areas.
Recreational vehicle means a vehicle that is:
(1)
Built on a single chassis;
(2)
400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection;
(3)
Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-duty truck; and
(4)
Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
Redevelopment means a land development project on a previously developed site, but excludes ordinary maintenance activities, remodeling of existing buildings, resurfacing of paved areas, and exterior changes or improvements which do not materially increase or concentrate stormwater runoff, or cause additional nonpoint source pollution.
Regional stormwater management facility or regional facility means stormwater management facilities designed to control stormwater runoff from multiple properties, where the owners or developers of the individual properties may assist in the financing of the facility, and the requirement for on-site controls is either eliminated or reduced.
Residential shall have the same meaning as given in chapter 46 except that it shall not include apartments.
Riparian means belonging or related to the bank of a river, stream, lake, pond or impoundment.
Roadway drainage structure means a device such as a bridge, culvert, or ditch, composed of a virtually nonerodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water under a roadway by intercepting the flow on one side of a traveled way consisting of one or more defined lanes, with or without shoulder areas, and carrying water to a release point on the other side.
Rock outcropping means a single, contiguous piece of exposed rock that has a horizontal surface area equal to or greater than 200 square feet.
Runoff means the portion of precipitation on the land that reaches the drainage system.
Runoff coefficient means the ratio of runoff to rainfall.
SS&WCC means the state soil and water conservation commission.
SWCD means the Soil and Water Conservation District of DeKalb County, Georgia.
Sediment means solid material, both organic and inorganic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water, ice or gravity as a product of erosion.
Sediment basin means a detention facility specifically developed for the purpose of allowing the deposit of sediment resulting from the land development process that may be constructed as part of or separately from a detention facility.
Sedimentation means the process by which eroded material is transported and deposited by the action of water, wind, ice or gravity.
Sedimentation facility means a detention facility specifically developed for the purpose of allowing the deposit of sediment resulting from the land development process which may be constructed as part of or separately from a detention facility.
Seller as used in sections 22-183 and 22-184 means a builder or developer.
Significant tree means any existing, healthy, living tree eight inches DBH or greater in size.
Site plan means that plan required to acquire a development, construction or building permit which shows the means by which the applicant will conform with applicable provisions of this chapter and other applicable ordinances.
Soil and water conservation district approved plan means an erosion and sedimentation control plan approved in writing by the DeKalb County, Georgia Soil and Water Conservation District.
Specimen tree means any tree that has been determined to meet the criteria within section 22-34 for the determination of specimen trees.
Stabilization means the process of establishing an enduring soil cover of vegetation by the installation of temporary or permanent structures for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the erosion process and the resultant transport of sediment by wind, water, ice or gravity.
Start of construction (for other than new construction or substantial improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348) includes substantial improvements and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
State general permit means the national pollution discharge elimination system general permit or permits for stormwater runoff from construction activities as is now in effect or as may be amended or reissued in the future pursuant to the state's authority to implement the same through federal delegation under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 USC 1251 et seq., and O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f).
State waters means any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the state, which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation except as defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-17.
Stormwater better site design means nonstructural site design approach and technique that can reduce a site's impact on the watershed and can provide for nonstructural stormwater management. Stormwater better site design includes conserving and protecting natural areas and greenspace, reducing impervious cover and using natural features for stormwater management.
Stormwater hotspot means an area where the use of the land has the potential to generate highly contaminated runoff, with concentrations of pollutants in excess of those typically found in stormwater. Examples of stormwater hotspots include, but are not limited to, the following: gas/fueling stations, vehicle maintenance areas, vehicle washing/steam cleaning facilities, auto recycling facilities, outdoor material storage areas, loading and transfer areas, landfills, construction sites, industrial sites, and industrial rooftops.
Stormwater management facility means those structures and facilities that are designed for the collection, conveyance, storage, treatment and disposal of stormwater runoff into and through the drainage system.
Stormwater management manual means the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual.
Stormwater management measure means any stormwater management facility or nonstructural stormwater practice.
Stormwater quality site development review tool is an Excel spreadsheet tool available from the city community development department or website for use by both local government review staff and the development community to quickly evaluate the water quality performance of stormwater management plans for development sites. All new development and redevelopments in the city use the stormwater quality site development review tool to facilitate the evaluation of the project in accordance with recommendations of this chapter and the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual.
Stormwater retrofit means a stormwater management practice designed for a currently developed site that previously had either no stormwater management practice in place or a practice inadequate to meet the stormwater management requirements of the site.
Stream, in article III of this chapter, means state waters, and natural, running water flowing continuously or intermittently in a channel on or below the surface of the ground, and includes, but is not limited to, all natural or manmade streams depicted on the city geographic information system (GIS) map maintained by the city GIS director. Stream starts at the location of a spring, seep or groundwater outflow that sustains stream flow. No stream shall be excluded from this definition due to its failure to be identified on the GIS map. Field verification shall be performed to make a final determination as to the existence of a stream where a dispute exists. Such field verification may be performed by the director.
Stream channel, in article III of this chapter, means the portion of a watercourse that contains the base flow of the stream.
Streambank means as measured horizontally from that point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action.
Street, private, means an access way similar to and having the same function as a public street, providing access to more than one property but held in private ownership. Private streets, when authorized, shall be developed in accordance with the specifications for public streets established in subdivision II, division 2, article III of this chapter.
Street, public, means any right-of-way set aside for public travel deeded to the city and any right-of-way that has been accepted for maintenance as a street by the city.
Street right-of-way line means the dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a street right-of-way.
Structural erosion, sedimentation and pollution control practices means practices for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purpose of either changing the surface of the land or storing, regulating or disposing of runoff to prevent excessive sediment loss. Examples of structural erosion and sediment control practices are rip rap, sediment basins, dikes, level spreaders, waterways or outlets, diversions, grade stabilization structures and sediment traps, etc. Such practices can be found in the publication, Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
Structural stormwater control means a structural stormwater management facility or device that controls stormwater runoff and changes the characteristics of that runoff including, but not limited to, the quantity and quality, the period of release or the velocity of flow of such runoff.
Structure means anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on or in the ground. The term "structure" does not include telephone poles and utility boxes.
Subdivision means any division or redivision of a lot, tract or parcel, regardless of its existing and future use, into three or more lots, tracts or parcels. Where appropriate to context, subdivision may also be used to reference the aggregate of all lots held in common ownership at the time of division.
Substantial damage means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
Substantial improvement means any combination of repairs, reconstruction, alteration or improvements to a structure taking place during the life of a structure, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure. The market value of the structure should be the appraised value of the structure prior to the start of the initial repair or improvement or, in the case of damage, the value of the structure prior to the damage occurring. The term "substantial improvement" includes structures that have incurred substantial damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. For the purposes of this definition, substantial improvement is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the structure commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term "substantial improvement" does not, however, include any project for improvement of a building required to comply with existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by a code enforcement official and which are solely necessary to ensure safe living conditions, or any alteration to a structure listed on the National Register of Historic Places or a state inventory of historic places.
Substantially improved existing manufactured home parks or subdivision is where the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets, utilities and pads equals or exceeds 50 percent of the value of the streets, utilities and pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
Thoroughfare plan means a comprehensive street plan of the city indicating proposed location and right-of-way widths for major thoroughfares, minor thoroughfares, collector streets and other streets.
Tree means any living, self-supporting, woody perennial plant which has a trunk caliper of two inches or more measured at a point six inches above the ground and which normally attains a height of at least ten feet at maturity usually with one main stem or trunk and many branches.
Tree harvesting means the felling, loading, and transporting of timber products done pursuant to a special exception issued by the zoning board of appeals.
Tree replacement means the replacement of trees and landscape plant materials into the minimum required landscape areas, as determined by the zoning regulations or the tree protection ordinance.
Tree save area means the boundaries of the area surrounding trees wherein it is essential that they remain undisturbed in order to prevent damage and loss of trees that are to be retained on-site during the development and building process.
Trout streams means all streams or portions of streams within the watershed as designated by the game and fish division of the state department of natural resources under the provisions of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20 et seq.
Trout waters, first order, means streams into which no other streams flow except springs.
Trout waters, primary, means streams or waters supporting a self-sustaining population of rainbow, brown or brook trout.
Trout waters, secondary, means streams or waters in which there is no evidence of natural trout reproduction, but are capable of supporting trout throughout the year.
Used for includes the phrases "arranged for," "designed for," "intended for," "maintained for" and "occupied for."
Vegetation means all plant growth, especially trees, shrubs, vines, ferns, mosses and grasses.
Vegetative erosion and sedimentation control measures means measures for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by: covering the soil with permanent seeding, sprigging or planting, producing long-term vegetative cover; temporary seeding, producing short-term vegetative cover; or sodding, covering areas with a turf of perennial sod-forming grass. Such measures can be found in the publication, Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
Water quality protection means the requirement that all developments must improve the quality of stormwater runoff from the development site.
Watercourse means any natural or artificial watercourse, stream, river, creek, channel, ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine, or wash in which water flows either continuously or intermittently and which has a definite channel, bed and banks, and including any area adjacent thereto subject to inundation by reason of overflow or floodwater.
Watershed means the land area that drains into a particular stream.
Wetlands means those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
(Ord. No. 2016-07-13, att. (14-1), 7-11-2016; Ord. No. 2016-07-20, att. (14-1), 9-1-2016)
Sec. 22-2. - Motor vehicles in parks.
Any bike path or park trail designated as an alternative transportation road is subject to the requirements of section 32-22.
(Ord. No. 2016-07-13, att. (14-2), 7-11-2016)
Secs. 22-3—22-22. - Reserved.
