Chapter 46 - MANUFACTURED HOMES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings, construction and related activities, ch. 18; environment, ch. 34; floods, ch. 38; planning, ch. 58; roads and streets, ch. 66; solid waste disposal, ch. 70; utilities, ch. 78; zoning, app. A; mobile home [Manufactured home] parks, R-500, app. A, art. XIII; placement of mobile homes [manufactured homes] and travel trailers/recreational vehicles, app. A, art. XXV; mobile homes [manufactured homes], app. A, art. XXVI; subdivisions, app. C.
State Law reference— Ad valorem taxation of mobile homes, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-440 et seq.; issuance of mobile home location permits; display of decals, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-492; the Uniform Standards Code for Manufactured Homes Act, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-130 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 46-1—46-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MANUFACTURED HOMES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 46-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Manfactured home park means a lot, or parcel of land, or place where two or more manufactured homes or house trailers are parked for residential or recreational purposes, or where space is set aside and offered for rent for manufactured homes.
Manufactured home subdivision means a subdivision which permits a manufactured home on one or more lots.
Manufactured housing means any prefabricated, precut or preassembled dwelling unit or any combination thereof which has a first floor area of 1,000 square feet or more and an overall width (shortest dimension) of 24 feet or more, provided that the unit will meet the requirements of the county building and other codes. Where the size and spacing of framing members on materials are in conflict with, or not covered by this article, they will be acceptable if the assembly meets the load requirements of this article with regard to roof, floor, wind loads, etc., provided that they conform to the requirements as set forth for tests under this article. Also foundations of a manufactured home shall meet the requirements of the Standard Building Code.
Owner means the owner under a fee simple title of record or a vendee under a contract of purchase agreement.
(Code 1987, § 7-40)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-4.
Sec. 46-32. - Installation.
(a)
Location of a manufactured home shall meet the requirements of the county zoning ordinances and subdivision regulations (appendix A and appendix C to this Code).
(b)
Foundations for manufactured homes shall conform to the requirements of the county building code.
(c)
All pertinent information concerning the size, year, make, serial number, and proposed location of each manufactured home shall submitted to the building official before such structure is placed on the lot or parcel of land.
(d)
Manufactured homes shall be installed in manufactured home parks in accordance with the county zoning ordinance (appendix A to this Code).
(e)
Manufactured home rentals and/or spaces. All manufactured homes being set up on individual lots other than in manufactured home parks must be in conformance with all requirements for setup in the county concerning manufactured homes.
(Code 1987, § 7-48)
Sec. 46-33. - Conflict of article regulations.
This article is not intended to interfere with or annul any easement, covenant, or other agreement between parties. However, where this article imposes a greater restriction upon the use of property or requires greater space than is imposed by other regulations or by private easements, covenants, or agreements, the provisions of this article shall govern.
(Code 1987, § 7-49)
Sec. 46-34. - Inspection; notice to electrical supplier.
(a)
After the manufactured home is completely set up meeting all requirements of the county and completely ready for occupancy, the manufactured home is then ready for inspection.
(b)
Upon passing the inspection, the power supplier will be notified that the manufactured home has been properly installed and is ready for the meter to be installed.
(Code 1987, § 7-46)
Sec. 46-35. - Connecting utilities.
The power supplier in connecting to power poles servicing manufactured homes in the county, may connect to the electrical pole set beside the manufactured home, but shall not install the meter until approval of setup and electrical connection to the manufactured home is given by the county building inspection department that the structure is ready for occupancy.
(Code 1987, § 7-47)
Cross reference— Utilities, ch. 78.
Secs. 46-36—46-60. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 46-61. - Required; not in lieu of tax sticker; lapse.
(a)
Any person desiring to place a manufactured home on a lot or parcel of land in the county shall first obtain a permit from the building official.
(b)
The permit for placing the manufactured home is not intended to be used as, or to nullify the necessity of, an ad valorem tax sticker.
(Code 1987, § 7-41)
State Law reference— Manufactured home taxation, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-445 et seq.
Sec. 46-62. - Lapse.
If, within 60 days after issuance of the manufactured home permit, the rules and regulations set forth in this article are not complied with or no activity has been started, the permit shall be deemed void.
(Code 1987, § 7-42)
Sec. 46-63. - Application.
The owner shall obtain from the building official, complete in full, and submit a temporary manufactured home application.
(Code 1987, § 7-43)
Sec. 46-64. - Fees.
Fees for the permit shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county clerk.
(Code 1987, § 7-44)
Sec. 46-65. - Issuance; display.
(a)
After the temporary manufactured home permit application has been completed and all other related requirements have been met, a county permit will be issued.
(b)
The permit shall be located on the electrical meter base so that a final approval sticker can be placed on the permit.
(Code 1987, § 7-45)
