Chapter 6 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Selling of alcohol is not a right in the state of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-1.
Sec. 6-1. - Title.
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Alcoholic Beverage Ordinance."
(Ord. No. 1998-1, § 1, 5-4-1998)
Sec. 6-2. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcoholic beverage means all alcohol meant for consumption, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverages, wine, or fortified wine.
Distilled spirits, beer, malt beverages, wine, and fortified wine shall have the definitions as established by O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2 et seq., and as amended from time to time.
Legal age means the age established by O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23, as amended from time to time, as the age below which alcoholic beverages may not lawfully be sold to, furnished to, purchased by, or possessed by a person.
(Ord. No. 1998-1, § 4, 5-4-1998)
Sec. 6-3. - Purpose and findings.
This chapter and the restrictions contained herein are imposed and designed for the protection of the public health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the city. It is the further purpose of this chapter to establish the policy related to alcoholic beverages and their sale, use, and possession within the jurisdiction of the city. The city council, after reviewing various articles and studies which the council deems to be sufficient, finds that there is a great likelihood that the sale and use of alcoholic beverages in the city would cause an increase in crime, destruction of property, and endangering the lives of its citizens.
(Ord. No. 1998-1, § 3, 5-4-1998)
Sec. 6-4. - Jurisdiction.
This chapter shall govern all persons and their actions while located within the city.
(Ord. No. 1998-1, § 2, 5-4-1998)
Sec. 6-5. - Overlay policy.
It is hereby deemed to be against the public policy of the citizens and government of the city for any person or entity to sell alcoholic beverages in the city.
(Ord. No. 1998-1, § 5, 5-4-1998)
Sec. 6-6. - Regulations and restrictions.
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person to violate any of the following provisions:
(1)
It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to sell any alcoholic beverage within the city limits. Each bottle or container of wine, beer, malt beverage, or other alcoholic beverage that is sold in violation of this chapter shall be considered a separate offense punishable as hereinafter provided.
(2)
The city shall not issue any license nor shall it ever set any standard for issuing a license to sell any type of alcoholic beverages in the city. Should any business that has a business license violate any provisions of this chapter, then said business license to practice business in the city shall, upon a proper finding of such by any court, be revoked, and said business shall not be reissued an occupation license or business license for a period of at least one year thereafter.
(3)
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any minor who is under the legal age to possess or have under his control any alcoholic beverage within the city limits, except for small amounts (less than one ounce in any 24-hour period) used in the observance of religious services.
(4)
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for alcoholic beverages to be given to, turned over to, furnished to, delivered to, or sold to a person under the legal age by any person or entity within the city limits, except for small amounts of less than one ounce in any 24-hour period used in the observance of religious services.
(5)
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for anyone to possess any type of alcoholic beverage in any container that is not sealed (i.e., that is in an open container) while said person is on a street, in any other public place, or in any business establishment that is open to the public within the city limits.
(Ord. No. 1998-1, § 6, 5-4-1998)
