ARTICLE VIII. - YOUTH ADVISORY COUNCIL

Sec. 2-521. - Establishment; composition of board.
The city youth advisory council shall consist of 16 students who attend Woodstock High School. Four students will be selected from each grade level. Individuals chosen to be part of this board shall be selected by the principal of Woodstock High School in consultation with faculty members. The mayor shall appoint a chairperson for a term of one year. The youth advisory council shall also have a vice chair and secretary to be elected by its members for a one-year term. The secretary shall keep a record of all meetings for the youth advisory council. In the absence of a secretary an appointed member will be secretary pro tem. The youth advisory council shall not have responsibility or authority over public officials or employees of the city.
(Ord. No. 001-2007, 1-9-2007)
Sec. 2-522. - Term of office.
The youth advisory council members terms of office shall expire contemporaneously with graduation, transfer, or withdrawal from Woodstock High School, or at the request of the youth advisory council faculty advisor and principal. It is the intention of the program that youth appointees will serve for the duration of their attendance at Woodstock High School with freshmen serving through all four years until graduation.
(Ord. No. 001-2007, 1-9-2007)
Sec. 2-523. - Advisors.
The city's director of community affairs will serve as an advisor, as well as Woodstock High School appointing a faculty advisor. The two advisors' role will be to give direction and guidance to keep the council informed and help them reach a consensus, without official voting privileges.
(Ord. No. 001-2007, 1-9-2007)
Sec. 2-524. - Powers and duties.
(a)
The youth advisory council shall meet once a month during the school year on the third Monday of every month from 10:00—11:30 in council chambers. Woodstock High School administration will arrange for transportation to and from city hall. Should council chambers not be available, arrangements will be made to meet at Woodstock High School.
(b)
The youth advisory council shall make recommendations to and assist the city council and city staff on a variety of issues, both focusing on youth as well as concerns of the broader community.
(c)
Each month the youth council will be briefed by a city department director, their staff and/or council members on a variety of issues.
(d)
Each youth council member is expected to serve in an ex officio capacity on at least one other city committee or advisory group.
(e)
A simple majority of members shall constitute a quorum. A vote of the simple majority of the quorum shall be required for any action taken by the youth advisory council.
(f)
Additional meetings may be called by the chair or vice chair after a minimum of 24 hours notice to the other council members and advisor.
(g)
Each youth advisory council member shall be expected to attend all regular and special meetings as may be held. If a member is unable to attend a meeting, he/she should notify the secretary or advisor. After three absences without special circumstances, the member will be removed from the youth advisory council automatically, and a letter from the advisor or mayor will be sent to the member and principal with a formal notice of removal.
(Ord. No. 001-2007, 1-9-2007)
Secs. 2-525—2-550. - Reserved.
