DIVISION 3. - GOING-OUT-OF-BUSINESS SALE[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— False advertising, O.C.G.A. § 10-1-421; misrepresenting ownership in going-out-of-business sales, O.C.G.A., § 10-1-425.

Sec. 18-96. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Fire and other altered goods sale means a sale held out in such a manner as to reasonably cause the public to believe that the sale will offer goods damaged or altered by fire, smoke, water, or other means.
Going-out-of-business sale means a sale held out in such a manner as to reasonably cause the public to believe that upon the disposal of the stock of goods on hand, the business will cease and be discontinued, including, but not limited to, the following sales: adjuster's adjustment, alteration, assignee's bankrupt, benefit or administrator's, final days, forced out, forced out of business, insolvent's, last days, lease expires, liquidation, loss of lease, mortgage sale, receiver's, trustee's, or quitting business.
Goods means any goods, wares, merchandise, or other property capable of being the object of sale regulated under this division.
Removal of business sale means a sale held out in such a manner as to reasonably cause the public to believe that the person conducting the sale will cease and discontinue business at the place of sale upon disposal of the stock of goods on hand and will then move to resume business at a new location in the city, or will then continue business from other existing locations in the city.
(Code 1988, § 9-6-1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 18-97. - License required.
Any person selling or offering to sell any goods within the city at a sale to be advertised or held out by any means to be a going-out-of-business sale, a removal of business sale, or a fire and other altered stock sale shall be required to obtain a license from the city clerk in the manner specified in this division.
(Code 1988, § 9-6-2)
Sec. 18-98. - License application.
Application for a license under this division shall be made as provided in section 18-34, except that such application shall contain the following additional information:
(1)
The true name and address of the owner of the goods to be the object of the sale, if other than the applicant;
(2)
The true name and address of the person from whom such owner purchased the goods to be sold and the price therefor, and if not purchased, the manner of such acquisition;
(3)
A description of the place where such sale is to be held;
(4)
The nature of the occupancy, whether lease or sublease, and the effective date of termination of such occupancy;
(5)
The dates on which and the period of time in which the sale is to be conducted;
(6)
A full and complete statement of the facts in regard to the sale, including the reasons for the urgent and expeditious disposal of goods thereby and the manner in which the sale will be conducted;
(7)
The means to be employed in advertising such sale together with the proposed content of any advertisement; and
(8)
A complete and detailed inventory of the goods to be sold at such sale as disclosed by the applicant's records; such inventory shall be attached to and become a part of the required application.
(Code 1988, § 9-6-3)
Sec. 18-99. - Restriction on issuance of license.
No license under this division shall be issued to any person who has held a sale at the location stated in the application within one year from the date of such application.
(Code 1988, § 9-6-4)
Sec. 18-100. - Conditions of issuance of license.
A license shall be issued under this division on the following terms:
(1)
Nature of sale. The license shall authorize only one type of sale described in the application at the location named therein.
(2)
Saleable goods. The license shall authorize only the sale of goods described in the inventory attached to the application.
(3)
Surrender of general license. Upon being issued a license under this division for a going-out-of-business sale, the licensee shall surrender to the city clerk all other licenses he may hold covered by the application for a license under this division.
(4)
Restricted location. Where a person applying for a license under this division operates more than one business, the license issued shall apply to only one store or branch specified in this application.
(5)
Nontransferability. Any license provided for in this division shall not be assigned or transferable.
(Code 1988, § 9-6-5)
Sec. 18-101. - Duties of licensee.
A licensee under this division shall:
(1)
Adhere to inventory. Make no additions whatsoever during the period of the licensed sale to the stock of goods set forth in the inventory attached to the application for license.
(2)
Advertise properly. Refrain from employing any untrue, deceptive or misleading advertising.
(3)
Adhere to advertising. Conduct the licensed sale in strict conformity with any advertising or publicity incident thereto.
(4)
Keep duplicate inventory. Keep available at the place of sale a duplicate copy of the inventory submitted with the application and present such duplicate copy to the inspecting officials upon request.
(5)
Segregate noninventoried goods. Keep any other goods separate and apart from the goods listed in the filed inventory as being objects of sale and make such distinction clear to the public by placing tags on all inventoried goods in and about the place of sale, apprising the public of the status of all such goods.
(Code 1988, § 9-6-6)
Sec. 18-102. - Inventory restrictions.
All goods included in such inventory shall have been purchased by the applicant for resale on bona fide orders without cancellation privileges, and shall not comprise goods purchased on consignment.
(Code 1988, § 9-6-7)
Sec. 18-103. - Persons exempted.
The provisions of this division shall not apply to or affect the following persons:
(1)
Persons acting pursuant to an order or process of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(2)
Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public officials.
(3)
Duly licensed auctioneers selling at auctions.
(4)
Any publisher of a newspaper, magazine or other publication who publishes in good faith any advertisement, without knowledge of its false, deceptive, or misleading character, or without knowledge that the provisions of this division have not been complied with.
(Code 1988, § 9-6-8)
Secs. 18-104—18-120. - Reserved.
