DIVISION 8. - SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTERS[8]

Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
Editor's note— Inasmuch as Ord. No. 11-11-21-A, § 2, adopted Nov. 21, 2011, amended art. II by the addition of a new div. 7, the provisions formerly designated div. 7, "Sexual Encounter Centers," have been renumbered div. 8.

Sec. 18-301. - Findings; definitions; sexual encounter centers prohibited.
(a)
The mayor and council make the following findings:
(1)
The operation of a sexual encounter center for purposes of providing the opportunity to engage in, or the opportunity to view, live sex acts is declared to be a disorderly house and a public nuisance per se which should be prohibited; and
(2)
The operation of a sexual encounter center contributes to the spread of sexually transmitted diseases; and
(3)
The operation of a sexual encounter center is inimical to the health, safety, general welfare and morals of the inhabitants of the city.
(b)
In this section, unless the context otherwise requires:
Consideration means the payment of money or the exchange of any item of value for:
(1)
The right to enter the premises, or any portion thereof;
(2)
The right to remain on the premises, or any portion thereof;
(3)
The right to purchase any item permitting the right to enter, or to remain on, the premises, or any portion thereof; or
(4)
The right to a membership permitting the right to enter, or remain on, the premises, or any portion thereof.
Live sex act means any act whereby one or more persons engage in a live performance or live conduct which contains oral sexual contact or sexual intercourse.
Operate and maintain means to organize, design, perpetuate or control. "Operate and maintain" includes providing financial support by paying utilities, rent, maintenance costs or advertising costs, supervising activities or work schedules, and directing or furthering the aims of the enterprise.
Oral sexual contact means oral contact with the penis, vulva or anus.
Sexual encounter center means any business or premises in which one or more persons may view, or participate in, a live sex act for consideration.
Sexual intercourse means penetration into the penis, vulva or anus by any part of the body or by any object or manual masturbatory contact with the penis or vulva.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate and maintain a sexual encounter center.
(d)
Operation of a sexual encounter center is a public nuisance per se which may be abated by order of the municipal court.
(e)
The city attorney, in the name of the city, may apply to the municipal court for an order permitting the city to abate violations of this section.
(f)
After notice to the operator of a sexual encounter center, the municipal judge shall conduct a hearing and take evidence as to whether a sexual encounter center is being operated in violation of this section.
(g)
If, at the conclusion of the hearing, the municipal judge determines that a sexual encounter center is being operated in the city in violation of this section, an order shall be entered authorizing the city to abate the violation by closing the business. A copy of the order shall be delivered to the operator of the sexual encounter center and mailed to the owner of the property upon which the sexual encounter center is located.
(h)
Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to the non-obscene presentation, showing or performance of any play, drama, or ballet in any theater, concert hall, fine arts academy, school, institution of higher education, or similar establishment as a form of expression of opinion or communication of ideas or information, as differentiated from the promotion or exploitation of sex for the purpose of advancing the economic welfare of a commercial or business enterprise.
(Ord. No. 08-12-01-01, § 2, 1-5-2009)
Secs. 18-302—18-349. - Reserved.
