DIVISION 2. - BONDSMAN[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Professional bondsmen, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-50 et seq.

Sec. 18-71. - Professional bondsmen defined.
All persons who hold themselves out as signers or sureties of bail bonds for compensation, and who are licensed as provided in this division, are professional bondsmen.
(Code 1988, § 9-4-1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 18-72. - License required; qualifications.
(a)
To qualify for a license as a professional bondsman in the city, it must affirmatively appear that:
(1)
The applicant is a natural person who has reached the age of 21 years;
(2)
The applicant is a citizen of the United States or possesses the appropriate documentation from the federal government permitting the applicant to work in the United States and has been a bona fide resident of the state for one year prior to the date of application;
(3)
The place of business of the applicant will be located in this state and the applicant will be actively engaged in the bail bond business and maintain a place of business accessible to the public;
(4)
The applicant is a person of high character and approved integrity who has been vouched for by two other reputable citizens who are residents of the county.
(b)
A fee of $25.00 shall be submitted with each application as the cost of conducting a character investigation of the applicant.
(c)
The applicant shall furnish with his application a complete set of his fingerprints and a recent credential-size full face photograph of himself. The applicant's fingerprints shall be certified by the chief of police, who shall certify the applicant to be free of any record of any crime of moral turpitude or any violation of law applicable to the bail bonding business.
(d)
The applicant shall justify the sufficiency of his bonding ability by affidavit and attachment of certified copies of arrangements with surety bonding companies that he possesses the qualifications and sufficiency to become a surety, and in such affidavit shall describe his property which he proposes to justify as to his sufficiency, stating the encumbrances thereon, according to the standards as promulgated by the sheriff of the county.
(e)
The applicant shall file for a business license with the city and pay such rate as specified in the business and occupation tax schedule.
(Code 1988, § 9-4-2)
Sec. 18-73. - Denial; suspension; refusal to renew; revocation.
(a)
The city manager may deny, suspend, revoke or refuse to renew any license issued in accordance with this division for any of the following causes:
(1)
Any cause for which issuance of a license could have been refused had it then existed and been known to the city manager.
(2)
Material misstatement, misrepresentation or fraud in obtaining the license.
(3)
Misappropriation, conversion or unlawful withholding of money belonging to others and received in the conduct of business under the license.
(4)
Conviction of a felony.
(5)
Fraudulent or dishonest practices in the conduct of business under the license.
(6)
Willful failure to comply with the provisions of this division.
(7)
Willful failure to return collateral security to the principal when the principal is entitled thereto.
(8)
When in the judgment of the city manager the licensee has, in the conduct of affairs under the license, demonstrated incompetency, untrustworthiness, conduct or practices rendering him unfit to carry on the bail bond business, making his continuance in such business detrimental to the public interest; when the licensee is no longer in good faith carrying on the bail bond business, or is guilty of rebating or offering to rebate, offering to divide his compensations, and for any such reasons, found by the city manager to be a source of detriment, injury or loss to the public.
(b)
Appeals of the city manager's decision may be appealed to the city council by filing notice of the appeal within ten days of the written decision of the manager. All appeals shall be heard within ten days of filing at a regular or special council meeting.
(Code 1988, § 9-4-3)
Sec. 18-74. - Display of signs in booking section of jail.
(a)
Each professional bondsman duly licensed by the city shall be allowed to display a sign of his own making in a place designated by the chief of police, at or near the booking section of the city jail.
(b)
One sign per licensee shall be permitted and shall be limited to lettering and numbering of no more than three inches high and 1½ inches in width for each letter or numeral.
(Code 1988, § 9-4-4)
Sec. 18-75. - Equal access to jail.
All professional bondsmen who hold a currently effective license issued by the city clerk shall be entitled to equal access to the jail for the purpose of making bond.
(Code 1988, § 9-4-5)
Sec. 18-76. - Termination or ceasing operation.
Any professional bondsman who discontinues writing bail bonds during the period for which he is licensed shall notify the chief of police and the city clerk and immediately return his license.
(Code 1988, § 9-4-6)
Sec. 18-77. - Employee termination.
Any professional bondsman who terminates the appointment of any employee authorized to sign bonds shall immediately file written notice thereof with the chief of police and the city clerk, together with a statement that he has given or mailed notice to the employee. Such notice filed shall state the reasons, if any, for the termination. Information so furnished shall be privileged and shall not be used as evidence in any action against the professional bondsman.
(Code 1988, § 9-4-7)
Sec. 18-78. - Prohibitions.
No professional bondsman shall:
(1)
Pay a fee or rebate or give or promise anything of value to a jailor, police officer, peace officer, the municipal judge, or any other person who has power to arrest or to hold in custody, or to any city official or city employee in order to secure a settlement, compromise, remission or reduction of the amount of any bail bond thereof;
(2)
Pay a fee or rebate or give anything of value to an attorney in bail bond matters, except in defense of any action on a bond;
(3)
Pay a fee or rebate or give or promise anything of value to the principal or anyone in his behalf; or
(4)
Sign or countersign in blank any bond; nor give a power of attorney to, or otherwise authorize, anyone to countersign his name to bonds unless the person so authorized is directly employed by the bondsman giving such power of attorney.
(Code 1988, § 9-4-8)
Secs. 18-79—18-95. - Reserved.
