Chapter 38 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14.
State Law reference— Powers concerning fire protection, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 38-1—38-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FIRE DEPARTMENT AND AMBULANCES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Powers of local fire departments generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-1 et seq.; Firefighters Standards and Training Act, O.C.G.A. § 25-4-1 et seq.

Sec. 38-31. - Rules and regulations authorized for fire and ambulance department.
Under the direction of the city manager, the fire chief shall maintain written rules and regulations for the operation of the fire and ambulance department as are necessary. Changes in the departmental rules and regulations shall be proposed in writing by the fire chief. Such changes shall be submitted to the city manager for his approval and submission to council. These rules and regulations shall become effective following approval by the city council.
(Code 1988, § 4-2-1)
Sec. 38-32. - Authority at fires.
(a)
The fire chief or firefighters under his direction shall have full control over all fire apparatus of the fire and ambulance department in service at any fire. It shall be the duty of the fire chief or his designee to superintend the fire and ambulance department while performing any public duty in fighting a fire. It shall be the duty of the fire chief or his designee to give general and specific directions as to the manner of fighting fires, the use of hose and apparatus, and the specific duties and assignments of the various members of the department in attendance at a fire. The fire chief may immediately suspend any member of the fire and ambulance department for insubordination at any fire.
(b)
The fire chief or his designee shall, in all cases of fire and fire alarms, have full control and occupy sufficient ground or space necessary for the operation of all fire companies at any fires, and for the protection of life and property, and shall be protected in the discharge of his duties by the police officers of the city.
(c)
Officers of the fire and ambulance department, when at the scene of a fire, may direct or assist the city police department in directing traffic in the immediate vicinity and while in this capacity shall have all rights and authority as a police officer of the city.
(Code 1988, § 4-2-2)
State Law reference— Firefighters' authority, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-2.
Sec. 38-33. - Certain acts interfering with firefighting activities.
No person, except an active member of the fire and ambulance department, shall at any time enter within the territory or vicinity of any fire, when the area is roped off or access is denied by the city police, or interfere with or attempt to operate any of the apparatus or equipment of the department or any fire hydrant, or interfere by giving orders to any individual, unless requested to do so by the fire chief or firefighters under his direction; provided, however, that the mayor or any member of the council, any police officer or other law enforcement officer, the owner or occupant of the property, the city manager or any other persons as may be specifically authorized by the fire chief or his designee, may enter the restricted areas.
(Code 1988, § 4-2-3)
Sec. 38-34. - Records of fires.
The fire chief or his designee shall keep a permanent record of the cause, origin and circumstances of every fire and the damages resulting therefrom immediately after the occurrence of any fire.
(Code 1988, § 4-2-5)
Sec. 38-35. - Obstruction or tampering with fire hydrants and apparatus prohibited.
(a)
No person shall place ashes, cinders, dirt, rubbish, building material or any other material around or in close proximity to any fire hydrant so as to cause hindrance or delay in access thereto or to prevent the free use thereof by the fire and ambulance department. No person shall, in any way, interfere with or tamper with any fire hydrant or attempt to take water therefrom without special authority from the fire chief or his designee.
(b)
Without the consent of the fire chief, no person not an active member of the fire and ambulance department shall at any time ride upon any of the fire apparatus of the department, nor shall any person make use of any fire apparatus, hose, or other equipment of the department, other than for the purpose for which the equipment was intended, without the consent of the fire chief.
(Code 1988, § 4-2-6)
State Law reference— Damage to government property, O.C.G.A. §§ 16-7-22—16-7-24.
Sec. 38-36. - Fire drills.
The fire chief or his authorized representative shall have the authority to conduct fire drills in all public buildings located within the city. Public buildings shall include, but not be limited to, all buildings owned by the city, county, all libraries, recreational facilities, and any privately owned structure if the owners or occupants thereof request this service of the fire chief. The principal of any school shall be notified before any drill is held.
(Code 1988, § 4-2-7)
Sec. 38-37. - Open burning.
There shall be no open burning after sunset until sunrise. All other open burning shall be performed only after notifying the fire and ambulance department. Open burning shall not include fireplaces, charcoal grills or small recreational campfires provided they create no fire hazard or smoke nuisance.
(Code 1988, § 4-2-8)
Cross reference— Open burning of solid waste, § 78-35.
State Law reference— Open burning, Admin. Reg. of the State of Georgia, DNR, § 391-3-1-.02(5).
Sec. 38-38. - Workers' compensation coverage.
All volunteer firefighters performing volunteer firefighter services rendered to and on behalf of the city shall be included under the definition of "employee" for workers' compensation purposes and will be classed as municipal employees to the extent of any accidents which occur to any such firefighters while engaged in firefighting activities on behalf of the city.
(Code 1988, § 4-2-9)
State Law reference— Authority to cover volunteer firefighters under workers' compensation, O.C.G.A. § 34-9-1.
Sec. 38-39. - Fees for ambulance service.
The city shall charge such fees for use of the city ambulance service as fixed from time to time by the city council.
(Code 1988, § 4-2-10)
Sec. 38-40. - Permit to drive city emergency vehicles.
(a)
No person shall operate or drive an ambulance, police vehicle and/or fire vehicle on the streets of the city unless that person has a current, unrevoked permit obtained from the chief of police.
(b)
Any person having resided continually in the county for not less than six months immediately preceding the making of an application for a permit and being 18 years of age or over may make application to the chief of police for a permit. It shall be the duty of the chief of police to make an investigation to determine the moral character and fitness of the applicant, and the applicant's knowledge of the traffic regulations of the city and the motor vehicle laws of the state. The chief of police shall issue a permit if he finds that the applicant is morally fit and possesses sufficient knowledge of the traffic regulations and laws. The permit shall be written, signed by the chief of police and bear the corporate seal of the city, and shall include the name, address, sex, color, age and signature of the applicant.
(c)
Permits shall be renewed on or by January 1 of each year, and permits issued within the year shall be good for only the duration of such calendar year.
(d)
The city manager, upon recommendation of the chief of police, may suspend or revoke any permit issued by the chief of police, if, upon investigation or knowledge, the provisions of this article have been violated or the permittee has been convicted of driving one of such emergency vehicles named in subsection (a) of this section while under the influence of alcoholic beverages or drugs, or if the person is suffering from a contagious or communicable disease or defect or impairment of vision or other physical handicap, or if the person is not a person of good moral character, or for any violation of state traffic laws, or for any other reason which the city manager may deem justifiable. Before such permit shall be suspended or revoked, notice of intention to revoke or suspend shall be served upon the holder either by registered mail or personal service three days prior to the hearing, and the holder, if he so desires, shall be given an opportunity to be heard at a hearing conducted by the city manager.
(Code 1988, § 4-2-11)
Secs. 38-41—38-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FIRE PREVENTION CODE[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Authority to adopt fire and life safety codes, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-4; adoption of state fire safety standards, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-12; code requirements, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-13; minimum standard codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20.

Sec. 38-71. - Fire prevention code.
(a)
The following rules and regulations affecting fire prevention are hereby adopted in their entirety as the fire prevention code of the city and incorporated as fully as if set out at length in this section. Copies of all fire prevention regulations shall be maintained on file in the office of the city clerk where they shall be available for public inspection. In case of conflict between the codes, enforcement priority will be given to the regulation which contains the most stringent conditions, stipulations or requirements.
(1)
The state minimum fire safety standards as the fire prevention code of the city pursuant to O.C.G.A §§ 25-2-12 and 25-2-13.
(2)
Standard Fire Prevention Code (SBCCI).
(3)
The rules and regulations promulgated for the prevention of destruction of life and/or property by fire, explosion and related hazards by the state safety fire commissioner.
(b)
Any provision of the city Code which is in conflict with these codes shall be controlling.
(Code 1988, § 4-2-21)
State Law reference— Fire safety standards, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-12.
Sec. 38-72. - Fire extinguishers in businesses.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain a business establishment in the city without having readily accessible at least one fire extinguisher in workable condition of the soda and acid, or foam type of at least 2½-gallon size.
(b)
The chief of the fire and ambulance department or the fire marshal of the city or any inspector designated for the purpose shall have the right to inspect any such fire extinguisher maintained in compliance with the provisions of this section to determine its efficiency or operating condition.
(Code 1988, § 4-2-22)
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 18.
