ARTICLE VII. - INDEPENDENT CITY SCHOOL SYSTEM

Section 7.01. - Acknowledgement of Establishment of Bremen Public School System and Authority to Continue and Maintain the Bremen Public School System.
(a)
Be it acknowledged that pursuant to the authority granted to the mayor and council of the city under the provisions of the Charter of 1907 Ga. Laws page 475, ยง 6 with subsequent ratification by an affirmative vote in excess of two-thirds of the qualified voters of the city, the City of Bremen has heretofore established an independent public school system for the City of Bremen and organized a school board for the governance of said school system, known as the Bremen Public School System. (See, 1907 Ga. Laws, page 475, ยง 6)
(b)
Be it further acknowledged that Article VIII, Section V, paragraph I of the Constitution of this State authorizes and empowers the City to continue the Bremen Public School System as an independent school system whose borders are the same as the city of Bremen.
(c)
Be it further acknowledged that the independent school system known as the Bremen Public School System has continued to operate and has not ceased in its functions and duties since its creation.
(d)
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid that the Board of Education of the City of Bremen is hereby authorized and empowered, and the sole authority is granted to the Board of Education to continue to, maintain and control the Bremen Public School System, as an independent public school system in the city, through local taxation and other means of support as permitted by Georgia law and in conformity with and as permitted by Article VIII, Section V, paragraph I of the Constitution of this State.
Section 7.02. - Qualification of Members; Terms; and Election of Board of Education.
The board of education of the City of Bremen shall consist of five members elected by city wide at-large elections. Each duly elected board member will occupy a seat on the Board designated as post #1, post #2, post #3, post #4 and post #5, respectively of the Board of Education of the City of Bremen. The members of the board of education shall serve for terms of 4 years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. No person shall be eligible to serve as a member of the board unless that person shall be a citizen of the United States of America; have attained the age of 21 years; and have established his or her domicile within the city, so as to be a legal resident of the city, for the 12 consecutive months prior to the first day of the period of time set for qualification as a candidate for the office of board member. A duly elected member shall continue to reside within the city during that individual's period of service and shall continue to be registered and qualified to vote in municipal elections of this city. Anyone seeking election to the board of education of said city shall designate the particular post for which he seeks to be elected and the person receiving a plurality of the votes cast for such post shall be elected. The members of the board of education presently serving in office shall continue to serve out their respective terms of office. Thereafter, successors to such education posts shall be elected at the November election in the year that the terms of office expire for a four-year term beginning on January 1 immediately following such election. The Board of Education and the election of the members of the Board of Education of the Bremen Public School System shall be governed by all applicable Local Acts and applicable state law.
Section 7.03. - Organization of Board of Education.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the officers of said board of education shall be as provided by law and the policies of the Board of Education.
Section 7.04. - Powers of Board of Education.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid the Board of Education of the Bremen Public School System is hereby vested with the authority and power provided for in the Georgia Constitution and any applicable Local Acts and state law applicable to both county and independent school districts.
Section 7.05. - Duties of Board of Education.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said board of education shall faithfully perform the duties prescribed under the Local Acts and under any applicable state law. In addition thereto the Board of Education shall:
a)
Annually make, through its treasurer, a report to the mayor and council of the city, with a full itemized statement of all the monies received and expended by said board, and present vouchers and receipts therefor as may be requested by the mayor and council. This report shall contain an estimate of the amount of funds required for the proper conduct of said school for the ensuing year; and
b)
Form and participate in a joint committee between the board and the mayor and council of the city of such members as the board of education and the city council shall agree. The committee shall meet at least twice annually in order to review the financial status of both governmental agencies, to examine the amount of taxes levied by both agencies and the tax burden on business and property owners, to consider tax exceptions and to otherwise review the tax burden on its citizens, and to make appropriate recommendations to the board and council as to these matters.
Section 7.06. - Superintendent; Appointment; Qualifications; Compensation.
The Board of Education shall employ a Superintendent for a definite term, as permitted by state law, and shall fix the Superintendent's compensation.
Section 7.07. - Superintendent; Method of Hiring and Removal.
The Superintendent shall be the chief administrative officer of the Bremen Public School System. The Superintendent shall be responsible to the Board for the administration of all school system affairs placed in the Superintendent's charge by or under this charter. As the chief administrative officer of the school system, the Superintendent shall faithfully perform the duties prescribed by the Board, by all applicable state laws and by contract with the Board of Education.
Section 7.08. - Powers and Duties of the Superintendent.
The Superintendent shall be the chief administrative officer of the Bremen Public School System. The Superintendent shall be responsible to the board for the administration of all school system affairs placed in the Superintendent's charge by or under this charter. As the chief administrative officer of the school system, the superintendent shall faithfully perform the duties prescribed by the Board and by all applicable state laws and by contract with the Board of Education.
Section 7.09. - Board of Education Interference with Administration.
Except for the purpose of inquiries and investigations of the actions of the Superintendent, the school board and its members shall deal with teachers, staff, and employees of the school system who are subject to the direction and supervision of the Superintendent solely through the superintendent, and neither the board of education nor its members shall give orders to any such officer or employee, either publicly or privately.
Section 7.10. - Title to and Control of School Property.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said board of education is authorized and empowered to receive, hold, apply, sell or expend any donation, gift or bequest of property of any kind, real or personal, made to said board or to said city for school purposes, for the benefit of the Bremen Public School System. Title to all property utilized or occupied by the Bremen Public School System or the Board of Education of the City of Bremen for school purposes shall be vested in the Board of Education of the City of Bremen and the board of education shall have the power to hold, manage, control and dispose of such property.
Section 7.11. - Compensation of school board.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that no officer of said board shall have any compensation for his services except the treasurer, whose compensation shall be fixed by the board of education prior to his election and qualification. Subject to the approval of the board, board members may be entitled to receive appropriate per diem, insurance and expenses as provided by O.C.G.A. ยง 20-2-55, as amended.
Section 7.12. - Accounting and payment of school taxes to board of education.
All taxes collected by the City of Bremen for or on behalf of the Bremen City Schools shall be accounted for and paid over to the board of education of the Bremen City Schools on a monthly basis. An accounting of the taxes collected each month shall be made available to the Board upon request. The Board of Education and the City Council by intergovernmental agreement shall prorate the cost of collecting ad valorem taxes levied for the operation of city government and the operation of the Bremen Public School System.
Section 7.13. - School tuition.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that all students within the age range established by state law who are bona fide residents of the City of Bremen shall be entitled to the benefits of the school system, and no such child or children shall be required to pay any tuition for such course of study as is now provided by law in the public schools of the several counties of this State, but the board of education may, in their discretion, require children living outside of the limits of said city to pay tuition for educational benefits afforded to them for and during the school term at a fee to be established on an annual basis by the Board of Education. All such tuition shall become a part of the fund for the maintenance of said public school system, and must be used and accounted for as shall likewise any other fee.
Section 7.14. - Funds as Trust Funds.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that all assessments of taxes and all funds arising from or collected under this Act shall be by the City of Bremen kept separate and distinct from other assessments and collections of the City of Bremen, and are to be used solely for the purposes herein designated, and the City of Bremen shall keep a separate, full and distinct itemized account showing all monies raised, when, how, and from whom and for what purposes and the disposition of the same; and to whom, when and for what purposes paid out.
