ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS AND REMOVAL; ELECTIONS
A. - General Law.

Section 5.01. - Applicability of General Law.
All primaries and elections shall be held and conducted in accordance with the Georgia Municipal Election Code (Title 21, Chapter 3 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated) as now or hereafter amended.
B. - Election of Officers.

Section 5.02. - Election of the City Council and Mayor.
(a)
There shall be a municipal general election biennially in the even numbered years on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November.
(b)
There shall be elected the mayor and two councilmembers at one election and at every other election thereafter. The remaining city council seats shall be filled at the election alternating with the first election so that a continuing body is created. Elections for the office of Mayor and for positions on the council designated as Seat Three and Seat Four shall be held on the same date and year as the election for the governor of the State of Georgia. Elections for positions on the council designated as Seat One and Seat Two shall be held two years thereafter.
Section 5.03. - Non-Partisan Elections.
Political parties shall not conduct primaries for city offices and all names of candidates for city offices shall be listed without party designations.
Section 5.04. - Election by Plurality.
The person receiving a plurality of the votes cast for any city office shall be elected, so long as the candidate receiving the most votes shall receive more than 40 percent of the votes cast in the election. In the event no candidate receives more than forty percent of the votes cast, a special runoff election shall be called and held in accordance with provisions for notice, time, and elections procedures for runoff elections as established by the Georgia Municipal Election Code.
C. - Vacancies.

Section 5.05. - Special Elections; Vacancies.
In the event that the office of mayor or councilmember shall become vacant as provided in Section 2.12 of this charter, the city council or those remaining shall order a special election to fill the balance of the unexpired term of such official; provided, however, if such vacancy occurs within 12 months of the expiration of the term of that office, the city council or those remaining shall appoint a successor for the remainder of the term. In all other respects, the special election shall be held and conducted in accordance with the Georgia Municipal Election Code, Chapter 3 of Title 21 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as now or hereafter amended.
D. - Other Provisions.

Section 5.06. - Other Provisions.
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the city council shall, by ordinance, prescribe such rules and regulations it deems appropriate to fulfill any options and duties under the Georgia Municipal Election Code.
Removal of Officers

Section 5.07. - Removal of Officers.
(a)
The mayor, councilmembers, or other appointed officers provided for in this charter shall be removed from office for any one or more of the causes provided in Title 45 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
(b)
Removal of an officer pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall be accomplished by one of the following methods:
(1)
Following a hearing at which an impartial panel shall render a decision. In the event an elected officer is sought to be removed by the action of the city council, such officer shall be entitled to a written notice specifying the ground or grounds for removal and to a public hearing which shall be held not less than ten (10) days after the service of such written notice. The city council shall provide by ordinance for the manner in which such hearings shall be held. Any elected officer sought to be removed from office as herein provided shall have the right of appeal from the decision of the city council to the Superior Court of Haralson County. Such appeal shall be governed by the same rules as govern appeals to the superior court from the probate court.
(2)
By an order of the Superior Court of Haralson County following a hearing on a complaint seeking such removal brought by a minimum of five residents of the city.
