ARTICLE VIII. - GENERAL PROVISIONS; BONDS FOR OFFICIALS

Section 8.01. - Bonds for Officials.
The officers and employees of this city, both elective and appointive, shall execute such surety or fidelity bonds in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the city council shall from time to time require by ordinance or as may be provided by law.
Section 8.02. - Existing Ordinances, Resolutions, Rules and Regulations.
All ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations now in force in the city not inconsistent with this charter are hereby declared valid and of full effect and force until amended or repealed by the city council.
Section 8.03. - Existing Personnel and Officers.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this charter, all personnel and officers of the city and their rights, privileges and powers shall continue beyond the time this charter takes effect for a period of ninety (90) days before or during which the existing city council shall pass a transition ordinance detailing the changes in personnel and appointive officers required or desired and arranging such titles, rights, privileges and powers as may be required or desired to allow a reasonable transition.
Section 8.04. - Pending Matters.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this charter, all rights, claims, actions, orders, contracts and legal or administrative proceedings shall continue and any such ongoing work or cases shall be completed by such city agencies, personnel or offices as may be provided by the city council.
Section 8.05. - Construction.
(a)
Section captions in this charter are informative only and are not to be considered as a part thereof.
(b)
The word "shall" is mandatory and the word "may" is permissive.
(c)
The singular shall include the plural, the masculine shall include the feminine, and vice versa.
Section 8.06. - Severability.
If any article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof of this charter shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect or impair other parts of this charter unless it clearly appears that such other parts are wholly and necessarily dependent upon the part held to be invalid or unconstitutional, it being the legislative intent in enacting this charter that each article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence or part thereof be enacted separately and independent of each other.
Section 8.07. - Repealer.
An Act incorporating the City of Bremen in the Counties of Haralson and Carroll approved the 30th day of December 1898 (Ga. L. 1898, Vol 1, Page 136), is hereby repealed in its entirety and all amendatory acts thereto are likewise repealed in their entirety. All other laws and parts of laws in conflict with this charter are hereby repealed.
Section 8.08. - Effective Date.
This charter shall become effective upon its approval by the Governor or upon its becoming law without such approval.
Section 8.09. - General Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
Note: Signed into law and made effective 6/2/2010.
