ARTICLE II. - CITY COUNCIL
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-23. - Subpoenas.
(a)
The city council, when sitting as a judicial or quasi-judicial body pursuant to public law, its Charter, or its ordinances, shall compel the attendance of witnesses by subpoena under the same rules as prevail in the superior courts, and any witness who shall fail to respond to the subpoena or who shall refuse to testify under oath, shall be guilty of contempt.
(b)
The subpoenas authorized in subsection (a) of this section and section 2.06 of the Charter shall bear witness in the name of the mayor; shall be issued by the city clerk; and shall be served by the chief of police, any police officer, or by such other person as the mayor may designate.
(c)
Should any person fail to respond to a subpoena of the city council, after having been lawfully served, without good cause, or should the person refuse to testify under oath, then the city council shall hold the person in contempt, and, in their discretion, punish the person by the imposition of a fine according to the maximum allowed by the Charter. Each of the failures or refusals herein described shall constitute a separate contempt.
(Ord. No. 2016-O-005, § 2.2.1, 7-18-2016)
State Law reference— Enforcement of subpoenas, O.C.G.A. § 24-13-26.
Sec. 2-24. - Reimbursement and travel.
(a)
Travel outside the city. The mayor and councilmembers shall be reimbursed for their own reasonable travel expenses incurred in connection with city business related to travel outside the city, and those cities that share borders with the city.
(b)
Overnight travel. The city shall reimburse the mayor or councilmembers for actual expenses of meals incurred in connection with overnight travel, lodging, ground transportation and incidental expenses incurred in connection with city business.
(c)
Expense reports. Within 60 days after incurring the aforementioned expenditures, the mayor or councilmembers shall file with the city manager a signed travel expense form setting forth the reasonable expenses incurred for which city payment is sought. Original receipts documenting each expense must accompany the form, except for reasonable and customary out-of-pocket expenses such as tolls, valet services, gratuities, and mileage. If a travel expense form has not been filed within 60 days after incurring an expenditure, the city shall not reimburse such expenses.
(Ord. No. 2016-O-005, § 2.2.2, 7-18-2016)
Secs. 2-25—2-51. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MEETINGS AND PUBLIC HEARINGS; RULES AND PROCEDURE

Sec. 2-52. - Meetings.
(a)
Per section 2.10 of the Charter, regular meetings of the city council shall be held on the third Monday of each month at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Room of the Bremen Public Safety Facility; subject to change in time, date, and location by vote of the city council, as permitted by the laws of the State of Georgia and the Rules of Procedure and Ordinances of the City of Bremen, with duly required advertisement and notice. The annual meeting calendar for the following calendar year shall be adopted no later than the month of December for the then current calendar year. Regular meetings shall be held in the city council chambers of the public safety and administration building. The city council may designate alternative meeting times, dates or locations so long as notice of such alternative time, date or location is provided as required by state law.
(b)
If the regular meeting falls on a federal or city holiday, the city council may reschedule the meeting to another date certain and publish the date change as described in subsection (a) of this section.
(c)
Special meetings may be called in accordance with section 2.10(b) of the Charter.
(d)
Any meeting of the city council may be continued or adjourned from day to day or for more than one day, but no adjournment shall be for a longer period than until the next regular meeting thereafter.
(e)
All meetings of the mayor and city council shall be held in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq. The public shall be afforded access to meetings other than executive sessions, in compliance with state law. Only executive sessions held in accordance with state law may be closed to the public.
(f)
All meetings of the mayor and city council shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Order of Business for Meetings of the City Council as adopted by the city on the August 16, 2010, and as may be amended from time to time by the city council. Copies of the Rules of Procedure and Order of Business for Meetings of the City Council are maintained in the office of the city clerk; shall be present at meetings of the council as required for review and are by reference incorporated herein.
(Ord. No. 2016-O-005, § 2.2.42, 7-18-2016)
Sec. 2-53. - Compliance with Georgia Open Records Act.
All city records subject to the Georgia Open Records Act, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-70 et seq., shall be available to the public. The city clerk shall comply with any valid requests under the Georgia Open Records Act and prepare any materials requested.
(Ord. No. 2016-O-005, § 2.2.43, 7-18-2016)
Sec. 2-54. - Personnel manual.
The city manager shall establish a personnel manual for all municipal employees. In addition to the sections deemed necessary by the city manager, the manual shall include policies regarding equal employment opportunity, nondiscrimination, and sexual harassment. The manual will be updated from time to time as required by federal and state laws.
(Ord. No. 2016-O-005, § 2.2.62, 7-18-2016)
Sec. 2-55. - Employees.
(a)
Generally. Municipal employees shall be categorized as full-time, part-time or by terms decided by contract with the city.
(b)
Municipal employees. Full-time employees will be paid an hourly salary, weekly salary or some other pay rate; part-time employees will work at irregular intervals on a short-term basis, and temporary workers will be hired to fill a temporary need for a specified period of time.
(c)
Contract employees. The city manager shall have the authority to propose contractual employment relationships between the city and third parties. The terms of these third-party contracts will be established by the contract at the time of hiring. Pursuant to provisions of section 6.22 of the Charter, the city council must approve a contract worth more than $50,000.00. Issues of liability and scope of agency are to be defined by the contract.
(Ord. No. 2016-O-005, § 2.2.63, 7-18-2016)
Sec. 2-56. - Job descriptions.
The city shall maintain a job specification for each position held by a municipal employee. The city may provide a job specification for contracted positions. Such specification shall describe the duties of the position, the qualifications necessary, licenses required, to whom such employee reports, expected salary range, and such other information as is necessary to recruit for such position effectively. Such specifications may be amended from time to time by the city manager.
(Ord. No. 2016-O-005, § 2.2.64, 7-18-2016)
Sec. 2-57. - Benefits.
It shall be the policy of the city to attract and retain a qualified workforce through the provision of a comprehensive package of benefits. To that end, the city shall be authorized to contract with benefits providers for the purpose of providing insurance, retirement, pension plans and other benefits deemed necessary by the city council upon approval of the benefit program by the city council. Eligibility for benefits and the cost to employees shall be specified in the personnel manual.
(Ord. No. 2016-O-005, § 2.2.65, 7-18-2016)
Sec. 2-58. - Records.
The city shall keep such records and make such reports as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Ord. No. 2016-O-005, § 2.2.66, 7-18-2016)
Sec. 2-59. - Participation in master plan for fire prevention in the county.
The city shall participate in the master plan for fire prevention for the county, as outlined in the program submitted by the state forestry commission in as full and complete a manner as is possible.
(Code 1996, § 46-1; Res. of 10-11-1976)
Secs. 2-60—2-89. - Reserved.
