Chapter 112 - MANUFACTURED HOMES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 112-1. - Manufactured homes and mobile homes.
(a)
Compatibility standards for manufactured homes. A checklist of required documents for all manufactured homes, industrialized and modular homes is available. Manufactured homes, modular and other housing qualifying as a single-family dwelling shall meet the following compatibility standards to protect and preserve the overall character of neighborhood:
(1)
A location decal application shall be required to be filed for a manufactured home in the office of the tax commissioner on an annual basis for each manufactured home that is henceforth located on an individual lot, in a manufactured house park, or subdivision in the city. Prior to the allowance of permanent occupancy of a manufactured home site within the city, such a home shall be connected with an approved water source and an approved sewage disposal system in such a manner as to comply with the city's requirements and any applicable state health codes. These codes insofar as they are applicable, are hereby made a part of these regulations to the same extent as though herein set out in full.
(2)
All manufactured homes shall be constructed in accordance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act requirements of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and have a current HUD sticker.
(3)
All manufactured homes qualifying as single-family dwellings shall be compatible to a site built home and other housing adjacent to the proposed site, within the same residential zoning district or area. Manufactured homes shall meet manufacturer's specifications and/or the specifications of this article whichever is stricter before permanent utilities may be installed. Utility connections prior to final inspection of the installation will be considered temporary and will be approved only when arrangements for complete installation have been made.
(4)
Mobile homes are disallowed in the city.
(Code 1996, § 82-87(a)(1)—(3); Ord. of 3-8-1999, pt. II, art. 10)
Sec. 112-2. - Compatibility standards.
(a)
Final approval shall be granted upon the finding that the manufactured home is substantially similar in size, siding material, roof material and construction, foundation, and general aesthetic appearance to:
(1)
Adjacent site-built or other forms of housing which may be permitted in the same general area under this article;
(2)
Existing development; or
(3)
Proposed development in the same zoning district or area.
(b)
All towing devices, wheels, axles and hitches must be removed.
(c)
All underpinning of a home shall occur 30 days from the date a relocation permit is obtained and shall be underpinned prior to any occupancy permit is issued.
(1)
All underpinning shall be in accordance with this section and underpinning shall consist of one of the following: masonry, vinyl siding/panels or aluminum siding/panels or other material as may be approved by the codes enforcement officer prior to installation.
(2)
The following types of materials are not permitted to be used, including but not limited to, tin, wood (unless of natural decay resistance type such as cedar), plastic sheeting or gypsum board (black board).
(3)
The underpinning shall be adequately secured to the manufactured home and where necessary for stability, secured to the ground. Two access doors are required to be installed in a manner which will provide adequate access for inspections and maintenance. Provisions must be made for adequate ventilation for the crawl space underneath the manufactured home.
(d)
At each exit door there must be a landing that is a minimum of 36 inches by 36 inches that has steps and/or a ramp.
(e)
The minimum width of the structure built or installed on the site shall be 40 feet or greater in all R-1, R-2 and R-3 residential districts.
(f)
The minimum heated and cooled floor area shall be 1,200 square feet or compatible to adjacent dwellings.
(g)
The roof shall have a minimum roof pitch of 2:12 or pitch similar to the adjacent property and shall have a surface of wood shakes, asphalt composition, wood shingles, fiberglass or metal tiles, slate materials or other materials approved by the planning commission. Corrugated metal or plastic panels are prohibited.
(h)
The exterior siding materials shall consist of brick, wood, masonry, stucco, masonite, metal or vinyl lap designed for such purposes or other materials of like appearance approved by the planning commission, but shall not include corrugated metal or plastic panels.
(i)
Be attached to a permanent foundation. A permanent foundation shall mean a concrete slab, concrete footers, foundation wall pilings or post construction which complies with the State Minimum Standard Code (SBCCI), or the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act or the State of Georgia Industrialized Buildings Act.
(j)
Be constructed according to construction standards established either by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the state minimum standard codes as amended from time to time or the standard building code (SBCCI) or the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act or the State of Georgia Industrialized Buildings Act.
(k)
The planning commission may approve deviations from one or more of the compatibility standards provided herein on the basis of a finding that the materials to be utilized or the architectural style proposed for the dwelling will be compatible and harmonious with the existing structures in the vicinity.
(l)
These compatibility standards are applicable to manufactured homes when located in a manufactured home rental community, park, subdivision or on an individual lot.
(m)
A manufactured home may be used for a temporary commercial or industrial sales office, but shall not exceed 180 days, and extensions of this period shall only be granted due to extreme hardship or by acts of God. The temporary commercial or industrial office shall comply with this article pertaining to the installation and setup of the unit and shall obtain all appropriate permits from the city and county health department. Use of this structure as a dwelling unit is strictly prohibited.
(n)
Manufactured homes used as temporary construction office/trailers during construction are required to be registered with the codes enforcement officer, issued a temporary building and electrical permit and shall have appropriate sanitation measures in place. No permit shall exceed 24 months at any one construction site or at sites involving related construction projects unless approved by the codes enforcement officer. All construction offices shall be fitted with locks, and be located in a fenced in area that is also secured from public access. All construction offices shall be removed within 30 days of the completion of construction.
(o)
Condition and maintenance of manufactured and mobile homes. The condition and maintenance of all manufactured homes shall conform to the building and safety codes of the city. Manufactured or mobile homes that do not meet the requirements of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, state minimum standard codes, the standard building code (SBCCI), the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act or the State of Georgia Industrialized Buildings Act will not be issued a building or occupancy permit. Routine maintenance shall be performed to ensure compliance with the building and safety code requirements.
(Code 1996, § 82-87(a)(4)—(16), (b); Ord. of 3-8-1999, pt. II, art. 10)
Sec. 112-3. - Manufactured home parks.
(a)
Manufactured house park conditions. In the manufactured home district, the term "mobile home" shall include any manufactured, modular, and industrialized home when used as a dwelling unit. A mobile home or manufactured home is furthermore defined as a single-family dwelling unit constructed according to U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) guidelines for manufactured homes, and shall meet the compatibility standards of the city. A mobile home park, as defined in this article, must adhere to the following conditions and permitted uses:
(1)
No manufactured house park shall be constructed or maintained on a lot or a total area of less than ten acres, having an average width of not less than 400 feet. This ten-acre minimum must be adhered to throughout the existence of the manufactured house park.
(2)
Each manufactured house space shall be at least 75 feet in width and shall provide a minimum lot area of 2,500 square feet. In a cul-de-sac or curved street design the width of the manufactured house space shall be at least 75 feet at the location of the center of the manufactured house unit. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the maximum density of units on any one acre in any park shall not exceed eight units in an area served by public sewer. Density in manufactured house parks using septic facilities shall be governed by the local and state health department regulations but shall not exceed a maximum of three units per acre.
(3)
All manufactured homes shall be allowed in any park in this city so as long as it is constructed at least in conformity with the requirements of the state minimum standard codes or the standard building code (SBCCI) or the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act or the State of Georgia Industrialized Buildings Act.
(4)
A minimum of ten percent of the total usable area of any park shall be set aside and designated for recreational purposes.
(5)
Convenience establishments of a commercial nature, including convenience stores, pick-up laundry and dry cleaning stores, beauty shops and barber shops may be permitted in manufactured housing parks provided that such establishments and the parking areas are primarily related to their operations are adequate and approved by the planning commission; and
a.
Occupy not more than ten percent of the areas of the park;
b.
Be subordinated to the residential use and character of the park;
c.
Be located, designed and intended to service the needs of persons residing in the park only.
(6)
The manufactured house park site plan shall include a recreational plan, shall follow the procedures outlined in this article and shall, if necessary, obtain certification from the appropriate county health department and approvals from the planning commission and the mayor and city council.
(7)
Each manufactured house site shall be provided with paved driveways and/or two parking spaces connecting with an interior paved roadway at a minimum width of 14 feet for one-way traffic circulation and 24 feet for two-way traffic movement. In addition, a driveway of at least 18 feet wide shall be provided to any service buildings. All streets and drives shall be paved with a hard surface, and are to be constructed to at least the minimum design standards. No gravel streets or driveways shall be permitted as detailed in this article.
(8)
One refuse collection station shall be provided for every 15 families or a fraction thereof. It shall be conveniently located for collection not more than 200 feet from any manufactured house served and screened with a wooden fence. If individual refuse containers are used on manufactured house sites, stands must be provided to hold the cans and screen them from the public view.
(9)
Each manufactured house shall be landscaped with trees and fast growing screen planting so as to compliment the development and the surrounding areas.
(10)
No manufactured house shall be located within 30 feet of any property line, no closer than 15 feet to any easement and 40 feet from any public road right-of-way.
(11)
A buffer strip of at least 25 feet wide shall be located adjacent to each exterior property line of the manufactured house park and shall not be included within any individual manufactured house lot. The buffer strip shall be increased to a width of 50 feet when the adjacent property is a single-family residential district. This strip shall be densely planted with fast growing evergreen shrubs or trees.
(12)
All homes in a mobile or manufactured home park shall have individual water, and electrical meters and a sewer tap for each home in a given park.
(13)
All mobile or manufactured home parks or lots shall be brought up to current standards when a home is removed or damaged 50 percent or more of its current value, before another may be put in its place. All replacement and/or relocated mobile homes shall meet HUD standards and have a HUD sticker on the home in addition to meeting the regulations set forth herein. When conflicting regulations exist concerning a manufactured home park, shall comply with the most restrictive ordinance in effect whether it is a city, state or federal regulation.
(14)
Manufactured and mobile home parks and individual homes shall comply with all regulations of this article relating to development, installation and improvements of an individual lot or park, except as otherwise provided.
(Code 1996, § 82-88; Ord. of 3-8-1999, pt. II, art. 12)
Secs. 112-4—112-24. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OWNER REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 112-25. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article shall be to require the owners and operators of manufactured homes, refurbishment of manufactured homes, and manufactured home parks located within the city to provide certain required information to the appropriate board of tax assessors in order to maintain current and updated listings of all property located within the city limits.
(Code 1996, § 18-71; Ord. of 3-10-1997(1), § 1)
Sec. 112-26. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this article, a manufactured home park is defined as any tract of land under common ownership upon which space is leased for the siting of manufactured homes.
(Code 1996, § 18-72; Ord. of 3-10-1997(1), § 2)
Sec. 112-27. - Readoption of current building code provisions.
(a)
No person shall own or have located within the city any manufactured home unless application for a building permit shall have been made and a permit received as required by the city building code.
(b)
No person shall hereafter locate any manufactured home within the city that is older than six years and must meet all current building code requirements, applicable to manufactured homes. The real property upon which the manufactured home is located must meet the city subdivision regulations.
(Code 1996, § 18-73; Ord. of 3-10-1997(1), § 3)
Sec. 112-28. - Inventory.
Every owner and operator of a manufactured home park is hereby required to provide an inventory of all manufactured homes located in the manufactured home park as of January 1 of each year. The city or its authorized agents shall be given responsibility for enforcing the requirements of this article. Jurisdiction for violations of the article shall be placed in the municipal court of the city.
(Code 1996, § 18-74; Ord. of 3-10-1997(1), § 4)
