Chapter 18 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. title 16.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 18-1—18-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CRIMINAL MISCONDUCT

Sec. 18-19. - Disorderly conduct.
It shall be unlawful for any person within the boundaries of the county to engage in any conduct described as follows:
(1)
To act in a violent or tumultuous manner towards another whereby such person is placed in fear of the safety of his life, limb or health;
(2)
To act in a violent or tumultuous manner towards another whereby the property of such person is placed in danger of being damaged or destroyed;
(3)
To cause, provoke or engage in any fight, brawl, or riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another person or to disturb the peace and tranquility;
(4)
To direct fighting words toward another person or in another person's presence, that is to say, use opprobrious or abuse words which by the very utterance tend to incite an immediate breach of the peace, words which as a matter of common knowledge and under ordinary circumstances will, when used to or of another person, in such person's presence, tend to provoke violent resentment or by their very nature tend to incite an immediate breach of the peace;
(5)
To enter upon the grounds of any school and cause or participate in a disruption or disturbance which is intended and is calculated to disturb and interfere with the orderly educational process; or
(6)
To physically or verbally harass, threaten or intimidate another person in a manner which is reasonably calculated or intended to cause a breach of the peace whether or not a breach of the peace actually occurs.
(Code 1991, § 5.5-26; Ord. No. 99-02, 7-27-1999)
Sec. 18-20. - Public drunkenness.
It shall be unlawful for any person to be and appear, within the boundaries of the county in an intoxicated condition in any public place or within the curtilage of any private residence not his own unless by invitation of the owner or lawful occupant, which intoxicated conditions exhibited or may be manifest by boisterousness, or by an indecent condition or act, or by extreme stupor or a deep sleep, or by impairment of ambulation, or by vulgar, profane, loud or unbecoming language. For the purposes of this section, the term "public place" shall mean any place where the conduct so exhibited or manifested may reasonably be expected to be viewed by persons other than members of the actor's family or household.
(Code 1991, § 5.5-27; Ord. No. 99-02, 7-27-1999)
Sec. 18-21. - Noise control.
(a)
Purpose. This section is enacted to protect, preserve and promote the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the county through the control of noise. It is the intent of this section to establish standards that will reduce excessive community noises, which are harmful and otherwise detrimental to individuals and to the community in the enjoyment of life and property and in the conduct of business.
(b)
Sound measurement standards for law enforcement personnel. For the purposes of this section, the term "plainly audible" shall mean any sound emanating from the specific sound-producing sources set forth below which can be heard from the distances set forth below, using the following sound measurement standards: measurement shall be by the auditory senses of a person standing at a distance no less than the required minimum distance from the source of the sound. For music and other noise, words and phrases need not be discernable. For music and other noise, bass reverberations are included.
(c)
Prohibited conduct.
(1)
Restrictions of 300 feet for 7:00 a.m. through 8:00 p.m. Sunday through Thursday and 7:00 a.m. through 9:00 p.m. on Friday and Saturday.
a.
Mechanical sound-making devices. It is unlawful for any person to play, use, operate or permit to be played, used or operated any radio receiving device, television, stereo, musical instrument, phonograph sound amplifier or other machines or devices for the producing, reproducing or amplifying of sound and/or noise at such a volume and in such a manner so as to create, or cause to be created, any noises or sounds which are plainly audible at a distance of 300 feet of more from the building, structure or vehicle, or in the case of real property, beyond the property limits, in which it is located, whichever is farthest, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. Sunday through Thursday and between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on Friday and Saturday.
b.
Human-produced sounds. It is unlawful for any person to yell, shout, hoot, whistle, or sing on the public streets or sidewalks or on private property so as to create, or cause to be created, any noises or sounds which are plainly audible at a distance of 300 feet or more from the place, building, structure, or in the case of real property, beyond the property limits, in which the person is located, whichever is farthest, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. Sunday through Thursday and between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on Friday and Saturday.
c.
Commercial advertising. It is unlawful for any person to use, operate, or permit to be used or operated any radio receiving device, musical instrument, phonograph, loud speaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device for the production or reproduction of sound which is cast upon the public streets or other public property for the purpose of commercial advertising or which serves to attract the attention of the public to any building, structure or vehicle in such a manner so as to create, or cause to be created, any noises or sounds which are plainly audible at a distance of 300 feet or more from the source of the sound cast upon the public streets or other public property or from the building, structure, or in the case of real property, beyond the property limits, in which it is located, whichever is farthest, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. Sunday through Thursday and between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on Friday and Saturday.
d.
Party noise. It is unlawful for any person in charge of a party or other social event that occurs on any private property to allow that party or social event to produce noise in such a manner that such noise is plainly audible at a distance of 300 feet or more from the building or structure from which the noise is emanating or in the case of real property, beyond the property limits, on which the party or social event is located, whichever is farthest, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. Sunday through Thursday and between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on Friday and Saturday. For the purposes of this subsection, a person in charge of a party or other social event shall mean any adult person who resides in or on the premises involved in such party or social event and is present at such party or social event. For the purposes of this subsection, the term "noise" shall mean the same sounds, or any combination thereof, as described in subsections (c)(1)a and b of this section.
(2)
Restrictions of 100 feet for 8:00 p.m. through 7:00 a.m. Sunday through Thursday and 9:00 p.m. through 7:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday.
a.
Mechanical sound-making devices. It is unlawful for any person to play, use, operate or permit to be played, used or operated any radio receiving device, television, stereo, musical instrument, phonograph sound amplifier or other machines or devices for the producing, reproducing or amplifying of sound and/or noise at such a volume and in such a manner so as to create, or cause to be created, any noises or sounds which are plainly audible at a distance of 100 feet of more from the building, structure or vehicle, or in the case of real property, beyond the property limits, in which it is located, whichever is farthest, between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Sunday through Thursday and between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday.
b.
Human-produced sounds. It is unlawful for any person to yell, shout, hoot, whistle, or sing on the public streets or sidewalks or on private property so as to create, or cause to be created, any noises or sounds which are plainly audible at a distance of 100 feet or more from the place, building, structure, or in the case of real property, beyond the property limits, in which the person is located, whichever is farthest, between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Sunday through Thursday and between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday.
c.
Commercial advertising. It is unlawful for any person to use, operate, or permit to be used or operated any radio receiving device, musical instrument, phonograph, loud speaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device for the production or reproduction of sound which is cast upon the public streets or other public property for the purpose of commercial advertising or which serves to attract the attention of the public to any building, structure or vehicle in such a manner so as to create, or cause to be created, any noises or sounds which are plainly audible at a distance of 100 feet or more from the source of the sound cast upon the public streets or other public property or from the building, structure, or in the case of real property, beyond the property limits, in which it is located, whichever is farthest, between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Sunday through Thursday and between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday.
d.
Party noise. It is unlawful for any person in charge of a party or other social event that occurs on any private property to allow that party or social event to produce noise in such a manner that such noise is plainly audible at a distance of 100 feet or more from the building or structure from which the noise is emanating or in the case of real property, beyond the property limits, on which the party or social event is located, whichever is farthest, between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Sunday through Thursday and between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday. For the purposes of this subsection, a person in charge of a party or other social event shall mean any adult person who resides in or on the premises involved in such party or social event and is present at such party or social event. For the purposes of this subsection, the term "noise" shall mean the same sounds, or any combination thereof, as described in subsections (c)(2)a and b of this section.
(3)
Exclusions. The prohibitions of this section shall not apply to the following:
a.
Noises or sounds caused to be made by manufacturing or governmental entities in the normal course of their business;
b.
Sound volumes produced by radio, tape player, or other mechanical sound making device or instrument from within a motor vehicle on a street or highway, which sound is controlled by O.C.G.A. § 40-6-14;
c.
Noises or sounds made by law enforcement and other public safety officials performing their public functions;
d.
Noises or sounds made by domestic animals;
e.
Noises or sounds made by livestock;
f.
Noises or sounds emanating from any official elementary or secondary school event (public, private, or parochial school) on property for which a school is an authorized use established in appendix A, zoning ordinance;
g.
Noises or sounds made between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. emanating from any authorized use in the agricultural district (A-1) established in appendix A, zoning ordinance;
h.
Noises or sounds made by irrigation equipment or spraying equipment;
i.
Noises or sounds made during a state of emergency declared pursuant to section 8-4;
j.
Noises or sounds made between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. by use of tractors, motorized vehicles, or motorized landscape maintenance devices (including, but not limited to, leaf blowers, lawn mowers, or chain saws);
k.
Construction noise of any type (including, but not limited to, erection, excavation, demolition, alteration, or repair of any building, as well as the operation of any earth-moving equipment, crane, saw, drill, pile driver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, hoist, automatic nailer or stapler, or any similar equipment) made between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.; or
l.
Noises or sounds caused by authorized uses in the industrial district (I), commercial industrial district (CID), and planned industrial district (PID) established in appendix A, zoning ordinance.
(Code 1991, § 5.5-28; Ord. No. 2012-03, 3-27-2012)
Sec. 18-22. - Penalty.
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished in accordance with section 1-11.
