Chapter 26 - SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authorization to provide garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. 9, § 2, ¶ (a)(2); Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; hazardous waste management, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-61 et seq.; litter control, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-42 et seq.; local, multi-jurisdictional and regional solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 26-1—26-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LITTER CONTROL

Sec. 26-19. - Short title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the Meriwether County Anti-Litter Ordinance.
(Code 1991, § 12-26; Ord. of 11-27-1989, § 1-101)
Sec. 26-20. - Definition.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Aircraft means any contrivance invented, used or designated for navigation or for flight in the air. The term "aircraft" shall include helicopters and lighter-than-air dirigibles and balloons.
Authorized private receptacle means a litter storage and collection receptacle as required and authorized in the county.
Commercial handbill means any printed or written matter, any sample or device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature:
(1)
Which advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or thing;
(2)
Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales;
(3)
Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition, or event of any kind, for which an admission fee is charged for the purpose of private gain or profit; but the terms of this clause shall not apply where an admission fee is charged or a collection is taken up for the purpose of defraying the expenses incident to such meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition, or event of any kind, when either of the same is held, given or takes place in connection with the dissemination of information which is not restricted under the ordinary rules of decency, good morals, public peace, safety and good order, provided nothing contained in this clause shall be deemed to authorize the holding, giving or taking place of any meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind, without a license, where such license is or may be required by any law of this state, or under any ordinance of this county; or
(4)
Which, while containing reading matter other than advertising matter, is predominantly and essentially an advertisement, and is distributed or circulated for advertising purposes, or for the private benefit and gain of any person so engaged as advertiser or distributor.
Garbage means putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
Litter means "garbage," "refuse" and "rubbish" as defined herein and all other waste material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a danger to public health, safety and welfare.
Newspaper means any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law, any newspaper duly entered with the United States Postal Service, in accordance with federal statute or regulation, and any newspaper filed and recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law; and, in addition thereto, shall mean and include any periodical or current magazine regularly published with not less than four issues per year, and sold to the public.
Noncommercial handbill means any printed or written matter, any sample or device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper booklet or any other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature not included in the definition of the term "commercial handbill" or "newspaper."
Park means a park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other public area in the county, owned or used by the county and devoted to active or passive recreation.
Private premises means any dwelling, house, building or other structure, designed or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building or other structure.
Public place means any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and buildings.
Refuse means all putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except bodily wastes), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned automobiles and solid market and industrial wastes.
Rubbish means nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
Vehicle means every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Code 1991, § 12-27; Ord. of 11-27-1989, § 1-102)
Sec. 26-21. - Penalties.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be, upon conviction, punished in accordance with section 1-11.
(Code 1991, § 12-28; Ord. of 11-27-1989, § 1-120)
Sec. 26-22. - Litter in public places.
No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk or other public place within the county except in public receptacles, in authorized private receptacles for collection, or in official county dumps.
(Code 1991, § 12-29; Ord. of 11-27-1989, § 1-103)
Sec. 26-23. - Placement of litter in receptacles.
Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or upon private property.
(Code 1991, § 12-30; Ord. of 11-27-1989, § 1-104)
Sec. 26-24. - Sweeping litter into gutters prohibited.
No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within the county the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway.
(Code 1991, § 12-31; Ord. of 11-27-1989, § 1-105)
Sec. 26-25. - Merchants' duty to keep sidewalks free of litter.
No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within the county the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway.
(Code 1991, § 12-32; Ord. of 11-27-1989, § 1-106)
Sec. 26-26. - Litter thrown by persons in vehicles.
No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit litter upon any street, private property or other public place within the county.
(Code 1991, § 12-33; Ord. of 11-27-1989, § 1-107)
Sec. 26-27. - Litter from vehicle.
modified
No person shall drive or move any vehicle within the county unless such vehicles are so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load, contents or litter contained therein from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley, or other public place. Additionally, no person shall drive or move any loaded or unloaded vehicle that is a commercial vehicle and/or vehicle for hire while picking or delivering to any solid waste disposal facility or site operated within the county unless such vehicle and the load therein is covered by canvas or other material providing complete coverage, properly secured, so as to prevent any load, contents or litter from becoming loose, detached or blown from the vehicle, or from dropping or escaping from the vehicle during the movement thereof.
Further, no person shall drive or move any vehicle within the county, the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any street, alley, or other public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any kind.
( Ord. No. 2021-02 , 4-18-2021)
Sec. 26-28. - Litter in parks.
No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park within the county except in public receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or upon any street or other public place. Where public receptacles are not provided, all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere as provided herein.
(Code 1991, § 12-35; Ord. of 11-27-1989, § 1-109)
Sec. 26-29. - Litter in lakes and fountains.
No person shall throw or deposit litter in any fountain, pond, lake, stream, bay or any other body of water in a part of or elsewhere within the county.
(Code 1991, § 12-36; Ord. of 11-27-1989, § 1-110)
Sec. 26-30. - Commercial, noncommercial handbills—Throwing in public places.
No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any sidewalk, street or other public place within the county. No person shall hand out or distribute or sell any commercial handbill in any public place. It shall not be unlawful on any sidewalk, street, or other public place within the county for any person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the receiver thereof, any noncommercial handbill to any person willing to accept it.
(Code 1991, § 12-37; Ord. of 11-27-1989, § 1-111)
Sec. 26-31. - Commercial, noncommercial handbills—Placing on vehicles.
No person shall throw or deposit any commercial handbill in or upon any vehicle, unless such is securely fastened thereto. It shall not be unlawful in any public place for a person to hand out or distribute without charge to the receiver thereof, a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is willing to accept it.
(Code 1991, § 12-38; Ord. of 11-27-1989, § 1-112)
Sec. 26-32. - Commercial, noncommercial handbills—Deposit on uninhabited or vacant premises.
No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any private premises which are temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant.
(Code 1991, § 12-39; Ord. of 11-27-1989, § 1-113)
Sec. 26-33. - Commercial, noncommercial handbills—Prohibited where posted.
No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial handbill upon any private premises, if requested by anyone thereon not to do so, or if there is placed on such premises in a conspicuous position near, the entrance thereof, a sign bearing the words: "No Trespassing," "No Peddlers or Agents," "No Advertisement," or any similar notice, indicating in any matter that the occupants of such premises do not desire to be molested or have their right of privacy disturbed, or to have any such handbills left upon such premises.
(Code 1991, § 12-40; Ord. of 11-27-1989, § 1-114)
Sec. 26-34. - Dropping litter from aircraft.
No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit within the county any litter, handbill or any other object.
(Code 1991, § 12-42; Ord. of 11-27-1989, § 1-116)
Sec. 26-35. - Litter on public or private property.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, deposit, throw or leave or to cause or to permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing or leaving of litter on any public or private property in this county or any waters in this county, unless:
(1)
The property is designated by the state, county, or any of its agencies or political subdivisions for the disposal of litter and the person is authorized by the county or state to use such property;
(2)
The litter is placed in a litter receptacle or container installed on such property; or
(3)
The person is owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property or has first obtained consent of the owner or tenant in lawful possession or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner or tenant, all in a manner consistent with the public welfare.
(b)
It is specifically provided that none of the above three listed exceptions shall apply unless the acts are done in such a manner that the litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk, or other public place or upon any other private property under different ownership or control.
(Code 1991, § 12-43; Ord. of 11-27-1989, § 1-117)
Sec. 26-36. - County receptacles.
The county authorities may maintain receptacles for the deposit of litter or recyclables at appropriate locations and may provide receptacles for the dumping therein of household garbage only. As used herein in this section, household garbage means refuse and remains of meal by-products, other household refuse such as tin cans, bottles, paper, cardboard, plastics and wrapping or packaging material. If a container is clearly marked household garbage only, it shall be unlawful for any person to dump any refuse or other material into the container other than household garbage as such is herein defined. It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit medical waste, appliances, tires, wood products, or any refuse from a commercial establishment into these receptacles. It shall be unlawful for any person to set fire to the contents or indiscriminately scatter or disperse the contents of or otherwise vandalize any containers provided by the county for the dumping of trash or garbage or to overturn the same.
(Code 1991, § 12-45; Ord. of 11-27-1989, § 1-119; Ord. No. 92-0825, 8-25-1992)
Sec. 26-37. - Severability.
new
Should any part of this article be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be illegal, unenforceable, or void, the remaining parts of this article shall remain in full force and effect.
( Ord. No. 2021-02 , 4-18-2021)
Sec. 26-38. - Penalty.
new
Any person found guilty of violating this article shall be subject to those fines and penalties as set for in section 1-11 of this Code.
( Ord. No. 2021-02 , 4-18-2021)
Secs. 26-39—26-60. - Reserved.
new
ARTICLE III. - WASTE PRODUCTS CONTROL

Sec. 26-61. - Dumpster regulations.
(a)
The following notice shall be painted on all dumpsters in the county: "Household garbage only, littering grounds is a misdemeanor, violators will be prosecuted."
(b)
The state law regarding the use of dumpsters will be strictly enforced in the county. It is a misdemeanor for a person to dump any refuse other than household garbage into a dumpster; to set fire to the contents of a dumpster; to indiscriminately scatter or disperse the contents of a dumpster; or to vandalize any dumpster. Any person convicted of violating this article shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of section 1-11.
(Code 1991, § 12-66; Mo. of 11-12-1979)
Sec. 26-62. - Restrictions on transportation and processing of waste products.
(a)
No person shall bring in, transport or move into this county any refuse, sewerage, sludge, products of any waste treatment plant of any county, state or municipality, or any type of waste matter or fertilizer, or any other similar material across the county boundary or into the county for the purpose of dumping such products, placing such products or of bringing any of such products into the county for the purposes of utilizing the same commercially in any way, converting the same into any type of products of any kind, including, but not limited to, compost or any other similar products, or for the purpose of use of the same in any type of containers, or for use in manufacturing or changing such waste and products in any matter to be stored or sold, or for the purpose of dumping the same or disposing of the same in any matter, or for using the same in any type of commercial operation whatsoever of any kind at any and all places or locations within the county, without the express approval and permission of the board of commissioners who shall thoroughly and exhaustively investigate any project or undertaking of any kind of this nature, or of any other kind which might be similarly in any manner related thereto for the purposes of determining the absolute and total safety of the environment not only in any specific location, but as to the transport of any of such waste, sewerage, or any products which might be the result of a waste treatment plant, or of any other type of product that might be dangerous as to the health and well-being of all of the citizens of the county. This prohibition shall apply not only to the location but equally as well as to the transport upon any public roads located in the county.
(b)
Any violation of this section shall be considered a misdemeanor and the offender, upon conviction, shall be punished in accordance with section 1-11.
(Code 1991, § 12-67; Ord. of 9-11-1985)
State Law reference— Garbage, trash, waste or refuse not to be transported across state or county boundaries for dumping without permission, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-16.
Secs. 26-63—26-82. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - SOLID WASTE ORDINANCE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 26-83. - Definitions.
When used in this article, the following terms and phrases shall have the meanings given in this section. Terms not herein defined shall have their customary dictionary definitions where not inconsistent with the context.
Brown goods means furniture (sofas, chairs love seats, etc.) and mattresses and box springs.
Commercial establishment means any business, industrial establishment, hotel, motel, apartment dwelling, roominghouse, public or semipublic establishment of any nature or kind whatsoever other than a one- or two-family dwelling unit or condominium.
Commercial solid waste means all types of solid waste generated by store, offices, restaurants, warehouses and other non-manufacturing activities, excluding residential and industrial waste.
Condominium means individual ownership unites in a multifamily residential structure with a front and back entrance to each unit on the ground level.
Construction/demolition waste means waste building materials and rubble resulting from construction, remodeling, repair, or demolition operations on pavements, houses, commercial buildings, and other structures. Such waste includes, but is not limited to, waste containing asbestos, wood, bricks, metal, concrete, wallboard, paper, cardboard, and other nonputrescible wastes associated with construction and demolition activities which have a low potential for groundwater contamination. Inert waste landfill materials approved by the board for disposal in landfills permitted by rule and regulation are also included in this definition if disposed in a construction or demolition waste landfill.
Disposal facility means any facility or location where the final deposition of solid waste occurs and includes, but is not limited to, landfilling and solid waste thermal treatment technology facilities.
Franchise means a person or entity granted a franchise by the county board of commissioners who, under written agreements for compensation by those receiving services, collects and transports solid waste from commercial establishments and residential dwellings, excluding an individual collecting and transporting waste from his own residential dwelling.
Franchise approved container means the container approved by a franchisee licensed by the county for the disposal of all household waste. The container must be available for purchase at local commercial establishments.
Franchise area means the unincorporated area of the county.
Garbage means food waste, including waste accumulation or animal or vegetable matter used or intended for use as food, or that attends the preparation, use, cooking dealing in or storage of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetables.
Household waste means solid waste, primarily consisting of garbage, produced by residential units.
Industrial waste means solid waste generated by manufacturing or industrial processes or operations that is not a hazardous waste regulated under the Georgia Hazardous Waste Management Act (O.C.G.A. § 12-8-60 et seq.). Such waste includes, but is not limited to, waste resulting from the following manufacturing processes: electrical power generation; fertilizer and agricultural chemicals; food-related products and by-products; inorganic chemicals; iron and steel products; leather and leather products; nonferrous metal and foundry products; organic chemicals; plastic and ruins; pulp and paper, rubber and miscellaneous plastic products, stone, glass, clay and concrete products, textiles; transportation equipment. This term does not include mining waste or oil and gas waste.
Municipal solid waste means any solid waste, including sanitary waste in septic tanks, derived from residential dwellings, hotels and motels, campgrounds, picnic grounds and recreation areas. The term "municipal solid waste" includes commercial solid waste, but does not include construction/demolition waste and solid waste from mining, agricultural, silvicultural or industrial processes or operations.
Open dump means an accumulation of solid waste from one or more sources left to decompose, burn or create a threat to health or the environment.
Owner means any person, firm or corporation owning, leasing, renting, occupying, possessing or managing any premises in the county.
Person means the state or any other state or any agency or institution thereof and any municipality, county, political subdivision, public or private corporation, solid waste authority, special district empowered to engage in solid waste management activities, individual, partnership, association, or other entity in Georgia or any other state. The term "person" also includes any officer or governing or managing body of any municipality, political subdivision, solid waste authority, special district empowered to engage in solid waste management activities, or public or private corporation in Georgia or any other state. The term "person" also includes employees, departments, and agencies of the federal government.
Putrescible waste means wastes that are capable of being decomposed by microorganisms. Examples of putrescible waste include, but are not limited to, kitchen waste, animal manure, official hatchery and poultry processing plant waste, and garbage.
Reclamation means a controlled method of sorting and storing material from solid waste for future use.
Recovered materials means those materials which have a known use or recycling potential, and can be feasibly used, re-used or recycled, and have been diverted or removed from the solid waste stream for sale, use, re-use or recycling whether or not subsequent separation and processing is required.
Recycling means any process by which material which would otherwise become solid waste are collected, separated, or processed and re-used or returned to use in the form of raw materials or products.
Refuse means garbage, rubbish or commercial solid waste.
Residential unit means any freestanding structure or shelter or any part thereof used or constructed for use as a residence for one family.
Rubbish means discarded wastepaper, cartons, boxes, wood, three branches, yard trimmings, furniture, appliances, metals, cans, glass, crockery, dunnage and/or singular materials.
Scrap tire means a tire that is no longer suitable for its original intended purpose because of wear, damage or defect.
Solid waste means any garbage or refuse, sludge from a wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility; and other discarded material, including solid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material resulting from industrial, commercial, mining and agricultural operations and community activities, but does not include recovered materials; solid or dissolved materials in domestic sewage; solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or industrial discharges that are point sources subject to permit under 33 USC 1342; source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined by the Federal Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (68 Stat. 923).
Solid waste handling means the storage, collection, transportation, treatment, utilization, processing, or disposal of solid waste or any combination of such activities.
Solid waste handling facility means any facility the primary purpose of which is the storage, collection, transportation, treatment, utilization, processing, or disposal, or any combination thereof, of solid waste.
Special solid waste means any solid waste not otherwise regulated under part 1 of article 3 of the Georgia Hazardous Waste Management Act, and regulations promulgated under such part originating or produced from or by a source or generator not subject to regulation under O.C.G.A. § 12-8-24.
Transfer station means the central transfer station owned by the county.
Waste stream means the total flow of solid waste from residential units, commercial establishments, condominiums, apartments, institutions and the like to its ultimate disposal site or facility.
White goods means stoves, refrigerators, microwaves, water heaters, etc.
Yard trimmings means leaves, brush, grass clippings, shrub and tree prunings, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals, and vegetative matter resulting from landscaping development and maintenance other than mining, agricultural, and silvicultural operation.
(Code 1991, § 12-91; Ord. No. 99-03, art. I, § 1, 8-24-1999)
Sec. 26-84. - Prohibited acts.
(a)
No individual, partnership, corporation or other entity shall throw, litter, dump, or deposit (or cause or permit to be deposited) any waste unless authorized to do so by law or by a duly issued permit:
(1)
In or on any public highway, road, street, alley or thoroughfare, including any portion of the right-of-way thereof, or on any other public lands except in containers or areas lawfully provided for such dumping;
(2)
In or on any freshwater lake, river, canal or stream; and
(3)
On any private property without the express permission of the owner.
(b)
No owner or occupant shall allow the accumulation on his residential unit or commercial establishment of solid waste where such solid waste creates or may create a health hazard to neighbors or their citizens, or is unsightly, or emits foul or obnoxious odors which continue either a public or private nuisance. Such conduct shall constitute a violation of this article.
(c)
The owner or occupant of any premises, office, business establishment, institution, industry or similar facility shall be responsible for the disposal of all solid waste accumulated at the premises, office, business establishment, institution or similar facility to the transfer station, or with a county-approved franchisee. No person shall allow solid waste, as defined herein, to remain on his premises more than seven days. Each day the solid waste remains on the premises after the seven-day requirement may constitute a separate violation of this article.
(d)
No person may store more than ten scrap tires anywhere in this county, except as permitted by O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.1(g). Any storage of more than ten scrap tires shall be by those entities possessing a permit to do so and a business license.
(Code 1991, § 12-92; Ord. No. 99-03, art. I, § 2, 8-24-1999)
Sec. 26-85. - Exemptions.
Provisions of this article shall not apply to any individual, partnership, corporation or other entity not collecting and disposing of municipal solid waste, commercial solid waste, construction waste or industrial waste for a fee but who are holders of valid solid waste handling permits from the director of the environmental protection division of the state department of natural resources pursuant to rules of the state department of natural resources environmental protection division chapters 391-3-4.02 and 391-3-4.06 for disposal or on-site burial. Such disposal shall be governed by state environmental protection regulations and by requirements of the current county development regulations. Provisions of this article shall not apply to any individual disposing of solid waste originating from his own residence onto land or facilities owned by him when disposal of such wastes not thereby adversely affect the public health.
(Code 1991, § 12-93; Ord. No. 99-03, art. I, § 3, 8-24-1999)
Sec. 26-86. - Enforcement.
(a)
Any person who violates the provisions of this article shall, upon conviction, be punished in accordance with section 1-11.
(b)
In its discretion, the court may also order the violator to remove or render harmless any waste thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped in violation of this article, repair or restore property damaged by or pay damages resulting from such dumping or perform public service related to the removal of illegally dumped waste or to the restoration of an area polluted by such waste, including, but not limited to, directing the violator to pick up and remove litter from any public street, highway or right-of-way for a distance not to exceed one mile. In its sound discretion, the court may also order that the names of violators of this article be published in the legal organ, and assess the cost of such publication in addition to any other fine imposed pursuant to this article.
(c)
All law enforcement agencies, officers, and officials of this state and county are authorized, empowered and directed to enforce compliance with this article.
(d)
Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor vehicle, boat, airplane, or other conveyance in violation of this article, it shall be prima facie evidence that the operator of said conveyance has violated this article.
(Code 1991, § 12-94; Ord. No. 99-03, art. I, § 4, 8-24-1999)
Secs. 26-87—26-115. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - FRANCHISES

Sec. 26-116. - Prohibited acts.
(a)
No individual, partnership, corporation, or other entity shall engage in solid waste handling except in such a manner as to conform to and comply with this article and all applicable state and federal legislation, rules, regulations and orders.
(b)
No individual, partnership, corporation, or other entity shall collect and/or dispose of municipal solid waste for a fee without obtaining a franchise from the board of commissioners.
(c)
No solid waste may be disposed of by any person in an open dump, nor may any person cause, suffer, allow or permit open dumping on his property as defined by the rules of the state department of natural resources, environmental division.
(1)
A person shall be presumed to have violated this provision if, upon written notification by the enforcement officer that litter or solid waste has been dumped on the person's property, not otherwise subject to the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 16-7-51 through 16-7-54, that person fails to provide the endorsement officer or his designee within 15 days of notification with written assurance that the accumulation of litter or solid waste will be properly disposed of within 30 days from the original date of notification.
(2)
No person who first informs the enforcement officer in writing that illegal dumping has occurred on a particular parcel of that person's property shall be deemed to have violated this provision if such person provides written assurance that all accumulated litter or solid waste will be properly disposed of within 45 days of the date of such written notification and subsequently provides proof of such disposal.
(d)
No person shall engage in solid waste handling in a manner which will be conducive to insect and rodent infestation or the harboring and feeding of wild dogs or other animals; impair the air quality; impair the quality of the ground or surface waters; impair the quality of the environment; or likely create other hazards to the public health, safety, or well-being as may be determined by the code enforcement manager or environmental health officer, or his designee.
(e)
Provisions of this article apply to all persons presently engaged in solid waste handling as well as all persons proposing to engage in solid waste handling.
(Code 1991, § 12-101; Ord. No. 99-03, art. II, § 1, 8-24-1999)
Sec. 26-117. - Franchises.
(a)
Copies of this article shall be available for public inspection in the offices of the county clerk, and at other locations as may be designated by the clerk.
(b)
Nonexclusive franchises for residential or commercial collection and disposal shall be granted upon application to the county administrator or his designee, provided franchises meet at least the minimum requirements set out in section 26-118.
(c)
The board of commissioners reserves the discretionary authority to revoke or rescind any such franchise in the interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the county.
(Code 1991, § 12-102; Ord. No. 99-03, art. II, § 2, 8-24-1999)
Sec. 26-118. - Requirements for franchises.
All franchises must meet the following minimum requirements:
(1)
Permit. Prior to engaging in solid waste handling in the county, a franchise must have obtained a solid waste handling permit from the director of the environmental protection division of the state department of natural resources or any successor agency authorized to issue permits pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-8-24.
(2)
Insurance. At the time of submission of a signed franchise agreement and prior to engaging in solid waste handling in the county, and annually thereafter, each franchise shall provide to the county administrator or his designee proof of insurance as follows:
a.
At least the minimum statutory workers' compensation insurances required by state law.
b.
Comprehensive general liability insurance in the amount of $1,000,000.00.
c.
Vehicle liability:
1.
$1,000,000.00 limit per occurrence for bodily injury and property damage.
2.
Comprehensive covering all owned, non-owned and hired vehicles.
3.
All insurance contracts must specify vehicles for solid waste collection.
d.
All comprehensive general liability and vehicle liability shall show the board of commissioners as an additional insured and shall provide for 30 days' notice of cancellation to the board.
(3)
Indemnification. The franchise shall, at its sole cost and expense, fully indemnify, defend and hold harmless the county, its officers, boards, commissions, employees and agents, against any and all claims, suits, actions, liability and judgments from third parties for damages which may be the result of willful, negligent or tortious conduct arising out of the business of collection, transportation and disposal of solid waste, whether or not the action or omission complained of is authorized, allowed or prohibited by this article.
(4)
Vehicles.
a.
All vehicles and containers used for collection operations shall comply with the requirements of Rule 391-3-4-.06 of chapter 391-3-4 (Solid Waste Management) of the rules of the state department of natural resources, environmental protection division, and must be compactor-type trucks, covered or enclosed vehicles. All vehicles must be constructed to be substantially leak-proof, constructed of durable metal, easily cleanable and designed to prevent litter from escaping during movement of the vehicle.
b.
Vehicles and containers shall meet all requirements of the state department of transportation for highway safety and local ordinances governing weight and size for the streets which must be traveled for pick-up. All vehicles shall be subject to unannounced inspection by county officials for compliance with environmental and highway safety standards.
c.
Franchisees shall provide an adequate number of vehicles for regular collection services. Nothing in this article shall prohibit franchisees from sharing back-up vehicles with other franchisees, provided that such sharing is adequately covered by insurance.
(5)
Franchisee records.
a.
The franchisee shall maintain at its place of business books and records showing the names and addresses of all owners and tenants with whom the franchise contracted for solid waste handling services, including the street address for the property served. The franchisee shall submit upon reasonable request of the county to a customer audit.
b.
The above information shall be compiled for state reporting and compliance purposes by the county.
(6)
Disposal assurance. As a condition of the franchise and/or franchise renewal, all applicants shall dispose of solid waste only at a county-approved landfill or transfer station.
(7)
Franchise fee. The franchisee shall pay a franchise fee in an amount established from time to time by action of the board of commissioners.
(Code 1991, § 12-103; Ord. No. 99-03, art. II, § 3, 8-24-1999)
Sec. 26-119. - Collection services.
All franchisees granted a franchise for solid waste collection and removal for any area shall provide a minimum of the following services:
(1)
The franchisees shall provide at a minimum weekly collection of waste packaged in a sanitary manner. Each franchisee shall set uniform fees for collection; and charges for residential collection and removal services shall be charged to the owners of the real property served, except that by requesting services, any tenant may become jointly bound to pay same. Franchisee may not charge one area of the county a different rate than another.
(2)
Collection and removal services for disabled persons and senior citizens 65 years old and older as defined in section 26-120 shall be made and billed as directed in that section.
(3)
The county assumes no responsibility to franchisee for the failure of any customer to keep current solid waste collection payments. Franchisees shall cooperate fully in any legal action taken by the county for failure of any owner or resident to comply with the provisions of this article.
(4)
For all customers, the franchisee shall provide recycling services. The franchisee shall establish its own collection schedule; provided, however, the franchisee must provide weekly collection at a minimum. No additional fee, over the amount charged for curbside collection of waste, shall be charged by the franchisee for regular collections of recovered materials.
(5)
At the time that recovered materials are placed in recycling containers for regular collection, they shall become the property of the franchisee collecting waste for that address. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the right of any individual, organization or other entity from donating, selling or otherwise disposing of recovered material, if such disposal does not violate any applicable statute, regulation or ordinance.
(6)
Service shall be offered by each franchisee to all unincorporated residents. In areas where residents are not accessible due to the condition of the road, franchisees must provide pick-up at the nearest accessible location.
(7)
Franchisees shall provide, at a minimum, monthly collection of white and brown goods in a sanitary manner, at no additional fee to residential customers.
(Code 1991, § 12-104; Ord. No. 99-03, art. II, § 4, 8-24-1999)
Sec. 26-120. - Elderly and disabled.
(a)
Nothing in this article is intended to prohibit the franchisee from offering discounts to senior citizens or the disabled.
(b)
Any person who is a full-time resident of a residential dwelling unit as described above and who is disabled to the extent that he is incapable of moving his refuse shall obtain a physician's certificate as to such disability. Such disabled persons who have no other able-bodied individuals residing with them shall not be required to place the refuse at the curbside. This subsection shall not apply unless all of the adult persons in a residential unit are disabled and the disabled person produces a physician's certificate. Certificates must be provided to the franchisee with a copy to the county administrator. This subsection also applies to temporary disability not to exceed 90 days. Franchisees may make reasonable rules for non-curbside collection for elderly and disabled persons.
(c)
Franchisees shall provide recycling services to disabled and elderly persons to the same extent such services may be provided under section 26-119.
(Code 1991, § 12-105; Ord. No. 99-03, art. II, § 5, 8-24-1999)
Secs. 26-121—26-138. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - REGULATIONS RELATING TO INDIVIDUALS, FRANCHISEES AND OTHERS

Sec. 26-139. - Containers.
All containers used by any person, firm, corporation or other legal entity for the storage or collection of garbage, debris or trash must comply with all county regulations. All garbage, debris or trash not placed in containers shall be kept free of rodents and insects.
(Code 1991, § 12-121; Ord. No. 99-03, art. III, § 1, 8-24-1999)
Sec. 26-140. - Rules and regulations.
(a)
Domestic household garbage and all other garbage shall be placed in franchisee-approved containers.
(b)
It is unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other legal entity to place automobile parts, farm implements, construction/remodeling debris, or parts thereof, dead animal carcasses or parts, trees or limbs, industrial, manufacturing or processing waste or any other solid waste that is not household garbage in or around solid waste handling or disposal facilities.
(c)
It shall be unlawful to scavenge, or remove the contents of solid waste containers or disposal facilities.
(d)
If shall be unlawful to set afire the contents of solid waste containers or disposal facilities or to place burning or smoldering materials in solid waste containers or disposal facilities.
(Code 1991, § 12-122; Ord. No. 99-03, art. III, § 2, 8-24-1999)
Sec. 26-141. - Private landfills and dumps prohibited.
(a)
Any person, firm, corporation or other legal entity who receives solid waste from another for disposal upon property located in the county that it owns or operates shall be guilty of a violation of this article, without obtaining a proper permit from the state department of natural resources environmental protection division.
(b)
Any person, firm, corporation or other legal entity that provides solid waste to another for disposal upon property located in the county that the other owns or controls or who disposes of said waste onto the property of another without the consent of the owner of the property shall be guilty of a violation of this article, without obtaining a proper permit from the state department of natural resources environmental protection division.
(c)
For purposes of this section, the term "owner" shall mean the actual holder of legal title of property located in the county.
(d)
These provisions shall apply whether the disposal is for payment or is gratis.
(Code 1991, § 12-123; Ord. No. 99-03, art. III, § 3, 8-24-1999)
Sec. 26-142. - Open burning.
Open burning is prohibited at all disposal sites and solid waste handling facilities.
(Code 1991, § 12-124; Ord. No. 99-03, art. III, § 4, 8-24-1999)
Sec. 26-143. - Permission required for haulers outside of county.
No person, firm, corporation or employee shall transport garbage from some other Georgia county or from any other state for the purpose of dumping same at the convenience centers or transfer station without first receiving written permission from the board of commissioners.
(Code 1991, § 12-1254; Ord. No. 99-03, art. III, § 5, 8-24-1999)
