ARTICLE V. - AIRPORT AUTHORITY ACT[11]
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Georgia:

Footnotes:
--- (11) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1997 Ga. Laws (Act No. 75), page 3640. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used. Additions for clarity are indicated by brackets. Catchlines have been editorially supplied.

Sec. 1. - Short title.
This Act shall be known and may be cited as the Meriwether County Airport Authority Act.
Sec. 2. - Determination of need for authority.
It is determined and declared that the need for adequate airports and landing fields to serve the air transportation needs of Meriwether County, the need to eliminate airport hazards, the need to provide for appropriate management and operation of such airports and landing fields, and the need to raise capital for additions, extensions, and improvements to the existing airport and landing field facilities in Meriwether County and the acquisition, construction, and equipping of any new airports and landing fields which might hereafter be needed requires the establishment of an airport authority in Meriwether County. It is further determined and declared that the establishment of such airport authority is necessary and essential to ensure the welfare, safety, and convenience of citizens of the State of Georgia and Meriwether County and to ensure the proper economic development of said state and county.
Sec. 3. - Declaration of public purpose.
The purposes and objectives of this Act and the airport authority created under this Act shall be to meet the needs recognized in section 2 of this Act; to ensure the orderly and proper development, expansion, operation, maintenance, and use of the county's existing airport and landing field facilities; to ensure that the maximum public benefit is obtained from those airport and landing field facilities and any other airports and landing fields hereafter established; to ensure proper planning for and establishment of such additional airports and landing fields and expansions of existing airports and landing fields as may be needed in the future; and to promote trade, commerce, industry, and employment opportunities; and all of this to the end of providing the most effective and economical use of public airports and landing fields for the public welfare, safety, and convenience.
Sec. 4. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, unless the context in which they are used requires otherwise, the term:
(1)
"Airport" means any airport as that term is defined in article 2 of chapter 3 of title 6 of the O.C.G.A., as now or hereafter amended.
(2)
"Airport hazard" means any structure, terrain, or object of natural growth, or use thereof which obstructs the airspace required for the flight, landing, or taking off of aircraft to or from an airport or landing field, or any other thing that is hazardous to the flight, landing, or taking off of aircraft to or from an airport or landing field.
(3)
"Authority" means the Meriwether County Airport Authority, which is created by this Act.
(4)
"Cost of project," when used in relation to any airport, landing field, or any portion thereof, means the cost of construction; the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements, and franchises acquired, including the payment or reimbursement of reasonable actual costs incurred as a result of utility relocations when such relocations are made necessary by the project; the cost of all machinery, equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction, and debt service reserves; the cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal, and legal expenses; the costs of plans and specifications; the cost of bond insurance, letters of credit, and other credit enhancement facilities and liquidity facilities; the cost of any qualified hedge, as such term is used in the federal income tax regulations; such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized; the construction of any project and improving the same and the placing of the same in operation; and includes any other cost, expense, financing cost, and reserve funding costs of the type which are included in "cost" under any one or more of code section 6-4-3 [(O.C.G.A. § 6-4-3)], paragraph (2) of code section 36-62-2 [(O.C.G.A. § 36-62-2(2))], and code section 36-82-63 of the O.C.G.A. [(O.C.G.A. § 36-82-63)], as now or hereafter amended. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of any funds of the authority, including the proceeds of any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act for any such project or projects.
(5)
"County" means Meriwether County, Georgia, a political subdivision of the State of Georgia.
(6)
"Landing field" means any landing field as that term is defined in article 2 of chapter 3 of title 6 of the O.C.G.A., as now or hereafter amended.
(7)
"Project" means one or more airports or landing fields, any portion of any airport or landing field, or facilities therefor to be acquired or constructed by the authority and all furniture, fixtures, and equipment relating to the foregoing which the authority designates as constituting a project.
Sec. 5. - Creation of authority, status, tax exemption, and sovereign immunity.
(a)
There is created a public body corporate and politic to be known as the Meriwether County Airport Authority, which shall be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and an agency and instrumentality of the county, a political subdivision for purposes of article 2 of chapter 3 of title 6 of the O.C.G.A., as now or hereafter amended, and a governmental body for purposes of article 3 of chapter 82 of title 36 of the O.C.G.A., the Revenue Bond Law, as now or hereafter amended, and which is intended to be a governmental unit for purposes of section 103 and section 141-150 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now or hereafter amended, and, as to the county, is intended to be a subordinated entity for purposes of section 265(b)(3)(E)(ii) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now or hereafter amended. The authority shall not be a state institution, nor a department or agency of the state, but shall be an instrumentality created by the state, having a distinct corporate identity, which shall exempt from the provisions of article 2 of chapter 17 of title 50 of the O.C.G.A., the Georgia State Financing and Investment Commission Act, as now or hereafter amended.
(b)
The authority shall have its principal office in the county and its legal situs or residence for the purposes of this Act shall be the county.
(c)
The authority's exercise of the powers conferred upon it in this Act shall constitute the performance of an essential governmental function for the public purposes stated in this Act. The properties of the authority, both real and personal, are declared to be public properties and the revenues, income, and moneys of the authority are declared to be public revenues, income, and moneys which properties, revenues, income, and moneys are to be used for the public purposes stated in this Act and for the public benefit and general welfare of the people of the county and not for the purpose of private benefit. The authority, all properties, to the extent of the authority's ownership thereof or other interest therein, and all revenues, income, and moneys of the authority shall be exempt from all taxes and special assessments of the state and all taxes and assessments of the cities, counties, and other political subdivisions thereof. The authority shall have all of the exemptions and exclusions from taxes that are now granted to cities and counties for the operation of properties or facilities similar to the properties and facilities to be owned or operated, or both, by the authority. The revenue bonds, revenue notes, revenue certificates, and similar evidences of indebtedness of the authority and the interest thereon and all capital lease (financing lease) obligations of the authority (and any certificates of participation therein) and the interest component of rent payable thereon shall have all of the exemptions and exclusions from taxes that are now granted to evidences of indebtedness and capital lease obligations of cities and counties and to the interest thereon and interest component thereof.
(d)
The authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the state, and the officers, agents, and employees of the authority, when in performance of work of the authority, shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as officers, agents, and employees of the state. The authority may be sued to the same extent as private corporations on any indebtedness, lease, or contractual obligation of the authority. Suits and actions against the authority shall be brought only in the superior court of Meriwether County, Georgia, and any suit or action pertaining to validation of any bonds or other obligations issued or incurred by the authority shall likewise be brought in such court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such suits and actions. The real and tangible personal property of the authority shall not be subject to levy and sale under legal process; provided, however, that any person leasing real or personal property to the authority may enforce its right to terminate such lease for nonpayment of rent by the authority or other breach of conditions of such lease by the authority, whether or not such lease is classified for accounting purposes as:
(1)
A true lease or operating lease; or
(2)
As a capital lease (financing lease); or
(3)
Installment purchase agreement.
Sec. 6. - Members and meetings.
(a)
The authority shall consist of five members who shall be natural persons who shall be at least 18 years of age, each of whom shall be a resident of the county. The board of commissioners of the county shall, by resolution, appoint the members of the authority. The initial members shall be appointed for staggered terms ending, respectively, one the last day in October of the years 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, and 2002, respectively, one member being appointed for each respective term. Appointments of the successors of the members whose term is to expire on the last day of October of any particular year shall be made during such October with such appointment being effective as of the immediately succeeding November 1; such appointment shall be for a term of five years. Any member may be reappointed. Any member may resign at any time by filing a written notice of resignation with the board of commissioners of the county. Any member who ceases to be a resident of the county shall file written notice of such fact with the authority and with the board of commissioners of the county and upon such filing such member shall thereupon cease to be a member of the authority. In the event of a vacancy in the office of any member resulting from the death, resignation, removal of residency beyond the county, or otherwise of such member, the board of commissioners shall, by resolution, fill such vacancy by appointing a successor to fill such position for the unexpired balance of the term of the member whose office became vacant.
(b)
The authority shall hold an annual meeting each year at which the members shall elect a chairperson and a vice chairperson from its membership. The annual meeting of the authority in the year 1997 shall be held at a time and at a place selected by the board of commissioners of the county and specified in a notice of meeting mailed to all initial members following the adoption of the resolution of the board of commissioners of the county appointing the initial members of the authority. In each year thereafter, commencing in the year 1998, the annual meeting of the authority shall be held in November of such year at the place and time to be established by the regulations of the authority or, if no regulations have been adopted, the annual meeting shall be held in the chambers of the board of commissioners of the county at 2:00 p.m., county time, on the third Thursday in November. The regulations of the authority may provide for scheduled meetings on a monthly or other basis. The authority shall meet at such other times as may be necessary to transact the business coming before it. All meetings of the authority shall be held within the county and shall be open to the public in accordance with the laws of the state. Written minutes of all meetings shall be kept; and within 15 days following each meeting, the minutes shall be transcribed and a copy thereof shall be filed in the official records. The chairperson shall preside at meetings of the authority. The vice chairperson shall preside at meetings in the absence of the chairperson. In the absence of both the chairperson and vice chairperson, the members present at a meeting shall elect a temporary chairperson to preside at that meeting so long as the chairperson and vice chairperson both remain absent from the meeting. Meetings shall be conducted in accordance with Robert's Rules of Order. Three members shall constitute a quorum. Official action may be taken by majority vote of those members voting on a matter if a quorum is present and voting on such matter, except that the regulations of the authority may only be adopted, repealed, or amended by majority vote of all members. All members present at a meeting, including the vice chairperson or any other member presiding at such meeting, shall be entitled to vote on all matters that come before the meeting, except as otherwise provided in subsection (d) of this section. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the authority.
(c)
Members shall receive no compensation for their services as members of the authority, but may be reimbursed for their proper and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties, subject to any limitations imposed by general law on the reimbursement of public officials and subject to any limitations which may be contained from time to time in the bylaws of the authority.
(d)
The provisions of code section 45-10-3 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 45-10-3], as now or hereafter amended, shall apply to the members of the authority, and a member of the authority shall not engage in any transaction with the authority. The provisions of the immediately preceding sentence and the provisions of paragraph (9) of code section 45-10-3 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 45-10-3], as now or hereafter amended, shall be deemed to have been complied with and the authority may purchase from, sell to, borrow from, loan to, contract with, or otherwise deal with any member or any organization or person with which any member of the authority is in any way interested or involved, provided that: (1) any interest or involvement by such member is disclosed in advance to the members of the authority who will be voting on the matter or transaction and such disclosure is recorded in the minutes of the authority, (2) no member having a substantial interest or involvement may be present at that portion of any meeting of the authority during which discussion of such matter or action is conducted, and (3) no member having a substantial interest or involvement may participate in any decision of the authority relating to any such matter or transaction. As used in this subsection, a substantial interest or involvement shall mean any interest or involvement which reasonably may be expected to result in a direct financial benefit to such member, as determined by the authority, which determination shall be final and not subject to review. A member who has any interest or involvement shall be entitled to participate in discussions of whether such interest or involvement is a substantial interest or involvement but shall not be entitled to vote on that question. Nothing contained in this subsection or code section 45-10-3 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 45-10-3], as now or hereafter amended, shall be deemed to prohibit any member from providing legal services to the authority, being paid for such services and related expenses, or participating in discussions relating to his or her engagement, the scope of services to be performed, the compensation to be paid, or related matters but such member shall not vote on such matters.
Sec. 7. - Executive director, secretary, treasurer, and other administrative officers and employees.
The authority may appoint and fix the compensation of an executive director. The executive director shall be the chief executive and operating officer of the authority. Under the supervision of the authority, he or she shall be responsible for the operation, management, promotion, and development of all activities with which the authority is charged under this Act together with such other duties as may be prescribed by the authority, and he or she shall have such powers as are necessarily incident to the performance of his or her duties. The authority shall appoint and fix the compensation of a treasurer who shall have custody of all financial records and all moneys, funds, notes, bonds, and other securities of the authority and who shall have such other duties and responsibilities as the authority may prescribe. The authority shall appoint and fix the compensation of a secretary who shall have custody of the official records of the authority, other than financial records, and who shall have such other duties and responsibilities as the authority may prescribe. The authority may also authorize and employ such other administrative officers and employees under such terms and conditions as it shall consider necessary and appropriate to effectuate its purposes under this Act.
Sec. 8. - Powers of the authority.
The authority shall possess, subject to the conditions and limitations set out elsewhere in this Act, all the powers necessary or convenient for it to accomplish the purposes of this Act, including the following specific powers, which shall not be construed as a limitation upon the general or other specific powers conferred in this Act:
(1)
To adopt and alter a corporate seal and to sue and be sued;
(2)
To acquire by purchase, gift, grant, lease, or otherwise real property or rights and easements therein and franchises and personal property necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes; to use, rent, or lease the same as landlord or as tenant or as lessor or as lessee; to make contracts with respect to the use thereof; or to dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority and the purposes thereof. Title to such property shall be held only for the benefit of the public;
(3)
To exercise the power of eminent domain to acquire any real property or any rights or interests therein including any easements as necessary or convenient for the accomplishment of the purposes of this Act, including the elimination of airport hazards, in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the exercise of such power. The authority shall pay for any property condemned under this power from its own funds, and in proceedings to condemn pursuant to this paragraph, the court having jurisdiction of the suit, action, or proceeding may enter such orders regarding the payment for such property or interest thereon as may be fair and just to the county, the authority, and the owners of the property being condemned;
(4)
To appoint, select, employ, and contract for the services of officers, agents, and employees including engineers, architects, building contractors, accountants, fiscal agents, attorneys, and such other persons, firms, or corporations which may be or become necessary or desirable to accomplish the purposes of this Act for such fees or compensation and under such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate;
(5)
To plan, acquire, establish, develop, construct, enlarge, improve, maintain, equip, operate, lease, regulate, protect, and police the airports, landing fields, and related facilities and to enter into any contracts, leases, or other agreements, promulgate any orders, set any tolls, fees, or other charges for the use of its property or services and collect and use same as necessary to acquire, construct, equip, operate, and maintain the airports and landing fields, and to accomplish any purposes of this Act and make any purchases or sales necessary for such purposes;
(6)
To contract with any persons, firms, or public or private corporations to supply goods, commodities, facilities, and services to the public, employees of the authority, and employees of air carriers, fixed base operators, and other commercial interests located at the airports and landing fields under such terms and conditions as it may prescribe, including the power to grant exclusive rights, franchises or concessions;
(7)
To adopt regulations in the nature of bylaws relating to the operation of the authority as a corporate body and to adopt and enforce reasonable rules and regulations for the orderly, safe, efficient, and sanitary operation of airports and landing fields; to provide for its own security force and peace officers with powers of arrest or to arrange for such security force or peace officers to be provided through the county or any municipality therein; and to prescribe reasonable penalties for the breach of any rule or regulation. All such rules and regulations shall become effective upon approval by the authority and after publication of a notice containing a substantive statement of the rule or regulation and the penalty for violation thereof in the newspaper in the county in which sheriff's advertisements are published. The notice shall state that the breach of the rule or regulation will subject the violator to the penalty and shall state that the full text of all rules and regulations shall be maintained in the principal office of the authority where the same will be open to public inspection. All rules and regulations shall in fact be so maintained. Said rules and regulations, when promulgated as provided herein, shall be judicially recognized by and enforceable in the courts of the county;
(8)
To provide its own fire protection, crash, and rescue services or to arrange for such services to be provided through the county or by any private firm in the business of providing such services;
(9)
To make application to any federal, state, county, or municipal government or agency or to any other source, public or private, for loans, grants, guarantees, or other financial assistance in aid of the airports and landing fields and to accept and use same upon such terms and conditions as are prescribed by the federal, state, county, or municipal government or agency or other source;
(10)
To recommend airport zoning regulations to the county and municipalities therein;
(11)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to execute evidences of such indebtedness. The authority shall have all the powers of a governmental body under the provisions of article 3 of chapter 82 of title 36 of the O.C.G.A., the Revenue Bond Law, as now or hereafter amended. The authority shall have the power and is authorized, at one time or from time to time as it deems necessary to accomplish the purposes of this Act, to provide by resolution for the issuance of revenue bonds, including notes and revenue certificates of the authority for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any one or a combination of projects and to refund bonds of the authority. The authority is authorized to issue its revenue bonds to retire or decease any bonds or other obligations issued by the county or any other governmental body relating to any airport, landing field, or portion thereof leased or conveyed by the county or other person to the authority if: (A) at the time of conveyance the property leased or conveyed or any of the revenues therefrom are pledged as security for such bonds or obligations, (B) if the conveyance of such property is subject to such bonds or obligations, or (C) if in connection with such lease or conveyance of property to the authority, the authority has assumed liability for the payment of such bonds or other obligations. The principal of, redemption premium, if any, and interest on the revenue bonds of the authority may be payable from and may be secured by a pledge of any one or more sources of revenues derived by the authority from rates, fees, tolls, charges, and other revenues of all or any part of the project or projects financed in whole or in part with the proceeds of the bonds or of any one or more airports, landing fields, or portions thereof or facilities thereat or may be unsecured but payable pursuant to a covenant to budget and appropriate in each fiscal year from lawfully available revenues of the authority which are in excess of amounts needed in such fiscal year to pay operating expenses of the authority and of the airports and landing fields in such fiscal year and the amounts needed to pay debt service in such fiscal year on bonds to which particular revenues of the authority have been pledged. Each issue of the bonds shall be dated, shall mature, and shall be payable as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority in accordance with the terms of article 3 of chapter 82 of title 36 of the O.C.G.A., the Revenue Bond Law, as now or hereafter amended, except as to any limitation as to interest which may be contained therein, and the bonds may be made redeemable before maturity at the option of the authority at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in its resolution providing for the issuance and security of the bonds or in a trust indenture or financing agreement which shall be substantially in the form and contain economic terms approved by such resolution. If the proceeds of any issue of the bonds shall exceed the amount required for the purposes for which such bonds are issued, the surplus moneys shall be deposited as may be directed in the resolution providing for the issuance and security of such bonds or in the trust indenture or financing agreement approved by such resolution, as aforesaid. The authority is authorized to provide credit enhancement facilities and liquidity facilities for any of its revenue bonds and is authorized to provide for the repayment of amounts advanced under such facilities and to pay interest thereon, without limitation as to interest rate, from the sources pledged to the payment of such bonds or other sources identified above. The authority is authorized to hedge interest rates payable on such indebtedness through the use of interest rate exchange agreements and similar agreements. The authority is authorized to issue revenue bonds which are payable in foreign currency, Eurodollars, or other medium of exchange and, if any revenue bonds of the authority are payable in foreign currency, Eurodollars, or other medium of exchange, the authority is authorized to hedge against changes in the United States dollar value of such foreign currency, Eurodollars, or other medium through the use of hedge agreements, including, but not limited to, currency exchange agreements and forward purchase agreements and options. The authority shall be entitled to validate its revenue bonds and its financial obligations arising in connection with any credit enhancement facility, liquidity agreement, or hedge agreement relating to any such revenue bonds. In addition to other powers granted in this Act, the authority shall have the power to enter into any financial and contractual arrangements with users of airports, landing fields, and facilities thereat or relating thereto, including commercial air carriers, fixed base operators, lessees of airport property, rental car companies leasing space at any airport or landing field, and ground transportation franchises, which it deems appropriate in order to provide security to holders and to any trustee for holders of any of its revenue bonds in order that funds may be procured to accomplish the purposes of this Act at the least possible cost to the authority and to enter into any financial arrangements whatsoever necessary to accomplish the purposes of this Act not otherwise prohibited by the constitution or laws of the state;
(12)
To regulate the commercial use of the airports and landing fields and of roadways on the property thereof and to impose fees, rates, and charges for such use and to prohibit the commercial use of the airports, landing fields, and roadways by any person who has not entered into a lease, concession agreement, franchise agreement, or other agreement with the authority providing for such commercial use and for the payment for such use to the authority; to prohibit the delivery and pick up of rental cars at its airports by any rental car company that has not entered into a franchise agreement with the authority; and to prohibit taxicabs, limousines, buses, and other vehicles of any ground transportation company that has not entered into a franchise agreement with the authority from picking up, but not discharging, passengers at the airports and landing fields; to grant exclusive concessions and to limit the number of businesses of the same or similar type that may operate at any one or more airports and to enter into agreements with commercial users of the airport permitting the authority to regulate prices charged at such airports by such commercial users; the authority's exercise of the regulatory powers provided for in this paragraph is intended to constitute "state action" for purposes of the state action exemption contained in the antitrust laws of the United States of America;
(13)
To acquire, construct, equip, erect, add to, extend, improve, operate, and maintain projects, as hereinbefore defined, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds or other funds of the authority or from such proceeds or other funds and any grant from the United States of America, the State of Georgia, or any agency or instrumentality of either;
(14)
To sell, lease, or otherwise dispose of surplus personal property and sell, lease, or otherwise dispose of land and any improvements thereon which the authority shall determine is no longer required to accomplish the purposes of this Act, including, without limitation, property which is suitable for industrial and commercial development. Any such property may be sold, leased, or otherwise disposed of upon such terms and conditions as may be provided by resolution of the authority. The proceeds of any such sale shall be used by the authority to accomplish any of the purposes of this Act. While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence of the authority or of its officers, employees, or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will adversely affect the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency, or authority will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to adversely affect the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds. The provisions of this Act shall be for the benefit of the holders of any such bonds and, upon the issuance of such bonds, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds;
(15)
To enter into contracts and leases and to execute and deliver all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for the acquisition, construction, and equipping of projects or the leasing of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be acquired, constructed, or equipped; and any and all persons, firms, and corporations and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions, or agencies of the State of Georgia are authorized to enter into contracts, leases, or agreements with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they may deem advisable. The authority is further authorized to make contracts and leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient with the United States of America or any agency or department thereof;
(16)
To exercise each and every power that the county or a city could exercise, under laws existing at the effective date of this Act, over the airport, just as if the authority were the county or a city;
(17)
To exercise all powers of a political subdivision under article 2 of chapter 3 of title 6 of the O.C.G.A., as now or hereafter amended;
(18)
To exercise, but only on the property of any airport or landing field, and on any other property owned or leased by the authority for aviation related purposes, including, but not limited to, land held for noise abatement purposes, the same powers as a development authority is authorized to exercise within the jurisdiction of such a development authority under the provisions of chapter 62 of title 36 of the O.C.G.A., as now or hereafter amended; and
(19)
To exercise all powers that could be exercised by a private business corporation in the operation of a similar enterprise which powers are not in conflict with the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia.
The powers enumerated in each paragraph of this section are cumulative of and in addition to those powers enumerated in the other paragraphs of this section and any other powers elsewhere in this Act or which may reasonably be inferred from the provisions of this Act. This Act shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof and, in interpreting this Act, the courts are not to apply Dillon's Rule.
Sec. 9. - Moneys considered trust funds.
All moneys received pursuant to the authority of this Act, whether as proceeds from the sale of bonds, as grants or other contributions, or as rates, fees, tolls, charges, or other revenues, shall be deemed to be public trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this Act.
Sec. 10. - Execution of bonds, contracts, leases, and other legal instruments.
Any and all contracts, leases, obligations, agreements, or other legal instruments of the authority shall be approved by resolution of the authority and shall be executed by those persons designated in such resolution and, in the absence of such designation, by the chairperson or vice chairperson. Nothing in this section shall prohibit resolutions authorizing the executive director or other officers, agents, or employees from executing such contracts, leases, obligations, agreements, or other legal instruments as the authority may prescribe.
Sec. 11. - Rates, charges, and revenues.
The authority is authorized to prescribe, revise, fix, and collect rates, fees, tolls, and charges for services, facilities, or commodities furnished at any airport, landing field, or other property of the authority, including leases, concessions, franchises, or subleases of or relating to its lands or facilities or any part thereof.
Sec. 12. - Liability limited.
Neither the members of the authority nor any person executing evidences of indebtedness, leases, or other agreements or obligations on behalf of the authority shall be personally liable thereon by reason of such execution.
Sec. 13. - County not bound.
The authority shall have no power or authority to bind the county by any contract, agreement, financial obligation, or indebtedness or otherwise and no contract, agreement, financial obligation, or indebtedness incurred by the authority shall ever be a claim or charge against the county, provided that both the authority and the county shall be bound to each other by contacts, agreements, financial obligations, or indebtedness between themselves.
Sec. 14. - Transfer by the county of airport property and related leases and contracts, etc., to authority.
The county is authorized to, but not required to, lease to the authority for operation any airports, landing fields, or portions thereof or facilities thereat which are owned by the county for such period, upon such terms, and for such rental, which may be nominal, as shall be established by the related lease or leases. The county is also authorized to, but not required to, transfer to the authority title to any airports, landing fields, or portions thereof or facilities thereat owned by the county with or without consideration. Upon the leasing of or the transfer of title to any airport, landing field, or portion thereof or facility thereat to the authority, all contracts, commitments, leases, concession agreements, landing fee agreements, and any other obligations of the county with respect to such airport, landing field, or portion thereof or facility thereat so leased or transferred shall be transferred to and assumed by the authority, and the authority shall stand in the place of the county for the purposes of such contracts, commitments, leases, concession agreements, landing fee agreements, or other obligations, but notwithstanding such assumption, the county's liability thereunder shall not be released and discharged with respect to any bonds of the county relating to such airport, airfield, or portion thereof or facility thereat and the authority shall be primarily liable for the payment thereof and the county shall be secondarily liable for the payment thereof. Upon any such lease of or transfer of title to the authority of any airport, landing field, or portion thereof or facility thereat, those employees of the county assigned to such airport, landing field, or portion thereof or facility thereat may be transferred to the authority. All rights, credits, and funds in any retirement system of the county which, at the time of employment by the authority, are possessed by any employees of the county who become employees of the authority are continued and it is the intent of this Act that any such employees and personnel shall not lose rights, credits, or funds to which they were entitled prior to being employed by the authority. All rights of county employees who are transferred to the authority for accrued vacation time, sick leave, or other compensated absence or for payment with respect thereto shall be continued and the authority shall assume liability therefor, unless by agreement between the county and the authority the county agrees to pay such employees for such accrued vacation time, sick leave, and other compensated absence in accordance with the county's policies relating to payment thereof upon termination of employment by the county of such county employees. The conveyance of any airport, landing field, portion thereof, or facility thereat and the transfer of related contracts, commitments, leases, and any other obligations to the authority pursuant to this section shall be accomplished under such terms and conditions so as to protect such interests and the authority and the county may enter into any agreements with cities within the county or other parties necessary to protect such interests.
Sec. 15. - Oversight.
The board of commissioners of the county shall be authorized, by and through a committee of its own number, or by any one or more persons they may select, to investigate the state and condition of the authority and to inspect its properties and all books and records pertaining to the authority and its affairs, and the authority shall cooperate and assist in such investigations and inspections.
Sec. 16. - Dissolution.
The authority may be dissolved only by local Act of the General Assembly; unless otherwise provided in such local Act, all assets, revenues, and liabilities of the authority shall become, by operation of this provision and without the need for separate conveyances or instruments of assumption, the assets, revenues, and liabilities of the county, subject to any liens, leases, pledges, or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to such assets and revenues at the time of such dissolution, provided that the liabilities of the authority which become liabilities of the county shall be payable by the county only from the same moneys and investment securities, pledged funds, and accounts and sources of revenues from which they were payable by the authority prior to such dissolution.
Sec. 17. - Severability.
Should any sentence, clause, phrase, or part of this Act be declared for any reason to be unconstitutional or invalid, the same shall not affect such remainder of this Act or any part hereof other than the part so held to be invalid, but the remaining provisions of this Act shall remain in full force and effect, and it is the express intention of the General Assembly to enact each provision of this Act independently of any other provision hereof.
Sec. 18. - Construction.
This Act shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof, and, in interpreting this Act, the courts are not to apply Dillon's Rule. Nothing in this Act shall be construed to abridge or change the powers and duties of the county, of the state, or any authorities, departments, boards, agencies, instrumentalities, or political subdivisions.
Sec. 19. - Effective date.
Notwithstanding the provisions of code section 1-3-4.1 [O.C.G.A. § 1-3-4.1] this Act shall become effective upon its approval by the governor or upon its becoming law without such approval.
