Chapter 34 - COURTS

Sec. 34.01 - Additional judge of superior court added.
(A)
Under and in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the State of Georgia, one additional judge of the Superior Court for the Pataula Judicial Circuit of Georgia is added, thereby increasing to two the number of the judges of the Superior Court for the Pataula Judicial Circuit.
(B)
The additional judge shall be appointed by the Governor for a term of office beginning on the first Monday following the date of his or her appointment and continuing through December 31, 1982, and until his or her successor is elected and qualified. The judge shall be appointed by the Governor within 30 days after the effective date of this Act. His or her successor shall be elected in a manner provided by law for the election of judges of the Superior Courts of this state at the general election in November 1982, for a term of four years beginning on the first day of January 1983, and until his or her successor is elected and qualified. Future successors shall be elected at the general election each four years thereafter for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified. They shall take office on the first day of January following the date of the election. Such elections shall be held and conducted in the manner provided by law for the election of judges of the Superior Courts of this state.
(C)
The additional judge of the Superior Court for the Pataula Judicial Circuit of Georgia shall have and may exercise all powers, duties, jurisdiction, privileges and immunities of a judge of the court.
(D)
The compensation, salary and allowances of the additional judge of the Superior Court for the Pataula Judicial Circuit of Georgia from the State of Georgia shall be the same as that of other judges of the Superior Courts of Georgia.
(E)
Upon and after qualification of the additional judge of the Superior Court for the Pataula Judicial Circuit of Georgia, the two judges of the court may adopt, promulgate, amend and enforce such rules of practice and procedure in consonance with the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia as they deem suitable and proper for the effective transaction of the business of the court, and in transacting the business of the court and in performing their duties and responsibilities, they shall share, divide and allocate the work and duties to be performed by each. In the event of disagreement among the judges in respect hereof, the decision of the senior judge in point of service shall be controlling.
(F)
The judge of the court, senior in term of continuous service, shall be the presiding judge of the court, in whom is to vest the power to make all appointments whenever the law provides for the Superior Court Judge to make appointments.
(G)
All writs, processes, orders, subpoenas and any other official paper issuing out of the Superior Court for the Pataula Judicial Circuit may bear test in the name of any judge of the Pataula Judicial Circuit and, when issued by and in the name of any judge of the circuit, shall be fully valid and may be heard and determined before the same or any other judge of said circuit. Any judge of the court may preside over any cause therein and perform any official act as judge thereof.
(H)
Nothing enumerated in this section shall be deemed to limit or restrict the inherent powers, duties and responsibilities of Superior Court Judges provided by the Constitution and Statutes of the State of Georgia.
(I)
This section shall become effective upon its approval by the Governor or upon its becoming law without his or her approval.
(J)
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this section are repealed.
(Res. of 3-25-1981)
