Chapter 154 - ZONING CODE
DIVISION 1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 154.001 - Title and objectives.
This chapter shall be known as the Zoning Ordinance of Clay County, Georgia, for the purpose of setting forth standards and permissible uses designated to conserve and protect the natural, economic and scenic resources of Clay County; to secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers; to promote health, aesthetics, convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to promote desirable living conditions and stability of neighborhoods; and to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, public and private sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements by regulating the uses of the land. This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Zoning Ordinance of Clay County, Georgia.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.002 - Legislative authority.
Whereas, counties of the State of Georgia are authorized by the 1983 Georgia State Constitution, Article 9, Section 2, Paragraph 4, and O.C.G.A. §§ 36-66-1 et seq. to exercise the powers of planning and zoning; and it has been determined by the Board of Commissioners of Clay County, Georgia that it is necessary and desirable to adopt zoning regulations under the authority of the above cited constitutional and statutory provisions.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.003 - Method of regulation.
Now therefore be it resolved that the Board of Commissioners of Clay County, Georgia, as authorized by the Constitution of the State of Georgia has created a planning commission known as the Clay County Planning Commission and does adopt zoning regulations for the following purposes: to define certain words used therein; to create zone boundaries; to regulate the location of trades, professions, businesses and industries; to regulate the density in distribution of population; to provide for the gradual elimination of nonconforming uses of land, buildings and structures; to define and limit the powers and duties of the Planning Commission; to provide a method for administration, amendment and enforcement; to provide for the imposition of penalties for violations; repeal conflicting ordinances and resolutions; and for other purposes.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.004 - Jurisdiction.
This chapter shall govern the use of all land and development therein and within the unincorporated limits of Clay County, Georgia in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 36-70-2.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.005 - Word usage.
For the purpose of this chapter, certain words or terms used herein are interpreted as follows.
(A)
Words used in the present tense include the future tense. Words used in the singular include the plural, and words in the plural include the singular.
(B)
The word "shall" is always mandatory.
(C)
The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization, trust company or corporation as well as an individual.
(D)
The word "lot" includes the words plot or parcel.
(E)
The word "building" includes the word structure.
(F)
The words "used" and "occupied," as applied to any land or buildings, shall be construed to include the words "intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied."
(G)
The words "map" and zoning map" means the Official Zoning Map of Clay County.
(H)
The words "governing body" refer to the Clay County Board of Commissioners.
(I)
The words "Planning Commission" refer to the Clay County Planning Commission.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.006 - Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Terms not herein defined shall have their customary dictionary definitions where not inconsistent with the context.
Accessory building or use. A subordinate building or use customarily incidental to and located on the same lot with the main building or use, such as a garage, workshop and the like. An accessory use shall not include any uses injurious or offensive to the neighborhood.
Agriculture or agricultural. The bona fide use of a parcel of land of five acres or more for the cultivation of land, raising of poultry or livestock or similar agrarian activity (to include tree farms) for gain or profit and the related buildings, structures and appurtenances necessary to carry out the aforementioned activities.
Airfield. Any area of land or water utilized for the landing and taking off of aircraft.
Airport. Any area of land or water designed and set aside for the landing and taking off of aircraft and utilized or to be utilized in the public interest for such purposes. An airport shall include all runways, terminal buildings, hangers and related facilities located on the airport premises.
Alley. A private or public thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of access to a building or property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
Apartment building. A multi-family dwelling located on a parcel of land under a single ownership designed for use by four or more housekeeping units living independently of each other and doing their own cooking on the premises.
Aquifer. Any stratum (rock layer) or zone of rock beneath the surface of the earth capable of containing or producing water from a dug well.
Automobile sales lot. An open premises arranged, designed or used for storage and display for sale of any motor vehicle or any type of trailer.
Bed and breakfast. A dwelling unit in which room(s) or lodging unit (or units) and continental breakfast service only is provided to guest clients, for lengths of stay ranging from one night to seasonal, by owner of the principal structure.
Boarding house. A dwelling in which lodging and meals are furnished for consideration for four or more but not exceeding nine guests. Such dwelling shall contain no more than five guest rooms.
Building. Any structure, either temporary or permanent, above or below ground, having a roof or other covering and designed, built or used as a shelter or enclosure for persons, animals or property of any kind, including tents or awnings used for purposes of a building.
Building line. A line beyond which the foundation wall and/or any roofed porch, vestibule or other such portion of a building shall not project.
Building, principal. A building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which the structure is situated.
Buffer. A buffer is a strip of land which separates two or more zoning districts by the use of shrubs and trees which will form an opaque barrier of a prescribed width and be at least six feet in height within three years of planting.
Care home. A rest home, nursing home, convalescent home, home for the aged or similar use established and operated on a profit or non-profit basis to provide lodging and/or meals and/or care for the aged, infirm, chronically ill or convalescent persons. The term "care home" shall include the term "extended care facility," as defined by Georgia law.
Caretaker or employee residence. An accessory residence (including mobile homes) placed on an occupied tract for use by a bona fide caretaker, employee or the owner himself or herself.
Church, club or lodge. Building in which organized religious, fraternal, social or educational meetings are conducted on a regular non-profit basis. Fraternal organizations must show that they have received recognition and sanction from a parent group or organization. A private club must show that its membership is limited by either:
(1)
The use and operation of an amateur athletic facility, including but not limited to golf courses, tennis courts, shooting ranges and/or swimming pools; or
(2)
Residency in a particular subdivision, condominium, apartment project or other residential development.
Commercial outdoor recreation development (CORD). A development of at least five acres or more that is a commercial enterprise that encompasses active and/or passive outdoor recreational activities. A CORD District may be located in any zoning district with prior approval by the Clay County Board of Commissioners.
Comprehensive plan. A composite of the joint Clay County/Cities of Fort Gaines and Bluffton Comprehensive Plan, all accompanying maps, charts and explanatory materials, together with all amendments thereto, adopted by the Clay County Planning Committee and the Clay County Board of Commissioners, as well as each municipal government.
Conditional use. Is a use which is not automatically permitted inherently but which may be permitted within a zoning district subject to meeting specific conditions contained in this regulation or required by the Clay County Board of Commissioners. Public notification procedures described in § 154.131 shall be followed for all conditional use permits.
Condominium. A building or complex of multiple-unit dwellings in which a tenant holds full title to his or her unit and joint ownership in common grounds.
Day care center. An establishment which provides care and education for six or more children from infancy, opened for the major portion of the day or night and in which meals are served.
District. Any section or sections of the county for which the regulations governing the use of land and the use, density, bulk, height and coverage of buildings and other structures are uniform.
Drive-in. A retail or service enterprise wherein service is provided to the consumer on the outside and/or inside of the principal building. The term "drive-in" includes drive-in restaurants and dairy bars, theaters, banks, laundries, food stores and/or car washes.
Duplex. Two dwelling units, each of which is attached side to side, each one sharing only one common wall with the other; also referred to as duplex when placed on a single lot or a townhouse when each is on a lot.
Dwelling attached. Three or more adjoining dwelling units, each of which is separated from the others by one or more unpierced walls from ground to roof; also referred to as a townhouse.
Dwelling, multi-family. A dwelling unit contained in a building composed of three or more dwelling units. Also referred to as an apartment.
Dwelling, single-family detached. A dwelling designed for and occupied by not more than one family and having no roof, wall or floor in common with any other dwelling unit.
Dwelling unit. A building or portion thereof arranged or designed for occupancy by not more than one family for living purposes and having cooking, sleeping and sanitary facilities.
Easement. A grant to a person or to the public by a property owner of a strip of his or her land for road right-of-way or other specified purposes.
Equestrian center. A tract of land of 25 acres or more on which more than four adult horses are kept for the purpose of training, boarding, sale or breeding or where instruction pertaining to the same is given for a fee. For the purposes of this chapter, this term also included facilities for riding trails and rings, shows, competitive equestrian events and riding lessons.
Family. One or more persons permanently occupying a single dwelling unit, provided that unless all members are related by blood, marriage or adoption, and including foster children (as that term is defined under Georgia law) no such family shall contain over five persons, but further provided that domestic servants employed on the premises may be housed on the premises or in an accessory building.
Farm. A parcel of land 25 acres or more on which bona fide agricultural and related uses are conducted as specified in agricultural.
Flea market. A building or open area in which stalls or sales areas are set aside and rented or otherwise provided and which is intended for use by various unrelated individuals to sell articles that are either homemade, homegrown, hand-crafted, old, obsolete or antique and may include the selling of goods at retail by businesses or individuals who are generally engaged in retail trade.
Floating zone. A zoning technique under which the county adopts a zoning district in the text of the zoning ordinance but is not placed on the Official Zoning Map. The county reserves the mapping decision until a developer makes an application to have the floating zone applied to his or her property. Each floating zone will have density and site development standards.
Floodplain. Floodplains may be either riverine or inland depressional areas. Riverine floodplains are those areas contiguous with a lake, stream or stream bed whose elevation is greater than the normal flowing water or water pool elevation but equal to or lower than the projected 100-year (1% annual probability) flood elevation. Inland depressional floodplains are floodplains not associated with a stream system but which are low points to which surrounding lands drain.
Garage, repair. Building and premises designed or used for the purpose of service and/or major commercial repair of motor vehicles, provided that the body work and painting shall be conducted within fully enclosed buildings, and provided further that the storage of junk, wrecked vehicles, dismantled parts or supplies shall not be visible beyond the premises.
Garage sale (includesyard sale, rummage sale). The sale or offering for sale to the general public of over five items of personal property on any portion of a lot in a residential zoning district, whether within or outside any building. Sales of programs and food and beverage items at school athletic events shall not be deemed to constitute a garage sale.
Groundwater recharge area. The land area where the water that eventually seeps down into an aquifer first enters the ground as mapped on the Most Significant Groundwater Recharge Area of Georgia and the Georgia Pollution Susceptibility Map.
Group home. A dwelling unit which is used to provide assisted community living for persons with physical, mental, emotional, familiar or social difficulties. A group home must comply with all state and federal regulations applying to such facilities.
Governmental landfills and/or waste disposal facilities. Any landfill or other type waste disposal facility to include, but not be limited to, an incinerator, which is owned or operated by any county, municipality or other governmental agency, entity or authority not located within the corporate limits of Clay County, Georgia.
Hazardous waste. Any waste product which has been defined as a hazardous waste in regulations, promulgated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to the federal act, which are in force and effect on February 1, 1988, codified as 40 C.F.R. 261.3.
Hazardous waste disposal facility. All structures, other appurtenances and improvements on the land used for treating, storing or disposing of hazardous waste, including all operations or storage areas, diked overflow or emergency spillway areas. A hazardous waste disposal facility may consist of several treatment, storage or disposal operational units; it includes all areas where hazardous waste may be received, stored, handled or processed.
Home occupation. An occupation or profession conducted entirely within a dwelling and which is carried on by an occupant thereof and no more than three nonresidents and which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential dwelling purposes. There is no access by the public. A HOME OCCUPATION is designed to be less restrictive than a home office but more restrictive than a residential business in regard to access by the public, size, visibility, number of employees and types of business.
Home office. An office use conducted entirely within a dwelling which is carried on by the occupant thereof and no other individual, and which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential dwelling purposes. The office may be for the purpose of service or trade workers who customarily work at various locations, such as electricians, plumbers, appraisers, real estate salespersons or individuals who work at home, such as writers or computer programmers. There will be no changes which would alter the character of the dwelling or reveal from the exterior that the dwelling is being used in part for other than residential purposes. The office will be restricted to no more than two rooms of the dwelling and cannot exceed more than 600 square feet in area. Such office uses shall be limited to routine office clerical or bookkeeping procedures which can be conducted within a residence. Home office shall not include any business which involves the sale, manufacture or repair of merchandise on the premises. HOME OFFICES shall also include any business requiring access by the public, including, but not limited to customers, clients or vendors. No outside storage or display, including signs, is permitted and no one other than family members who reside on the premises may be employed in the office.
Hospitals. Any institution receiving in-patients and rendering medical care, including those wherein mentally retarded, mentally disturbed, epileptic, alcoholic, drug addicted, chronically ill and physically handicapped patients are treated or cared for.
Hotel. Any building containing principally sleeping rooms in which transient guests are lodged, with or without meals, with no provision made for cooking in any individual room or suite. For structural and safety purposes, such buildings must conform to state laws regulating hotels.
Industrial park. A tract of land subdivided and developed according to a Comprehensive Development Plan in a manner that provides a park-like setting for industrial establishments.
Industrialized building. Any structure or component thereof which is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed or assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly an installation on a building site and has been manufactured in such a manner that all parts or processes cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to or destruction thereof and bearing the approved insignia of the Commissioner of Community Affairs, Georgia Department of Community Affairs.
Junkyard. The use of any space whether inside or outside a building for the storage, keeping, salvage and/or sale of junk, scrap metals or other scrap materials, including dismantling, demolition or abandonment of one or more automobiles or other vehicles or machinery or parts thereof.
Kennel, commercial. Any place in or at which more than four adult dogs (or cats) are kept for the purpose of sale, boarding, care, breeding or training and for which any fee is charged.
Laboratory. An establishment or premises where scientific services are provided, including testing or analysis of medical, chemical, physical, mechanical, electric or electronic nature or the calibration of instruments.
Land application waste disposal facilities. Any facility at which pollutants are applied to the surface or beneath the surface of a parcel of land and which creates the opportunity for such pollutants to percolate, infiltrate or be absorbed into soil and/or into the waters of Clay County, Georgia.
Lot. A portion of a subdivision or any other parcel of land intended as a unit for transfer or ownership or lease to or separate use of another or for development. The word "lot" includes, but is not limited to, the words plot or parcel.
Lot area. The horizontal area contained within the boundary lines of a lot.
Lot, corner. A lot abutting two or more streets at their intersection.
Lot depth. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines, measured in the general direction of the side lot lines.
Lot, double frontage. A lot, other than a corner lot, which has frontage on more than one street.
Lot frontage. Lot width measured at the street lot line(s), being the length of the property line of any one premises along each legally accessible public right-of-way it borders.
Lot line. A line bounding a lot which divides one lot from another or from a street or any other public or private space.
Lot line, front. That lot line along which the lot takes primary access to a street.
Lot line, rear. That lot line which is parallel to and most distant from the front lot line of a lot or, in the case of an irregular lot, a line 20 feet in length, entirely within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum possible distance from, the front lot line.
Lot line, side. Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line.
Lot of record. Any validly recorded lot which at the time of its recordation complied with all applicable laws, ordinances and regulations.
Lot width. The mean horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured parallel to the front and rear lot lines at the building line. In the case of only one side lot line, lot width shall be measured between such lot line and the opposite lot line or future right-of-way line.
Manufactured home. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without permanent foundation, when connected to the required utilities, and includes plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained therein. Manufactured homes are constructed to the Federal Manufacture Home Construction Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 5401 et seq.
Mobile home. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning and electrical systems contained therein and manufactured prior to June 15, 1976.
Modular home. A factory fabricated transportable building consisting of units designed to be incorporated at a building site on a permanent foundation into a permanent structure to be used for residential purposes and which bears a seal of compliance with regulations of the Southern Building Code Congress International, the Georgia Industrial Building Act or the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act, as amended.
Motel. A building or group of buildings containing guest rooms and having a separate outside entrance for each guest room. To be used primarily for automobile transients and including such terms as auto court and motor lodge but not boarding house, as defined in this section.
Nonconforming use. Any building, structure or use of land which lawfully exists at the time of adoption of this chapter and which does not conform to the regulations of the zoning district in which it is located.
Occupy. To use land or buildings for any length or time for a purpose for which the land or a building or part thereof is used or is intended to be used. Any variation of the term "occupy" shall be encompassed by this definition.
Park, community. A parcel of land owned by a unit of government or a private organization used or intended to be used for recreational or leisure time activities. Such parks may include food and/or recreational sales and accessory uses.
Planned unit development (PUD). A large, unified development of ten acres or more adhering to a comprehensive development plan and located on a single tract of land, or on two or more tracts of land which may be separated only by a street or other right-of-way, whose approval would serve to implement the plans of Clay County (see § 154.059).
Plat. A sketch, map or survey of a lot, tract or parcel of land, including lot lines, street rights-of-way and easements with the dimensions of these features inscribed thereon.
Plat development. A preliminary design which shows the proposed layout of a subdivision in sufficient detail to indicate its workability and conformation to the design requirements of the subdivision regulations in all aspects but is not final in form for recording and the details are not completely computed. The development plat shall be approved by the Planning Commission prior to any development.
Plat, final. A finished drawing of a subdivision showing completely and accurately all legal and engineering information and certification necessary. The streets shown on the plat shall be approved by the Planning Commission and the Clay County Board of Commissioners prior to recording.
Pollution susceptibility. The relative vulnerability of groundwater to pollution from chemical spills, leaching of pollutants from dump sites, animal waste from agricultural operations or pollution generated by other human activities.
Pollution susceptibility map(s). Maps prepared by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources (DNR) that show the relative susceptibility of groundwater to pollution. Pollution susceptibility maps categorize the land areas of the state into areas of high, medium and low groundwater pollution potential.
Public utility or utilities. A service or services provided by a public utility company or a private entity which provides such service or services and all equipment and structures necessary to provide such services.
Public way. A street or road which has been dedicated for public use by deed, plat and/or prescription.
Residence. A building containing only dwelling units and which meets all the applicable requirements of the Standard Building Code for conventional construction. The term "residence" or any combination thereof shall not be deemed to include hotel, boarding house, rooming house, motel or other accommodations used for transient occupancy and shall not for the purpose of this chapter include mobile home, manufactured home or modular home.
Residential business. An occupation or profession conducted within a dwelling, and which is carried on by an occupant thereof and no more than five nonresidents and which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential dwelling purposes. The business may require access by the public. The residential business is designed to be less restrictive than a home office or home occupation but more restrictive than a rural business in regard to access by the public, size visibility, number of employees and types of business.
Restaurant. An establishment however designated at which food is sold for consumption on the premises. However, a snack bar or refreshment stand at a public or non-profit community swimming pool, playground, park or marina operated solely for the convenience of patrons of the facility shall not be deemed a restaurant.
Right-of-way. Access over or across particularly described property for a specific purpose or purposes.
Right-of-way line. The outside boundary of a right-of-way, whether such right-of-way be established by usage, recorded easement, deed, dedication or by the official right-of-way map of Clay County.
Road. See definition of Street, highway, road.
Rural business. An occupation or profession conducted within a dwelling, an accessory structure or outside and which is carried on by a resident of that property and which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the property for residential dwelling purposes. The rural business is designed to be less restrictive than the home office, home occupation or residential business in regard to access by the public, size, visibility, number of employees and types of business.
Setback. The minimum horizontal distance between the right-of-way line, rear or side lines of the lot and the front, rear or side lines of the building. The term "required setback" means a line beyond which a building is not permitted to extend under the provisions of this chapter establishing minimum depth and widths of yard.
Sewage sludge (biosolids) land application and disposal facilities. Any tract of land or facility at which solid, semisolid or liquid residue generated during the treatment of domestic sewage, industrial wastewater or a combination of domestic sewage and industrial wastewater is sprayed, deposited, spread, injected or applied upon or beneath the land's surface or otherwise applied to land. Sewage sludge includes, but is not limited to, scum or solids removed in primary, secondary or advanced wastewater treated processes conducted by any governmental or private wastewater treatment facility.
Shopping center. A group of commercial establishments planned, developed and owned or managed as a unit with on-site parking and of similar architectural characteristics.
Sign, off-premises. Any outdoor sign, notice or advertising device used to advertise, announce or promote a business, professional, commercial or industrial enterprise or undertaking which is located and which is operated at a site other than the premises upon which the sign is located. Such signs shall be permitted upon a standard sign and then only in zones in which such are allowed by this chapter.
Sign, on-premises. Any outdoor sign, notice or advertising device used primarily to direct attention to a business, professional, commercial or industrial enterprise or undertaking being conducted upon the premises on which such sign is located. Such signs shall not exceed 200 square feet per sign face.
Sign, public or semi-public directional, off-premises. A sign which directs attention to a public or semi-public activity, such as a school, church, fraternal organization or the like. Such signs shall not exceed ten square feet in area.
Sign, standard. A sign which does not exceed five feet in face height and is no more than ten feet in face width, supported by metal tubing posts of the type specified by the latest edition of the Standard Building Code or other approval material. Any such sign shall be constructed with 20-gauge sheet metal, wood or plastic, painted on each side, the trim of which may be of treated wood.
Significant groundwater recharge areas. Areas mapped by DNR in Hydrologic Atlas 18 (1989 edition). Mapping of recharge areas is based on outcrop area, lithology (chemical nature and form of the rock), soil type and thickness, slope, density of lithologic contracts, geologic structure, presence of karst topography (sinkholes, caves and fissures associated with limestone and other carbonate rocks) and potentiometric surfaces.
Slow rate land treatment system. A system for wastewater treatment by spray irrigation (land application). The term refers to the advanced treatment of wastewater by irrigation onto support vegetative growth. When properly sited, designed and operated as defined by state and local regulations, there is no direct discharge to surfaced waters. The irrigated wastewater evaporates and transpires to the atmosphere or enters the groundwater through percolation. Organic constituents in the wastewater are stabilized by soil bacteria, lost to the atmosphere through denitrification and leached into the groundwater. Phosphorus and other constituents are absorbed in the soil profile and taken up by plants. Properly sited, designed and operated irrigation systems produce a percolate water of high quality and thus protect ground and surface water resources. For purposes of this chapter, the use may include ponds (lagoons) for the temporary storage of the treated wastewater before application to the spray fields. The treated wastewater stored in the lagoons must have been treated to a level that could be sprayed without further treatment. These ponds shall have liners to prevent seepage. This land use is permitted only with the approval of the Clay County Board of Commissioners after a recommendation by the Planning Commission.
Steep slopes. All land that has a slope of 20% or greater for at least 500 feet apart as shown on a United States Geologic Survey (USGS) Quadrangle Map.
Street. A public or dedicated thoroughfare or a private right-of-way or easement shown on a recorded plat and which has been approved by the Planning Commission.
Street, centerline. That line surveyed and monumented or accepted by Clay County as the centerline of the street; or in the event no centerline has been so determined, that line running midway between and generally parallel to the direction of the outside right-of-way lines of the street.
Street, connector. A street supplementary to the major state and U.S. highway systems running throughout the country and primarily a means of interconnectivity between this system and smaller areas.
Street, cul-de-sac. A short street designed to have one end permanently closed. The closed end terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
Street, dead-end. A street having no outlet at one end.
Street, highway, road. A road or street that forms a part of the existing or projected Federal Aid Highway System or the State or County Highway System.
Structure. Anything constructed or erected that requires location on the ground or attached to something having a location on the ground, to include, among other things, buildings, towers, monuments and statues; but not to include telephone and other utilities, poles, overhead wires, retaining walls and terrace walls, wire fences and any other thing less than three feet in height.
Subdivision. Division of a tract or parcel of land into five or more lots, building sites, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, lease, rent or building development, including all divisions of land involving a new street or a change in existing streets. The term "subdivision" does not apply to the division of land into parcels of five or more where no new street is involved. All subdivisions are to be divided and developed in accordance with the subdivision regulations of Clay County, Georgia.
Townhouse. Residential structures containing three or more attached single-family units designed as a single structure having common or party walls. Each unit shall have its own front door which opens to the outdoors and the units shall have one or two floors but without access between adjoining units.
Travel trailer. A vehicular portable structure not over eight feet by 35 feet and designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation uses which may or may not have kitchen equipment, toilet, lavatory and bathing facilities, but if such facilities are included, a sewage holding tank for sanitary waste is required. Any vehicle designed or converted to a design with plumbing connections for attachment to outside sewage systems shall not be included in this definition.
Travel trailer park. A parcel of land which has been planned and developed to accommodate two or more travel trailers, tents or other camping units for temporary occupancy of not over 60-days' duration.
Use. The specific purpose for which the land or building is designed, arranged, intended or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained. The term "permitted use" or its equivalent shall not be deemed to include any nonconforming use.
Use, principal. The primary purpose for which a lot or building is designed, arranged, intended, occupied or maintained.
Use temporary. Any use established, for a fixed period of time, without construction or alteration of a permanent structure, with the intent to discontinue such use upon expiration of such time.
Variance. A modification of the strict terms of zoning regulation granted by the Clay County Planning Commission where such modifcation will not be contrary to the public interest, and where, owing to conditions unique to the individual property on which the variance is sought and not as a result of any action on the part of the property owner, a literal enforcement of this chapter would result in unnecessary and undue hardship; provided, however, that no variance shall be granted which shall authorize a land use not otherwise permitted in a particular district.
Vehicle. Any device or contrivance for carrying or conveying persons or objects, the device being designed to be self-propelled by its own motor or power.
Water system, community. A potable water supply and treatment system other than an individual public water system serving more than one building, residence or other facility designed or used for human occupancy or congregation. The system is one which is owned by a person or legal unit other than a unit of government.
Water system, individual. A potable water system other than a community or public water system serving a single building, residence or other facility designed or used for human occupancy or congregation.
Water system, public. A potable water supply and treatment system other than individual or community water systems owned by a unit of government.
Wetland. An area of one acre or more where standing water is retained for a portion of the year and unique vegetation has adapted to the area; as mapped by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
Wireless communications. Any personal wireless service as defined in the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which includes FCC licensed commercial wireless communications services (PCS), enhanced specialized mobile radio (ESMR), private mobile radio (PRMR) paging and similar services that currently exist or that may in the future be developed.
Wireless communication tower. A structured designed and constructed specifically to support an antenna array and may include a monopole, self-supporting (lattice) tower, guy-wire support tower and other similar structures. Tower structures shall be designed to accommodate a minimum of three antenna arrays.
Yard. A required open space on the same lot with a principal building and which is unoccupied and unobstructed by buildings or structures from the ground to the sky, except where encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly permitted.
Yard, front. The full width of the lot between the street right-of-way and the front building line.
Yard, rear. The full width of the lot between the rear line of the lot and the rear building line.
Yard, side. The space between the building and the side line of the lot exclusive of front and rear yard.
Zoning condition. Any stipulation made by the County Commission as a zoning decision affecting property which imposes a requirement on the use or development of property which is different from the use or development regulations set forth in the zoning district to which the property is being rezoned. By way of example, but not as a limitation, such zoning conditions may relate to the use, density, construction materials, architectural style and design, location of structures and buffer area.
Zoning decision. Final action by the Clay County Board of Commissioners which result in:
(1)
The adoption of a zoning ordinance;
(2)
The adoption of an amendment to a zoning ordinance which changes the text of the zoning ordinance;
(3)
The adoption of an amendment to the zoning ordinance which rezones property from one zoning district to another; or
(4)
The approval of a conditional use.
Zoning official. The official or other designated authority charged by the Clay County Board of Commissioners with administration and enforcement of this chapter or his or her duly appointed representative.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
DIVISION 2. - ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS

Sec. 154.020 - District designations.
(A)
Clay County, Georgia is hereby divided into the following zoning districts:
A-1 General Agriculture and Forestry District
R-R Rural Residential
R-1 Residential
C-1 Commercial District
I-1 Industrial District
(B)
In addition, the following designations will be utilized as floating zones:
CORD Commercial Outdoor Recreation District
MHU-1 Manufactured Housing Unit District-Parks
PUD Planned Unit Development
(C)
Overlay zones:
Natural Resource Conservation
Wetland Protection
Groundwater Recharge Protection Area
River Corridor Protection Plan
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.021 - Official zoning maps.
The boundaries of these districts are established as shown in the map entitled The Zoning Map of Clay County, Georgia. The map shall also be identified by the signature of the Clerk and the Board of Commissioners and the date and adoption of this chapter. The Zoning Map and all explanatory matters thereon are adopted and made a part of this chapter. The documents are made a public record and shall be kept in the office of the County Commissioners.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.022 - Map amendments.
(A)
In accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes may be made in the district boundaries or other information portrayed on the Official Zoning Map by the official action of the Board of Commissioners. Such changes shall be made on the Official Zoning Map promptly, together with a numerical entry on the Official Zoning Map referring to the application and other records on file which state the date of the official action and description of the nature of the changes.
(B)
No changes of any nature shall be made to the Official Zoning Map or matters shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures set forth in this chapter. Any unauthorized change of whatever kind by any person shall be considered a violation of this chapter and is punishable as provided by law in this chapter.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.023 - Interpretation of district boundaries.
Unless otherwise specified, district boundary lines shall be property or lot lines, the center lines of streets, or such lines extended, a line midway between the main tracks of the railroad, a line lying in the center of a stream or drainage way or the county line of Clay County, Georgia. Such lines drawn or to appear on these lines are to be considered thereon. Where a district boundary line divides a lot which was in single ownership at the time of adoption of this chapter, the Planning Commission may permit, as a conditional use, the extension of the regulations for either portion of the lot to exceed 50 feet beyond the district line into the remaining portion of the lot.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.024 - Conformity.
No building or land shall be used or occupied except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter herein specified for the district in which it is located from the date of the enactment of this chapter. No owner of any lot located within this county shall subdivide said lot such that remaining lots would have an area less than that required under the applicable zoning district requirements. (See §§ 154.075 et seq.)
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
DIVISION 3. - ZONING CLASSIFICATIONS

Sec. 154.035 - General.
The following sections define the purpose and intent of the zoning districts established by this chapter. Uses specified in this section are simply examples. Specific uses allowed in each district are defined in §§ 154.055 et seq.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.036 - A-1 General Agriculture and Forestry District.
(A)
The Agricultural District is established to maintain those areas with land characteristics, such as soil moisture, temperature and content suitable for farming, dairying, forestry operations and other agricultural activities; to protect land used or needed for food production and other agricultural uses from encroachment by untimely and unplanned residential, commercial or industrial development; to permit the continuation of agricultural uses in areas where development is anticipated, but where the present application of zoning controls for future, more intensive uses would be unreasonable and premature; to prevent the subdivision of land for residential development that requires public services such as paved roads, water and sanitary sewer; and to preserve the rural, open space character of certain areas.
(B)
No new A-1 Agriculture and Forestry District may be created which contains less than 25 acres.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.037 - Rural Residential District.
The Rural Residential District is composed of open land areas and forest lands located on non-prime agricultural soils where a more intensive use of land is unlikely to occur in the near future. This district is intended to preserve lands best suited for large parcel residential uses and preserve land stilted to the eventual economical and practical provisions of streets, utilities, schools and other facilities in the development of the county.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.038 - R-1 Residential District.
The Residential District is established for more concentrated medium-to-higher density residential areas of the county, specifically those in the vicinity of Lake Walter F. George and the City of Fort Gaines. These areas are intended to be geographically defined and protected from the encroachment of uses not performing a function necessary to a residential environment. Certain nonresidential uses that are more compatible with residential uses may be permitted on review of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.039 - C-1 Commercial District.
The Commercial District is established to provide suitable areas for a broad range of retail, wholesale and service uses. General compatibility with abutting different uses is required; this may be achieved through buffering, screening and/or development plan review. Development in this district should be located on major thoroughfares (highways), arterial streets or collector streets and the associated street network. The location and development of commercial activities shall be encouraged so as to minimize traffic hazards and interference with adjacent uses.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.040 - I-1 Industrial District.
(A)
The Industrial District is established to provide areas for the development of industrial and assembly plants and their related activities. It is also the intent of this District that noise, odor, dust and glare associated with uses permitted in this District be confined as much as possible. It is also the intent of this District that traffic generated by uses permitted, including raw materials, finished products and employees be minimal but that transportation facilities and routes be easily accessible. Development in these Districts should be served by sanitary sewer or have provision for on-site disposal.
(B)
No new I-1 Industrial Districts may be created which contain less than five acres.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.041 - CORD Commercial Outdoor Recreation Development District.
This district is a floating zone. The CORD District is established to provide areas for commercial recreational facilities and activities. This does not include seasonal hunting rights between consenting parties. CORDS may be located in any district subject to approval by the Clay County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.042 - MHU-1 Manufactured Housing Unit District-Parks.
The Manufactured Housing Unit District-Parks is established to provide areas within the county for the placement of manufactured housing units in parks which are designed for the placement of manufactured housing units. The specific intent of this District is to require adequate space and facilities for healthful living conditions; to require all such Districts to have access to a major arterial county road for easy accessibility; to insure suitable water and sewer facilities are provided according to health regulations and statutes of the State of Georgia and the County Commission; and to encourage the development of manufactured home parks for long term residential use rather than transient travel trailer use.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.043 - PUD Planned Unit Development District.
Planned Unit Development District is a method of development which permits a tract of land to be developed as one lot, rather than separate lots. The technique is used to encourage coordinated development; to permit higher densities in conjunction with functional open space; and to promote efficient use of existing natural landscape features and to be developed in compliance with an approved development plan.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
DIVISION 4. - DISTRICT REGULATIONS

Sec. 154.055 - Uses permitted.
No building or structure shall hereafter be erected and no existing building or structure or any part thereof shall be reconstructed or moved, nor shall any land, structure or building be used or altered except in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.056 - Conditional uses permitted in all districts with review.
There shall be permitted in all districts the following conditional uses only after site plan review by the Planning Commission, specifics for which include the submission of an overall development scheme stating the development intentions of the landowner, including but not limited to the following: a statement of location and intensity of proposed use(s) and activity(ies), a physical description of proposed facilities accommodating such uses and a general location of public utilities:
(A)
Public buildings of a government nature, including libraries;
(B)
Public utilities, not otherwise specified, including power and gas substations, communication systems and pumping stations;
(C)
Customary home occupations/offices;
(D)
Semi-public buildings and uses, including private schools and churches;
(E)
Public and private school buildings and associated uses, vocational schools, research and training facilities;
(F)
Public recreational facilities, including parks, playgrounds, stadiums and the like;
(G)
General hospitals, including nursing homes, group homes and personal care homes;
(H)
Day care centers, nurseries and kindergartens.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.057 - District regulations.
The following contains specific regulations for each district, including uses permitted, uses prohibited, required lot area, density limitations, setbacks and height limitations. All lands, buildings and structures shall be developed in accordance with the zoning district regulations and use regulations applicable to the zoning district in which such land, buildings and structures are located. Any development of land not in accordance with that permitted under this chapter shall be prohibited.
EXPAND
Area Requirements
Districts
A-1 R-R R-1 C-1 I-1
Minimum lot size 5 acres 2 acres 1.5 acres*** 1 acre 5 acres
Minimum lot area per dwelling unit 5 acres 2 acres 1.5 acres*** N/A N/A
Minimum lot width in feet 150 150 100 75 100
Front yard setback (feet) 75 50 50 20 75
A-1 R-R R-1 C-1 I-1
Rear yard setback (feet) 75 25 25 20** 75**
Side yard setback (feet) 50 10 10 0* 40*
Street side yard setback (feet)
Major road 50 40 40 20 75
Minor road 35 35 35 20 75
Maximum building area (%) 25% 2% 33% 50% 50%
Maximum building height (feet) 120 35 35 35 35
* A side yard setback of 25 feet shall be required where a side yard abuts a residential district. A minimum of 20 feet of setback shall be planted with a buffer strip of shrubs and trees.
** A minimum of 5 feet required setback must be planted with a buffer strip where a rear yard abuts a residential district.
***Minimum lot requirements are as stated unless public utilities (water and/or sewer) are provided. In this case, minimum lot size and area shall be one acre.
  (Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.058 - Detailed regulations for MHU-1 Park.
(A)
Minimum park requirements.
(1)
Area. Three acres and ten spaces available for immediate occupancy; 7,500 square feet of land area for each manufactured housing unit to be placed.
(2)
Yards. Front, 50 feet; rear and side, 25 feet.
(3)
Height. Maximum one story or 15 feet.
(4)
Open space. One hundred fifty square feet of park and recreation area per mobile home space.
(5)
Space width. Forty feet minimum.
(6)
Space front yard. Ten feet minimum.
(7)
Space side yard. Twenty feet between manufactured housing units.
(8)
Space rear yard. Twenty-five feet minimum.
(9)
Parking. Two spaces for each manufactured housing unit.
(B)
Other requirements.
(1)
Survey site plan required shall include the following: name and address of owner; vicinity map; with a minimum scale of one inch = 100 feet; north arrow; numbered lots; lot numbers; size of lots; street layout; trash container location(s); location of all utilities, including sewage, unless originally approved with site plans, no accessory building or additions to manufactured housing units allowed.
(2)
Access roads within manufactured housing unit parks shall not be less than 20 feet in width and shall be paved with a hard surface treatment.
(3)
There shall be established and maintained guest parking facilities at a ratio of one space per three manufactured housing unit spaces. If access roads are paved to a width of 32 feet, guest off-street parking spaces shall not be required.
(4)
Each manufactured housing unit space shall be equipped with a pad ten feet wide for a single-wide, 20 feet wide for a double-wide by 45 feet long of six inches of compacted gravel or other similar material.
(5)
Each manufactured housing unit space shall be furnished with connections to water, sewer or septic (tank) and electricity utilities; all will be approved by the appropriate department/agency.
(6)
Manufactured housing units may not be used for nonresidential use within the manufactured housing unit park except for the manufactured housing unit park office.
(7)
Standards for manufactured housing units shall also apply to the latest edition of the Council of American Building Officials (CABO) One- and Two-Family Dwellings (Code).
(8)
No owner of a manufactured housing park shall allow a manufactured housing unit to locate or relocate within the park without a location placement permit from the County Inspector's office and proof of tax paid.
(9)
An approved trash container(s), to be compatible with Clay County's sanitation service, shall be located within 150 feet of any manufactured housing unit park and shall be screened by a solid opaque fence of adequate height to screen from view any material in the container. Such trash containers shall be provided by the manufactured housing unit park owner/operator.
(10)
All owners/operators of the manufactured housing park shall be responsible for the upkeep of all drives (access roads) within the confines of said park; the grounds shall be clear of all litter, trash, garbage, inoperable automobiles, trucks and the like as well as maintaining grounds (cutting of grass, maintenance of other landscaping) and drainage to assure a clean, habitable and sanitary environment.
(11)
It shall be the responsibility of the owner/manager of said manufactured housing parks to not rent, lease or otherwise convey the use of property within the confined manufactured housing park until proper permits have been issued by the Clay County Building Official for said location. A registration shall be required to be kept on premises of all lots rented, leased or otherwise conveyed to include date, name, address, phone, lot number, size and model.
(12)
An evergreen buffer strip of at least 25 feet in width and ten feet in height shall be planted along the side and rear yards lines of the manufactured housing unit park.
(13)
All manufactured housing units shall have suitable skirting between the base of the unit and the ground. This skirting shall be made of either concrete block, brick, wood or other materials intended for such use. Openings in the skirting shall not be more than two inches square.
(14)
All units shall have a minimum of an 18 inch by 24 inch latchable access door and required crawl space venting.
(15)
Anchors: All units shall be provided with anchors as required by the latest published edition of the CABO One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code.
(16)
Any unit not purchased directly from a factory or purchased new from a dealer must be inspected for condition before it is moved into the county. All units must meet the standards contained in the Southern Building Code. Once a unit passes inspection and required fees are paid, the County Inspector shall issue a permit.
(17)
Manufactured housing unit space shall not be used for the accommodation of travel trailers or recreational vehicles under any circumstances.
(18)
Age of units: The manufactured housing unit to be placed must be certified under the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and as applicable by the Georgia State Fire Marshal's Office and manufactured after June 15, 1976 prior to issuance of a permit.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.059 - Detailed regulations for PUD.
The regulations established for this District are intended to provide optional methods of land development with provisions for residential, commercial, religious, educational and cultural facilities, which are integrated with the total project by unified architectural and open space treatment.
(A)
Permitted uses. Single-family attached and detached dwellings; duplexes; multi-family dwellings; condominiums and townhouses; uses permitted in the C-1 District and CORD districts; educational uses; and other religious and cultural uses.
(B)
Preliminary development plan. A person applying for a zoning amendment to establish a PUD District shall submit a preliminary development plan to the Planning Commission, consisting of:
(1)
A site plan showing:
(a)
The direction of north, appropriate scale and topography;
(b)
The location of subject property in relation to the entire county;
(c)
The use of the property adjacent to the site;
(d)
The proposed use of land and density of development for the site;
(e)
Proposed access to, and traffic circulation within, the site;
(2)
A proposed development schedule for the project;
(3)
The PUD shall be located in an area for which public facilities and services are available and adequate for the uses that are proposed; provided, however, that the applicant may provide such facilities which are not presently available and written assurance of such provision shall be included as a part of the preliminary development which is submitted;
(4)
The Planning Commission and Board of Commissioners shall review and act on the proposed zoning request and any amendment to an approved preliminary development plan in accordance with the zoning ordinance.
(C)
Final development plan. Prior to the removal of natural vegetation, restructuring of the land or construction of any improvements, an approved final development plan is required. A plan shall be submitted to the Planning Commission, which is consistent with the preliminary development plan and containing:
(1)
A site plan showing:
(a)
The direction of north, appropriate scale and existing and finished topography in not greater than five foot contour intervals;
(b)
The proposed location and height of all structures;
(c)
The use of all structures and land;
(d)
The location and use of structures adjacent to the site;
(e)
The location, area and number of parking spaces and maneuvering areas;
(f)
The location and dimensions of streets, driveways and walks on and off the site;
(g)
All service and loading area and spaces;
(h)
The location, size, number and character of all exterior signs and lighting;
(i)
The location, character and extent of existing vegetation landscaping, retaining and screen walls and other treatment for the protection of adjoining property;
(j)
The facilities for surface drainage of the premises;
(k)
Location and character of all public improvements, including utilities;
(2)
A copy of any deed restrictions to be recorded;
(3)
A comprehensive traffic analysis indicating the probable effect of the proposed development on traffic patterns and capacities of adjacent streets in the immediate area, prepared by a registered engineer or professional planner;
(4)
A development schedule indicating the appropriate date when construction of the planned development or stage thereof can be expected to begin and be completed;
(5)
Any other information necessary to establish compliance with this chapter and other ordinances of the availability of adequate utility capacity;
(6)
A fire protection plan, approved by the Volunteer Fire Department servicing the area, indicating the location and size of all proposed fire mains, fire hydrants and fire access lanes, as well as a description of all fire protection measures and devices for structures;
(7)
The public improvements included in the final development plan shall be consistent with the Clay County Subdivision Regulations. Compliance with the regulations shall be reviewed as part of the final development review process;
(8)
The applicant shall provide for and/or establish an organization or other legal entity for the control and maintenance of any common open space designated on the final development plan. Such organization shall be created by covenants running with the land, and such covenants shall be included as a part of the final development plan(s) and subject to the approval of the Clay County Board of Commissioners;
(9)
Structures and open space shall be arranged in such a way as best to serve the needs of residents and commercial users of the planned development and to minimize any adverse effects on the neighboring districts;
(10)
Scenic assets and natural features, such as trees, streams and topographic features, shall be protected and preserved to the greatest extent possible;
(11)
Not more than 50% of the gross tract area shall be covered by buildings in the PUD;
(12)
At least 50% of the area remaining after the development of the buildings, parking, right-of-way and utility or drainage easements shall be developed to serve the needs of the residents of the development, including but not limited to landscaping, patios, walks, play areas, recreation and other uses consistent with the character of the PUD;
(13)
Buffers and building setbacks shall recognize and honor existing adjacent land development. However, in no case shall a building be constructed closer than 15 feet from the PUD District boundary, nor closer than 50 feet from any public road right-of-way;
(14)
Adequate screening and separation between different land uses shall be provided by means of buffering or other acceptable methods;
(15)
Vehicular access to the PUD shall be from streets capable of supporting existing and projected traffic. No streets or roads within the PUD shall connect to the public street system in such a way as to encourage use of minor streets for through streets;
(16)
The PUD shall include provisions for safe and convenient pedestrian access and circulation.
(D)
Final development plan review.
(1)
Upon receipt of an applicant's final development plan, the Planning Commission shall transmit a copy of the plan to the appropriate departments and agencies for their review, report and recommendation. Such officials and agencies shall each within 30 days from receiving the plan and documentation furnish to the Planning Commission a report pertinent to their respective jurisdiction and concerns.
(2)
The Planning Commission shall review the applicant's final development plan and within 90 days following the applicant's submission of the plan to the Planning Commission shall also prepare a written report stating clearly the reasons and justifications therefore and identify what changes are necessary in order for the plan to be approved. The written disapproval shall be transmitted to the applicant.
(E)
Amending final development plan.
(1)
The final development plan may be amended by the Planning Commission, provided the procedure specified subsection (D) of this section for review and approval is followed.
(2)
Minor changes in the location, siting or character of buildings and structures as shown on the final development plan may be authorized by the Building Official. No change authorized by the Building Official under this section may increase the size of any building or structure by more than 5%, nor change the location of any building or structure by more than ten feet in any direction; provided, notwithstanding anything in the foregoing, the Building Official may not permit change beyond the minimum or maximum requirements set forth in this chapter. All other changes in the final development plan, including changes in the site plan and in the development schedule, must be made under the procedures that are applicable to the initial approval of a final development plan.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.060 - Regulations for a CORD.
(A)
A site plan for the total acreage must be submitted to the Planning Commission for review and approval to ensure consistency with the overall plans for the appropriate development of the county. Final approval of the plan rests with the governing authority.
(B)
Amendments to the site plan must be submitted to the Planning Commission for review and forwarded to the Board of Commissioners for final approval.
(C)
When a CORD abuts a public road, the minimum setback requirements shall be those of the most restrictive adjacent zoning district.
(D)
A green belt of 20 feet shall be required on three sides of the property.
(E)
Off-street parking as required in § 154.092.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.061 - Number of dwellings per lot.
(A)
No more than one single-family detached dwelling and/or principal building and its customary accessory building shall hereafter be erected on any one lot.
(B)
In the A-1 Agricultural District, there may be up to four single-family residential dwellings on any parcel of land under single ownership (three plus the owner's dwelling) where the following conditions can be met:
(1)
The additional dwellings may be occupied by either blood relatives to the owner of the property and said blood relationship shall extend to but not beyond the second descending and ascending generation or full time caretaker employees of the property owner who are part of the farming operations and responsible for the agricultural production of the property;
(2)
Each single-family detached dwelling shall occupy a land area not less than one and one-half acres and conform to the lot requirements of a R-1 District;
(3)
Each such land area shall receive approval from the County Environmental Health Specialist as to the suitability of the site for an effective sanitary sewage disposal system;
(4)
No commercial uses of the buildings are allowed and no rental charges can be placed on these units;
(5)
Each dwelling shall be accessible to the public roadway;
(6)
Individual power supply sources shall be provided to each dwelling and each utility installation shall meet all code requirements;
(7)
Permits for construction will not be issued prior to the approval of each of the aforementioned conditions by the Building Inspector or other designated agent.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.062 - Permitted uses in zoning districts.
Uses allowed in each zoning district are determined from the matrix located on the following pages with (A) being uses allowed, (N) being uses not allowed and (C) being conditional uses requiring further review by the Planning Commission and approval by the Board of Commissioners in accordance to the zoning procedures of this chapter. See § 154.056 for further information on conditional uses.
EXPAND
USES A-1 R-R R-1 C-1 I-1 MHU-1 CORD
Agricultural
Chip mill C N N N A N N
Concentrated animal feeding operation C N N N N N N
Crops (field) A N N N N N N
Dairies C N N N N N N
Deer and game processing A N N C N N N
Fruits, tree nuts, vegetables:
processing A N N A N N
non-processing A A A C N N N
Greenhouse or plant nursery, commercial A N N A N N N
Livestock, fish and birds A N N N N N N
Livestock sales pavilion or farmers market A N N C C N N
Poultry producers, egg producers C N N N C N N
Produce stands A N N A N N N
Slaughterhouses, process plant C N N N C N N
Stable (riding) private (conditional use in R-R District; one horse per acre) A C N N N N N
Tree farms A N N N N N N
Animal Care Facilities
Animal hospital and veterinary clinics A N N A N N N
Kennels; boarding and breeding A C N C N N N
Pet grooming shops A N N A N N N
Automotive and Farm Equipment Sales and Service
Automobile sales N N N A N N N
Boat sales N N N A N N N
Boat service N N N A N N N
Farm equipment:
sale, lease and rentals
(principal use) C N N A N N N
sale, lease and rentals
(accessory use) C N N A N N N
Parts and tire store N N N A N N N
Paint shops N N N A N N N
Repair shops C N N A N N N
Service station C N N A N N N
Tire retreading and recapping C N N A A N N
Trailer sales N N N A N N N
Upholstery shop C C N A N N N
Vehicle storage (see storage)
Wash service N N N A C N N
Building Materials
Retail building material establishments N N N A A N N
Electrical supply store N N N A A N N
Paint, glass and wallpaper stores N N N A N N N
Plumbing and HVAC equipment dealers N N N A A N N
Wood and/or lumber production (saw mill) C N N N A N N
Communication
Billboards C N N N C N N
Broadcasting stations C N N C C N N
Telephone business exchange C N N C C N N
Wireless communication towers C N N C C N N
Construction Contractor
With equipment and material yard N N N C A N N
Without equipment and material yard A N N A A N N
Education
Research and training facility C N N A C N N
Schools (public and private) C C C C C C C
Vocation schools C C C C C C C
Day care centers, nurseries and kindergarten N C C A N C N
Manufacturing
Alcohol or alcoholic beverage N N N N A N N
Asphalt plants N N N N A N N
Automobile and truck manufacture N N N N A N N
Industrialized buildings manufacture N N N N A N N
Brick, clay, tile or concrete products N N N N A N N
Cement, lime gypsum or plaster of Paris N N N N A N N
Chemical, organic and inorganic N N N N A N N
Distillation of beverages N N N N A N N
Dye works N N N N A N N
Explosive manufacture or storage N N N N A N N
Fat rendering and fertilizer manufacture N N N N N N N
Ice manufacturing plants N N N N A N N
Petroleum refining N N N N A N N
Sand mining N N N N A N N
Smelting of metal ores N N N N A N N
Sugar refineries N N N N A N N
Food processing N N N N A N N
Pellet manufacture N N N N A N N
Any other processing or assembly of goods N N N N C N N
Recreation, Amusement, Entertainment
Assembly halls C N N C N N N
Billiard and pool hall/game room N N N C N N C
Bowling alley and skating rinks N N N C N N C
Civic, social and fraternal organizations C N N C N N C
Cultural facilities C N N A N N A
Indoor fitness center C N N A N N A
Indoor/outdoor fitness center C N N C N N A
Movie theater/live performance theater C N N C N N A
Parks (private) C C C C N N A
Parks (public) C C C C C C C
Recreation centers C C C C C C A
Activity Conducted Primarily Outside Enclosed Building or Structure
Automobile or motorcycle go-cart tracks and the like C N N N N N C
Carnival, rodeo, horse show, shooting event, athletic event or community fair C N N N N N A
Golf driving range, miniature golf C N N N N N A
Public or privately owned outdoor recreational facilities; golf and country clubs, hunting preserves, swimming or tennis clubs, shooting, trap and skeet ranges and the like C N N N N N A
RV parks, campgrounds, campsites and primitive campsites C N N N N N A
Skateboard park, bicycle race track C N N N N N A
Stables (riding) commercial A N N N N N A
Residential Uses
Apartments N N C N N N N
Duplex N N A N N N N
Manufactured housing unit A A C N N A N
Nursing homes, convalescent and rest home C C N C N N N
Other high density N N C N N N N
Patio houses N C C N N N N
Personal care home (family) C C C C N N N
Personal care home (group or congregate) C C C C N N N
Single-family A A A N N N N
Townhouse N N C N N N N
Rooming Rentals/Lodging
Rooming house, boarding house A C C C N N N
Bed & Breakfast Inn A N N A N N N
Hotels, motels and similar business N N N A N N N
Temporary emergency construction repair residences C C C N N C N
Travel trailer court C N N N N N C
Religious Facilities
Churches C C C C N C N
Meetings (temporary) C C C C N C N
Restaurants, Bars, Night Clubs
Alcohol drinking establishments N N N A N N N
Drive-in restaurants N N N C N N N
Dine-in restaurants (only) C N N A N N N
Dine-in, carry-out, delivery restaurants C N N C N N N
Carry-out, delivery services (only) C N N C N N N
Retail Trade
Apparel and accessory stores N N N A N N A
Bicycle sales N N N A N N A
Book and stationary stores N N N A N N A
Camera and photographic N N N A N N A
Drugstores N N N A N N N
Farm and garden supply stores C N N A N N N
Flea market C N N C N N N
Florists N N N A N N N
Food stores N N N A N N N
Food stores (including the minor manufacturing of food) N N N A C N N
Furniture, home furnishings and equipment stores N N N A N N N
Gift, novelty, antique and souvenir N N N A N N N
Hardware and general merchandise shops N N N A N N N
Hobby, toy and game shops N N N A N N C
Jewelry stores N N N A N N N
Liquor stores N N N A N N C
Merchandise store (specialized) N N N A N N C
News dealers and newsstands N N N A N N C
Sales of goods (produced and processed on premises) N N N A N N C
Sporting goods stores N N N A N N A
Tobacco shop or stand N N N A N N A
Services
Artisan C N N A N N N
Barber and beauty shops C N N A N N N
Business service establishments N N N A N N N
Dancing school C N N A N N N
Diaper service C N N A N N N
Dry cleaning plants and power laundries N N N C A N N
Laundries (coin operated) N N N A A N N
Laundry and dry cleaning pick-up stations N N N A A N N
Alterations Y N N A N N N
Moving service N N N A A N N
Offices (accountants, financial institutions, lawyers, doctors, real estate, other professionals and businesses) N N N A N N N
Photographic studios N N N A N N N
Repair shops (jewelry, small appliance, TV, radio) C N N A N N N
Services (Health)
Clinics N N N A N N N
Hospitals N N N A N N N
Offices/pharmacies N N N A N N N
Storage
Mini-warehouses N N N C A N N
Scrap or junkyards N N N N A N N
Storage and maintenance (equipment and vehicle) N N N N A N N
Warehousing N N N N A N N
Transportation
Railroad yards N N N N A N N
Terminal (truck) N N N N A N N
Truck yards N N N N A N N
Wholesale Trade
Distribution establishment N N N N A N N
Petroleum bulk stations N N N N A N N
Miscellaneous Public Semi-Public and Private Facilities
Airport C N N N N N N
Cemetery C N N N N N N
Funeral home N N N A N N N
Governmental land application system waste facilities/landfills/waste disposal facilities operated by any county, municipality or other governmental agency, entity or authority not located within the corporate limits of Clay County, Georgia and its incorporated municipalities N N N N N N N
Inert landfill C N N N A N N
Post office C C C A C C N
Sewage sludge (biosolids) land application and disposal facilities N N N N N N N
  (Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.063 - Determination of unclassified uses.
In the event an applicant wishes to use property for a use which is not specifically identified under permitted uses or uses permitted subject to the approval of the Board of Commissioners, and where such use is not specifically prohibited from the district, the following provisions shall apply:
(A)
The Building Inspector or other designated agent shall submit to the Planning Commission a written request for determination of the unclassified use;
(B)
The Planning Commission determines that the use is of a similar character and meets the intent of the uses permitted within the district, then they shall instruct the Building Inspector or other designated agent to issue a permit;
(C)
In the event that the Planning Commission determines that the proposed use in the district is consistent with the character and intent of permitted uses which are subject to the approval of the Board of Commissioners, then the applicant shall apply for a conditional use permit subject to the approval in the regular manner;
(D)
In no event shall the provisions of this section be used to allow an incompatible use or use specifically prohibited by this chapter within a certain district;
(E)
Once the use has been allowed or disallowed by the Planning Commission, it shall then be considered classified under the appropriated category in the district.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
DIVISION 5. - NONCONFORMING USE

Sec. 154.075 - Continuation of a nonconforming use.
Any structure or use of land existing at the time of enactment or subsequent amendment of this chapter, but not in conformity with its use provisions, may be continued with the following limitations:
(A)
A nonconforming use may not be changed to another nonconforming use;
(B)
A nonconforming use may not be re-established after discontinuance of that use for one year;
(C)
A nonconforming use or structure may not be enlarged beyond its size at the time the use or structure became nonconforming. This includes, but is not limited to, the size of the building, the number of employees, operation during other hours of the day or night, the use of additional land and additional or more powerful equipment;
(D)
A nonconforming structure may not be rebuilt, altered, repaired or replaced after incurring damages exceeding 75% of the fair market value of the structure at the time immediately preceding such damage occurring. A nonconforming mobile home may be replaced after it is removed from the property with a manufactured housing unit that is in compliance with the standards set forth in § 154.058 as long as such replacement occurs within 12 months of removal. Any period longer than 12 months, a nonconforming mobile home cannot be replaced after it is removed from the property.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.076 - Changing a nonconforming use.
The Board of Commissioners may grant the change, re-establishment or enlargement of a nonconforming use or the enlargement, rebuilding, alteration, repair or replacement of a nonconforming structure upon the following finding:
(A)
The change, establishment, enlargement, rebuilding, alteration, repair or replacement would be no more detrimental to the surrounding area than the existing or previous use;
(B)
The structure cannot be economically modified so as to be suitable for uses in the district;
(C)
The structure would have to be removed to permit development of the property for conforming uses;
(D)
The structure has such value that removal to permit development of the conforming uses would cause economic hardship to the owner;
(E)
The proposed change, re-establishment, enlargement, rebuilding, alteration, replacement or repair would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purposes and intent of this chapter; and
(F)
The requirements of this chapter for rezoning would prevent the current zoning from being changed to a classification that would allow the proposed change, re-establishment, enlargement, rebuilding, alteration, repair or replacement.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.077 - Applications for changing a nonconforming use.
Applications submitted to the Board of Commissioners requesting the change, reestablishment, enlargement, rebuilding, alteration, repair or replacement of a nonconforming use structure shall include the following information:
(A)
The applicant shall bear the burden of providing conclusive evidence to the Board of Commissioners that the use or structure is legally nonconforming. The evidence may include, but is not limited to, business licenses, tax receipts, utility bills, telephone bills, IRS documents and affidavits;
(B)
The applicant shall submit a plat of an accurate site plan, drawn to scale, showing the dimensions of the lot size and location of all structures and their distance from all property lines, the names of all streets which the property abuts and parking spaces;
(C)
If the request is for a commercial use or structure, a written description shall be submitted to describe the business. The description shall include hours of operation, number of employees, equipment used, products made or sold, type of signs and other information as needed for the Board of Commissioners to reach a decision;
(D)
The applicant shall provide evidence to the Board of Commissioners on how the proposed change, reestablishment, enlargement, rebuilding, alteration, repair or replacement will comply with the current zoning, health and building requirements.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.078 - Conditions on approval.
If the requested change, reestablishment, enlargement, rebuilding, alteration, repair or replacement is approved, the Board of Commissioners may place conditions on the approval to ensure protection of the surrounding area. The applicant is responsible for conformance with these conditions.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
DIVISION 6. - SUPPLEMENTARY DISTRICT REGULATIONS

Sec. 154.090 - Corner visibility.
On a corner lot in any zoning district nothing shall be erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow in such a manner as to materially impede vision between a height of two and one-half and ten feet above the centerline grades of the intersecting streets in the area bounded by the street lines of such corner lots and a line joining points along said street lines 50 feet from the point of the intersection.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.091 - Off-premises signs.
The following regulations shall apply to all off-premises signs:
(A)
Off-premises signs are permitted in C-1 and I-1 Zoning Districts;
(B)
Off-premises signs shall be permitted on a standard sign, which does not exceed five feet by ten feet, is constructed of 20-gauge sheet metal painted on each side and is supported by metal tubing posts of the type specified by the Standard Building Code;
(C)
There shall be a minimum distance of 800 feet between all off-premises signs.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.092 - Off-street parking.
(A)
Requirements for off-street parking. The following minimum number of parking spaces shall be required of the nonresidential uses specified below in all districts:
EXPAND
(1) Agriculture uses: One space per employee on the largest shift;
(2) Agriculture support uses: One space per employee on the largest shift, plus one space per 200 square feet of gross floor area provided for customer sales and service operations;
(3) Commercial and entertainment uses, except as specifically designated below: One space per 150 square feet of gross floor area of customer sales and service, plus one space per 200 square feet of office gross floor area, or if the uses has at least 100,000 square feet of gross floor area, five and one-half spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area;
(4) Other commercial and entertainment uses:
(a) Banks: One space per 200 square feet of gross floor area of customer sales and service, plus five spaces off-street waiting (loading) spaces per drive-in lane, plus one space per employee on the largest work shift;
(b) Funeral home: One space per 100 square feet of gross floor area of customer sales and service;
(c) Hospital: Two spaces per three patient beds, plus one space per staff doctor and each other employee on the largest work shift;
(d) Hotel or motel: One space per room or suite, plus one per every three employees on the largest work shift, plus one space per three persons to the maximum capacity of each public meeting and/or banquet room, plus 50% of the spaces otherwise required for accessory uses (for example, restaurants and bars);
(e) Private clubs: One space per four persons to the maximum capacity of the facility;
(f) Repair services: One space per 300 square feet of gross floor area of customer sales and service, plus one space per employee on the largest work shift;
(g) Restaurant, standard: One space per four patron seats or one space per 100 square feet of gross floor area of customer sales and service, whichever is greater, plus one space per employee on the largest work shift;
(h) School, commercial or trade: One space per four students, plus one space per employee (including faculty) at capacity class attendance period;
(i) Shopping center: Five spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area of customer sales and service;
(j) Theaters and auditoriums: One space per four patrons based on maximum capacity. This requirement may be satisfied on a space-by-space basis by the facility providing written proof that it has the use of a nearby parking lot available to its patrons (for example, by contractual arrangement);
(5) Commercial/recreational uses, except as designated below: One space per five patrons to the maximum capacity of facility, plus one space per two employees on the largest work shift;
(6) Other commercial/recreational uses:
(a) Beauty and barber shops: Three spaces per operator or one space per 100 square feet of gross floor area of customer sales and service, whichever is larger, plus one space per employee on the largest shift;
(b) Bowling alley: Five spaces per lane, plus one space per employee on the largest work shift;
(c) Convenience store: One space per 100 square feet of gross floor area of customer sales and service;
(d) Drive-in theater: One space per automobile station, plus one space per employee;
(e) Fast-food restaurant: One space per 50 square-feet of gross floor area of customer sales and service, plus one space per employee on the largest work shift;
(f) Golf courses (9 and 18 hole): 30 spaces per nine holes, plus one space per employee on the largest shift, plus 50% of spaces otherwise required for any accessory uses (for example, bars, restaurants);
(g) Golf driving range: One space per tee, plus one space per employee on the largest work shift;
(h) Golf, par three: 20 spaces per nine holes, plus one space per employee on the largest shift;
(i) Medical offices: One space per each 200 square feet of gross floor area, including pharmacies and other retail uses, but excluding corridor and lobby areas, plus one per each separate medical or dental treatment room or laboratory;
(j) Miniature golf: One and one-half spaces per hole, plus one space per employee on the largest working shift;
(k) Outdoor recreational uses: One space per five expected patrons at capacity;
(l) Outdoor swimming pool: One space per 75 square feet of gross water area;
(m) Outdoor theater: One space per three patrons to the maximum capacity of the facility inclusive of both indoor and outdoor capability;
(n) Public services uses: One space per employee on the largest work shift plus one space per company vehicle normally stored on the premises;
(o) Recreational vehicle park: One and one-half spaces per each recreational vehicle site, plus one space per employee on the largest shift;
(p) Skating rink, ice or roller: One space per 300 square feet of gross floor area or customer sales and service;
(q) Taverns, dance halls, night clubs
and lounges: One space per 50 square feet of gross floor area of customer sales and service, plus one space per employee on the largest shift;
(r) Truck stop: One space per each 25 square feet of gross site area, but not less than eight per each such use;
(s) Vehicle sales and service: One space per 1,500 square feet of gross floor area of customer sales and service. In addition all area used for outside display of automobiles must be hard surfaced according to the standards for parking areas;
(t) Mini-warehouse: One space per ten storage cubicles, plus two spaces per manager's residence, plus one space per 25 storage cubicles located at the warehouse office;
(u) Manufacturing: One space per employee on the largest shift, plus one space per company vehicle normally left on the premises;
(7) Other heavy industrial uses:
(a) Truck terminal: One space per employee on the largest shift, plus one space per truck normally parked on the premises, plus one space per three patrons to the maximum capacity. All spaces where trucks will be parked and associated drives must be surfaced to the minimum requirements for parking lots;
(b) Junkyard: One space per 10,000 square feet of gross land area, plus one space per employee on the largest work shift;
(c) Warehouse: One space per employee on the largest shift, plus one space per 4,000 square feet of gross floor area;
(8) Institutional, indoor, recreational and special residential uses, except as specifically designated below: One space per three patrons to the maximum capacity, plus one space per employee on the largest shift;
(9) Other indoor institutional, indoor recreational and special residential uses:
(a) Church: One space per four seats of maximum capacity;
(b) Community and recreation center: One space per 250 square feet of gross floor area, or one space per four patrons to the maximum capacity, plus one space per four patrons to the maximum capacity, plus one space per employee on the largest shift;
(c) Day or nursery school: One space per 250 square feet of gross floor area of customer service or one space per four seats to the maximum capacity, whichever is greater, plus one space per employee on the largest shift;
(d) Nursing homes: One space per six patient beds, plus one space per employee on the largest shift, plus one space per staff member and visiting doctor;
(e) Swimming facility: One space per 75 square feet of gross water area, plus one space per employee on the largest shift;
(f) Tennis, racquetball, handball courts: Four spaces per court, plus one space per employee on the largest shift;
(g) Commercial support uses: One space per employee on the largest shift, plus one space per company vehicle regularly stored on premises;
(h) Veterinary office with enclosed
kennels and/or pens: Three spaces per doctor, plus one space per employee on the largest shift;
(i) Nursery uses: One space per each 500 square feet of display and sales area both indoor and outdoor, excluding areas used exclusively for the storage or propagation of plants, but not less than five for each such use;
(j) Office uses: One space per 250 square feet of gross floor area of customer sales and service and office area;
(k) Residential uses: Two spaces per each dwelling unit.
  (B)
Establishment of off-street parking. Whenever off-street parking is required for the development of a lot, it shall be established and maintained as follows:
(1)
Each off-street parking space shall consist of a designated and defined area of at least ten feet in width and 20 feet in length exclusive of access drives and aisles;
(2)
Except for lots devoted to single and two dwelling units per structure uses, all areas established for off-street parking shall be designed and be of such size that no vehicle is required to back into a public street to obtain egress;
(3)
All area devoted to off-street parking shall have clearly defined access drives of ingress and egress not to exceed 25 feet, to include curbs;
(4)
All area devoted to permanent off-street parking shall be of a hard surface or covered in such manner that no dust will result from continuous use. Each off-street parking space shall be clearly marked or otherwise defined. Gravel or plant mix is also acceptable;
(5)
No off-street parking space shall extend beyond any lot line; where an off-street parking space abuts a residential lot line, a setback line of five feet shall be established;
(6)
All areas devoted to ingress or egress in a commercial, industrial or multifamily zone shall be denoted by curbing.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.093 - Off-street loading and unloading.
(A)
In all zoning districts where permitted uses require the receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise by truck or similar vehicle, off-street loading and unloading space shall be provided. Such requirements will apply to new structures or that portion of existing structures which are altered or expanded after the effective date of this chapter.
(B)
Requirements of off-street loading and unloading space:
(1)
One space shall be required for the first 20,000 square feet of floor area plus one additional space for each 20,000 square feet of floor area up to 100,000 square feet and one space for each additional 40,000 square feet thereafter;
(2)
The minimum size of an off-street loading and unloading space shall be ten feet by 50 feet exclusive of driveway and maneuvering space;
(3)
No street or alley shall be considered as part of the off-street loading or unloading area;
(4)
All areas for loading and unloading shall be so designed and located to permit vehicles to exit while facing a street or alley;
(5)
Off-street loading and unloading spaces may occupy all or any part of any required yard area, except required vegetated buffer areas.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.094 - Public street frontage.
No building shall be erected on a lot which does not abut for at least 25 feet on a public street.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.095 - Accessory buildings.
(A)
An accessory building may be erected either attached or unattached to a principal building on the same lot. An attached accessory building shall be considered a part of the principal building and shall comply with the requirements of the district in which it is located.
(B)
An unattached accessory building shall be located in the rear yard of the principal building, shall not occupy more than 30% of the area of the rear yard, shall not be located closer than 15 feet to the principal building on an adjoining lot, shall not be located closer than ten feet to any rear or interior side lot line and shall not project into any required front or street side yard. On corner lots, the accessory building may not be located closer to the road right-of-way than the minimum setback requirement.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.096 - Auto wrecking, junkyards, body shops and motor vehicle garage.
(A)
Location of automobile and junkyards. No operation shall be located nearer than 600 feet from any residential district.
(B)
Screening. All outdoor storage of salvage and wrecking operations shall be conducted within an enclosed solid opaque fence or solid opaque wall not less than six feet in height nor more than ten feet in height. All of the above businesses shall ensure that the storage of vehicles is screened from public view from any public road. Additional screening may be required. Any fence or wall erected for screening purposes shall be properly painted or otherwise maintained in good condition.
(C)
Storage of materials or vehicles.
(1)
The storage of salvaged materials, junk materials or vehicles shall not exceed six feet in height.
(2)
Vehicles awaiting repair shall not be stored outside of the business establishment or fenced area for periods longer than 48 hours.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.097 - Cemetery (commercial).
Any new cemetery shall be located on a site containing not less than ten acres. Structure setback shall conform to the district regulations in which the site is located. All burial lots shall be set back not less than 25 feet from any lot line.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.098 - Customary home occupations.
Customary home occupations in those districts where permitted shall be subject to the following conditions:
(A)
A home occupation shall be limited to the gainful occupation or profession conducted by members of the family residing entirely within the dwelling unit and no more than three nonresidents;
(B)
No internal or external alterations shall be made which are not customary to dwellings;
(C)
In any dwelling unit, all home occupations, collectively, shall not occupy more than 25% of the gross floor area of the dwelling unit but not to exceed 600 square feet;
(D)
The entrance of the space devoted to a customary home occupation may be from within the building or a private outside entrance;
(E)
No display shall be permitted of goods or services which are visible from the outside of the structure except for one non-illuminated sign having an area of not more than two square feet which may be placed flat on a door, wall or window;
(F)
Customary home occupations shall be limited to goods and services provided to individuals or groups not exceeding, at any given time, five in number;
(G)
Home occupation for telephone service only is permitted but shall be restricted to that use only;
(H)
There shall not be any product stored in plain view or in the yard of the residence and there shall not be any parking of commercial vehicles at said property for over 24 hours.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.099 - Swimming pools.
The following regulations shall apply to swimming pools. Private swimming pools may be established in agricultural and residential zoning districts, provided they are to be used solely by the occupants of the property on which they are located and their guests. All noncommercial pools within a residential zone shall be enclosed by a secure fence or wall not less than five feet in height. See CORD section for commercial swimming pools.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.100 - Gasoline service stations.
The following regulations shall apply to all gasoline service stations:
(A)
There shall be a building setback from all street right-of-way lines a distance of not less than 50 feet and the canopy of the gasoline building not less than 15 feet to any street right-of-way line. Other yard setbacks shall conform to the zone in which the station is located;
(B)
Gasoline pump islands shall not be located closer than 15 feet to any street right-of-way line; however, when pump islands are constructed perpendicular to the pavement edge, the pump island shall be located not less than 30 feet from the right-of-way lines.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.101 - Storage of certain vehicles and equipment.
The storage of certain vehicles and equipment, defined as automobiles, semi-trailer trucks with greater than three axles, camping or travel trailers and boats and boat motors without current license plates is prohibited in residential districts for time periods in excess of seven days unless such vehicles and equipment are stored in a carport, enclosed building or behind the nearest portion of a building to a street.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.102 - Airports.
Proposed public airports shall be so located and of sufficient size to meet Federal Aviation Agency requirements and not constitute a nuisance to surrounding uses.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.103 - Inert landfills.
Permits for inert landfills must be approved by the appropriate state agencies and notifications of adjacent property owners prior to approval by the Board of Commissioners. Inert landfills already in operation and approved by the appropriate state agency for handling such permits and operations will be allowed to continue operation. However, any such expansion must have all necessary approvals with notifications of all adjacent property owners.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
DIVISION 7. - EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS

Sec. 154.115 - General.
The requirements and regulations set forth in this chapter shall be subject to the following exceptions and modifications.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.116 - Front yard.
The front yard requirements in this chapter shall not apply on lots where the average depth of existing yards on developed lots located within 100 feet on each side thereof and within the same block and zoning district is greater or less than the minimum required front yard depth. In such case, the depth of the front yard on such lot shall be not less than the average front yard depth on such developed lots. On double frontage lots, the required front yard shall be provided on each street.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.117 - Height limits.
Height limitations do not apply to the following: chimneys, church steeples, flagpoles, grain elevators, distribution lines, towers and poles, radio and television antennas, water towers and similar structures.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.118 - Temporary uses.
Buildings used in conjunction with construction work may only be permitted 30 days prior to the construction work. Such temporary buildings shall be removed no later than 15 days upon completion of the construction work. Manufactured housing units may be permitted in any zone, if a natural disaster has occurred. This use is permitted for only 30 days and then shall require additional approval for a time extension of 30 days from the Planning Commission.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.119 - Existing lots of record.
(A)
Any parcel of land in any district which was on record in the Office of the Clerk of Superior Court of Clay County at the date of adoption of this chapter, or amended thereof, may be used as a building site even though such lot or parcel fails to meet the minimum requirements for a lot area, lot width or both.
(B)
With respect to such lots or parcels, yard and other requirements shall be subject to the following:
(1)
Meet applicable setback requirements;
(2)
Not to exceed the maximum lot coverage requirements;
(3)
Must have an approved on-site sewage permit from the local Environmental Health Specialist.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
DIVISION 8. - AMENDMENTS AND ALTERATIONS

Sec. 154.130 - Amendments generally.
Amendment, as used in this section, means a change in the text of the zoning ordinance or a change in the Official Zoning Map(s) of the county authorized by a zoning decision made only after compliance with the procedures set for in this section.
(A)
A proposed amendment to the text may be initiated by the Planning Commission or may be submitted to the Planning Commission by the Board of Commissioners or by any person who owns property within the zoning jurisdiction of the county. Unless initiated by the Board of Commissioners or by the Planning Commission, all proposed map amendments shall be submitted by the owner of such property or the authorized agent of the owner. An authorized agent shall have written authorization from the property owner, and such authorization shall be notarized and attached to the application.
(B)
A proposed amendment to the map affecting the same property shall not be submitted more than once every 12 months, beginning with the date of the final decision by the Board of Commissioners. The Board of Commissioners may at its discretion reduce or waive the 12-month interval between applications for proposed amendments to the zoning map affecting the same property; however, in the case of an application for a proposed amendment to the zoning map which was defeated by the Board of Commissioners, there shall be at least a six-month interval between the defeated application and the subsequent application affecting the same property unless the Board shall find and determine that the conditions under which the previous application for rezoning was made have substantially changed. The 12-month interval shall not apply to applications for proposed amendments initiated by the Board of Commissioners or by the Planning Commission, except for applications for proposed amendments to the zoning map which were defeated by the Board of Commissioners, in which case the interval required before a subsequent application may be filed shall be at least six months unless the Board shall find and determine that the conditions under which the previous application for rezoning was made have substantially changed. An application to amend zoning conditions may be submitted at any time.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.131 - Initiation of amendments.
(A)
Each proposed amendment to the text or to the Official Zoning Map shall be initiated by filing an application with the Building Official/Zoning Office.
(B)
Applications for proposed amendments shall include at least the following information:
(1)
Applications for proposed amendments to the text shall include the following information:
(a)
Name and address of the applicant;
(b)
Current provisions of the text to be affected by the proposed amendment;
(c)
Proposed wording of the proposed amendment to the text; and
(d)
Reason for proposed amendment;
(2)
Applications for proposed amendments to the zoning map shall include the following:
(a)
Name and address of the applicant;
(b)
A legal description of the tract(s) proposed to be rezoned;
(c)
Three copies of a plat, drawn to scale, showing north arrow, land lot and district, the dimensions, acreage and location of the tract(s) prepared by an engineer or land surveyor, whose state registration is current and valid. The engineer's or land surveyor's seal shall be affixed to the plat;
(d)
The present and proposed zoning district for the tract(s);
(e)
Existing intermediate floodplain area;
(f)
The names and addresses of the owner(s) of the land and of the agent(s) for the owners(s), if any;
(g)
The map and parcel number as identified on the County's Tax Assessor map;
(3)
Applications for proposed amendments shall be submitted in accordance with a schedule adopted annually by the Board of Commissioners. The schedule shall provide that each application for a proposed amendment shall be submitted at least 50 days prior to the date on which it is to be considered by the Board of Commissioners. A fee shall not be charged for proposed amendments initiated by members of the County Commission or by members of the Planning Commission when acting as agents of the governing authority;
(4)
An applicant may file site plans, renderings, construction specifications, written development restrictions and other zoning conditions which the applicant proposes as binding restrictions upon the development and use of the property that is the subject of the proposed amendment. However, any such zoning conditions shall be filed with the Building Inspection/Zoning Office at least seven days prior to the public hearing before the Board of Commissioners. If any such zoning conditions are proposed by an application and have not been filed as required by this subsection, the Board of Commissioners, at the time of the public hearing on the proposed amendment, shall defer any action on such action on such proposed amendment to a specific meeting date. The date designated for action on the proposed amendment shall be set at a time which is sufficient to allow the applicant to comply with the filing requirements of this subsection;
(5)
An applicant shall not be permitted to withdraw an application for a proposed amendment after the legal advertising for said proposed amendment, as required by this section, shall have first appeared, unless such withdrawal is made with the approval of the Board of Commissioners as provided in § 154.135.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.132 - Public notification.
(A)
Legal notice. Notice of public hearings before the Planning Commission and the Board of Commissioners as required by the section shall be published within a newspaper of general circulation within the county and shall state the time, place and purpose of the hearing and shall also include the location of property that is the subject of the zoning action, the present zoning district of said property and the proposed zoning district of said property. Such notice shall be published at least 15 but not more than 45 days prior to the date of the hearing.
(B)
Signs posted. Clay County Board of Commissioners shall have a sign(s) posted in a conspicuous place(s) on the property to be rezoned, which shall contain information describing the proposed map amendment and the dates, times and places of the public hearings before the Planning Commission and the Clay County Board of Commissioners. Such sign shall be continuously displayed for at least 15 days prior to the public hearings. The sign(s) or any part of the sign shall not be removed from said property except by an authorized agent of the Board of Commissioners.
(C)
Letters to abutting property owners. Where application is made for a proposed amendment to the zoning maps, the Building Inspection and/or Zoning Department shall notify, by regular mail, the owners, as shown by Clay County tax records, of property that abuts the property that is the subject of the proposed amendment. The notice shall be mailed at least 15 days prior to the date of the Planning Commission public hearing and shall include a description of the proposed amendment and the dates, times and places of the public hearings before the Planning Commission and the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.133 - Public hearing procedures.
Whenever a public hearing is required by these ordinances or by state law prior to a zoning decision, such public hearing, whether conducted by the Board of Commissioners or the Planning Commission, shall be conducted in accordance with the following procedures:
(A)
The public hearing shall be called to order by the presiding officer.
(B)
The presiding officer shall explain the procedures to be followed in the conduct of a public hearing.
(C)
If the subject of the hearing is a zoning decision initiated by a petitioner other than the County Commission, the petitioner requesting such zoning decision, or the petitioner's agent, shall be recognized first and shall be permitted to present and explain the request for the zoning decision. If the request for a zoning decision is initiated by the County Commission, all members of the County Commission shall be allowed to speak as they are recognized by the presiding officer, regardless of whether such a County Commission member speaks in favor of or in opposition to the proposed zoning decision. Thereafter, all individuals who so desire shall be permitted to speak in favor of the zoning decision.
(D)
After all individuals have had an opportunity to speak in accordance with subsection (C) above, those individuals present at the public hearing who wish to speak in opposition to the requested zoning decision shall have an opportunity to speak.
(E)
When any person wishes to speak at a public hearing, he or she shall raise his or her hand and, after being recognized by the presiding officer, shall stand and give his or her name, address and make any comment appropriate to the proposed zoning decision.
(F)
No time limit shall be imposed upon any person speaking at a public hearing, but all speakers are urged to make their comments brief and avoid repeating other comments.
(G)
In the case of an application for a proposed amendment to the zoning ordinance text or map, the applicant shall have an opportunity, after all comments in opposition have been made, to make summary remarks concerning the proposed zoning decision.
(H)
Thereafter, the presiding officer shall announce that the public hearing for the requested zoning decision is closed. The Planning Commission shall then convene its business session to consider the proposed amendment and shall, at that time, take action on its recommendation to the Board of Commissioners. At the close of the public hearing before the Board of Commissioners, the Board shall immediately convene its business session and consider the recommendation for the zoning decision and take action on the proposed amendment.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.134 - Planning commission public hearing and action.
(A)
All applications for proposed amendments shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission in a public hearing in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 154.132.
(B)
The Planning Commission shall review and consider a recommendation to the Clay County Board of Commissioners with respect to the application for a proposed amendment. The Planning Commission may decide not to make a recommendation, or it may make any of the following recommendations with respect to an application for a proposed amendment: approval, denial, deferral, withdrawal (if the applicant concurs), change of the zoning district requested or imposition of zoning conditions. If no recommendation is decided by the Planning Commission, then it shall report to the Board of Commissioners that it makes no recommendation on the application.
(C)
The Planning Commission shall submit its recommendation or report of no recommendation on an application for a proposed amendment to the Board of Commissioners prior to the scheduled public hearing in which the Board of Commissioners will consider the application for a zoning decision. If the Planning Commission fails to submit a recommendation or report prior to the public hearing, the Planning Commission's recommendation shall be deemed to be one of approval.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.135 - Board of commissioners public hearing and action.
(A)
Before taking action on a proposed amendment and after receipt of the Planning Commission recommendations or reports thereon, the Board of Commissioners shall hold a public hearing on the proposed amendment.
(B)
So the purpose of this chapter will be served and so that the health, safety and general welfare will be secured, the Board of Commissioners in its decision on the application for a proposed amendment may, in its legislative discretion, approve or deny the application for proposed amendment as submitted, defer a decision until a specific meeting date, require the applicant to file a site plan or other plans regarding the project development and defer action to a later meeting date or allow a withdrawal of the application by the applicant, if requested. The Board of Commissioners shall determine whether the withdrawal shall be subject to the 12-month interval before refiling. The Board of Commissioners may also require that the land area for such application for proposed amendment is made be reduced, that the zoning district be changed to one other than that requested, or that zoning conditions be added or deleted, as the Board of Commissioners deem appropriate.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.136 - Zoning standards.
Whenever Clay County shall exercise its zoning power, the following standards are considered relevant in balancing the county's interest in promoting the public health, safety, morality or general welfare against the right to the unrestricted use of property:
(A)
Whether the zoning decision will permit a use that is suitable in view of the use and development of adjacent or nearby properties which will be reasonably affected;
(B)
Whether the zoning decision will adversely affect the existing use of adjacent or nearby property;
(C)
Whether the property affected by the zoning decision has a reasonable economic use as currently zoned;
(D)
Whether the zoning decision will result in a use which will or could cause an excessive or burdensome use or have a significant negative impact upon existing roads, transportation facilities, utilities, water or other natural resources, schools, churches or other facilities;
(E)
Whether the zoning decision conforms with the policy and intent of an adopted land use plan to include the general purposes included in the Comprehensive Plan for Clay County, Georgia;
(F)
Whether other conditions exist that affect the use and development of the property in question and support either approval or denial of the zoning decision; and
(G)
Whether there has been demonstrated support or opposition to such use by or on behalf of the citizens of Clay County.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
DIVISION 9. - ALTERATION OF ZONING CONDITIONS

Sec. 154.150 - Minor alterations approval.
The Building Official or other authorized agent shall have the authority to approve the following minor alterations of zoning conditions, provided such alterations would not change the purpose intended for such zoning condition and would not adversely affect county services or other property:
(A)
Building relocation, curb cut relocation and traffic circulation changes due to topographic, environmental or other design factors;
(B)
Parking design; and
(C)
Utility relocation.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.151 - Amendments to zoning code.
An owner of property of his or her authorized agent may file an application to amend any zoning conditions which have been made a part of a zoning decision by the Board of Commissioners if such changes requested cannot be effected under the provisions of § 154.150. The application shall be processed in accordance with the same procedures as those required for applications for proposed amendments as provided in §§ 154.150 and 154.151.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
DIVISION 10. - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 154.165 - Enforcing officer.
The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by the County Building Inspector or other designated agent. This official shall have the right to enter upon any premises at any reasonable time prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the purpose of making inspections of buildings or premises necessary in carrying out his or her duties in the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.166 - Building permit required.
It shall be unlawful to commence the excavation for or the construction of any building or other structure, or erect temporary field offices, or to commence the moving, alteration or repair (with the exception of necessary repairs not affecting the external or party walls, chimneys, stairways or heights of buildings) of any structure until the Building Inspector or other designated agent has issued a building permit for such work, including a statement that the plans, specifications and intended use of such structure in all respects conform with the provisions of this chapter. Application for a building permit shall be made to the Building Inspector or other designated agent on forms provided for that purpose.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Cross reference— Penalty, see § 154.999.
Sec. 154.167 - Approval of plans and issuance of building permit.
(A)
It shall be unlawful for the Building Inspector or other designated agent to approve any plans to issue a building permit for any excavation or construction until he or she has inspected such plans in detail and found them to be in conformity with this chapter. To this end, the Building Inspector or other designated agent shall require that every application for a building permit for excavation, construction, use of land, moving or alteration be accompanied by a plan or plat drawn to scale and showing the following in sufficient detail to enable the Building Inspector or other designated agent to ascertain whether the proposed excavation, construction, use of land, moving or alteration is in conformance with this chapter and applicable building codes:
(1)
The actual shape, proportion and dimensions of the lot to be built upon;
(2)
The shape, size and location of all buildings or other structures to be erected, altered or moved and any building or other structures already on the lot;
(3)
The existing and intended use of all such buildings or other structures;
(4)
The setback and side lines of buildings on adjoining lots and such other information concerning the lot or adjoining lots as may be essential for determining whether the provisions of this chapter are observed.
(B)
If the proposed excavation, construction, moving or alteration as set forth in the application are in conformity with the provisions of this chapter and other related laws and ordinances, the Building Inspector or other designated agent shall issue a building permit accordingly. If an application for a building permit is not approved, the Building Inspector or other designated agent shall state in writing on the application the cause of such disapproval. Issuance of a building permit shall in no case be construed as waiving any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.168 - Certificate of occupancy required.
(A)
No land or building or other structure or part thereof hereafter erected, moved or altered in its use shall be used until the Building Inspector or other designated agent has issued a certificate of occupancy stating that such land or building or other structure or part thereof is found to be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(B)
Within three days after the owner or his or her agent has notified the Building Inspector that a building or premises or part thereof is ready for occupancy or use, it shall be the duty of the Building Inspector or other designated agent to make a final inspection thereof, and to issue a certificate of occupancy if the building or premises or part thereof is found to conform with the provisions of this chapter, or if such certificate is reused, to state the refusal in writing with the cause.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.169 - Remedies.
In case any building or other structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained or any building, structure or land is in violation of this chapter, the Building Inspector or other designated agent, any other appropriate authority or any adjacent or neighboring property owner who would be specifically damaged by such violation, in addition to other remedies may institute injunction, mandamus or other appropriate action or preceding to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use to correct or abate such violation or to prevent occupancy of such building, structure or land.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.170 - Variances.
(A)
The Clay County Planning Commission may grant a variance in the application of the provisions of the Zoning Code. The Planning Commission may do so only if all of the following findings are made:
(1)
That there are unique physical circumstances or conditions, including irregularity, narrowness, shallowness or lot size or shape, exceptional topographical or other physical conditions peculiar to the particular property and that the unnecessary hardship is due to such conditions and not to circumstances or conditions generally created by the provisions of the zoning ordinance in the neighborhood or district in which the property is located;
(2)
That because such physical circumstances or conditions, there is no possibility that the property can be developed in strict conformity with the provisions of the Zoning Code and that the authorization of a variance is therefore necessary to enable the reasonable use of the property;
(3)
That granting the variance will not result in authorization of a use not otherwise permitted in the district;
(4)
The Planning Commission shall establish a reasonable time for hearing of any appeals authorized under this section and shall give at least 15-days' written notice by regular mail to all parties who are involved in the variance request and adjacent property owners.
(B)
Any party aggrieved by any final judgment or decision of the Clay County Planning Commission may within 30 days thereafter appeal to the Clay County Board of Commissioners. If the party is still aggrieved the party may appeal to the Superior Court or court of like jurisdiction. The party must file with such board a written notice of appeal specifying the judgment or decision from which the appeal is taken. In case of such appeal such Board shall cause a transcript of the proceedings in the case to be certified to the court to which the appeal is taken and the case in such court to be tried de novo.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.171 - Fees.
Fees for appeals and applications for amendments to this chapter shall be established as follows and shall be payable prior to action by respective bodies. Fees are not refundable once the required legal notification has been completed.
(A)
Appeals: $30.00.
(B)
Amendments: $50.00. Includes: conditional use, text amendment, rezoning.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.172 - Legal status.
(A)
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this chapter, the provisions shall be considered minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, morals and general welfare of the citizens of Clay County. Where the provisions of this chapter require or impose more restrictive standards than are required by any other ordinance or law, the provisions of this chapter shall control. Where the provisions of any other ordinance or law require more restrictive standards than are required by this chapter, the provisions of such other ordinance or law shall control.
(B)
Saving clause. If any section, clause, provision or portion of this chapter shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not affect any other section, clause, provision or portion of this chapter which is not in and of itself invalid or unconstitutional.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
Sec. 154.999 - Penalty.
(A)
Ordinance violations may be tried in the Superior Court of Clay County, Georgia, upon citation issued by the County Inspector or other designated agent. Each citation shall state the time and place at which the accused violator is to appear for trial, shall identify the violation with which the accused is charged, shall have an identifying number by which it shall be filed with the court, shall indicate the identity of the accused and the date of service and shall be signed by the Building Inspector or other designated agent who shall complete and serve the citation.
(B)
Prosecutions for violations of this chapter in accordance with this section shall be commenced by the completion, signing and service of the citation by the Building Inspector or other designated agent, either of whom is authorized by this chapter to issue citations. The original of the citation shall be personally served upon the accused, and a copy shall be promptly filed with the Superior Court. No person shall be arrested prior to the time of trial for violations under this section, but any person who fails to appear at trial shall be arrested thereafter on a warrant of the Superior Court and required to post a bond for his or her future appearance.
(Ord. of 3-19-2002)
