Part III - FINANCE
CHAPTER 1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 3.1. - Temporary loans.
Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph I, of the Constitution of Georgia, which has heretofore been amended, shall be further amended by adding at the end thereof a new paragraph in the following words:
"And except that Spalding County may, in addition to the debts hereinbefore allowed, make temporary loans between March first (1st) and December first (1st) in each year, to be paid out of the taxes received by the county in that year, said loans to be evidenced by promissory notes signed by the Chairman and Clerk of the Board having charge of the levying of taxes in said county, and previously authorized by resolution by a majority vote at a regular monthly meeting of such Board, entered on the minutes. The aggregate amount of said loans outstanding at any one (1) time shall not exceed seventy-five per cent (75%) of the total gross income of the county from taxes and other sources in the preceding year, and no new loans shall be made in one (1) year until all loans made in the previous year have been paid in full." (1933 Ga. Laws, p. 29)
Editor's note— "50%" has been changed to "75%" above because the general law noted below controls. The constitutional amendment given in this section was continued in effect by § 1 of 1987 Georgia Laws, p. 3539.
Sec. 3.2. - Homestead exemptions.
(a)
The homestead of each resident of Spalding County who is totally disabled or sixty-two (62) years of age or older and who received less than twelve thousand five hundred dollars ($12,500.00) of income during the preceding calendar year shall be entirely exempt from Spalding County taxation.
(b)
For purposes of this Act [section], the income of a person shall include the gross income from all sources of the person plus the gross income from all sources of each member of the person's family who resides in the homestead. The tax officials of Spalding County may require appropriate proof of such person's income or of the income of each member of the person's family who resides in the homestead on a yearly basis to substantiate such person's continuing eligibility for the exemption provided by this Act [section].
(c)
For purposes of this Act [section], "homestead" means homestead as defined and qualified in code section 48-5-40 of the O.C.G.A. but shall not include more than the residence and three (3) acres of land.
(d)
For purposes of this Act [section], a person is totally disabled if the person has a medically demonstrable condition which renders the person wholly and permanently unable to pursue any gainful employment. The tax officials of Spalding County shall require appropriate proof of such disability on a yearly basis to substantiate such person's continuing eligibility for the exemption, including if necessary the affidavits of not more than two (2) licensed physicians as to the person's disability.
(e)
The exemptions granted by this Act [section] shall apply only to ad valorem taxes levied by Spalding County for county purposes, including but not limited to taxes levied to retire county bonded indebtedness, and taxes levied for the support of the Spalding County school district, including but not limited to taxes levied to retire bonded indebtedness of the school district.
(f)
The exemptions granted by this Act [section] shall apply to taxes for the year 1987 and future years.
(g)
The exemptions granted by this Act [section] shall be in lieu of and not in addition to any other exemption from ad valorem taxes levied for the support of Spalding County or the Spalding County school district.
(h)
The exemptions granted by this Act [section] shall be administered and granted in the same manner as the exemption granted pursuant to code section 48-5-52; and, except as expressly provided otherwise in this Act [section], all provisions of general state law which apply to said exemption shall apply to the exemptions granted by this Act [section]. (1986 Ga. Laws, p. 4855, § 1; 1992 Ga. Laws, Act. No. 88, § 1)
