PART I - ORGANIZATION AND BOUNDARIES
CHAPTER 1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Change of county lines, Ga. Code Ann., chapter 23-3.

Sec. 1.1. - County organized; original boundary.
There shall be a new county laid out and formed from the Counties of Pike, Henry and Fayette, to be bounded as follows:
Beginning on the line now separating the Counties of Henry and Butts, where the Towaliga River crosses the said line, and running up the middle of the stream of said river to the point where the western line of lot of land number one hundred and eighteen in the original second (2nd) district of Henry County crosses the same: thence north along the line as run by the surveyor in laying off said district into lots, to the northeast corner of lot number one hundred and forty nine in the said district, thence west on the original surveyed line to the southwest corner of lot number one hundred and eighty-two, in the original third (3rd) district of Henry County; thence north across two (2) ranges of lots; thence west along the surveyed line to [Flint River in Fayette County; thence down the middle of the main stream of said river to the south line of the eighth (8th) range of lots in the County of Pike; thence east along the surveyed line to the principal branch of the Potato Creek, in Pike County; thence down the run of the creek across one (1) range of lots;] thence east along the surveyed line to the line now separating the Counties of Pike and Monroe: thence north along the said line to the southwest corner of Butts County; thence with the line separating Butts from Pike and Henry Counties, to the beginning: the territory thus included shall form a new county, to be called the County of Spalding; the same shall be attached to the Flint Judicial Circuit, to the third (3rd) Congressional District, to the thirty-second (32nd) Senatorial District, and to the Second (2nd) Brigade of the Eighth (8th) Division Georgia Militia. (185 1-52 Ga. Laws 58)
Sec. 1.2 - Boundary altered.
(a)
The county line of Pike shall be so altered as to include the residences of William Anderson, Matthew Anderson, Francis Anderson, Benjamin F. Huckaby, Gideon Kirk, John C. Matthews, J. W. Hancock, Ezra Johnston, Jesse Davis, J.S. Bottoms, S. Dossey, J. O. Dossey, A. B. Trammel, David Huckaby, Henry F. Jackson, Thomas Holsey, William B. Horton, and Wiot A. Harper, now of the County of Spalding, in the County of Pike.
(b)
The line between the Counties of Spalding and Pike be so altered and changed, as to add the whole of lots of land numbers ninety-six (96) and ninety-seven (97), in the first (1st) district of originally Monroe, now Spalding County, whereon Uriah Askew now resides, to the County of Pike.
(c)
The line between the Counties of Butts and Spalding be so changed as to include the residence of Reason Blesset in the County of Spalding.
(d)
The line between the Counties of Pike and Spalding shall be so altered as to run as follows, to wit. From where the present line strikes Flint River, to run down said river to the mouth of Line Creek, thence up said creek to the line of Fayette County, so as to include in Spalding County all that part of Pike County situate and lying west and northwest of Flint River. (1851-52 Ga. Laws 73; 1853-54 Ga. Laws 312; 1855-56 Ga. Laws 124)
