ARTICLE A. - BUDGET

Sec. 2-5001. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year for the operations of the Spalding County government shall commence on July 1 of each year and shall end on June 30 of the ensuing year, and the fiscal year designation shall be that of the calendar year in which the fiscal year ends. The Spalding County government shall operate under an annual balanced budget as provided by state law, and said annual balanced budget shall conform with the fiscal year period. All budgeting, auditing and other financial provisions of state law shall be complied with by Spalding County.
(Ord. of 12-20-83, § 1)
Sec. 2-5002. - Proposed budget.
The county administrator shall, on or before May 1 of each year, submit to the board a budget request for the respective departments for the following fiscal year. Such budget shall show separately for the general funds, each utility, and each other fund:
(1)
The revenue and expenditure during the preceding fiscal year;
(2)
Appropriations and estimated revenue and recommended expenditures for the next fiscal year;
(3)
A comparative statement of the assets, liabilities, reserves and surplus at the end of the current fiscal year; and
(4)
Such other information and data as may be considered necessary by the board.
(Ord. of 12-20-83, §§ 2, 3)
Sec. 2-5003. - Action on budget.
Before the beginning of the ensuing fiscal year, the board shall adopt an appropriation ordinance, based on such budget, with such modifications as the board considers necessary or desirable. Appropriations need not be in more detail than a lump sum for each department, office, and agency unless otherwise directed by the board. The board shall not make any appropriations in excess of estimated revenue, except to provide for an actual emergency threatening the health, property, or lives, safety or general welfare of the inhabitants of the county, provided the board unanimously agrees that there is a need therefor. If there is not an appropriation ordinance passed before the beginning of the new fiscal year, the appropriations for the last fiscal year shall become the appropriations for the new fiscal year, subject to amendment by an ordinance specifically passed for such purpose.
(Ord. of 12-20-83, § 2)
Sec. 2-5004. - Capital improvements budget.
On or before June 1 of each year, the county manager shall submit to the board a proposed capital improvements budget with his recommendations as to the means of financing such improvements. The board shall accept, with or without amendments, or reject the proposed program and proposed means of financing. The board shall not authorize an expenditure for the construction of any building, structure, work or improvement, unless the appropriations for such projects are included in the capital improvements budget, except to meet a public emergency or need as determined by the commissioners. Such capital improvements budget may be revised and extended each year with regard to the capital improvements still pending or in the process of construction or acquisition. Before the beginning of the ensuing fiscal year, the board shall adopt an appropriation ordinance based on the proposed capital improvements budget, with such modifications as the board considers necessary or desirable. No appropriation provided for in the capital improvements budget shall lapse until the purpose for which appropriation was made shall have been accomplished or abandoned; provided, the county manager may submit amendments to the capital improvements budget at any time during the fiscal year. Any such amendments to the capital improvements budget shall become effective only upon adoption by a majority vote of the board.
(Ord. of 12-20-83, §§ 2, 4; Ord. No. 95-05, § 1, 2-7-95)
Sec. 2-5005—2-5010. - Reserved.
