Part I - INTRODUCTION
CHAPTER 1. - ADOPTION OF CODE

Sec. 1-1001. - Code adopted.
This codification, consisting of Parts I through XI, each inclusive, is hereby enacted as the "Code of Spalding County, Georgia," and shall be treated and considered as a new and original comprehensive ordinance of the county which shall supersede all other general and permanent ordinances enacted by the board of commissioners prior to April 19, 1976, except such as by reference thereto are expressly saved from repeal or continued in force and effect, and except for any zoning or subdivision regulations, or rules of the county health department, which are in no way affected by this section.
Sec. 1-1002. - Effective date.
All provisions of this Code shall be in full force and effect thirty (30) days from the date of enactment, and all ordinances of a general and permanent nature of the county enacted on final passage on or before April 19, 1976, and not in this Code or recognized and continued in force by reference herein and which are in conflict herewith are hereby repealed from and after the effective date hereof, except as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 1-1003. - Subjects not affected.
The repeal provided for in section 1-1002 hereof shall not affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code; nor shall such repeal affect any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money or authorizing the issuance of any bonds, or any evidence of indebtedness, or any contract or obligation; nor shall such repeal affect administrative regulations not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code; nor shall such repeal affect any franchise; nor shall such repeal affect any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way; nor shall such repeal affect the annual appropriation; nor shall such repeal affect any tax levy; nor shall such repeal affect any measure establishing and prescribing street grades; nor shall such repeal affect local improvements and charges therefor; nor shall such repeal affect any provision dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision; nor shall such repeal be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this ordinance.
Sec. 1-1004. - Rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Spalding County Commissioners:
Board of commissioners. Whenever the term "board" or "commissioners" is used, the same shall be held to mean the board of commissioners of Spalding County.
Clerk. The word "clerk" shall mean the clerk of the board of commissioners.
Computation of time. Unless otherwise specifically provided, the time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, except that the last shall be excluded if it be a Sunday or a holiday.
Departments, etc. The title of any department or other agency shall be construed as if it were followed by the words "of Spalding County."
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Land, real estate. "Land" and "real estate" include rights and easements of incorporeal nature.
Month. The word "month" shall mean calendar month.
Number. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to several persons and things as well as to one (1) person and thing.
Oath. The word "oath" shall include an affirmation in all cases in which by law an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and affirmed."
Officers. The title of an officer shall be construed as if it were followed by the words "of Spalding County."
Person. The word "person," unless otherwise indicated, shall extend and be applied to associations, societies, clubs, firms, corporations, partnerships and bodies politic as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The words "personal property" include every species of property except real property, as herein defined.
Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The word "property" shall include real and personal property.
Real property. The term "real property" shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature, subscription. The word "signature" or "subscription" includes a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The words "the state" or "this state" shall be construed to mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads and all other public highways in the county.
Written, in writing. The words "written" or "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
Sec. 1-1005. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of such sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
Sec. 1-1006. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the county comissioners that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by said commissioners without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional or otherwise invalid phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
Sec. 1-1007. - Enforcement; general penalty.
(a)
Notwithstanding anything herein this Code, as it now exists or as it may hereafter be amended, contained to the contrary, any person who shall do anything prohibited by this Code as it exists or as it may hereafter be amended, or who shall fail to do anything required by this Code as it now exists or as it may hereafter be amended, is hereby declared to be in violation of this Code, and the respective ordinance or the particular provisions of this Code prohibiting such actions, or requiring such actions, or requiring such actions, as the case may be.
(b)
Each and every day that any such violation exists shall be deemed a separate offense.
(c)
Any such violation, upon conviction thereof, as prescribed by the laws of Georgia, shall be punishable by a fine or imprisonment, or both, not to exceed the maximum fine or the maximum imprisonment, or both, as prescribed by the pertinent laws of Georgia as such laws [see section 36-1-20(b) of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated] now exist or as they may hereafter be amended; however, in no case shall the maximum punishment for any [one] violation exceed the maximum punishment as provided by the pertinent laws of Georgia in effect and existing at the time of such violation. [The maximum punishment which may now, at the effective date of the enactment of this Code section, be imposed under and by virtue of the pertinent laws of Georgia, being section 36-1-20(b) of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, shall not exceed a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment for sixty (60) days, or both, which such maximum amount of the fine or the maximum number of days of imprisonment, or both, may hereafter be changed, increased or decreased, from time to time, by the enactment of an amendment, or amendments, to the pertinent laws of Georgia.]
(d)
The imposition of any such fine or imprisonment, or both, for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such violators shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within the time as prescribed by the court having jurisdiction of such matter, and, in the absence of any such completion time being fixed by the court, within a reasonable time after such violations occur.
(e)
The application of any fine, imprisonment or other penalty shall not be construed to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions or to postpone any action required.
(f)
The remedies herein set out for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Code shall not be deemed to be exclusive, but shall be cumulative of all other remedies, civil or criminal, provided by the laws of Georgia, or by the ordinances of Spalding County. (Res. of 12-18-84, § 5; Res. of 6-7-88, § 1; Ord. No. 2015-09, 11-16-15)
Editor's note— The bracketed text in subsection (c) was included in the resolution adopted June 7, 1988, which amended this section in its entirety.
Sec. 1-1008. - Effect of repeal of ordinance.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
Sec. 1-1009. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as those ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-1010. - Altering Code.
It shall he unlawful for any person in the county to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever except by ordinance or other official act of the commissioners, which will cause the law of the county to be misrepresented thereby.
Sec. 1-1011. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances.
All ordinances passed subsequent to the passage of the ordinances originally included in this Code which amend, repeal, or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code by the commissioners.
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case maybe.
The enactment of an ordinance, in the absence of language to the contrary, shall not repeal any ordinance theretofore passed dealing with the same matter, except where in direct conflict therewith.
Sec. 1-1012. - Applicability of Code.
The provisions of this Code, unless otherwise clearly specified, shall apply only in the unincorporated areas of the county.
