CHAPTER 10. - RECORDS MANAGEMENT

Sec. 2-10001. - Title.
This chapter shall be known, and referred to, as the "Spalding County Records Management Ordinance."
(Ord. of 12-6-83, § 1)
Sec. 2-10002. - Purpose.
This chapter is made, adopted and enacted to provide for a procedural control for the destruction, storage, or preservation of records of the Spalding County government, for identification of those records which are historically valuable and to provide for their permanent preservation, to provide for proper identification and storage facilities for such documents as are important as documentary evidence of history and heritage, and for other purposes.
(Ord. of 12-6-83, § 2)
Sec. 2-10003. - Georgia Records Act adopted.
There is hereby adopted by the board of commissioners of Spalding County, Georgia, the Georgia Records Act and such rules and regulations established pursuant to said act as a basis for establishing a records management program in Spalding County.
(Ord. of 12-6-83, § 3)
Sec. 2-10004. - Administration.
The county administrator, or his designated representative, shall be responsible for the administration of the records management program. The board of commissioners shall designate an officer or employee to serve as records management officer for Spalding County. Such records management officer shall be appointed and serve as provided in section 2.14 of the Code of Spalding County, Division I, Part II, Chapter 1. The records management officer will act for and in behalf of the county in directing and coordinating all records management matters.
(Ord. of 12-6-83, § 4)
Sec. 2-10005. - Records committee.
(a)
Created; composition; general duties. There is hereby created a records committee, said committee to consist of the judge of probate court, the clerk of the superior court, the county administrator, and the records management officer, or their designated representatives. It shall be the duty of the records committee to review and recommend approval, disapproval or modification of records retention schedules to the board of commissioners. Review of records retention schedules shall be based upon legal, fiscal, administrative and historical retention requirements.
(b)
Chairman; meetings; quorum. The records management officer shall serve as chairman of the records committee and shall schedule meetings of the committee as required. Three (3) members shall constitute a quorum.
(c)
Schedules adopted by reference; authority of committee. Schedules adopted by reference; authority of committee. The most recent "Retention Schedules for Local Government Records", as compiled by the Georgia Department of Archives and History and as approved by the State Records Committee, are hereby adopted and by reference incorporated herein and made a part of this Code as completely and to the same extent as if all provisions thereof were fully recited in this chapter. Provided, however, that the records committee herein established and created may make recommendations to revise, amend, delete or add schedules not in conflict with state law and deemed advisable and necessary. Final approval authority for all recommendations by the records committee shall be the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 12-6-83, § 5; Ord. No. 2001-09, § 2, 9-4-01)
Sec. 2-10006. - Archival depository.
The board of commissioners shall select an archival depository to store those records determined to have permanent historical value.
(Ord. of 12-6-83, § 6)
Sec. 2-10007. - Centralized records center.
The board of commissioners shall select and establish a centralized records center. All records not required for day-to-day office operation in the various departments and offices of the county shall be transferred to the records center for storage until destroyed in accordance with the approved records retention schedule.
(Ord. of 12-6-83, § 7)
Sec. 2-10008. - Equipment; alteration, destruction of records.
(a)
The board of commissioners shall provide for adequate equipment and supplies for the proper storage of records. Such equipment may include microfilm or microfiche or other equipment as permitted or required by state law.
No record shall be altered or destroyed except in accordance with provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. of 12-6-83, § 8)
Sec. 2-10009. - Records to be open.
(a)
The county archival depository and records center shall be open during normal and reasonable hours. Except as otherwise provided by law, ordinance or policy adopted by the board of commissioners, all records shall be open to the public or the state or any agency thereof.
(b)
In all cases where an interested member of the public has a right to inspect or take extracts or make copies from public records, instruments or documents, any such person shall have the right of access to the same while in the possession, custody and control of the records management officer, or his authorized deputy. Such work shall be done under the supervision of the records management officer, who shall have the right to adopt and enforce reasonable rules governing the work. All inspections, extracts or copies shall be done in the room where the records, documents or instruments are kept by law.
(c)
The records management officer may make copies of any records or any preservation duplicates transferred or deposited in the archival depository or records center or may make reproductions of such records. The records management officer may establish and charge reasonable fees for such services.
(Ord. of 12-6-83, § 9)
