ARTICLE VII. - EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS

Sec. 700. - Walls and Fences.
Walls or fences shall be permitted in any zoning district and are not subject to setback requirements of this Resolution, except that in a Residential Zoning District:
1.
No wall or fence shall exceed eight (8) feet in height within a side yard or rear yard.
2.
Any wall or fence which extends into the front yard shall not exceed four (4) feet in height, except fences enclosing stormwater facilities which may not exceed six (6) feet in height.
3.
Fences enclosing tennis courts may not exceed twelve (12) feet in height.
4.
No wall or fence constructed of woven wire or metal fabric (chain link, hog wire or barbed wire) shall extend into a front yard, except fences enclosing stormwater facilities, which may be vinyl coated chain link. Woven wire or metal fabric fences may extend into a front yard when the property contains a minimum of three (3) acres and any wall or fence shall not be constructed of exposed concrete block, tires, junk or other discarded materials.
5.
Any wall or fence which extends into the required front yard on property less than three (3) acres shall be ornamental or decorative and constructed of brick, stone, wood, stucco, wrought iron, split rail, and shall not be constructed of exposed concrete block, tires, junk or other discarded materials.
6.
Any subdivision entrance, wall or fence shall not exceed ten (10) feet in height and shall be subject to approval of the Director of Planning and Development after the submission to Development Review of a landscape plan, site plan and architectural elevations.
7.
Electric and barb wire fences shall be prohibited in residential districts except on lots which meet or exceed the minimum requirements for the raising and keeping of livestock (3 acres).
(Ord. No. 2016-02-69, Exh. A, 2-28-2016)
Sec. 701. - Structures Excluded from Height Limitations.
The height limitations of this Resolution shall not apply to spires on religious facilities, belfries, flag poles, monuments, cupolas, domes, ornamental towers, nor to observation towers not intended for human occupancy, sanctuaries of religious facilities (permitted up to 65 feet in height when located at least 100' from abutting residential property) water towers, transmission towers, radio or television towers or aerials, chimneys, smokestacks, conveyors, derricks, nor to necessary mechanical roof appurtenances nor to barns and silos when located on a farm.
The above exclusions from height limits shall not apply in the vicinity of airports.
(Ord. No. 2016-02-69, Exh. A, 2-28-2016; Ord. No. 2017-12-108, ยง 1, 1-16-2018)
Sec. 702. - Substandard Lots of Record.
Any lot of record existing at the time of the adoption or amendment of this Resolution, that has an area or width that is less than is required by this Resolution, may be used, subject to the following exceptions and modifications:
1.
Adjoining Lots. When two (2) or more adjoining lots of record with continuous frontage are in one (1) ownership at any time after the adoption or amendment of this Resolution and such lots, individually, have an area or width that is less than is required by this Resolution, then such contiguous lots shall be considered as a single lot or several lots of the minimum width and area required in the Zoning District in which they are located.
2.
Individual Lot Not Meeting Minimum Lot Size Requirements. Except as set forth in Subsection 1 of this Section, in any Zoning District in which one-(1)-family dwellings are permitted, any lot of record existing at the time of adoption or amendment of this Resolution which has an area, width or depth less than that required by this Resolution may be used as a building site for a one-(1)-family dwelling.
In the case of such a lot, when it is not possible to provide the required side yards and at the same time build a minimum width one-(1)-family dwelling, the City of Peachtree Corners Zoning Board of Appeals is hereby authorized to grant a variance reducing the side-yard requirements for such lot the minimum amount necessary for a reasonable dwelling, but in no case shall each of the side yards be less than five (5) feet in width.
(Ord. No. 2016-02-69, Exh. A, 2-28-2016)
Sec. 703. - Exceptions to Front-yard Requirements.
The front yard requirements of this Resolution shall not apply on any lot where the average depth of the front yards of existing buildings on adjoining lots located wholly or in part within one hundred (100) feet on each side of such lot within the same block and Zoning District and fronting on the same side of the street is either greater or less than the minimum required front-yard depth.
If the average depth of the front yards is greater than the required minimum front-yard depth, the depth of the front yard of such lot shall be the average of the front yards of the above-mentioned buildings but need not be greater than 150 percent of the required front-yard depth.
If the average depth of the front yards is less than the required minimum front-yard depth, the depth of the front yard of such lot may be less than the required front-yard depth but shall not be less than the average of the front yards of the aforementioned buildings.
(Ord. No. 2016-02-69, Exh. A, 2-28-2016)
Sec. 704. - Temporary Buildings.
A temporary building or buildings for use in connection with a construction project or land subdivision development shall be permitted on the land of the project during the construction period.
(Ord. No. 2016-02-69, Exh. A, 2-28-2016)
Sec. 705. - Permitted Encroachments upon Required Setbacks.
Cornices, eaves, chimneys, landings, porches, bay windows, or other similar architectural features may extend into the required front, side, and rear yard provided such extensions do not exceed three (3) feet. Decks and patios may extend into the side or rear yard but no closer than five (5) feet from any property line. Steps and landings may extend into the required setbacks provided such extensions do not exceed ten (10) feet for the front yard and three (3) feet for side yards. Steps and landings may extend into the rear yard, but no closer than five (5) feet from the property line. Canopies, covered entrances or walkways for non-residential day care facilities, churches, or other similar uses may extend into the required side or rear yard provided such extension does not exceed three (3) feet and may extend into the required front yard provided such extensions do not extend to a point any closer than fifteen (15) feet from the street right-of-way line or future right-of-way line as designated by the Gwinnett County Long-Range Road Classification Map, whichever is greater. However, canopies over pump islands or over sidewalks may extend up to the street right-of-way line or future right-of-way line as designated by the Gwinnett County Long-Range Road Classification Map, whichever is greater.
(Ord. No. 2016-02-69, Exh. A, 2-28-2016)
