ARTICLE VII. - CONSTRUCTION, DEMOLITION, AND INERT SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 10-251. - Responsibility.
It shall be the responsibility of the department of planning and development, in the exercise of their normal duties, to enforce this article, as well as state, county and city laws regarding solid waste disposal.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 14-241)
Sec. 10-252. - Applicability.
This article shall be applicable to active building, land disturbing, and development sites which have or will have a valid permit and are located in the city.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 14-242)
Sec. 10-253. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Bury pit means a hole or depression in the ground that has been filled with building and/or organic materials (such as lumber and tree limbs) and then covered with dirt. In time, usually in five to ten years, the organic material in the holes starts to decay and the ground above the material subsides causing a depression in the ground surface.
Construction/demolition waste, as defined in Ga. Comp. Rules and Regs. 391-3-4-.01(14) of the rules of the state department of natural resources environmental protection division, solid waste management, means waste building material and rubble resulting from construction, remodeling, repair, and demolition operations on pavements, houses, commercial buildings and other structures. Such wastes include, but are not limited to, asbestos containing waste, wood, bricks, metal, concrete, wallboard, paper, cardboard, inert waste landfill material, and other nonputrescible wastes which have a low potential for groundwater contamination.
EPD means the state department of natural resources, environmental protection division.
Inert waste landfill, as defined in Ga. Comp. Rules and Regs. 391-3-4-.01(28) of the rules of the state department of natural resources, environmental protection division, solid waste management, means a disposal facility accepting only wastes that will not or are not likely to cause the production of leachate of environmental concern. Such wastes are limited to bricks, yard trimmings, stumps, and leaves. This definition excludes industrial and demolition waste not specifically listed above.
Municipal solid waste, as defined in Ga. Comp. Rules and Regs. 391-3-4-.01(37) of the rules of the state department of natural resources, environmental protection division, solid waste management, means any solid waste derived from households, including garbage, trash, and sanitary waste in septic tanks, and means solid waste from single-family and multifamily residences, hotels and motels, bunkhouses, campgrounds, picnic grounds, and day use recreation areas. The term "municipal solid waste" includes yard trimmings and commercial solid waste, but does not include solid waste from mining, agricultural, or silvicultural operation or industrial processes or operations.
Open dump means a disposal facility in which solid waste from one or more sources is consolidated and left to decompose, burn, or to otherwise create a threat to human health or the environment.
Sinkhole means a hollow place or depression that has formed in the ground which may be the result of decay of buried organic material.
Stop work order means an order to cease and desist building, development, and land disturbing and is issued by the department of planning and development pursuant to section 11.4.5 of the development regulations and section 102.3 of the construction code.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 14-243)
Sec. 10-254. - Permit application; filing of solid waste management plan.
Each application for a building, land disturbing or development permit shall be accompanied by a solid waste management plan filed on forms provided by the department of planning and development for that purpose. The applicant's solid waste management plan shall, at a minimum, consist of the following:
(1)
The identity of the solid waste material hauler, if the solid waste material is to be hauled to a state approved solid waste material disposal site.
(2)
The location of the state approved solid waste material disposal site where solid waste material will be hauled.
(3)
If inert waste material is to be disposed of on site, acknowledgment that the applicant must file a notification of permit by rule with the EPD and must comply with the rules of the state department of natural resources environmental protection division, solid waste management.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 14-244)
Sec. 10-255. - Exemption from EPD rules.
Ga. Comp. Rules and Regs. 391-3-4-.04(3) of the rules of the state department of natural resources environmental protection division grants an exemption as follows: Provisions of these rules shall not apply to any individual disposing of solid wastes originating from his own residence onto land or facilities owned by him when disposal of such wastes does not thereby adversely affect the public health.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 14-245)
Secs. 10-256—10-273. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES

Sec. 10-274. - Construction and demolition waste.
(a)
Upon discovery of on-site disposal activity of construction and demolition waste at a building, land disturbing, or development site, the inspector shall investigate.
(b)
A stop work order shall immediately be issued by the inspector and all inspections shall be suspended. A stop work order shall not be rescinded until the construction and demolition waste has been removed and disposed of at a state approved disposal facility.
(c)
After issuing the stop work order, the department of planning and development shall give notice of the potential violation to the EPD (telephone number (404) 362-2671; fax number (404) 362-2654).
(d)
If a violation of a stop work order is discovered, the inspector shall issue a citation to recorder's court for violating the stop work order.
(e)
Approval of final plats, exemption plats, certificates of occupancy and certificates of completion, as appropriate to the project, shall be withheld by the department of planning and development until the construction and demolition waste has been removed from the building, land disturbing, or development site.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 14-261)
Sec. 10-275. - Inert waste.
(a)
Upon discovery of on-site disposal activity of inert waste at a building, land disturbing, or development site, the inspector shall investigate and request a copy of the applicant's notification of permit by rule operations that is required to be submitted to the EPD by state law under Ga. Comp. Rules and Regs. 391-3-4-.06 of the rules of the state department of natural resources environmental protection division.
(b)
If the disposal activity is not covered by an EPD permit by rule, a stop work order shall immediately be issued by the inspector and all inspections shall be suspended. A stop work order shall not be rescinded until either the inert waste has been removed, or verification is obtained that a notification of permit by rule operations form has been filed with the EPD.
(c)
Upon verification that a notification of permit by rule operations form has not been submitted, the department of planning and development shall give notice of the potential violation to the EPD (telephone number (404) 362-2671; fax number (404) 362-2654).
(d)
If a violation of a stop work order is discovered, the inspector shall issue a citation to the recorder's court for violating the stop work order.
(e)
Approval of final plats, exemption plats, certificates of occupancy and certificates of completion, as appropriate to the project, shall be withheld by the department of planning and development until one of the following compliance options have occurred:
(1)
The inert waste has been removed from the building, land disturbing, or development site.
(2)
A final plat or exemption plat has been recorded with the clerk of superior court indicating compliance with Ga. Comp. Rules and Regs. 391-3-4-.06(3)(c)9. of the rules of the state department of natural resources environmental protection division.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 14-262)
Sec. 10-276. - Bury pits.
(a)
If an on-site bury pit is suspected of being located adjacent to the foundation of a building, the department of planning and development shall cause an investigation to commence to determine if a violation of the construction code occurred.
(b)
If an on-site bury pit is suspected of being located within the right-of-way of a street, and the street is covered by a maintenance bond, the department of planning and development shall investigate and withhold release of the maintenance bond until the waste material has been removed.
(c)
Any other suspected bury pit location (e.g., in the front yard, under a driveway, etc.) shall be considered a private problem and must be resolved between the property owner and the builder or developer or reported by the property owner to the EPD.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 14-263)
Sec. 10-277. - Sinkholes.
(a)
If a sinkhole is suspected of being located adjacent to the foundation of a building, the department of planning and development shall cause an investigation to commence to determine if a violation of the construction code occurred.
(b)
If a sinkhole is located anywhere else in the yard or driveway, it shall be considered a private problem and must be resolved between the property owner and the builder or developer or reported by the property owner to the EPD.
(c)
If a sinkhole is suspected of being located within the right-of-way of street, and the street is covered by a maintenance bond, the department of planning and development shall investigate and withhold release of the maintenance bond until the sinkhole has been corrected.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 14-264)
Secs. 10-278—10-302. - Reserved.
