ARTICLE XIV. - ADOPTION AND AMENDMENT[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Note— Formerly art. XIII, see editor's note for art. IX.

Sec. 34-373. - Effective date.
(a)
Effective on adoption. These regulations shall be in full force and effect on January 29, 2013, following the adoption by the mayor and council of the city, and shall apply to any land disturbance permit for which an application is received after the effective date of these regulations.
(b)
Grandfather provisions; development permit application received prior to adoption. Any subdivision or other project for which a valid and complete application for a development permit shall have been received prior to the effective date of these regulations shall be considered "grandfathered" and, at the developer's option, may proceed to completion and building permits may be issued under the subdivision regulations of the city in place prior to the effective date of these regulations, provided that the development permit is or can be issued within 90 calendar days of said effective date and all time frames associated with said permit are observed.
(c)
Grandfather provisions; development permit issued prior to adoption. Any subdivision or other project for which a development permit has been issued prior to the effective date of these regulations shall be considered "grandfathered" and, at the developer's option, may proceed to completion and building permits may be issued under the terms of said permit and the subdivision regulations of the city in place prior to said effective date.
(d)
Grandfather provisions; clearing, clearing and grubbing, grading. Any subdivision or other project for which only a clearing, clearing and grubbing, or grading permit shall have been issued prior to effective date of these regulations shall be brought into conformance with these regulations prior to issuance of a development permit. Administrative modifications in accordance with article XII of this chapter shall be granted as necessary and appropriate where full compliance is not feasible or cannot reasonably be achieved because of the stage of development, limitations imposed by the site, or design parameters.
(e)
Building permits. Nothing in these regulations shall be construed to affect the validity of any building permit lawfully issued prior to the effective date of these regulations.
(Ord. No. 2013-01-02, art. 14, § 14.1, 1-29-2013)
Sec. 34-374. - Amendments.
(a)
By mayor and council. These regulations may be amended from time to time by resolution of the mayor and council of the city. Such amendments shall be effective as of their date of adoption unless otherwise stated in the adopting resolution.
(b)
Grandfather provisions; development permit application received prior to adoption. Any subdivision or other project for which a valid and complete application for a development permit shall have been received prior to the adoption of an amendment to these regulations may, at the developer's option, proceed to completion and building permits may be issued as though no amendment had been approved, provided that the development permit is or can be issued within 90 calendar days of said amendment and all time frames associated with said permit are observed.
(c)
Grandfather provisions; development permit issued prior to adoption. Any subdivision or other project for which a development permit has been issued prior to the adoption of an amendment to these regulations may, at the developer's option, proceed to completion and building permits may be issued as though no amendment had been approved.
(d)
Grandfather provisions; clearing, clearing and grubbing, grading. Any subdivision or other project for which only a clearing, clearing and grubbing, or grading permit shall have been issued prior to adoption of an amendment to these regulations shall be brought into conformance with the amendment (if applicable) prior to issuance of a development permit. Administrative modifications in accordance with article XII of this chapter shall be granted as necessary and appropriate where full compliance is not feasible or cannot reasonably be achieved because of the stage of development, limitations imposed by the site, or design parameters.
(e)
Building permits. No amendment to these regulations shall be construed to affect the validity of any building permit lawfully issued prior to the adoption of said amendment.
(Ord. No. 2013-01-02, art. 14, § 14.2, 1-29-2013)
Sec. 34-375. - Severability.
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of these regulations is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or void, the validity of the remaining portions of these regulations shall not be affected thereby, it being the intent of the mayor and council of the city in adopting these regulations that no portion thereof or provision of the regulations contained herein shall become inoperative or fail by reason of the unconstitutionality or invalidity of any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or provisions of these regulations.
(Ord. No. 2013-01-02, art. 14, § 14.3, 1-29-2013)
Sec. 34-376. - Conflicting regulations.
All regulations or parts of regulations of this Code in conflict with these regulations shall be and the same are hereby repealed in their portions so in conflict; provided, however, that it is not the intent of these regulations to repeal or affect any law of the state, or any code or ordinance of the city adopted as a requirement of a state law, in which case the most restrictive requirement shall control.
(Ord. No. 2013-01-02, art. 14, § 14.4, 1-29-2013)
