ARTICLE XIII. - ENTERTAINMENT DISTRICTS

Sec. 6-408. - Definitions.
[The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:]
Entertainment district means an area of Peachtree Corners with a highly concentrated grouping of businesses and activities focused on entertainment which may include, but is not limited to, restaurants, theater, jazz club, comedy club, special event space, and art galleries. Designated entertainment districts shall include the town center entertainment district and any other qualifying district as approved by the city council.
Town center entertainment district means an area bounded by the following:
(1)
To the north: the north side of all properties zoned C-2, MUD, and OBP located within Land Lots 301 and 317 and abutting the south side of Medlock Bridge Road and East Jones Bridge Road.
(2)
To the south: the south side of all properties zoned C-2, MUD, and OBP located within Land Lots 301 and 317 and abutting DaVinci Ct. and the south side of Peachtree Corners Circle.
(3)
To the west: the west side of all properties zoned C-2 located within Land Lots 301 and 317 and abutting that portion of Peachtree Parkway between East Jones Bridge Road and Peachtree Corners Circle.
(Ord. No. 2018-04-122, § 1, 5-22-2018)
Sec. 6-409. - Outside consumption of alcoholic beverages.
Outside consumption of alcoholic beverages beyond a restaurant or patio area is permitted within a designated entertainment district provided that the alcoholic beverages are limited to malt beverages and wine. Any establishment licensed to sell malt beverages and wine by the drink for consumption on the premises is authorized to dispense malt beverages and wine in a paper or plastic cup, or other container other than a can, bottle, or glass, for removal from the premises, subject to the following regulations:
(1)
No establishment shall dispense to any person more than two alcoholic beverage at a time for removal from the premises, and no person shall remove at one time more than two alcoholic beverage from the licensed premises.
(2)
No container in which an alcoholic beverage is dispensed and removed from the licensed premises shall exceed 16 fluid ounces in size. No person shall hold in possession on the streets and sidewalks, in common areas, in the parking lots, or in other public places within a designated entertainment district any open alcoholic beverage container which exceeds 16 fluid ounces in size.
(3)
It shall be unlawful for any person to drink or attempt to drink any alcoholic beverage from a can, bottle, or glass, or to possess in an open can, bottle, or glass any alcoholic beverage on the streets, sidewalks, rights-of-way, common areas, and parking lots, whether public or private, except as follows:
a.
Glass containers shall be allowed in a licensee's outdoor sit-down dining areas that are situated on a sidewalk or other right-of-way.
b.
Non-glass containers are permitted in common areas when the city authorizes 'brown bagging' events pursuant to section 6-411.
(4)
Alcoholic beverages consumed pursuant to this provision must be purchased from a licensed premises within that designated entertainment district.
(5)
No alcoholic beverage purchased pursuant to this provision shall be consumed except within the authorized hours of sale of the establishment where purchased except during special events and festivals, as authorized by the city.
(6)
Alcoholic beverages may not be consumed while in the confines of a motor vehicle while the motor vehicle is located upon any public street, parking lot or other place to which the public has or is permitted to have access within an entertainment district. An exception to this prohibition is permitted when the driver is operating the vehicle pursuant to a contract to provide transportation for passengers and such driver holds a valid license for the operation of a vehicle for hire.
(7)
No alcoholic beverage purchased pursuant to this section may be consumed outside of the designated entertainment district.
(Ord. No. 2018-04-122, § 1, 5-22-2018)
Sec. 6-410. - Brown bagging.
Individuals may bring wine and/or malt beverages into the common area of an entertainment district provided that the time and location for doing so is authorized in advance by the city with a special event permit and that no glass containers are used.
(Ord. No. 2018-04-122, § 1, 5-22-2018)
Sec. 6-411. - Miscellaneous.
(a)
Noise. Except as noted in (a)(1), below, sound levels should not exceed the following, (as measured from the property line of the receiving property):
EXPAND
Weekdays Weekends
7:00 a.m. to 10:59 p.m.:
100 dBA 7:00 a.m.to 12:59 a.m.:
100 dBA
11:00 p.m.to 7:00 a.m.:
85 dBA 1:00 a.m.to 7:00 a.m.:
85 dBA
  (1)
The maximum noise level may be exceeded for a cumulative period of less than one minute in any given 15-minute period.
(b)
Pet friendly leashed dogs are permitted throughout common areas and on private property with the property owner's permission. Pet owners must comply with pet waste regulations.
(Ord. No. 2018-04-122, § 1, 5-22-2018)
Sec. 6-412. - No abrogation of other laws.
The provisions of this article shall not be deemed to abrogate or otherwise impact any state law or local ordinance pertaining to public drunkenness, disorderly conduct, driving with an open container or under the influence of alcohol, or similar laws.
(Ord. No. 2018-04-122, § 1, 5-22-2018)
