ARTICLE II. - RETAIL SALES OF DISTILLED SPIRITS FOR CONSUMPTION ON THE PREMISES

Sec. 6-69. - Locations where permitted.
No distilled spirits may be sold by the drink for consumption on the premises where sold except:
(1)
In eating establishments regularly serving prepared food, with a full-service kitchen. A full-service kitchen will consist of a three-compartment pot sink, a stove or grill permanently installed, and a refrigerator, all of which must be approved by the county health and fire departments. Such eating establishment will regularly serve food every hour they are open and derive at least as much gross receipts annually from the sale of prepared meals or food as it derives from the sale of distilled spirits. When eating establishments are located in hotels, motels, and high-rise office and apartment buildings, every entrance to the establishment shall be from a public lobby, hallway, mall or other publicly used interior portion of the primary use structure.
(2)
In indoor commercial recreation establishments.
(3)
In an indoor publicly owned civic and cultural center capable of serving prepared food, with a full-service kitchen (a full-service kitchen will consist of a three-compartment pot sink, a stove or grill permanently installed, and a refrigerator, all of which must be approved by the county health and fire departments) prepared to serve food every hour it is open and deriving at least 70 percent of its total annual gross sales from the sale of prepared meals or foods and recreational, promotional or entertainment or operational activities.
(4)
In indoor entertainment halls.
(5)
Public stadium, coliseum or auditorium.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 6-66)
Sec. 6-70. - Investigative and administrative costs.
Each application for a license under this article shall be accompanied by a certified check for the full amount of the license fee, together with a separate certified check or cash in an amount sufficient to defray investigative and administrative costs. If the applicant is denied a state license, the deposit representing the license fee shall be refunded; but the cost paid for investigation and administrative costs shall be retained. However, any person applying for more than one license shall pay only one fee to defray investigative and administrative expenses, which fee shall be the largest of the investigative and administrative fees authorized under this Code. Any applicant for a license under this article who has in existence at the time of making the new application an existing license under this article shall pay no investigative and administrative costs. The investigative and administrative fee shall be in an amount as established by the mayor and council from time to time.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 6-67)
Sec. 6-71. - Advertising in official gazette of county.
A notice of each application to sell distilled spirits by consumption shall be advertised in the official gazette of the county, once a week for two weeks immediately preceding consideration of the application.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 6-68)
Sec. 6-72. - Hours and days of sale.
(a)
Distilled spirits shall not be sold for consumption on the premises except between the hours of 9:00 a.m. until 1:55 a.m. Monday through Saturday.
(b)
Distilled spirits shall not be sold for consumption at any time in violation of any local ordinance or regulation or of any special order of the governing authority.
(c)
The sale of distilled spirits for consumption on the premises is permitted on Sundays from 11:00 a.m. until 12:00 midnight in:
(1)
Any licensed establishment which derives at least 50 percent of its total annual gross sales from the sale of prepared meals or food in all of the combined retail outlets of the individual establishment where food is served;
(2)
Any licensed establishment which derives at least 50 percent of its total annual gross income from the rental of rooms for overnight lodging;
(3)
In any publicly owned civic and cultural center capable of serving prepared food with a full-service kitchen (a full-service kitchen will consist of a three-compartment pot sink, a stove or grill permanently installed, and a refrigerator, all of which must be approved by the Gwinnett Health and Fire Departments) prepared to serve food every hour it is open and deriving at least 70 percent of its total annual gross sales from the sale of prepared meals or foods and recreational, promotional, entertainment or operational activities; or
(4)
A public stadium, coliseum or auditorium which derives at least 50 percent of its total annual gross food and beverage sales from the sale of prepared meals or food.
(d)
Distilled spirits may be sold for consumption on the premises from 12:00 midnight to 1:55 a.m. on any Monday which is New Year's Day, January 1, of any year.
(e)
It shall be unlawful for a business holding a distilled spirits consumption on the premises license to fail to remove from its retail service area any and all cans, bottles, glasses, mugs, pitchers, cups, or any other container used in the consumption of alcoholic beverages or to otherwise allow the consumption of alcoholic beverages on its premises one hour or more after the business is prohibited from selling, dispensing, or delivering alcoholic beverages to any customer, patron or guest of the business. A public stadium, coliseum or auditorium shall remove from its retail service area any and all cans, bottles, glasses, mugs, pitchers, cups, or any other container used in the consumption of alcoholic beverages within 24 hours following any event.
(f)
A violation of subsection (a), (b) or (e) of this section by a licensee, majority stockholder, general manager or managing partner of the licensee or licensed establishment shall result in license suspension for a period of two days, which shall be scheduled to include a Friday and Saturday in succession.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 6-69; Ord. No. 2018-09-132, § 1, 10-23-2018)
Secs. 6-73—6-102. - Reserved.
