ARTICLE VI. - FORTUNE-TELLING AND RELATED PRACTICES[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Local government authorized to require a business or practitioner of a profession or occupation to pay a regulatory fee when local government performs investigation or inspection of such businesses or practitioners of such profession or occupation as protection of the public health, safety, or welfare or in the course of enforcing a state or local building, health, or safety code, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9.

Sec. 14-209. - Occupation tax certificate required, application.
(a)
All persons, firms or corporations desiring to engage in the business, trade or profession of fortune-telling, astrology, phrenology, palmistry, clairvoyance, or related practices where a charge is made, or a donation is accepted for services shall, before engaging in such business, trade or profession, make application for an occupation tax certificate in the form and manner prescribed by the city or its designee.
(b)
The application shall include, but shall not be limited to, the information required on all occupation tax returns, along with a certificate certifying as to the good moral character of the applicant, signed by three currently qualified and registered voters of good moral character of the city. The letter shall not be required for annual renewals of the occupation tax certificate.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-151)
Sec. 14-210. - Work permits required.
Prior to the issuance of an occupation tax certificate, a work permit shall be required for the owners, managers and employees.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-152)
Sec. 14-211. - General operating provisions.
(a)
It shall be the duty of all persons holding an occupation tax certificate under this article to annually file, along with the renewal application for the occupation tax certificate, the names of all employees, their home address, home telephone number and places of employment. The holder of an occupation tax certificate issued under the provisions of this article must additionally report changes in the list of employees with the names and required supplemental information for new employees to be filed with the city or its designee within ten days from the date of such change.
(b)
It shall be the duty of any person granted a certificate under this article to maintain correct and accurate records of the name and address of the persons receiving services at such establishment, the type of services administered, and the name of the person at the establishment administering the services. The records shall be subject to inspection at any time by the city or its designee, or the county chief of police or his designee.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to patronize any fortune-telling or related establishment unless such person carries with him at the time of such patronage, written permission of the underage person's parent or guardian. It shall be the duty of the holder of an occupation tax certificate to determine the age of the person attempting to patronize an establishment and to prohibit such patronage by an underage person.
(d)
Records required to be maintained under this article shall be kept for a minimum of two years beyond the expiration date of an occupation tax certificate. Records shall be made available to the city or its designee, at a location in the city, within ten business days of any such request.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-153)
Sec. 14-212. - Inspection of registered establishments.
Sworn officers of the county police department shall have the authority to inspect establishments registered under this article during the hours in which the premises are open for business. Such inspection shall be made for the purpose of verifying compliance with the requirements of this article. This section is not intended to limit the authority of the city or its designee or any other county officer to conduct inspections authorized by other provisions of the Code.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-154)
Sec. 14-213. - Applicant disqualification.
No occupation tax certificate shall be granted to any person under the age of 18 or who has been convicted, pled guilty or entered a plea of nolo contendere under any federal, state or local law of any crime involving moral turpitude, illegal gambling, any felony, criminal trespass, public indecency, misdemeanor involving any type of sexual related crime, any theft or violence against person or property, any crime of possession, sale, or distribution of illegal drugs, distribution of material depicting nudity or sexual conduct as defined under state law, criminal solicitation to commit any of these listed offenses, attempts to commit any of these listed offenses, for a period of ten years prior to the date of application for such certificate, and has been released from parole or probation.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 18-155)
Secs. 14-214—14-234. - Reserved.
