ARTICLE VI. - PRIVATE CLUBS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Sale of distilled spirits by private clubs, O.C.G.A. § 3-7-1 et seq.

Sec. 6-177. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Fixed salary means the amount of compensation paid any member, officer, agent, or employee of a bona fide private club as may be fixed for him by its members at a prior annual meeting or by the governing body out of the general revenue of the club and shall not include a commission on any profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages. For the purpose of this definition, tips or gratuities which are added to the bills under club regulation shall not be considered as profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages.
Private club means any nonprofit association organized under the laws of this state which:
(1)
Has been in existence at least one year prior to the filing of its application for a license to be issued pursuant to this article;
(2)
Has at least 75 regular dues paying members;
(3)
Owns, hires or leases a building or space within a building for the reasonable use of its members with:
a.
Suitable kitchen and dining room space and equipment;
b.
A sufficient number of employees for cooking, preparing and serving meals for its members and guests; and
c.
Has no member, officer, agent or employee, directly or indirectly, receiving, in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages beyond a fixed salary.
Sports club means an association or corporation organized and existing under the laws of the state, organized and operated primarily to provide a location for the patrons thereof to engage in sporting events. To qualify for an alcoholic beverage consumption dealer's license, a sports club must have been actively in operation within the county at least two years prior to an application for license under this chapter; provided, however, the two-year operational requirement shall not apply to golf club associations or golf club corporations where the selling or the serving of alcoholic beverages is to take place on the golf course premises. A sports club organized or operated primarily for serving of alcoholic beverages shall not qualify for licensing under this article, and accordingly shall not be permitted to serve alcoholic beverages at any time. Unless otherwise indicated, a sports club licensee shall comply with all other requirements imposed upon retail consumption dealers.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 6-166)
Sec. 6-178. - Regulation of sale of alcoholic beverages.
Private clubs may sell and dispense alcoholic beverages upon compliance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of the city governing the sale of such beverages and upon payment of such license fees and taxes as may be required by the existing ordinances, rules and regulations of the city.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 6-167)
Sec. 6-179. - Certain organizations exempt from food establishment requirements.
Veterans organizations, fraternal organizations, and other nonprofit organizations currently having tax exempt status under either the United States Internal Revenue Code or the state income tax law shall not be required to operate a food establishment serving prepared food. However, any such organization selling or dispensing alcoholic beverages shall be subject to all ordinance regulations dealing with general licensing and consumption on the premises establishments.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 6-168)
Sec. 6-180. - Investigative and administrative costs.
Each application for a license under this article shall be accompanied by a certified check for the full amount of the license fee, together with a separate certified check or cash for distilled spirits and/or beer and/or wine in order to defray investigative and administrative costs. If the application is denied and the license refused, or if the applicant is denied a state license, the deposit representing the license fee shall be refunded but the cost paid for investigation and administration shall be retained. However, any person applying for more than one license shall pay only one fee to defray investigative and administrative expenses, which fee shall be the largest of the investigative and administrative fees authorized under this Code. Any applicant for a license under this article who has in existence at the time of making the new application an existing license under this article shall pay no investigative and administrative costs. The investigative and administrative fee shall be in an amount as established by the mayor and council from time to time.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 6-169)
Sec. 6-181. - Hours and days of sale.
(a)
No alcoholic beverages shall be sold for consumption on the premises except between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 1:55 a.m. Monday through Saturday.
(b)
Alcoholic beverages shall not be sold for consumption at any time in violation of any local ordinance or regulation or of any special order of the governing authority.
(c)
The sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises is permitted on Sundays from 12:30 p.m. until 12:00 midnight in any licensed establishment which derives at least 50 percent of its total annual gross sales from the sale of prepared meals or food in all of the combined retail outlets of the individual establishment where food is served and in any licensed establishment which derives at least 50 percent of the total annual gross income from the rental of rooms for overnight lodging.
(d)
Alcoholic beverages may be sold for consumption on the premises from 12:00 midnight to 2:00 a.m. on any Monday which is New Year's Day, January 1, of any year.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 6-170)
Sec. 6-182. - Eligibility for issuance of a temporary special event license.
(a)
A temporary license may be issued to any person, firm or corporation, for a period not to exceed ten days in any one year, for an approved special event. The person, firm or corporation must make application and pay the fee that may be required by the ordinances and shall be required to comply with all general ordinances and the licensing and regulations for a consumption-on-the-premises establishment with the exception of the full-service kitchen requirement.
(b)
The special event must meet the following criterion prior to the issuance of a license to sell alcoholic beverages:
(1)
The special event must be associated with and benefit the cause of a charitable or civic organization.
(2)
The special event must receive approval from the county police department on crowd control and security measures.
(3)
The special event must receive approval from the county department of transportation, traffic operations section, on traffic control measures.
(4)
The location at which the special event is to take place must be properly zoned and approved by the county planning and development department.
(5)
The premises at which the special event is to take place must be approved by the city or its designee.
(c)
Any employee or volunteer of the special event licensee working the special event in any position dispensing, selling, serving, taking orders or mixing alcoholic beverages shall not be required to obtain a pouring permit for the special event.
(d)
The county chief of police or his designee may immediately revoke any temporary license for a special event if it is determined continued alcohol sales may endanger the health, welfare or safety of the public.
(e)
As a condition on the issuance of a temporary special event license, the licensee shall indemnify and hold the city or its designee harmless from claims, demand or cause of action which may arise from activities associated with the special event.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 6-171)
Sec. 6-183. - Expiration; renewal of license.
All licenses granted hereunder shall be for the calendar year and the full license fee must be paid for a license application filed prior to July 1 of the license year. One-half of a full license fee shall be paid for a license application filed after July 1 of the license year except for applications for temporary licenses under section 6-182 which shall not be halved.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 6-15)
Secs. 6-184—6-204. - Reserved.
