Chapter 30 - COURT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 42; traffic and vehicles, ch. 54.
State Law reference— Powers of presiding officer in court of a municipal corporation to bind over or commit criminal offenders to jail, O.C.G.A. § 17-7-22; municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 30-1. - Chief judge, authority.
Under and by virtue of the city Charter, constitution and laws of the state, the duly appointed chief judge is empowered and shall appoint qualified individuals as part-time, full-time or standby judges to preside in his absence. The chief judge is vested with all the authority pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 15-1-9.1 in requesting judicial assistance from other courts.
(Ord. No. 1064, 8-19-1997)
Secs. 30-2—30-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COMMUNITY SERVICE PROGRAMS

Sec. 30-31. - Implementation of Charter provisions.
This article is enacted pursuant to section 4.13(d) of the Charter which provision authorizes the municipal court to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation, and section 4.15 of the Charter to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court.
(Ord. No. 1047, § 2, 5-16-1989)
Sec. 30-32. - Legislative intent.
It is the intent of this article to defray the cost of operation of the municipal court and to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court sentences.
(Ord. No. 1047, § 3, 5-16-1989)
Sec. 30-33. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Agency means any private or public agency or organization, tax-exempt or for profit, approved by the court to participate in a community service program.
Community service means uncompensated work by an offender with an agency or the city for the benefit of the community pursuant to an order by a court as a condition of their sentence. Such term also means uncompensated service by an offender who lives in the household of a disabled person and provides aid and services to such disabled individual, including, but not limited to, cooking, housecleaning, shopping, driving, bathing and dressing.
Community service officer means an individual appointed by the court to place and supervise offenders sentenced to community service. Such term may mean a paid professional or a volunteer.
(Ord. No. 1047, § 4, 5-16-1989)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 30-34. - Application for participation; assignment of offenders; violation of court orders or ordinance; limitation or liability.
(a)
Agencies desiring to participate in a community service program shall file with the court a letter of application showing:
(1)
Eligibility;
(2)
Number of offenders who may be placed with the agency;
(3)
Work to be performed by the offender; and
(4)
Provisions for supervising the offender.
(b)
An agency selected for the community service program shall work offenders who are assigned to the agency by the court. If an offender violates a court order the agency shall report such violation to the community service officer.
(c)
If an agency violates any court order or provision of this article the offender shall be removed from the agency and the agency shall no longer be eligible to participate in the community service program.
(d)
No agency or community service officer shall be liable at law as a result of any of his acts performed while participating in a community service program. This limitation of liability does not apply to actions on the part of any agency or community service officer which constitute gross negligence, recklessness or willful misconduct.
(Ord. No. 1047, § 5, 5-16-1989)
Sec. 30-35. - Condition of sentence; determination of appropriateness; service as live-in attendant for disabled person.
(a)
Community service may be considered as a condition of a sentence with primary consideration given to the following categories of offenders:
(1)
Traffic violations;
(2)
Ordinance violations;
(3)
Noninjurious or nondestructive, nonviolent misdemeanors;
(4)
Other offenders considered upon the discretion of the judge.
(b)
The judge may confer with the prosecutor, defense attorney, community service officer or other interested persons to determine if the community service program is appropriate for an offender. If community service is ordered as a condition of probation the court shall order not less than 20 hours nor more than 250 hours in cases involving traffic or ordinance violations or misdemeanors. Such service shall be completed within one year.
(c)
(1)
Any agency may recommend to the court that certain disabled persons are in need of a live-in attendant. The judge shall confer with the prosecutor, defense attorney, community service officer or other interested persons to determine if a community service program involving a disabled person is appropriate for an offender. If community service as a live-in attendant for a disabled person is deemed appropriate, and if both the offender and the disabled person consent to such service, the court may order such live-in community service as a condition of probation for no longer than two years.
(2)
The agency shall be responsible for coordinating the provisions of the cost of food or other necessities for the offender which the disabled person is not able to provide. The agency, with the approval of the court, shall determine a schedule which will provide the offender with certain free hours each week.
(3)
Such live-in arrangement shall be terminated by the court upon the request of the offender or the disabled person. Upon termination of such an arrangement the court shall determine if the offender has met the conditions of his sentence.
(4)
The appropriate agency shall make personal contact with the disabled person on a frequent basis to ensure the safety and welfare of the disabled person.
(Ord. No. 1047, § 6, 5-16-1989)
Sec. 30-36. - Placement of offender with appropriate agency; scheduling for employed offenders; supervisor evaluation.
(a)
The community service officer shall place an offender sentenced to community service as a condition of his sentence with an appropriate agency. The agency and work schedule shall be approved by the court.
(b)
If the offender is employed at the time of sentencing or if the offender becomes employed after sentencing, the community service officer shall consider the offender's work schedule and, to the extent practicable, shall schedule the community service so that it will not conflict with the offender's work schedule. This shall not be construed as requiring the community service officer to alter scheduled community service based on changes in an offender's work schedule.
(c)
The community service officer shall supervise the offender for the duration of the community service sentence.
(d)
Upon completion of the community service sentence, the community service officer may be required to prepare a written report evaluating the offender's performance which may be used to determine if the conditions of the sentence have been satisfied.
(Ord. No. 1047, § 7, 5-16-1989)
Sec. 30-37. - Applicability of O.C.G.A. Title 42, arts. 2 and 3; good-time allowance for provider of live-in community service.
(a)
The provisions of O.C.G.A. Article 2 of Title 42, relating to probation, termination of probation and revocation of probation, shall be applicable to offenders sentenced to community service as a condition of their sentence pursuant to this article. The provisions of O.C.G.A. Article 3 of Title 42 relating to probation of first offenders shall be applicable to first time offenders sentenced pursuant to this article.
(b)
Any offender who provides live-in community service but who is later incarcerated for breaking the conditions of the sentence, or for any other cause, may be awarded good-time for each day of live-in community service the same as if such offender was in prison for such number of days.
(Ord. No. 1047, § 8, 5-16-1989)
Sec. 30-38. - Costs to be imposed.
(a)
In every case in which the municipal court shall impose community service for any offense against a criminal or traffic law of this state or city there shall be imposed as an additional penalty and/or cost a fee of $15.00 per day to defray the cost of the community service program.
(b)
Such sums shall be in addition to that amount required by O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 to be paid into the Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund or O.C.G.A. § 47-11-51 concerning the Judges of the Probate Court's Retirement Fund of the state or O.C.G.A. § 15-21-70 concerning the Peace Officer and Prosecutor Training Fund or the Peace Officer, Judicial and Prosecutor Training Fund Ordinance of 1988.
(Ord. No. 1047, § 9, 5-16-1989)
Sec. 30-39. - Penalties assessment and collection; transfer of payments to general fund; quarterly accounting.
The sums provided for in section 30-38 shall be assessed and collected by the court officer charged with the duty of collecting moneys arising from fines and forfeited bonds and shall be paid over to the city clerk by the last day of the following month, to be deposited by him into the general fund. The city clerk shall, on a quarterly basis, make a report and accounting of all funds collected pursuant to this article and shall submit such report and accounting to the mayor and city council no later than 30 days after the last day of the preceding quarter.
(Ord. No. 1047, § 10, 5-16-1989)
Sec. 30-40. - Penalty for delinquent remission of moneys.
When any such person, agency or unit of government whose duty it is to collect and pay over such moneys fails to remit the sums within 60 days of the date they are required to be paid shall be delinquent, and there may be imposed, in addition to the principal amount due, a specific penalty in the amount of five percent of the principal amount per month for each month during which the money is continued to be delinquent, not to exceed a total of 25 percent of the principal amount.
(Ord. No. 1047, § 11, 5-16-1989)
Sec. 30-41. - Failure or refusal to remit moneys.
Any person whose duty it is to collect and remit the sum provided for in section 30-38 who fails or refuses to remit such sum shall be guilty of misconduct and shall be dismissed.
(Ord. No. 1047, § 12, 5-16-1989)
Sec. 30-42. - Collections to be appropriated for and defray the cost of operation of the municipal court.
An amount equal to all funds remitted as provided in section 30-39 in the immediately preceding year shall be appropriated to fund the community service program and activities incident thereto, including, but not limited to, payment or repayment to the general fund for capital outlay, general obligation bond debt service, administrative expenses and any other expense or fund application which the mayor and city council may deem appropriate and/or to defray the cost of operation of the municipal court. This section shall not preclude the appropriation of a greater amount for this purpose.
(Ord. No. 1047, § 13, 5-16-1989)
Secs. 30-43—30-75. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PEACE OFFICER, JUDICIAL, PROSECUTOR TRAINING FUND

Sec. 30-76. - Implementation of constitutional and Charter provisions.
This article is enacted pursuant to Ga. Const. art. III, § IX, ¶ VI(d), which provision authorizes additional penalty assessments in criminal and traffic cases, and provides that the proceeds derived from such cases may be used for the purpose of providing training to law enforcement officers and prosecuting officials, and section 4.13(d) of the city Charter which provision authorizes the municipal court to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation.
(Ord. No. 910-56, § 2, 1-17-1989)
Sec. 30-77. - Legislative intent.
It is the intent of this article to provide funding for the training of law enforcement judicial and prosecutorial officers of the city and to defray the cost of operation of the municipal court.
(Ord. No. 910-56, § 3, 1-17-1989)
Sec. 30-78. - Penalty for certain criminal and traffic cases; violation of bond.
(a)
(1)
In each case in which the municipal court shall impose a fine which shall be construed to include costs for any offense against a criminal or traffic law of this state or city, there shall be imposed an additional penalty equal to ten percent of the original fine.
(2)
At the time of posting bail or bond in any case involving a violation of a criminal or traffic law of this state or city, an additional sum equal to ten percent of the original amount of bail or bond shall be posted. In each case in which the municipal court shall order the forfeiture of bail or bond the additional sum equal to ten percent of the original bail or bond shall be paid over as provided in section 30-79.
(b)
Such sums shall be in addition to the amount required by O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 to be paid into the Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund or O.C.G.A. § 47-11-51 concerning the Judges of the Probate Court's Retirement Fund of the state or O.C.G.A. § 15-21-70 concerning the Peace Officer and Prosecutor Training Fund.
(Ord. No. 910-56, § 4, 1-17-1989)
Sec. 30-79. - Assessment and collection of penalties; transfer of payments to general fund; quarterly accounting.
The sums provided for in section 30-78 shall be assessed and collected by the court officer charged with the duty of collecting moneys arising from fines and forfeited bonds and shall be paid over to the city clerk by the last day of the following month, to be deposited by him into the general fund. The city clerk shall, on a quarterly basis, make a report and accounting of all funds collected pursuant to this article and shall submit such report and accounting to the mayor and city council no later than 30 days after the last day of the preceding quarter.
(Ord. No. 910-56, § 5, 1-17-1989)
Sec. 30-80. - Penalty for delinquent remission of moneys.
When any such person, agency or unit of government whose duty it is to collect and pay over such moneys as provided for in section 30-79 fails to remit the sums within 60 days of the date they are required to be paid shall be delinquent and there may be imposed, in addition to the principal amount due, a specific penalty in the amount of five percent of the principal amount per month for each month during which the money continues to be delinquent, not to exceed a total of 25 percent of the principal amount.
(Ord. No. 910-56, § 6, 1-17-1989)
Sec. 30-81. - Failure or refusal to remit moneys.
Any person whose duty it is to collect and remit the sum provided for in section 30-79, who fails or refuses to remit such sum, shall be guilty of misconduct and shall be dismissed.
(Ord. No. 910-56, § 7, 1-17-1989)
Sec. 30-82. - Collections to be appropriated for law enforcement, judicial or prosecutorial officers' training and to defray the cost of operation of the municipal court.
An amount equal to all funds remitted as provided in section 30-79 in the immediately preceding year shall be appropriated to fund law enforcement judicial or prosecutorial officers' training, and activities incident thereto including, but not limited to, payment or repayment to the general fund for capital outlay, general obligation bond debt service, administrative expenses and any other expense or fund application which the mayor and city council may deem appropriate and/or to defray the cost of operation of the municipal court. This section shall not preclude the appropriation of a greater amount for this purpose.
(Ord. No. 910-56, § 8, 1-17-1989)
Secs. 30-83—30-100. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - PART-TIME PROSECUTING ATTORNEYS' OFFICE

Sec. 30-101. - Creation of part-time prosecuting attorney's office.
There is hereby created the office of the part-time prosecuting attorney for the City of Suwanee Municipal Court. The city council shall annually appoint such prosecuting attorneys on an as-needed basis and said attorneys shall serve at the pleasure of the city council. Such attorneys shall have the authority and duty to represent the city as more fully set forth in O.C.G.A. § 15-18-96.
(Ord. of 6-26-2012)
Sec. 30-102. - Qualifications.
Such individual shall be a member in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia or otherwise licensed to practice under O.C.G.A. § 15-18-22. The prosecuting-attorney may engage in the private practice of law, but shall not practice in the municipal court or appear in any matter in which the prosecuting attorney has exercised jurisdiction. At any time in which a substitute prosecuting attorney is not available or an appointment has not been made, the city attorney may serve as the substitute prosecuting attorney until such time as a prosecuting attorney or substitute prosecuting attorney is available or appointed.
(Ord. of 6-26-2012)
Sec. 30-103. - Oath.
The prosecuting attorney shall swear to the following oath:
"I swear (or affirm) that I will well, faithfully, and impartially and without fear, favor, or affection discharge my duties as prosecuting attorney of the City of Suwanee."
(Ord. of 6-26-2012)
Sec. 30-104. - Notification.
The clerk of court shall notify the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia of the name of any person appointed to be the prosecuting attorney within 30 days of appointment.
(Ord. of 6-26-2012)
