ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 22-1. - State cable or video franchise fee.
The City of Suwanee requires a franchise fee of five percent for any cable or video state franchise issued in its corporate boundaries by the State of Georgia pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-76-1 et seq., known as the "Consumer Choice for Television Act" of 2007.
(Ord. of 12-20-2007)
Secs. 22-2—22-9. - Reserved.
Sec. 22-10. - Due compensation for telephone companies with end user retail customers within the city.
(a)
The city hereby requires due compensation of three percent of actual recurring local service revenues, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 46-5-1(b)(8) and (9) provided, however, that any company which pays in excess of three percent of actual recurring local service revenues pursuant to an existing franchise agreement shall continue to pay in accordance with the agreement until the expiration of the franchise agreement or December 31, 2012, whichever occurs first, and any company which pays in excess of three percent of actual recurring local service revenues in accordance with an occupational license tax arrangement shall continue to pay in accordance with such payment schedule until December 31, 2012.
(b)
Regarding any telephone company that does not have retail, end user customers located within the city's municipal boundaries, the payment by such company to a municipal authority in accordance with the rates set by regulations promulgated by the department of transportation for the use of its rights of way shall be considered the payment of due compensation.
(Ord. of 1-27-2009, § 1)
Sec. 22-10.5. - Authorized designee.
The city manager of his/her designee(s) shall, on behalf of the city, exercise day-to-day administrative duties necessary to fulfill the regulatory authority of the city under O.C.G.A. § 46-5-1 et seq. and shall perform the following duties:
(1)
Review application information submitted by a telephone company to the city and, if an application is incomplete, notify the telegraph or telephone company within 15 business days of the receipt of such application, identifying in such notice all application deficiencies.
(2)
Report the receipt of a completed application to the council within 60 calendar days of the receipt of such completed application.
(3)
Review payments of due compensation submitted by the company to ensure compliance with the provisions of the amended law and this section.
(4)
Provide a coordination function between a telephone company and all city departments on any matter relating to the amended law and this section.
(5)
Arrange and evaluate, no more than once a year, a comprehensive review of the records of a company which is reasonably related to the calculation and payment of due compensation.
(6)
Provide to all telegraph and telephone companies located in its rights of way written notice of annexations and changes in municipal corporate boundaries.
(Ord. of 1-27-2009, § 2)
Secs. 22-11—22-30. - Reserved.
