ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Short title.
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Smyrna Alcoholic Beverage Ordinance."
(Ord. No. 95-03, § 3-1-1, 5-1-95; Ord. No. 2004-27, 8-2-04)
Sec. 6-2. - Definitions.
(a)
All definitions as may be set forth in the state alcoholic beverage code are adopted by this chapter.
(b)
The following additional words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcoholic beverage means all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverage, wine, or fortified wine.
Applicant means generally a person requesting to be a licensee responsible for the sale of alcoholic beverages on the premises applied for.
Arrests means all arrests and dispositions thereof for all violations of municipal, state, or federal law, both felonies and misdemeanors, during the five years immediately preceding the date of the application.
Barrel means 31 gallons.
Brewery means any establishment other than a brewpub, which is licensed by the state as contemplated by the Official Code of Georgia at, Article 2, Chapter 5 of Title 3, as amended, where malt beverages are manufactured and sold for consumption on and off of the premises.
Brewpub means any eating establishment in which malt beverages are manufactured, subject to the barrel production limitation prescribed in O.C.G.A. § 3-5-36. As used in this paragraph, the term "eating establishment" means an establishment which is licensed to sell distilled spirits, malt beverages, or wines and which derives at least 50 percent of its total annual gross food and beverage sales from the sale of prepared meals or food; provided, however, that when determining the total annual gross food and beverage sales, barrels of malt beverages sold to licensed wholesale dealers, or to the public for consumption off the premises, shall not be used.
Church means a permanent freestanding building located in an area designated for such use by the zoning ordinances where persons regularly assemble for religious worship, which shall be publicly designated as a church, but shall not include a residence also used for religious purposes.
Closed function means a private event not open to the general public. Closed functions can only occur at the community center, Aline Wolfe Adult Recreation Center, Brawner Hall, Taylor-Brawner House, Tolleson Park Day Room, Aunt Fanny's Cabin or Reed House. No pay-at-the-door or uninvited guests are permitted. Alcoholic beverages must be served without charge. The offer and sale of alcoholic beverages at such functions is prohibited, except that a general admission fee permitting attendance at the closed function may be collected in advance. During the time of the closed function, an off-duty city police officer or city park ranger must be hired to oversee the event while alcohol is being served.
Dessert wine means a wine having an alcoholic strength of more than 14 percent alcohol by volume but not more than 24 percent alcohol by volume.
Distilled spirits means any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 24 percent alcohol by volume.
Drink means any alcoholic beverage not in its original package which is served for consumption on premises which may or may not be diluted by any other liquid.
Fortified wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 24 percent alcohol by volume made from honey, fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term includes, but is not limited to, brandy.
Grocery store means a retail establishment whose primary function is the sale of packaged or unprepared food and grocery items for consumption off the premises and whose annual gross sales of alcoholic beverages do not exceed five percent of its total gross sales from all sources as evidenced in a public hearing by a certified audit showing the sales for the calendar year most recently ending at the proposed location or for a similar store at a similar location. For the purposes of this definition, retail establishments selling gasoline shall not be considered grocery stores.
Hotel means a building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which 50 or more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and having one or more public dining rooms, with adequate and sanitary kitchen and a minimum seating capacity of at least 40, where meals are regularly served to such guests, such sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same building or in separate buildings or structures used in connection therewith that are on the same premises and are a part of the hotel operation. Motels meeting the qualifications set out in this definition for hotels shall be classified in the same category as hotels. Hotels shall have the privilege of granting franchises for the operation of a lounge, restaurant or nightclub on their premises, and the holder of such franchise shall be included in the definition of hotel under this definition.
Immediate family means any person related within the first degree of consanguinity or affinity as determined according to civil law.
License means the authorization by the governing authority of the city to engage in the sale of alcoholic beverages as provided for in this chapter.
Licensee means generally the person to whom a license is granted and who is responsible for the sale of alcoholic beverages as prescribed in this chapter.
Lounge means a separate room connected with a part of an adjacent to a restaurant as defined herein with all booths, stools and tables being unobstructed and open to view. All lounges shall have a seating capacity of at least 40. The maximum area of said lounge shall be one-third the size of the food serving area.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than 14 percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer, and strong beer. The term "malt beverage" does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Non-profit private club means a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the state or veterans' organization associated with and a part of a recognized national veterans' organization which is organized and operated exclusively for pleasure, recreation and other nonprofit purposes and which immediately prior to the application for a license hereunder:
(1)
Has at least 100 members regularly paying dues;
(2)
Has tax exempt status under the provisions of section 501(c)(19) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code;
(3)
Owns or leases a building or space for the reasonable use of its members with suitable kitchen and dining room space and equipment and maintaining and using a sufficient number of servers and employees for cooking, preparing and serving meals for its members and guests;
(4)
Has no members or officers, agent or employees of the club receiving compensation directly or indirectly in the form of commissions or other compensation based on the amount of profits from the sale of malt beverages and wines beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed by its members at an annual meeting or by its governing body out of the general revenue of the club, tips and gratuities added to the bills under club regulation shall not be considered profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages;
(5)
Has no part of the net earnings inuring to the benefit of any shareholder or member; and
(6)
Has been in continuous operation for at least one year prior to the application for a license hereunder.
Package means a bottle, can, growler, keg, barrel, or other original consumer container.
Park means any public lands owned or controlled and operated by the city, state, or any county of the state, in and upon which facilities are provided for the recreation of the general public.
Person means any individual, firm, partnership, cooperative, nonprofit membership corporation, joint venture, association, company, corporation, agency, syndicate, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, fiduciary, or other group or combination acting as a unit, body politic, or political subdivision, whether public, private, or quasi-public.
Pouring means the sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink.
Premises means the definite closed or partitioned-in locality, whether room, shop, or building wherein alcoholic beverages are sold, and may include an attached patio or deck when:
(1)
It is separated from the general public by a permanent wall, fence, hedge or similar approved device, and access to the patio or deck is limited only through the main premises;
(2)
If the premises is located within a designated restaurant district, as described in section 6-46, the premises shall be exempted from the separation and access requirements for attached patios or decks described above;
(3)
The location of the patio or deck does not encroach upon any sidewalk, right-of-way, or other common area customarily used for ingress, egress, pedestrian or vehicular traffic; and
(4)
The location and plans shall first have been approved by the city building inspector and fire marshal.
Use of a patio or deck as a part of the premises shall be suspended or revoked when its use interferes with other uses in the vicinity, or becomes in any way a public nuisance.
Primary customer entrance means the designated primary point of ingress and egress for customers of the commercial establishment.
Private club means a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the state, having at least 100 members regularly paying monthly, quarterly, semiannual or annual dues, organized and operated exclusively for pleasure, recreation and other nonprofitable purposes, no part of the net earnings of which insures to the benefit of any shareholder or member, and owning, hiring or leasing a building or space therein for the reasonable use of its members with suitable kitchen and dining room space and equipment and maintaining and using a sufficient number of servants, members, volunteers or employees for cooking, preparing and serving meals for its members and guests; provided, however, that no member or officer, agent or employee of the club is paid, or directly or indirectly receives, in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages to the club or its members at any annual meeting of the club by its governing board out of the general revenue of the club.
Private dog park means a privately owned and operated dog park. Any such facility shall have a minimum of 25-dues paying members; and shall derive no more than 50 percent of its total annual gross revenue from alcohol sales. Total annual gross revenue may include daily rates, memberships, non-alcoholic beverages, pre-packaged snacks, merchandise sales, special event proceeds, and dog treats as revenue sources.
Except as provided in this definition, a private dog park shall be subject to the same requirements as on-premises eating establishments, including hours of permitted alcohol sales.
Privately held corporation means an entity registered only through Georgia Secretary of State and not registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Public building means any building owned by a federal, state or local government entity and used exclusively for federal, state and local governmental functions and/or purposes.
Publicly traded corporation means an entity which is traded on a major stock trading exchange or registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Purchase price means the consideration received for the sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink valued in money, whether received in cash or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property, or services of any kind or nature and also, the amount for which credit is allowed by the licensee or his/her agent to the purchases, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
Restaurant means any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place where meals are served and where meals are actually and regularly served with a minimum seating capacity of 40, such place being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment, air conditioned, having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests. At least one meal per day shall be served at least six days a week, with the exception of holidays, vacations and periods of redecorating, and the serving of such meals shall be the principal business conducted, with the serving of alcoholic beverages to be consumed on the premises as only incidental thereto.
School means the buildings, grounds, or campus of such state, county, city, church or other school with an enrollment in excess of 150 students, which teaches the subjects commonly taught in the public schools of Cobb County, not to include private schools where only specialized subjects such as law, stenography, business, music, art, medicine, dentistry, vocational or technical occupations and other special subjects are taught.
Smyrna Central Downtown means that area described as the Downtown Design District in the Urban Design Standards of the city adopted August 18, 2008, by the mayor and council and may be amended from time to time.
Special events facility means any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place where special events including, but not limited to, weddings, wedding receptions, private parties and similar events are held and which provides meals for food services in connection with such events. Any such facility shall be equipped with an adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room facility, and shall be capable of preparing and cooking meals, or serving catered meals and other food products associated with its special events on site. Any such establishments shall derive at least 50 percent of its total annual gross sales from rental for special events and the service of meal and food products in connection with such special events. The revenues received from alcohol sales shall never exceed 50 percent of the total annual gross sales for any such facility.
Table wine means a wine having an alcoholic strength of not more than 14 percent alcohol by volume.
Wholesale means the sale of alcoholic beverages as a distributor to retailers for the purpose of resale.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 24 percent alcohol by volume made from honey, fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines, and like products. The term does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage.
Winery means any establishment where wines are manufactured.
Wine specialty shop means a retail establishment:
(1)
Where no less than 40 percent of the gross revenue is derived from the sale of table wine, fortified wines, port, sherry or malt beverages for consumption off the premises and/or wine accessories;
(2)
Where no more than 25 percent of the gross revenue is derived from the sale of table wine, fortified wines, port, or sherry for consumption on the premises.
(3)
Which shall maintain on the premises and offer for sale at all times a variety of wines from not less than 100 manufacturers or importers of wine or any combination thereof;
(4)
Which shall maintain and replenish a total inventory of at least 3,500 bottles of wine; provided however, that any inventory which is depleted to less than 3,500 bottles of wine must undertake efforts to be replenished to at least 3,500 bottles of wine within 15 days of the date that the city learns that the inventory falls below 3,500 bottles;
(5)
Which shall submit an inventory list of all wines maintained on the premises and offered for sale to the licenses and permits unit of the city's finance department. Such inventory list shall be submitted to the finance department on a quarterly basis by the first day of each of the following months: January, April, July and October; and
(6)
Whose total interior floor area, inclusive of storage area, shall not exceed 3,000 square feet.
(7)
On or before the 20th day of the month following each quarterly period, a return for the preceding quarterly period shall be filed with the city business license office in such form as the business license supervisor may prescribe for every licensee.
(8)
All returns shall show, as to the preceding quarter, the total gross revenue of the licensed business, the gross revenue from the sale of alcoholic beverages sold to be consumed off the premises together with wine accessories and the gross revenue from the sale of alcoholic beverages sold to be consumed on the premises, as well as such other information as may be required by the business license supervisor.
(Ord. No. 95-03, § 3-1-2, 5-1-95; Ord. No. 97-16, 12-1-97; Ord. No. 2001-0917C, 9-17-01; Ord. No. 2004-27, 8-2-04; Ord. No. 2006-7, 4-3-06; Ord. No. 2009-10, 8-17-09; Ord. No. 2009-14, 10-19-09; Ord. No. 2010-3, 5-3-10; Ord. No. 2012-15 , 7-16-12; Ord. No. 2016-09 , 4-18-16; Ord. No. 2017-11 , 8-7-17; Ord. No. 2018-20 , 12-17-18; Ord. No. 2019-12 , § 1, 6-3-19; Ord. No. 2019-21 , 10-21-19; Ord. No. 2020-17 , 11-16-20; Ord. No. 2021-09 , 5-17-21; Ord. No. 2021-15 , 8-16-21)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
State Law reference— Definitions, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2.
Sec. 6-3. - Purposes.
This chapter is enacted for the purposes, among others, of promoting the health and general welfare of the community, of establishing reasonable and ascertainable standards for the regulation and control of the licensing and sales of alcoholic beverages, and of protecting and preserving certain areas, through reasonable consideration, among others, to the character of the areas and their peculiar suitability for particular uses, to the congestion in the roads and streets, to a general view of promoting desirable living conditions and sustaining stability of neighborhoods and property values, and to the prevention of undesirable persons from engaging in or having any interest in alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. No. 95-03, § 3-1-3, 5-1-95; Ord. No. 2004-27, 8-2-04)
Sec. 6-4. - Power to regulate licenses.
All powers as may be provided to municipalities by the laws of the state pertaining to alcoholic beverages are adopted by this chapter.
(Ord. No. 95-03, § 3-1-4, 5-1-95; Ord. No. 2004-27, 8-2-04)
Secs. 6-5—6-30. - Reserved.
