ARTICLE IV. - ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 6-161. - Compliance with chapter.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale at wholesale or retail any alcoholic beverages without having first complied with the provisions of this chapter.
(b)
The police department or its designee shall from time to time visit licensed premises and determine compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. No. 95-03, § 3-5-1, 5-1-95; Ord. No. 2004-27, 8-2-04)
Sec. 6-162. - Criminal penalties for violation of chapter; administrative actions.
(a)
Alleged violations of this chapter may be cited to any court as provided by law and ordinance. Convictions under this chapter shall be punishable in the municipal court by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or imprisonment for 60 days, or both. Convictions may be considered due cause for suspension or revocation of any license by the governing authority.
(b)
The license and variance board may take administrative action under this chapter, including license suspension or revocation independent of court citations or the lack thereof, and independent of the disposition or lack of disposition thereof.
(Ord. No. 95-03, § 3-5-2, 5-1-95; Ord. No. 2003-17, 5-19-03; Ord. No. 2004-27, 8-2-04; Ord. No. 2005-33, 8-1-05; Ord. No. 2021-08 , 4-19-21; Ord. No. 2021-13 , 7-6-21)
Sec. 6-163. - Suspension and revocation of license by the license and variance board.
(a)
Hearing required; due cause prerequisite. No license which has been issued or which may hereafter be issued by the city to any agent of or any person, partnership, corporation, retail dealer, for sale of any type of alcoholic beverages shall be suspended or revoked, except for due cause as defined in subsection (c) of this section and after a hearing requiring the licensee to appear and show cause to the license and variance board of the city why such license should not be suspended or revoked. At any such hearing, all parties to the hearing shall be entitled to be represented by counsel and shall be entitled to all subpoena powers provided by this Code or the city Charter, together with the right to examine all such witnesses under oath.
(b)
Notice of hearing. Notice in writing by the city clerk addressed to the holder of such license stating the time, place and purpose of such show-cause hearing and a statement of the accusation upon which such hearing shall be held shall be delivered to the licensed location. Not less than three nor more than 20 days' notice of such hearing shall be deemed reasonable notice. However, shorter or longer periods shall be authorized as the license and variance board determine that the circumstances justify. Upon application in writing by the license holder, any witness or any party at interest, showing good cause and not for purposes of delay only, the hearing date may be advanced or continued, in which event no further notice shall be required in writing.
(c)
Definition. The expression "due cause" for the suspension or revocation of such license shall include, but not be limited to:
(1)
The violation of any provision of this chapter by the license holder, partner, officer, director, principal stockholder (who owns more than five percent ownership) or any employee engaged in the sale of alcoholic beverages.
(2)
The violation by the license holder, partner, officer, director, principal stockholder (who owns more than five percent ownership) or any employee engaged in the sale of alcoholic beverages, of any state law or regulation, any county ordinance or regulation, or any other ordinance, regulation or law regulating such businesses, or violation of any regulation made pursuant to authority granted for the purpose of regulating such business, or for the violation of any law of the United States of America, except misdemeanor traffic violations by the above-named persons, corporation or entity;
(3)
The licensee providing false information regarding or the omitting any material fact affecting the license application or any supplemental information required during the term of the license.
(4)
The sale or offer of sale of any alcoholic beverage to any minor, as defined and prohibited by the laws of the state, or to any person under the age of 21 years; or the failure to "card" or require proof of age, together with proof of the legal ability to purchase alcoholic beverages of any person under the age of 21 years; or
(5)
The violation of any condition of probation given to a licensee under subsection (f) herein.
(6)
When the sale of alcoholic beverages at any location shall become a nuisance as defined by state law.
(d)
Refund of license fee. In the event of revocation or suspension by the license and variance board, the licensee shall not be entitled to a refund or return of any portion of the license fee.
(e)
Provisions cumulative. The remedies and actions provided in this article, including but not limited to the suspension or revocation of the license, shall be cumulative, in addition to and nonexclusive of any other action, civil or criminal, pending, resolved or threatened, regarding the license, location, owner of the business or licensee.
(f)
Authority to suspend or revoke and/or place on probation. At any show-cause hearing, based upon the evidence presented, the license and variance board shall be authorized to suspend such license for any appropriate time, or to permanently revoke such license. In addition to or in lieu of the suspension or revocation, the license and variance board may place the licensee on probation for a period not to exceed five years and may place conditions upon such probation.
(g)
If at the hearing, there is evidence of a violation (involving a minor), the license and variance board may consider the circumstances of the incident in order to determine whether a mitigation is warranted. Such factors include but are not limited to the following:
(1)
Whether the licensee has instituted a policy designed to effectively reduce alcohol sales to minors and whether the policy is written.
(2)
The nature of such policy and the manner in which it is communicated to employees, administered and followed.
(3)
The type of employee training done in furtherance of the policy and whether such training is mandatory for all employees.
(4)
The effectiveness of such policy and training.
(5)
Whether the age of all customers purchasing or attempting to purchase alcohol is routinely verified prior to sale.
(6)
Whether the licensee completed a responsible alcohol sales and service policy workshop.
(7)
The type of offense.
(8)
The number or frequency of violations under the license or at the subject location and the nature of such previous violations.
(h)
Provision of schedule. The governing body may from time to time provide for a schedule prescribing the length of suspensions, revocation, or other penalties as it may determine appropriate to the nature of the offense, the person committing the offense, and other such factors as it may deem appropriate. Such schedule shall be on file with the city clerk.
(Ord. No. 95-03, § 3-5-3, 5-1-95; Ord. No. 2004-27, 8-2-04; Ord. No. 2005-33, 8-1-05; Ord. No. 2021-08 , 4-19-21; Ord. No. 2021-13 , 7-6-21)
Sec. 6-164. - Automatic revocation of city license upon revocation of state license.
Whenever the state shall revoke any permit or license to manufacture or sell at wholesale or retail any alcoholic beverages, the city license to manufacture or deal in such products shall thereupon be automatically revoked without any action by the city.
(Ord. No. 95-03, § 3-5-4, 5-1-95; Ord. No. 2004-27, 8-2-04; Ord. No. 2005-33, 8-1-05)
Sec. 6-165. - Removal of signs after revocation.
When any license for selling alcoholic beverages is revoked, all signs indicating that such beverage may be sold or purchased shall be removed from the place of business, both outside and inside. Upon receipt by the police department of notice of such revocation, the police department shall take the necessary steps to see that this section is enforced.
(Ord. No. 95-03, § 3-5-5, 5-1-95; Ord. No. 2004-27, 8-2-04)
