Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "Code of Ordinances, City of Smyrna, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1977, § 1-1)
Charter reference— Authority to adopt Code, § 42.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the mayor and council:
City. The words "the city" or "this city" shall mean the City of Smyrna, Georgia.
Code. The word "Code" means the Code of Ordinances, City of Smyrna, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1 and as amended.
County. The words "the county" or "this county" shall mean the County of Cobb, Georgia.
Fees, rates, charges, etc. A reference to a fee, rate, charge, fine or other such term shall mean a dollar amount approved by the mayor and council and kept on file in the office of the city clerk.
Gender. The masculine and feminine genders include the neuter gender.
Mayor and council. Whenever the words "city council," "council" or "mayor and council" are used, they shall mean the mayor and council, or any subsequently established, legally constituted governing body of the City of Smyrna, Georgia.
Number. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural includes the singular number.
Oath. "Oath" includes affirmation, and "swear," and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Officials, officers, etc. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., by title only, i.e., "city clerk," "chief of police," etc., they shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards, commissions and departments of the city; and shall include also duly authorized deputies or assistants of such officers, etc.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to firms, partnerships, associations, organizations, trusts, and bodies politic and corporate, any legal entities, or any combination thereof, as well as to individuals.
Shall, may. The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
Signature or subscription. The terms "signature" or "subscription" include the mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State. The words "the state" or "this state" shall be construed to mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" means the entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Code 1977, § 1-2)
State Law reference— Construction of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; "street" defined, O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1(63).
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes, etc.; references to Code.
(a)
The catchlines of sections of this Code, printed in boldface type, italics, or otherwise, are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section, and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Cross references and state law references which appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles or sections are to the chapters, articles and sections of this Code unless otherwise specified.
(Code 1977, § 1-3)
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinances repealed.
(Code 1977, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this Code or its application to any persons or circumstances shall be declared invalid or unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
(Code 1977, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-6. - Amendment to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion therein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code shall be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section of this Code in substantially the following language: "That section _____ of the Code of Ordinances, City of Smyrna, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: ___________ (Set out new provisions in full) ___________."
(c)
When the mayor and council desires to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the Code, which the mayor and council desires to incorporate into the Code, a section in substantially the following language shall be made a part of the ordinance: "Section _____. It is the intention of the mayor and council, and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part of the Code of Ordinances, City of Smyrna, Georgia, and the sections of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish such intention."
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this Code desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1977, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-7. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby.
(Code 1977, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-8. - General penalty.
(a)
Except for punishments permitted by section 98-2 of this Code, whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or a misdemeanor or an offense, or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, such violation of any such provision of this Code or any ordinance shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00; by sentence of imprisonment in the city jail not exceeding six months; probation, with or without conditions, not exceeding six months; community service not exceeding 30 days; by attendance at risk-reduction or other traffic school or by one or more of these punishments as the judge may in his discretion see fit to impose.
(b)
Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1977, §§ 1-8, 14-95; Amend. of 8-20-01; Ord. No. 2006-13, 5-15-06)
State Law reference— Punishment imposed by municipal court, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-154; powers of court to bind over or commit criminal offenders to jail, O.C.G.A. § 17-7-22; fixing of sentence, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-1; confinement of violators of ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-8; sentences and fines which may be imposed by municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-5; maximum time of confinement, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2)(B); abatement of nuisance by municipal court, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5.
Sec. 1-9. - Miscellaneous ordinances and actions not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty of forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(3)
Any administrative ordinance of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code;
(4)
Any ordinance fixing positions, classifications, salaries, wages or retirement benefits of officers or employees of the city;
(5)
Any appropriation ordinance;
(6)
Any right or franchise granted by the mayor and council to any person;
(7)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city;
(8)
Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city;
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor;
(10)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city or providing regulations for such acceptance;
(11)
Any urban renewal ordinance;
(12)
Any ordinance regulating zoning and subdivisions in the city;
(13)
Any ordinance prescribing traffic regulations for particular locations, such as stop intersections, one-way streets, no parking zones, speed limits, etc.;
(14)
Any ordinance making any act or failure to do any act an offense against the city, when such ordinance is authorized under the state law and is not inconsistent with such Code;
(15)
Any ordinance imposing taxes, or providing for the levying or collecting thereof;
(16)
Any ordinance prescribing fees, rates, charges, fines or other specific dollar amounts not in conflict herewith;
and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
(Ord. of 5-7-77, § 3)
Sec. 1-10. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the city council. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive parts of permanent and general ordinances passed by the city council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In the preparation of a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them in a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings, and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated in the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of the ordinance sections inserted in the Code; but, in no case, shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-11. - Official map.
new
The map entitled City of Smyrna—Official City Limits, adopted February 20, 2023, and attached to the ordinance codified in this section as exhibit A, is hereby adopted as the official map of the city.
(Ord. No. 2023-05 , 2-20-23)
