Chapter 62 - MANUFACTURED HOMES AND TRAILERS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; businesses, ch. 22; fire prevention and protection, ch. 50; floods, ch. 54; signs, ch. 82; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 90; taxation, ch. 94; traffic and vehicles, ch. 98; utilities, ch. 102; zoning, app. A; subdivision regulations, app. B.
State Constitution reference— Taxation of trailers and mobile homes, art. VII, § I, para. III.
State Law reference— Factory built buildings and dwelling units, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-110 et seq.; tourist courts, O.C.G.A. § 31-28-1 et seq.; manufacture, sale and transport of mobile homes, O.C.G.A. § 40-2-38; taxation of mobile homes, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-490 et seq.; excise tax on rooms, lodgings and accommodations, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq.

Sec. 62-1. - Mobile homes; motor homes; travel trailers; and parks therefor regulated.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or operate a mobile home or travel trailer park or camp, or to park or maintain a mobile home or travel trailer in the city, except as provided in this chapter.
(b)
No motor home or travel trailer shall be parked on any street, alley or highway or other public place, except in the event of emergency or temporary stopping or parking for not longer than 24 hours, subject to any other and further prohibitions, regulations or limitations imposed by the traffic and parking regulations or ordinances for that street, alley or highway.
(c)
No mobile home shall be parked or maintained outside a licensed mobile home park or sales lot, except in cases of extreme hardship, approved by the mayor and council after review and recommendation by the zoning and planning board.
(d)
No travel trailer shall be maintained as a residence except in an approved park or lot, properly zoned and licensed for such activity.
(e)
No more than one motor home, travel or camping trailer shall be parked on any single-family residential lot under any zoning classification, provided any such vehicle, camper or trailer shall not be parked in the front of any such dwelling, except on a hard surface pad or a driveway accessory to such dwelling.
(Code 1977, § 13-1)
