ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 1. - Superseding of previous charter; continuation of city under new charter.
The charter of the Town of Smyrna, in the County of Cobb and State of Georgia, be and the same is hereby amended and superseded as herein and hereafter set out; the Town of Smyrna shall continue to exist [as a city], but from and after the passage and approval of this act the charter of said city shall be and shall read as contained in the foregoing and following sections.
Sec. 2. - Incorporation; corporate powers generally.
The said City of Smyrna is hereby incorporated, and the inhabitants of the territory hereinafter designated are made a body corporate, and the municipal government of the City of Smyrna, in said County of Cobb and State of Georgia, shall be vested in a mayor and five (5) [now seven] councilmen, who are hereby constituted a body corporate as the "Mayor and Council of the City of Smyrna," and by that name shall succeed to all the rights and privileges, responsibilities and obligations of the present corporation of the Town of Smyrna, and by that name shall be and are hereby vested with all the rights, powers, and privileges incidental to municipal corporations in this state, and by and in that name may sue and be sued, contract and be contracted with, plead and be impleaded, have and use a common or corporate seal, make and enact through and by the mayor and council of said City of Smyrna such ordinances, rules, regulations, and resolutions for the welfare and proper government of said city and for the transaction of business of said city as such mayor and council of said city may deem good and proper, consistent with the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and of the United States; and said City of Smyrna is hereby authorized and empowered by law to purchase, hold, rent, lease, acquire, receive by gift or donation or otherwise, and to sell, exchange, enjoy, possess and retain, temporarily or perpetually, for any period of time, any property, real or personal, any estate, lands or tenements and hereditaments of any kind whatsoever, either within or without the corporate limits of said City of Smyrna, for corporate purposes.
Sec. 3. - Liabilities preserved.
The City of Smyrna created by this act is hereby made responsible as a body corporate for all legal undertakings, liabilities, and debts of said Town of Smyrna, incurred by the mayor and council of said town under the former charter, whether for principal and interest due on outstanding bonds, or for other contracts or obligations of indebtedness.
