CHARTER APPENDIX. - CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS OF LOCAL APPLICATION
Article VIII, Section VII, Paragraph I, Independent School System; Authority to Establish, Etc.
Article VIII, section VII, paragraph I of the constitution of Georgia is hereby amended by adding to said section the following paragraph: "The General Assembly of Georgia is hereby authorized to create and establish an independent school system, tax supported, for the City of Smyrna, a municipal corporation, of Cobb County, and to grant unto the said independent school system such powers, privileges and immunities as are now, or hereafter may be, enjoyed by county school systems or independent school systems, and, further, such powers, privileges and immunities as may hereafter be provided for by the General Assembly, not inconsistent with the Constitution of Georgia."
(1960 Ga. Laws (Act No. 193), page 1376, § 1, ratified 11-6-60)
Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph I, Downtown Smyrna Development Authority.
Article VII, section VII, paragraph I of the constitution is amended by adding at the end thereof the following: "The General Assembly shall be authorized to create in and for the City of Smyrna, the Downtown Smyrna Development Authority for the purpose of the redevelopment of the downtown Smyrna area. Said authority shall have the power to employ engineers and planners, to contract for the construction, remodeling and altering of buildings, and to contract with the City of Smyrna for the construction, reconstruction, altering and changing and closing of streets and alleys. The General Assembly shall be authorized to empower the Authority to create special tax districts within the City of Smyrna, and to levy and collect taxes within said districts based on values of real property fixed by the tax digest of the City of Smyrna, to defray the costs of the foregoing. The authority shall have the power to issue bonds and/or revenue certificates, and to pledge revenues and to levy and collect taxes within said districts for the retirement of said indebtedness. No taxes shall be levied by said authority for any purpose against owner occupied property used exclusively for residential purposes or property used for school or church purposes. The authority shall have the right and power of eminent domain for the purpose of acquiring property in the carrying out of its aims and objectives.
"The General Assembly shall provide for all matters relating to the composition of the members of the authority, their terms of office and related matters and the geographical limits within the City of Smyrna which shall be subject to the provisions of amendment."
(1970 Ga. Laws (Act No. 217), page 1117, § 1)
Cross reference— Downtown Smyrna Development Authority, subpart B, art. II.
State Law reference— Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.
