APPENDIX B - SUBDIVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Printed herein are the Subdivision Regulations of the city, as adopted by the City Council on November 11, 1974. Amendments to the ordinance are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform and the same system of capitalization, citation to state statutes, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

ARTICLE I

Section 101. - Short title.
This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the "Land Subdivision Ordinance of the City of Metter".
Section 102. - Purpose and intent.
This Ordinance is enacted pursuant to the authority contained in the General Planning and Zoning Enabling Act of 1957 (Ga. Laws 1957, p. 420), for the following purposes:
A.
to encourage economically sound and stable land development;
B.
to assure the provision of required streets, utilities, and other facilities and services to land developments;
C.
to assure the adequate provision of safe and convenient traffic access and circulation, both vehicular and pedestrian, in land developments;
D.
to assure the provision of needed public open spaces and building sites in land developments through the dedication or reservation of land for recreational, educational and other public purposes; and,
E.
to assure that land is developed in conformity with the Comprehensive Plan of the City of Metter.
Section 103. -
Whenever the provisions of this ordinance and those of some other ordinance or statute apply to the same subject matter, that ordinance requiring the highest, or more strict, standard shall govern.
ARTICLE II

Section 201. - Definitions.
When used in this ordinance, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning given in this section. Terms not herein defined shall have their customary dictionary definitions where not inconsistent with the context. The term "shall" is mandatory. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the singular number include the plural and those used in the plural number include the singular. Words used in the present tense include the future.
A.
"Lot" - a portion or parcel of land separated from other portions or parcels by description as on a subdivision plat or record of survey map or as described by metes and bounds, and intended for transfer of ownership or for building development. For the purpose of this ordinance, the term does not include any portion of a dedicated right-of-way.
B.
"Planning commission" is the Metter Planning Commission.
C.
"Street" is a way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as an avenue, boulevard, road, highway, expressway, lane, alley, or other way, and for the purposes of this ordinance, "streets" are divided into the following categories: (See Illustration 1).
Illustration 1. Subdivision Street Types
(1)
"Major streets" - those streets designated as such on the Major Thoroughfare Plan of the City of Metter.
(2)
"Collector street" - a street within a subdivision used to carry traffic from the "minor streets" to the "major streets" and includes the principal entrance and circulation streets of a subdivision.
(3)
"Minor street" - a street used primarily for access to the abutting properties.
(4)
"Alley" - a minor way used for service access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
(5)
"Cul-de-Sac" - a "minor street" with only one outlet, sometimes called a "dead-end" street.
(6)
"Marginal access street" - a "minor street" parallel and adjacent to "major streets" and which provides access to abutting properties with protection from through traffic.
D.
"Subdivider" is the person, firm or corporation having such a proprietary interest in the land to be subdivided as will authorize the maintenance of proceedings to subdivide such land under this ordinance, or the authorized agent of such person, firm or corporation for the purpose of proceeding under this ordinance.
E.
"Subdivision" means all divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, legacy, or building development, and includes all division of land involving a new street or a change in existing streets, and includes re-subdivision and, where appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided, provided, however, that the following are not included within this definition:
(1)
The combination or recombination of portions of previously platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are equal to the standards of the zoning ordinance.
(2)
The division of land into parcels of five acres or more where no new street is involved.
F.
"Manufactured home park" - any portion or parcel of land designed to accommodate one or more manufactured homes to be used for living or sleeping purposes, including any land, building, structure, or facility used by the occupants of house trailers on such property.
G.
"Buffer strip" - a planted evergreen strip ten (10) feet wide to effectively screen from view the enclosed development.
ARTICLE III. - PLATTING JURISDICTION, ENFORCEMENT

Section 301. - Platting authority.
From and after the passage of this ordinance, the Metter Planning Commission shall be the official platting authority, and no plat of a land subdivision shall be entitled to record in the office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Candler County unless it shall have the approval of the Planning Commission inscribed thereon. The filing or recording of a plat of a subdivision without the approval of the planning commission as required by this ordinance is declared to be a misdemeanor. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Section 302. - Use of plat.
The transfer, sale of, agreement to sell, or negotiation to sell land by reference to or exhibition of, or other use of a plat of a subdivision that has not been given final approval by the planning commission and recorded in the Office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Candler County is prohibited, and the description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document shall not exempt the transaction from such penalties.
Section 303. - Opening and improving public streets.
The governing body of the city shall not accept, lay out, open, improve, grade, pave or light any street or lay any utility lines in any street, which had not attained the status of a public street prior to the effective date of this ordinance, unless such street corresponds to the street location shown on an approved subdivision plat or on an official street map adopted by the planning commission, provided that the governing body may accept, lay out, open and improve any street not so platted if it first submits such proposed action to the planning commission for its review and comment.
Section 304. - Erection of buildings.
No building permit shall be issued and no building shall be erected on any lot in the city unless the street giving access thereto has been accepted as a public street in accordance with this ordinance, or unless such street had attained the status of a public street prior to the effective date of this ordinance, or on a street accepted by the governing body.
ARTICLE IV. - PREAPPLICATION PROCEDURE

Section 401. - Preapplication review.
Whenever the subdivision of a tract of land within the City of Metter is proposed, the subdivider is urged to consult early and informally with the chairman of the planning commission. The subdivider may submit sketch plans and data showing existing conditions within the site and in its vicinity and the proposed layout and development of the subdivision. No fee shall be charged for the pre-application review and no formal application shall be required.
ARTICLE V. - PROCEDURE FOR TENTATIVE APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT

Section 501. - Application for preliminary plat approval.
Following the preapplication review of a proposed subdivision, the subdivider shall submit to the secretary of the planning commission, at least fifteen (15) days prior to the next regular meeting of the planning commission, the following:
A.
A letter requesting review and approval of a preliminary plat and giving the names and address of a person to whom the notice of the hearing by the planning commission on the preliminary plat shall be sent.
B.
Ten (10) copies of the preliminary plat and other documents, as specified in Article VII.
C.
A statement from the county sanitation office approving the proposed water supply and sewage disposal systems.
D.
A preliminary plat filing fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) or three dollars ($3.00) per lot, whichever is greater. Said fee is non-returnable.
Section 502. - Review of preliminary plat.
The secretary of the planning commission, or other person or persons designated by the planning commission, shall check the plat for conformance to the rules and regulations of this ordinance and report his findings and recommendations to the planning commission, which shall afford a hearing on the preliminary plat, notice of the time and place of which shall be sent by the secretary of the planning commission by registered or certified mail to the person designated in the letter requesting preliminary plat review and approval, not less than five days prior to the date of the hearing.
Thereafter, the planning commission shall give approval or disapproval to the preliminary plat. A notation of the action shall be made on two copies of the preliminary plat, including a statement of the reasons for disapproval, if the preliminary plat is disapproved. One copy shall be returned to the subdivider or his agent and one copy added to the records of the planning commission. In the case of a disapproval, a statement of the reasons shall accompany these copies.
Approval of a preliminary plat does not constitute approval of a final plat. It indicates only approval of the layout as a guide to the preparation of the final plat. Approval shall expire and be null and void after a period of one year unless an extension of time is approved by the planning commission.
If action on a preliminary plat is not taken by the planning commission within thirty (30) days of the date of submittal, the preliminary plat shall be considered approved and a certificate of approval shall be issued on demand. However, the applicant for approval may waive this requirement and consent to an extension of time.
ARTICLE VI. - PRELIMINARY PLAT SPECIFICATIONS

Section 601. - Scale.
The preliminary plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn at a scale not smaller than one hundred (100) feet to one inch.
Section 602. - Sheet size.
Sheet size shall be 18 × 24 inches where possible. If the complete plat cannot be shown on one sheet of this size, it may be shown on more than one sheet with an index map on a separate sheet of the same size.
Section 603. - Ground elevations.
The preliminary plat shall show ground elevations at two-foot contour intervals based on the datum plane of the U. S. Coast Guard and Geodetic Survey. A tie to one or more benchmarks shall be shown.
Section 604. - Information to be provided on preliminary plat.
The preliminary plat shall contain the following information:
A.
Name and address of owner of record and of subdivider.
B.
Proposed name of subdivision.
C.
North point and graphic scale and date.
D.
Vicinity map showing location and acreage of the subdivision.
E.
Exact boundary lines of the tract by bearings and distances.
F.
Names of owners of record of adjoining land.
G.
Existing streets, utilities and easements on and adjacent to the tract.
H.
Proposed layout including streets and alleys with proposed street names, lot lines with approximate dimensions, easements, land to be reserved or dedicated for public uses, and any land to be used for purposes other than single-family dwellings.
I.
Block numbers and lot numbers.
J.
Provisions for water supply, sewerage, and drainage.
K.
Minimum building front yard setback lines.
L.
Such street cross-sections and centerline profiles as may be required by the city.
Section 605. - Certificate of preliminary approval.
A certificate of tentative approval of the preliminary plat by the planning commission shall be inscribed on the plat as follows:
"Pursuant to the Land Subdivision Regulations of the City of Metter, Georgia, all the requirements of Preliminary Approval having been fulfilled, this Preliminary Plat was given Approval by the Metter Planning Commission on _______, 19___. This Approval of Preliminary Plat does not constitute approval of a Final Plat. This Certificate of Approval shall expire and be null and void on _______".
EXPAND
_____ _____
Date Secretary
Metter Planning
Commission
  ARTICLE VII. - FINAL PLAT PROCEDURE

Section 701. - Application for final plat approval.
After the preliminary plat of a proposed land subdivision has been given tentative approval by the planning commission the subdivider may, within one year from said approval, submit to the planning commission:
A.
A letter requesting review and approval of a final plat and giving the name and address of the person to whom the notice of the hearing by the planning commission on the final plat shall be sent.
B.
Ten (10) copies of the final plat and other documents, as specified in Article V, the original and at least one copy of which shall be drawn in permanent ink on plastic vellum or linen.
C.
A statement from the county sanitation officer approving the water supply and sewage disposal system.
D.
A statement from the city or its engineer that all improvements have been made as required by this ordinance or that an adequate bond has been posted to cover the cost of the unfinished improvements as required in Article XIII.
E.
The required recording fee for each sheet to be recorded.
Section 702. - Review of final plat.
The secretary of the planning commission, or other person or persons designated by the planning commission, shall check the final plat for conformance with the tentatively approved preliminary plat and with the rules and regulations of this ordinance and report his findings and recommendations to the planning commission, which shall afford a hearing on the final plat, notice of the time and place of which shall be sent by the secretary of the planning commission by registered or certified mail to the person designated in the letter requesting final plat review and approval, not less than five days prior to the date of the hearing.
Thereafter, the planning commission shall approve or disapprove the final plat. A notation of the action shall be made on the original tracing and two prints of the final plat, including a statement of the reasons therefore if the final plat is disapproved. If action on a final plat is not taken by the planning commission within thirty (30) days of the date of the submittal, the final plat shall be considered approved and a certificate of approval shall be issued on demand. However, the applicant for approval may waive this requirement and consent to an extension of time.
Section 703. - Recording of final plat.
Upon approval of a final plat, the secretary of the planning commission shall have the final plat recorded in the Office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Candler County. The subdivider shall be responsible for the payment of the recording fee at the time of submitting the final plat as provided in the preceding section.
Upon recording of the approved final plat, the original tracing or a reproducible plastic vellum print of the final plat with all certificates endorsed thereon shall be provided by the subdivider for the records of the planning commission.
ARTICLE VIII. - FINAL PLAT SPECIFICATIONS

Section 801. - The final plat shall conform to and meet the specifications of the preliminary plat and certain additional specifications.
The final plat shall conform to and meet the specifications of the preliminary plat (Article VI, Section 604), with the following additions:
The final plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn in permanent ink on plastic vellum. Sheet sizes shall be 18 × 24, and where more than one sheet is required an index map shall be required on the same size sheet. The final plat shall show:
A.
Bearings and distances to the nearest existing street lines or bench marks or other permanent monuments (not less than three) shall be accurately described on the plat.
B.
Municipal, county and land-lot lines accurately tied to the lines of the subdivision by distance and angles when such lines traverse or are reasonably close to the subdivision.
C.
Exact boundary lines of the tract, determined by a field survey, giving distances to the nearest one-tenth foot and angles to the nearest minute, which shall be balanced and closed with an error of closure not to exceed one to five thousand (5,000).
D.
Name of subdivision, exact locations, widths, and names of all streets and alleys within and immediately adjoining the plat.
E.
Street centerlines showing angles of deflection, angles of intersection, radii, and lengths of tangents.
F.
Lot lines with dimensions to the nearest one-tenth foot, and bearings.
G.
Lots numbered in numerical order and blocks lettered alphabetically.
H.
Location, dimensions, and purposes of any easements and any areas to be reserved or dedicated for public use.
I.
Accurate location, material, and description of monuments and markers.
J.
A statement, either directly on the plat or in an identified attached document, of any private covenants.
K.
The following certifications:
(1)
An engineer's or surveyor's certification, directly on the final plat as follows: "It is hereby certified that this Plat is true and correct and was prepared from an actual survey of the property by me or under my supervision; that all monuments shown hereon actually exist or are marked as "Future", and their location, size, type and material are correctly shown; and that all engineering requirements of the Land Subdivision Ordinance of the City of Metter, Georgia have been fully complied with".
By: _____
Registered C. E. No. _____
_____ Registered Georgia Land
Surveyor No. _____
(2)
A certificate of approval of the final plat by the planning commission, directly on the plat, as follows: "Pursuant to the Land Subdivision Ordinance of the City of Metter Georgia, all the requirements of approval having been fulfilled, this Final Plat was given Final Approval by the Metter Planning Commission on _______, 19___".
EXPAND
_____ _____
Date Secretary
Metter Planning
Commission
  Final Plat Certificate of Approval
ARTICLE IX. - GENERAL DESIGN REQUIREMENTS

Section 901. - Suitability of land.
Land subject to flooding, improper drainage, or erosion, or that is for topographical or other reasons unsuitable for residential use shall not be platted for residential use nor for any other use that will continue or increase the danger to health, safety, or property, unless the hazards can be and are corrected.
Section 902. - Name of subdivision.
The name of the subdivision must have the approval of the planning commission. The name shall not duplicate nor closely approximate the name of an existing subdivision in Candler County.
Section 903. - Access.
Access to every subdivision shall be provided over a public street.
Section 904. - Conformance to adopted major street and other plans.
All streets and other features of the Major Street Plan of the City of Metter, Georgia, shall be platted by the subdivider in the location and to the dimension indicated on the major thoroughfare plan adopted by the planning commission.
When features of other plans adopted by the planning commission (such as schools or other public building sites, parks, or other land for public uses) are located in whole or in part in a land subdivision, such features shall be either dedicated or reserved by the subdivider for acquisition within a reasonable time by the appropriate public agency.
Whenever a plat proposes the dedication of land to public use that the planning commission finds not required or suitable for such public use, the planning commission shall refuse to approve the plat, and shall notify the governing body of the reasons for such action.
Section 905. - Large-scale developments.
The requirements of this ordinance may be modified in the case of a large-scale community or neighborhood unit, such as a housing project or shopping center which is not subdivided into customary lots, blocks, and streets, if the development is approved by the planning commission and if it is in conformity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance.
ARTICLE X. - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR STREETS AND OTHER RIGHTS-OF-WAY

Section 1001. - Continuation of existing streets.
Existing streets shall be continued at the same or greater width, but in no case less than the required width. (See Illustration 2)
Section 1002. - Street names.
Street names shall require the approval of the planning commission. Streets that are obviously in alignment with streets already existing and named shall be given the name of the existing street. Names of new streets shall not duplicate or closely approximate those of existing streets.
Section 1003. - Street jogs.
Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one hundred twenty-five (125) feet shall not be permitted. (See Illustration 3)
Section 1004. - Culs-de-sac.
Except where topographic or other conditions make a greater length unavoidable, Culs-de-sac, or dead-end streets, shall not be greater in length than six hundred (600) feet. They shall be provided at the closed end with a turn-around having a property line diameter of at least one hundred (100) feet with an outside pavement diameter of at least eighty (80) feet. (See Illustration 4)
Illustration 2. Continuation of Existing Streets
Illustration 3. "Street Jogs"
Illustration 4. Long and Short "Cul-de-Sac" with Turn-Arounds
Section 1005. - Development along major street, limited-access highway or railroad right-of-way.
Where a subdivision abuts or contains a major street, a limited-access highway, or a railroad right-of-way either as a marginal access street or, at a distance suitable for an appropriate use of the intervening land, with a non-access reservation suitably planted. Due regard should be given requirements for approach grades and future grade separations in determining distances. Lots shall have no access to major street (or limited access highway), but only to access street.
Section 1006. - Alleys.
Alleys will be required at the rear of all lots used for residential, commercial, or industrial developments unless the subdivider provides evidence satisfactory to the planning commission of the need for no alleys.
Section 1007. - Reserve strips.
Reserve strips shall not be permitted unless their control is placed in the hands of the governing body, under conditions approved by the governing body.
Section 1008. - Easements.
Easements having a minimum width of ten (10) feet and located along the side or rear lot lines shall be provided, as required for utility lines, and underground mains and cables.
Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater or drainage right-of-way of adequate width as approved by the city. Parallel streets may be required by the planning commission in connection therewith.
ARTICLE XI. - STREET DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
Except as otherwise specified by the planning commission, all streets shall meet the following design requirements:
EXPAND
Type of Street
Major Collector Minor Alley
Right-of-Way Width (Minimum) As shown on Major Street Plan 60' 50' 20'
Pavement Width (Minimum) As shown on Major Street Plan 37' 22' 20'
Maximum Street Grade 7% 10% 14% 14%
Minimum Street Grade 5% 5% 5% 5%
Minimum Radius of Centerline Curvature, Horizontal curves 800' 200' 100' 100'
Minimum length of tangent between Reverse Curves 200' 100' None None
On vertical curves, a minimum sight distance at six (6) feet above ground level 500' 200' None None
Street Intersections All street intersections shall be as nearly at right angles as possible. No street intersections shall be at an angle of less than 60 degrees, unless required by unusual circumstances.
Curb-line radius at street intersections (Minimum) 15' 15' 15' 15'
(Where angle of intersection is less than 90 degrees more may be required.)
  ARTICLE XII. - DESIGN STANDARDS FOR BLOCKS AND LOTS

Section 1201. - Block lengths and widths.
Block lengths and widths shall be as follows:
A.
Blocks shall be not greater than one thousand eight hundred (1,800) feet nor less than six hundred (600) feet in length, except in unusual circumstances.
B.
Blocks shall be wide enough to provide two tiers of lots of minimum depth, except where abutting upon major streets, limited-access highways, or railroads or where other situations make this requirement impracticable.
Section 1202. - Lot sizes.
Residential lots shall meet the lot width and lot area requirements of the zoning ordinance.
Where individual septic tanks are used, the health officer shall prescribe minimum lot sizes to conform to health standards.
Illustration 5. Tangents Between Reverse Curves
Illustration 6. Streets Should Intersect at Nearly Right Angles
Illustration 7
Commercial and industrial lots shall be adequate to provide service areas and off-street parking suitable to use intended. (See Illustration 8)
Residential corner lots shall have adequate width to meet building setback requirements from both abutting streets. (See Illustration 9)
Section 1203. - Lot lines.
All lot lines shall be perpendicular or radial to street lines, unless not practicable because of topographic or other features. (See Illustration 10)
Section 1204. - Building lines.
A building line meeting the front-yard setback requirements of the zoning ordinance shall be established on all lots.
Section 1205. - Lots abutting public streets.
Each lot shall abut upon a dedicated public street.
Section 1206. - Double and reverse frontage lots.
Double frontage, and reverse frontage lots, shall be prohibited except where essential to provide separation of residential development from traffic arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation. A planting screen easement of at least ten (10) feet, and across which there shall be no right of access, shall be provided along the line of lots abutting such a traffic artery or other disadvantageous use. (See Illustration 11)
Illustration 8. Typical Shopping Center
Illustration 9
Illustration 10
Illustration 11. Reverse Frontage with Protective Screen Easement
ARTICLE XIII. - REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS

Section 1301. - Required improvements.
Every subdivider shall be required to have installed by the appropriate city agency at his expense, or with approval of the agency concerned, to install the following street improvements and utilities:
A.
Except on major or limited-access streets, street grading, curbs and gutters, and street paving.
B.
Sanitary sewer lines and manholes, storm-drainage facilities, sidewalks (when determined by the planning commission to be essential for the safety of pedestrians) and monuments and markers.
C.
If the required sewer line cannot be connected to a truckline sewer at the time of the development of the subdivision, septic tanks shall be installed by and at the expense of the subdivider or lot purchaser for interim use, in conformity with the requirements of the county health department.
D.
Water mains within the subdivision with connections to each lot.
All required street improvements, utilities and monuments shall be built to standards specified by the agency responsible for each. All utilities to be installed in the streets shall be placed and compacted prior to paving.
Section 1302. - Bond in lieu of completion of improvements.
The planning commission may allow the subdivider to post a bond in lieu of completion of all the improvements as required by this article. The bond shall be made payable to the City of Metter and shall be of an amount sufficient to assure completion of all required improvements. The bond shall be approved and held until a specified reasonable length of time for completion has passed after which the bond may be cashed and the improvements installed by the city.
