Chapter 15.52 - PRE-OWNED MANUFACTURED HOMES
Sections:

15.52.010 - Definitions.
The following words, terms, or phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section.
"Applicant" means any person seeking to install a pre-owned manufactured home in the city limits of the City of Metter.
"Building inspector" means the person appointed, employed, or otherwise designated as the director of planning, permits and inspections; the municipal building official or any of his or her assistants.
"Certificate of occupancy" means a document issued by the building inspector certifying that a pre-owned manufactured home is in compliance with applicable requirements set forth by this chapter, and indicating it to be in a condition suitable for residential occupancy.
"Guarantee of condition bond" means a surety bond to guarantee that the affidavit and photographs required by subsections A.1. and A.2. of Section 15.52.030 reasonably portray or represent the existing condition of the pre-owned manufactured home proposed for relocation. In lieu of the bond, a cash deposit may be deposited with the city.
"Install" means to construct a foundation system and to place or erect a manufactured home on such foundation system. Such term includes, without limitation, supporting, blocking, leveling, securing, or anchoring such manufactured home and connecting multiple or expandable sections of such manufactured home.
"Jurisdiction" means the areas within the city limits of the City of Metter, Georgia.
"Manufactured home" means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or forty (40) body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401 et seq.
"Pre-owned manufactured home" means any manufactured home that has been previously used as a residential dwelling and has been titled.
(Ord. of 3-12-12)
15.52.020 - Conditions.
All pre-owned manufactured homes located in the jurisdiction shall bear a label certifying it was constructed in compliance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq. (the HUD Code) and shall be installed in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 8-2-160 et seq.
(Ord. of 3-12-12)
15.52.030 - Permitting, inspection, certificate of occupancy, and fees.
A permit shall be required to locate a pre-owned manufactured home in the jurisdiction.
A.
Permit. To obtain a permit, applicants shall provide to the building inspector:
1.
An affidavit signed by the applicant that the pre-owned manufactured home meets health and safety standards required by this chapter;
2.
Photographs of the interior and exterior of the pre-owned manufactured home providing evidence that home meets the minimum health and safety standards of Section 15.52.040;
3.
A two-hundred-dollar, refundable cash deposit; and
4.
The permit and inspection fee required by subsection D. of this section.
B.
Inspection. Upon receipt of a permit, applicants may relocate the manufactured home on a residential site for the purposes of inspection. Applicant shall arrange for an inspection to be held once the installation of the manufactured home is complete.
C.
Certificate of Occupancy. A certificate of occupancy shall be issued to the applicant at such time that the building inspector certifies that the requirements of this chapter have been met.
D.
Fee. A permit and inspection fee shall be charged to the applicant to cover the cost to the city to process the permit application and inspect the pre-owned manufactured home. Such fee shall cover the initial inspection and one followup inspection. The applicant shall be charged for each additional followup inspection that may be necessary.
E.
Alternative Inspection. At the request of the applicant, the building inspector may, at his or her discretion, inspect a pre-owned manufactured home prior to its being relocated if the home is then located at another site within the city. If the home is located outside the city, the applicant may choose to pay the city a fee of thirty-five dollars ($35.00) per hour required to inspect the home and reimburse the city for any expense, including, but not necessary limited to, mileage at a rate equivalent to that set by the Internal Revenue Service for that particular year. The city, prior to inspecting a home located outside its jurisdictions, will provide the applicant with an estimated cost of such inspection.
(Ord. of 3-12-12)
15.52.040 - Minimum health and safety standards.
All pre-owned manufactured homes shall comply with the following before being issued a certificate of occupancy by the building inspector:
A.
HUD Code. Every pre-owned manufactured home located in the jurisdiction shall be in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act, 42 U.S.C. 5401—5445 (the HUD Code) and shall not have been altered in such a way that the home no longer meets the HUD Code.
B.
Foundations. The foundations upon which pre-owned manufactured homes are affixed shall be in compliance with Permanent Foundations Guide for Manufactured Housing, 1996, as the same may be amended and/or modified from time to time.
C.
Interior Condition. Every floor, interior wall, and ceiling of a pre-owned manufactured home shall be in sound condition. Doors and windows shall be operable, watertight and in good working condition. The floor system shall be in sound condition and free of warping, holes, water damage, or deterioration.
D.
Exterior Condition. The exterior of all pre-owned manufactured homes shall be free of loose or rotting boards or timbers and any other conditions that might admit rain or moisture to the interior portions of the walls or to occupied spaces. The exterior siding shall be free of rot and rust. Roofs shall be structurally sound and have no obvious defects that might admit rain or cause moisture to collect on the interior portion of the home.
E.
Sanitary Facilities. Every plumbing fixture, water, and waste pipe of a pre-owned manufactured home shall be in a sanitary working condition when properly connected, and shall be free from leaks and obstructions. Each home shall contain a kitchen sink. Each bathroom shall contain a lavatory and water closet. At least one bathroom shall contain a tub and/or shower facilities. Each of these fixtures shall be checked upon being connected to ensure they are in good working condition.
F.
Heating Systems. Heating shall be safe and in working condition. Unvented heaters shall be prohibited.
G.
Electrical Systems. Switches, receptacles, fixtures, etc. shall be properly installed and wired and shall be in working condition. Distribution panels shall be in compliance with the approved listing, complete with required breakers, with all unused openings covered with solid covers approved and listed for that purpose. The home shall be subject to an electrical continuity test to assure that all metallic parts are properly bonded. Each pre-owned manufactured home shall contain a water heater in safe and working order.
H.
Hot Water Supply. Each home shall contain a water heater in safe and working condition.
I.
Egress Windows. Each bedroom of a manufactured home shall have at least one operable window of sufficient size to allow egress if necessary.
J.
Ventilation. The kitchen in the home shall have at least one operating window or other ventilation device.
K.
Smoke Detectors. Each pre-owned manufactured home shall contain one operable electric or battery-powered smoke detector, with battery-powered back-up power, in each bedroom and in the kitchen, which must be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations.
L.
Carbon Monoxide Detectors. Each pre-owed manufactured home shall be equipped with a carbon monoxide detector that is battery operated or AC powered with a battery backup.
(Ord. of 3-12-12)
15.52.050 - Enforcement.
A.
Permanent connection to utilities shall not be approved until the building inspector has issued a certificate of occupancy.
B.
Owners of pre-owned manufactured homes that are not in compliance upon a third inspection shall have their permit revoked and shall be required to remove the home from the jurisdiction at their own expense.
C.
The guarantee of condition bond or cash deposit will be forfeited after ninety (90) days from the date of inspection, unless all conditions and standards are met prior to the end of the ninety (90) days or an extension has been issued in writing by the building inspector.
(Ord. of 3-12-12)
15.52.060 - Penalties.
Failure to remove a pre-owned manufactured home from the jurisdiction upon failure to receive a certificate of occupancy shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1000.00) and a jail sentence not to exceed thirty (30) days. Each day any violation under this chapter continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. of 3-12-12)
