Chapter 15.28 - BUILDING NUMBERING
Sections:

15.28.005 - Purpose.
This chapter is for the purpose of public safety for the citizens and residents of the city so as to facilitate the location of buildings by safety and emergency personnel, including police, fire and EMS personnel.
(Ord. 01-01 (part))
15.28.010 - Placement of numbers on buildings.
All entrances from the public streets of the city to buildings fronting thereon shall be numbered as provided in this chapter. All numbers shall be placed upon, or immediately above or to one side of the door or gate or post of such entrance or shall be otherwise conspicuously located near such entrance so that the same shall be in plain view. All numerals in the number shall be at least three inches in height, and placed to read from left to right.
(Ord. 97-4 § 1)
15.28.020 - Numbering system—Zero points designated.
A.
For all streets running north and south and crossing Broad Street, Broad Street is the zero point and north of Broad Street and designated as "North Lewis," "North Kennedy," etc., and south of Broad they are "South Lewis," "South Kennedy," etc.
B.
For all streets running east and west and crossing Rountree Street, Rountree Street is the zero point, and east of Rountree the streets are designated as "East Lee Street," "East Vetia Street," etc. and west of Rountree they are designated as "West Lee Street," "West Vertia Street," etc.
C.
Starting at the zero points, all numbers on the right-hand side of the street will be even numbers and on the left hand side of the street will be odd numbers.
(Ord. 97-4 § 2)
15.28.030 - Numbers designated by city clerk.
It shall be the duty of the city clerk to designate the respective numbers for buildings or parcels of land fronting on streets heretofore laid out or extended.
(Ord. 97-4 § 3)
15.28.040 - Display of numbers required.
No owner, occupant, lessee, tenant or subtenant of any building having an entrance which fronts on a public street shall display any number of such building or entrance thereto other than the proper number designated by the city clerk and shall within thirty (30) days after receiving notice of such designated number from the city clerk place the same upon or immediately above or to one side of the door, gate, post or entrance to such building or in some other conspicuous location as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 01-01 (part); Ord. 97-4 § 4)
15.28.050 - Responsibility of owner and occupant to place numbers.
It shall be the responsibility of both the owner and occupant of any building, at his expense, to cause the same to be numbered in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 97-4 § 5)
15.28.060 - Failure to display street addresses—No city services.
All new residences and businesses must display correct street addresses as provided by this chapter. No services (water, sewer, sanitation, etc.) will be extended to these premises until such numbers are correctly and properly displayed or affixed. Any residence or business failing to display or affix numbers as contemplated herein shall be subject to the penalty set out in Chapter 1.12 of this code.
(Ord. 01-01 (part): Ord. 97-4 § 6)
