ARTICLE XI. - STANDARDS FOR BLOCKS AND LOTS

Section 1100. - Block Dimensions.
In general, the dimensions of blocks in a proposed subdivision shall be determined with regard to the following:
(A)
Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs of the type of use contemplated;
(B)
Zoning requirements;
(C)
Need for safe and convenient access and circulation; and
(D)
Limitations and opportunities of the existing topography.
(Ord. No. 568, § 1100, 9-18-1968)
1100.1 Length. Blocks shall not be greater than twelve hundred (1,200) feet nor less than three hundred (300) feet in length, unless the unusual characteristics of a particular site dictate otherwise.
1100.2 Width. Blocks shall be wide enough to provide two (2) tiers of lots of minimum depth, except where the property abuts upon a major street or a railroad and double frontage lots are, as a result, desirable.
Section 1101. - Blocks in Commercial Areas.
In commercial areas, the general block layout shall be designed as follows:
(A)
To permit good traffic circulation and automobile parking;
(B)
To permit efficient pickup and delivery; and
(C)
To encourage the best possible design of the individual units in the commercial area.
Section 1102. - Blocks in Industrial Areas.
In industrial areas, the general block layout shall be designed to encourage the most efficient arrangement of space for present use and future expansion, and to provide for adequate and safe access and parking for workers as well as visitors.
Section 1103. - Lot Dimensions.
The dimensions of all lots shall conform to the provisions of the City of Brunswick Zoning Ordinance. In addition, the areas and dimensions of lots shall be determined with regard to the availability of public water and sewerage, and the results of soil percolation tests, as follows for one- and two-family dwellings:
EXPAND
Utilities Available Minimum Lot Size
in Square Feet Minimum Lot Width in Feet
Public Water and Public Sewer  6,000  60
Public Water Only 10,000 100
No Public Water or Public Sewer 30,000 150
  The Planning Commission, with the cooperation of the County Health Officials, shall analyze the results of any soil percolation tests performed on the site of a proposed subdivision, and, on the basis of this analysis, may require that the lot sizes and widths be increased beyond the minimum sizes and widths, as shown above.
Section 1104. - Lot Layout.
Each lot in a subdivision must abut upon an approved road. However, no lot shall have direct access to a major arterial road, but only to a minor local access road.
Side lot lines should be substantially at right angles or radial to road lines. A building line meeting the front-yard setback requirements of the City of Brunswick Zoning Ordinance shall be established on all lots.
Section 1105. - Double Frontage Lots.
Double frontage, or reverse frontage, lots are not permitted except where essential to provide separation of residential development from major traffic arteries or railroads, or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation.
A planting screen easement of at least ten (10) feet must be provided on all double frontage lots on the side abutting the major road, railroad, or other use creating an adverse effect. No right-of-way access shall be provided from the abutting property either onto or through the required planting screen easement.
Section 1106. - Lots That May Be Further Subdivided.
Where the lots in a subdivision are large enough for possible future resubdivision, or where a portion of a tract is not subdivided, suitable access for these eventualities must be provided in accordance with Section 1202.
Section 1107. - Minimum Lot Elevation.
The elevation within the building area of all lots shall be a minimum of eight (8) feet above Mean Sea Level based on the U. S. Coast and Geodetic Datum. The building area shall be of such size as to permit all land within twenty (20) feet of the front and rear of the building and within ten (10) feet of the sides of a building to conform to the minimum lot elevation requirement. The minimum lot elevation may be increased by the Planning Commission where necessary to meet proper standards for sanitation and drainage as specified by the County Health Department and the City Engineer.
