ARTICLE IX. - MODIFICATIONS AND AMENDMENTS

Section 900. - Resubdivision.
For any replatting or resubdividing of land, the same procedure and regulations apply as are prescribed for an original subdivision.
Section 901. - Preliminary Plat Waiver.
In the case of a subdivision of no more than five (5) lots, a prospective subdivider may request the Planning Commission to waive the requirement that a preliminary plat be submitted and approved before consideration of a final plat, provided no new street is required.
The Planning Commission may not grant any waiver unless the prospective subdivider has first thoroughly reviewed the proposed subdivision with the Planning Director, as specified in Article V.
If the Planning Commission grants the waiver, the subdivider may begin preparation of a final plat in accordance with the procedure required in Article VIII.
Section 902. - Variances.
These subdivision regulations are the minimum standards for the protection of the public welfare. However, where a regulation would cause demonstrably unique and undue hardship as it applies to any particular subdivider's property, the Planning Commission, by an affirmative vote of at least five (5) of its total membership, or the Commissioners of the City of Brunswick on appeal may grant the subdivider a variance from the strict application of the regulation if such variance will not nullify the objectives of these subdivision regulations.
In granting a variance, the Planning Commission or the Commissioners of the City of Brunswick on appeal may impose conditions that will substantially secure the objectives of the particular regulation that is varied. A complete record of the reasons for the approval of any variance must be entered in the official minutes of the Planning Commission, or the official minutes of the City of Brunswick on appeal.
Section 903. - Planned Large-Scale Developments.
In the case of plans for large-scale developments, the standards and requirements of these regulations may be modified by the Planning Commission if the development:
(A)
Achieves substantially the objectives of these regulations;
(B)
Is further protected by covenants or other legal provisions as will assure conformity to and achievement of the plan;
(C)
Contains or is bounded by major streets as necessary;
(D)
Contains reserved areas of sufficient size to serve its population for playgrounds, parks, and other such open space;
(E)
Is provided with public water and sewage facilities; and
(F)
Is situated in a PD - Planned Development Zoning District and developed in accordance with the provisions that apply to this district.
Section 904. - Amendments.
This Ordinance may be amended from time to time by the Commissioners of the City of Brunswick. Upon the proposal of an amendment, the Commissioners of said City may in their discretion submit such proposed amendment to the Planning Commission for review and recommendation. Upon such submission the Planning Commission shall within 30 days submit a report thereon to the Commissioners of said City. If such report is not received within the specified 30-day period, the proposed amendment shall be deemed to have a favorable recommendation of the Planning Commission.
