Chapter 7 - CEMETERIES AND BURIALS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 933, adopted Apr. 15, 1998, repealed ch. 7 of the Code in its entirety and enacted new provisions as ch. 7 as herein set out. Former ch. 7, § 7-1, pertained to similar subject matter and derived from the 1953 Code, § 11.2.
Cross reference— Public works department, § 2-216 et seq.
State Law reference— Cemeteries generally, O.C.G.A. § 44-3-130 et seq.

Sec. 7-1. - Definitions.
As used in this chapter, the term:
Cemetery means any land or structure in this city dedicated to and used, or intended to be used, for interment of human remains by way of earth interment, i.e., burial, or by mausoleum or crypt interment, or some combination thereof. It does not include fraternal cemeteries, church and synagogue cemeteries or private family burial plots.
Grave means a space in the ground in a cemetery designated for use as a place used or to be used for burial of human remains in the earth.
Mausoleum means a structure or building located within a cemetery and which is substantially exposed above the ground and which is used or intended to be used for interment of human remains in crypts or niches located above ground.
Pauper means a person, identified or unknown, as to whom the city manager or city manager's designee has been furnished evidence that such person died in a state of indigence leaving no estate to pay for funerary services and burial, and for whom there does not appear any charitable or other available source of financial or other assistance for meeting the cost of funerary and burial costs.
(Ord. No. 933, 4-15-1998)
Sec. 7-2. - Portion of each cemetery to be set apart for the burial of strangers and of transient or resident paupers.
There shall be set apart in every cemetery, under the direction of the city commission, a portion of such cemetery for the burial of strangers and of transient or resident paupers.
(Ord. No. 933, 4-15-1998)
Sec. 7-3. - Burial requirements; when effective.
(a)
All burials in any cemetery grave within the corporate limits of the city shall be carried out by way of an excavation of sufficient depth that the uppermost portion of the casket, or in the event a vault is used, the uppermost portion of the vault, is buried and covered by earth to a level at least 12 inches below the finish grade of the burial plot. This is not intended to prohibit or preclude interment of human remains in an above-ground mausoleum located within a cemetery in this city. This does not preclude the owner of a cemetery from establishing a different rule as to minimum depth for burials by way of rules or regulations adopted, maintained and posted in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 44-3-141.
(b)
The provisions of subsection (b) of this section shall take effect, and apply to all burials occurring on or after June 1, 1998.
(Ord. No. 933, 4-15-1998)
