ARTICLE II. - ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS

Sec. 23-2-1. - Division into districts.
For the purpose of these regulations, the City of Brunswick, Georgia, is hereby divided into 20 districts designated as follows:
EXPAND
R-9 One-family residential
R-6 One-family residential
GR General residential
OC Office commercial
LC Local commercial
GC General commercial
GCCore General commercial core
HC Highway commercial
BI Basic industrial
GI General industrial
CP Conservation-preservation
PD-G Planned Development-General
PD-TN Planned Development-Traditional Neighborhood
MH Mobile home
MED Medical
LM Limited medical
LI Limited industrial
CR Commercial recreation
GRCore General residential core
U.S.17 U.S. 17 Overlay
  (Ord. No. 1006, ยง 1, 11-19-2008)
Sec. 23-2-2. - District boundaries.
The location and boundaries of each district are as shown on a map entitled "Official Zoning Map of Brunswick and Glynn County, Georgia," heretofore adopted on February 3, 1965, as amended from time to time. Said map, together with the explanatory writing and other entries thereon, consisting of multiple panels, has been and shall continue to be a part of this zoning ordinance until such time that a new and updated map of the city showing the current and correct location and boundaries of each district can be prepared by the city engineer. When such a new map is approved by vote of the city commission, then that new map shall become the official zoning map of the City of Brunswick and automatically replace the previous map as a part of this ordinance. Said new map shall be updated periodically by the city engineer to update it to reflect any re-zonings which may occur in the future and shall be retained permanently in the office of the city engineer. The map of February 3, 1965, as amended, referred to above shall be permanently retained by the city engineer for future reference.
(Ord. No. 1006, ยง 1, 11-19-2008)
Sec. 23-2-3. - Interpretation of district boundaries.
The following rules shall apply where uncertainty exists with respect to the district boundaries as shown on the zoning map:
(a)
District boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines or right-of-way lines of streets, highways, alleys, railways or public utility easements shall be construed to follow such centerlines or right-of-way lines.
(b)
District boundaries indicated as approximately following lot or tract lines, whether public or private, shall be construed to follow such lines.
(c)
District boundaries indicated as approximately following incorporated area or county limit lines, military reservation boundary lines, militia district lines or special district lines, as amended from time to time, shall be construed to follow such lines.
(d)
District boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines, right-of-way or shore lines of streams, rivers, canals, channels or other waterways shall be construed to follow such centerlines, right-of-way lines or shore lines.
(e)
District boundaries indicated within the area known as the Atlantic Ocean shall be construed to be parallel to, and 500 feet seaward from, adjacent land or marsh shore lines at all times.
(f)
District boundaries indicated as being approximately parallel to, or extensions of, features or lines listed hereinabove shall be so construed. Distances not specifically indicated on the zoning map shall be determined according to the scale of the map.
(Ord. No. 1006, ยง 1, 11-19-2008)
Sec. 23-2-4. - Annexation or other adjustments to city limits.
The following provisions shall govern when city limit boundaries change by reason of annexation:
(a)
The zoning district classification which applied to the newly added area when it was under the jurisdiction of the Glynn County Zoning Ordinance shall continue to apply until such time as the city commission may desire to change the classification through normal amendment procedure, provided that the identical zoning district classification, including identical standards and requirements, exists in this chapter.
(b)
Otherwise, the additional land area incorporated into the city shall be classified R-9 one-family residential until such time as the city commission may desire to change such classification through normal amendment procedure.
(c)
In all cases where an addition to the city's land area requires adjustment in the zoning district boundaries, such adjustment shall be endorsed upon the zoning map.
(d)
Zoning decisions with respect to land annexed into the city shall be subject to any valid and applicable contracts between the city and Glynn County which are currently in force at the time of the decision.
(Ord. No. 1006, ยง 1, 11-19-2008)
