ARTICLE 1 - AUTHORITY, TITLE, PURPOSE, INTENT AND SUBDIVISION OF PROPERTY

1.1 - Authority and title.
1.1.1 Authority. These development regulations are adopted under the authority of the Constitution of the State of Georgia and laws enacted pursuant thereto.
1.1.2 Title. These regulations shall be known as "The Development Regulations of Paulding County, Georgia," and may be referred to generally as "the development regulations" or, as used herein, "these regulations."
1.2 - Purpose.
These regulations are intended to serve the following purposes:
1)
To protect and promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
2)
To provide a system for the subdividing of lands and the accurate recording of land titles.
3)
To provide assurance that those lots shown on recorded subdivision plats are usable by the purchasers for their intended and permitted functions.
4)
To encourage economically sound and orderly land development in accordance with the policies and objectives of the Comprehensive Plan of Paulding County.
5)
To assure the provision of required streets, utilities and other facilities and services to new land developments in conformance with public improvement policies of the county.
6)
To assure adequate provision of safe and convenient traffic access and circulation, both vehicular and pedestrian, in new land developments.
7)
To assure the provision of needed open spaces and public facility sites in new land developments through the dedication or reservation for purchase of land for public purposes.
8)
To assure equitable review and approval of all subdivision and site plans by providing uniform procedures and standards for the developer.
1.3 - Intent and application.
It is the intent of these regulations that they apply to and provide guidance for the development of any lands within the unincorporated area of Paulding County, or any other areas over which the Paulding County Board of Commissioners has authority pertaining to land development. These regulations apply to all land-disturbing activity and development activity, whether the development involves the subdivision of land for sale to individual users or pertains only to the construction of buildings or other improvements on a single parcel.
1.4 - Agricultural exemption.
Clearly agricultural uses, limited to the cultivation of the land, dairying or animal husbandry, are not intended to be governed by these regulations, provided that land proposed to be converted to a new agricultural use must be zoned A-1 to be exempt from the provisions herein.
1.5 - Subdivision of property.
1.5.1 Subdivision of two or more lots. These regulations shall govern all subdivision of land into two or more individual parcels or lots, within the unincorporated limits of Paulding County, Georgia, or any other areas over which the Paulding County Board of Commissioners has authority pertaining to land development.
1.5.2 Preapplication review. Whenever the subdivision of a tract of land is proposed, the subdivider is urged to consult with the Paulding County Development Control Committee. The subdivider may submit concept plans and data showing existing conditions within the site and its vicinity and the proposed development layout of the subdivision.
1.5.3 Approvals. The development control committee shall approve all preliminary plats and construction plans in accordance with these regulations.
1.5.4 Time limits on preliminary plat and construction plan approval. Preliminary plats shall be good for a period of one year after development control committee approval. Within that year construction plans must be submitted and approved. Construction of the project must begin within one year of construction plan approval. If these time limits are exceeded, the project shall be void and subject to reapplication.
1.5.5 Construction of phased developments. Developers shall be responsible for damages and maintenance of previously accepted streets. When construction traffic of new phases/developments impact severely on existing county streets, as determined by the Paulding County Community Development Department, and the developer fails to take necessary corrective action, the developer's maintenance bond may be used for these off site repairs and maintenance.
1.5.6 Status of platted streets and other public spaces and utilities. After final approval by the development control committee and the completion of all improvements required by these regulations and the expiration of the required maintenance bond period, the subdivider may request the county to accept platted streets and other public spaces and utilities.
1.5.7 Priority of health department. Nothing contained in these regulations shall be construed as preventing the health department, after study of the conditions existing in a proposed subdivision, from requiring that all or any portion of the area of such subdivision shall not be built upon or that the minimum lot sizes set forth in these regulations are inadequate and must be increased to insure the protection of public health.
1.6 - Subdivision lot criteria.
1.6.1 Jurisdictional boundary lines. Lots shall not be divided by corporate or county boundary lines.
1.6.2 Corner lots. Corner lots shall be sufficiently large to permit the location of buildings so as to conform with the building lines on both streets. Corner lots shall have driveways on only one street.
1.6.3 Double frontage.
1)
For double frontage lots (i.e., lots having street frontage both in front and rear) in residential subdivisions along major thoroughfares, a no-access easement of at least ten feet in width, across which there shall be no right of access, shall be provided along the line of lots abutting said major thoroughfare. The no-access easement shall be planted with a single line of shrubs or trees, or contain a solid or decorative fence, or contain other such screening treatment as may be proposed by the developer and approved by the development control committee.
2)
For double frontage lots in subdivisions along minor collectors or local streets, there shall also be a no-access easement as described in the paragraph immediately above, except that any planting or screening of the no-access easement shall be at the sole option of the developer.
1.6.4 Lot lines. Insofar as practical, side lot lines shall be at right angles to straight street lines and radial to curved street line.
1.6.5 Minimum lot dimensions and area. The minimum lot width at the front building line and minimum lot area shall be in accordance with the Paulding County Zoning Ordinance.
1.6.6 Lot depth. Except in instances of extreme topography or unusual physical conditions, lot depth shall not be more than four times the lot width at the building line.
1.6.7 Street access.
1)
Every lot hereafter established shall front or abut on a street which is to be dedicated to the public and conforms to the requirements of these regulations, unless on an approved driveway easement or as otherwise approved by the development control committee. Generally, lots shall not derive access exclusively from any street designated as an arterial or collector street on the roadway classification map. If access must be obtained from an arterial or collector street, single-family residential driveways shall be designed and arranged to avoid requiring vehicles to back into traffic. Multiple family residential driveways and drives serving all nonresidential land uses shall be designed and arranged to avoid requiring vehicles to back into traffic on all streets.
2)
A maximum of 120 residential dwelling units shall be allowed to be constructed with only one street outlet on an existing public street. If a second access to an existing public street is not available or its existence may induce nonresidential traffic through the development as determined by the Paulding County DOT, the second access requirement may be waived by the Paulding County DOT if and only if the original street outlet is designed and constructed with sufficient right-of-way and improvements to provide a divided median road with two lanes in and two lanes out. The 120 dwelling unit threshold is applicable for any location within the development. No further building permits may be issued within the development upon reaching the capacity of 120 residential dwelling units without a second access or without an approved waiver of the second access requirement.
Subdivisions with greater than 400 residential dwelling units will be required to provide three access outlets onto existing public streets. No further building permits may be issued within the development upon reaching the capacity of 400 residential dwelling units without three access outlets onto existing public streets.
(Ord. No. 22-12 , ยง 1, (Exh. A) 8-23-2022)
1.7 - Easements.
1.7.1 Utility easements. When it is found to be necessary and desirable to locate public utility lines in other than street rights-of-way, easements shall be shown on the plat for such purposes. Such easements shall not be less than 12 feet in width and, where possible, shall be centered on rear or side lot lines.
1.7.2 Watercourse and drainage easements. Where a proposed subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way or stream, appropriate provisions shall be made to accommodate stormwater and drainage through and from the proposed subdivision. Such easement shall conform substantially with the lines of said watercourse and be of sufficient width for construction and/or maintenance. All easements and appropriate storm drain pipes shall be subject to the following:
Easements for Watercourse and Drainage
Storm Drain Pipes
EXPAND
Pipe
Size
(Inch) Maximum Pipe Invert Depth (Ft.)
Minimum Easement Width (Ft.)
NA 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16
15 20 20 20 20 20 25 25 30 30 30 35 35 40
18 20 20 20 20 20 25 25 30 30 30 35 35 40
24 20 20 20 20 20 25 25 30 30 30 35 35 40
30 20 20 20 20 25 25 25 30 30 35 35 35 40
36 20 20 20 20 25 25 25 30 30 35 35 35 40
42 NA 20 20 20 25 25 30 30 30 35 35 40 40
48 NA 20 20 20 25 25 30 30 30 35 35 40 40
54 NA NA 20 25 25 25 30 30 35 35 35 40 40
60 NA NA 20 25 25 25 30 30 35 35 35 40 40
66 NA NA NA 25 25 30 30 30 35 35 40 40 40
72 NA NA NA 25 25 30 30 30 35 35 40 40 40
  1.7.3 Private easement subdivisions.
1)
There is hereby created a classification of subdivisions known as "private easement subdivisions." This classification is to be used in those instances where there has been a subdivision of property by a person (hereinafter referred to as the "subdivider") wherein the property lacks the minimum required amount of county road frontage in order to obtain building permits.
2)
When a subdivider desires to create a private easement subdivision, the following shall apply:
(a)
The person desiring to create the private easement subdivision shall make application to the development control committee in the same manner as all other subdivisions are approved in Paulding County. The person shall submit to the development control committee six copies of the final plat along with copies of any deed restrictions or road maintenance agreements that will affect the property being subdivided. The final plat must be labeled as a private easement subdivision.
(b)
On each deed that is conveyed by the subdivider to any other person of the property contained in the private easement subdivision the following language must be shown on the deed:
"The grantee herein recognizes that any and all means of ingress and egress to the property conveyed hereby that is provided by the grantor or his successors or assigns are considered by the Paulding County Development Control Committee and the governing body of Paulding County to be a private easement and is not maintainable by said governing body. The grantee and the property owner hereby agree that they will be responsible for their proportionate share of the upkeep and maintenance of this private easement and completely hold the governing body of Paulding County harmless from any necessity for such upkeep and maintenance."
(c)
There shall be a maximum of three single-family dwelling permits issued for each private easement subdivision. Waivers of this requirement may be submitted to the development waiver review committee pursuant to article 14 of this ordinance. Provided however, in no event shall more than six building permits be allowed fronting off a single easement access through the waiver and/or variance process except that any lot of record which meets requirement 1.7.3(d) and existed prior to September 12, 2006, as confirmed by the planning and zoning division manager, may be used as a building site for one single-family dwelling.
1.
In addition to the requirements set forth herein and within article 14, the development waiver review committee and/or Paulding County Board of Commissioners, shall require written notification of the waiver application to all persons with residences located on the private easement of the waiver application.
2.
The development waiver review committee and/or the board of commissioners, at its discretion and request, may require a joint maintenance agreement for the private easement as a part of the application and/or approval process.
3.
As a part of the variance application for an additional permit, the applicant must show special circumstances and/or a hardship as the basis for the request for an additional permit.
4.
In addition, as part of any waiver or variance application, the applicant shall provide a title certificate from a licensed attorney certifying the title of the property being applied for and the specific ability of the applicant to subdivide the easement rights to allow for another easement access point and building permit.
(d)
Each subdivided lot contained in a private easement subdivision shall be a minimum of two acres in size.
(e)
The minimum width of the private easement servicing the private easement subdivision shall be 30 feet wide.
(f)
There shall be no more than one private easement subdivision for every 500 feet of county road frontage unless the development control committee specifically finds that this would create an undue hardship on a proposed subdivider and allows a modification of this item.
(g)
All easements for private easement subdivisions shall be inspected by the county department of transportation to determine if the private easement is suitable for drainage, travel of emergency vehicles and proper maintenance by the property owners. The proposed easement road is to be a minimum 15-foot gravel surface with a 40 foot turn-around, dead end.
(h)
The subdivider shall install any pipe required by the county and the subdivider or his heirs or assigns shall be responsible for all maintenance of said easement as shown by the deed restrictions.
(i)
All state and county specifications shall apply to all construction of buildings on all lots contained in the private easement subdivision.
(j)
In order to facilitate the location of persons by emergency vehicle personnel, mailboxes of parties residing on the easement shall be placed at the intersection of the easement with the county-maintained road with complete names and addresses of the parties living on the easement posted thereon.
(Res. No. 16-17, ยง 1, 4-12-2016)
1.8 - General requirements.
1.8.1 Monuments. Lot corners shall be marked with an iron pin at least 18 inches long and driven flush or up to two inches above the finished grade. A minimum of two GPS ties with coordinates shall be shown on the final plat.
1.8.2 Natural gas. When gas lines are located in a street right-of-way and it will be necessary to cut into the street surface to serve the abutting lots, a connection shall be stubbed out to the property line to serve each lot prior to surfacing the street.
1.8.3 Water supply. Where public water is available at the property being subdivided, the subdivider shall install water mains, fire hydrants and appurtenances according to plans and specifications approved by the Paulding County Water, Sewer and Environmental Services Department. When the water main is located in the street right-of-way and it will be necessary to cut into the street surface to serve the abutting lots, a connection shall be stubbed out to the property line to serve each lot before the street is surfaced.
1.8.4 Sanitary sewerage. Where public sewerage is available at the property being subdivided and the topography is such that extension is feasible, the subdivider shall install public sanitary sewers to plans and specifications approved by the water, sewer and environmental services department. When the sewer is located in a street right-of-way and it will be necessary to cut into the street surface to serve the abutting lots, a connection shall be stubbed out to the property line to serve each lot prior to surfacing the street.
1.8.5 Sewage disposal system. Prior to the construction of any community sewage disposal system such as an oxidation pond or other facility, the location, size, plans and specifications of such a facility shall be approved by the appropriate county official, the health department and the Georgia Environmental Protection Division as required.
1.8.6 Curbs and gutters. Concrete curbs and gutters are required and shall be installed according to the specifications of the Paulding County Department of Transportation.
1.8.7 Street grading and surfacing. Streets shall be graded and surfaced with asphalt plant mix according to article 5.
1.8.8 Storm drainage. An adequate drainage system, including necessary open ditches, pipes, culverts, storm sewers, intersection drains, drop inlets, bridges and other necessary appurtenances shall be installed by the subdivider according to plans and specifications approved by the Paulding County Community Development Department.
1.8.9 Utility strips. The street right-of-way shall be graded at least ten feet, measured from the back of the curb or the edge of the pavement on both sides of the street, to provide space for installation of utilities, to prevent the encroachment of driveways into the street surface, to provide walkways off the paved vehicular surface, and to provide space for the future installation of sidewalks; provided, however, the development control committee may waive this requirement in cases where the subdivider can demonstrate that the topography of the land being subdivided is such that compliance with this provision would be impractical.
1.8.10 Street trees (nonresidential developments only). The planting of street trees is required within nonresidential developments in order to enhance the appearance of such developments. The minimum required tree planting is one tree for every 35 linear feet of road frontage. The minimum tree size is two-inch caliper or larger, as measured at the diameter breast height. Plantings may occur within parking lot islands instead of right-of-way plantings as long as the tree count and caliper are maintained.
1.8.11 Temporary construction offices. An office mobile unit may be moved in by the developer for a 12-month period with an additional 12 months approved by the community development director if necessary.
