Chapter 7 - COURT AND CRIMINAL PROCEDURE[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Court established, § 1-801; jurisdiction, § 1-803.

Sec. 7-1. - Office of municipal judge; fees; convening; continuances.
(a)
The municipal judge shall be the presiding officer with full power to try all offenses against the city and exercise all jurisdiction conferred by law.
(b)
Upon good cause shown, the judge may, in such officer's discretion, continue as provided by law the hearing of any case pending in the court.
(Code 1973, § 2-401)
General penalty, § 1-8
State Law reference— Powers of judge in criminal cases, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-3.
Sec. 7-2. - Service of process on corporation.
When any corporation is charged with violation of the ordinances of the city, the warrant or process shall be served upon the highest officer or agent of the corporation.
(Code 1973, § 2-793)
Sec. 7-3. - Regular term.
Regular sessions of the municipal court shall be held each month as determined by the municipal judge.
(Code 1973, § 2-408)
Sec. 7-4. - Special terms.
(a)
In addition to the regular monthly term of municipal court, the municipal judge is hereby authorized and empowered to hold special terms to hear and determine cases in which the defendant has been confined to jail because of inability to give bond for appearance.
(b)
The judge is further authorized and empowered in such official's discretion to hold special terms of court for the trial of cases when an unusual burden would be imposed upon the defendant to attend a regular term of court.
(Code 1973, § 2-409)
Sec. 7-5. - Judge pro tem.
In the absence of or during the disability of the judge, the governing body shall appoint a municipal judge pro tempore who, while so acting, shall be clothed with all the powers and authority vested in the judge of the municipal court.
(Code 1973, § 2-410(a))
Sec. 7-6. - Intoxicated defendants.
If in the opinion of the municipal judge, any person brought before him to answer any charge is too intoxicated to understand such person's situation, or properly attend the trial, the judge may commit such person to jail.
(Code 1973, § 2-402)
Sec. 7-7. - Cash bonds.
(a)
All persons charged with a violation of the ordinances of the city shall have the right to give bond for their personal appearance before the municipal court to answer the charges preferred against them in such an amount as may be designated by the municipal judge.
(b)
Any person charged with a violation of the ordinances of the city may give bond as now provided by law, and such person shall have a right to give a cash bond in such amount as may be designated by the municipal judge, and upon failure to give such bond at the time of arrest, such person shall have the right to give the bond to the jailor in charge of the county jail in such amount as may be assessed by the municipal judge.
(c)
The city clerk, or court clerk, or an assistant of either, arresting officer or officer on duty, chief of police, city manager or the jailor on duty at the jail is hereby authorized to accept cash bonds, upon delivery of a proper receipt from an authorized numbered receipt book, as provided in this section.
(d)
Cash bonds when so accepted shall be delivered to the court clerk who shall, in turn, remit to the city treasurer, and shall be refunded or applied to any fine as authorized by law. Any person charged with a violation of an ordinance of the city or other offense against the city who has given a cash bond for his personal appearance in court at a designated time and place and who fails to appear at said time and place shall forfeit the cash bond upon the call of the case for trial. A forfeiture of bond shall not be a bar to the rearrest and subsequent prosecution of the accused for the violation.
(Code 1973, § 2-403; Ord. No. 788, § 3, 3-28-83)
State Law reference— Cash bonds, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-10.
Sec. 7-8. - Bond forfeiture—When occurring.
(a)
A bond forfeiture occurs at the end of the municipal court day upon the failure of appearance of a principal of any bond or recognizance given for the appearance of that person.
(b)
An appearance bond shall not be forfeited unless the clerk of the court gave the surety at least seventy-two (72) hours' written notice, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, before the time of the required appearance of the principal. Notice shall not be necessary if the time for appearance is within seventy-two (72) hours from the time of arrest, provided the time for appearance is stated on the bond, or where the principal is given actual notice in open court.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-70.
Sec. 7-9. - Same—Execution hearing on failure of principal to appear.
(a)
The municipal judge shall, at the end of the municipal court day, upon the failure of the principal to appear, forfeit the bond and order an execution hearing not sooner than one hundred twenty (120) days but not later than one hundred fifty (150) days after such failure to appear. Notice of the execution hearing shall be served within ten (10) days of such failure to appear by certified mail to the surety at the address listed on the bond or by personal service to the surety within ten (10) days of such failure to appear at its home office or to its designated registered agent. Service shall be considered complete upon the mailing of such certified notice.
(b)
If at the execution hearing it is determined that judgment should be entered, the municipal judge shall so order and a writ of fieri facias shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the court.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-71.
Sec. 7-10. - Same—Conditions not warranting forfeiture for failure to appear; remission.
(a)
No judgment shall be rendered on a forfeiture of any appearance bond if it is shown to the satisfaction of the municipal court by the written statement of a licensed physician that the principal on the bond was prevented from attending by some mental or physical disability.
(b)
No judgment shall be rendered on a forfeiture of any appearance bond if it is shown to the satisfaction of the municipal court that the principal on the bond was prevented from attending because he was detained by reason of arrest, sentence, or confinement in a penal institution or jail in the state, or so detained in another jurisdiction, or because he was involuntarily confined or detained pursuant to court order in a mental institution in the state or in another jurisdiction. An official written notice of the holding institution in which the principal is being detained or confined shall be considered proof of the principal's detention or confinement and such notice may be sent from the holding institution by mail or delivered by hand or by facsimile machine. Upon the presentation of such written notice to the clerk of the court and the prosecuting attorney having jurisdiction over the case, along with the tender of costs by the surety to the sheriff or other law enforcement officer necessary for the return of the principal, such notice shall serve as the surety's request for a detainer to be placed on the principal. Should there be a failure to place a detainer within thirty (30) days, Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays included, after such presentation and tender of costs, the surety shall then be relieved of liability for the appearance bond.
(c)
No judgment shall be rendered on a forfeiture of any appearance bond if it is shown to the satisfaction of the municipal court that prior to the entry of the judgment on the forfeiture the principal on the bond is in the custody of the sheriff or other responsible law enforcement agency. A written notice of the sheriff or other responsible law enforcement having custody or detention of the principal shall be considered adequate proof of such custody or detention. Except in cases where the principal on the bond is in the custody of the sheriff or other responsible law enforcement agency of the jurisdiction in which forfeiture proceedings were commenced pursuant to section 7-8, presentation of such official written notice to the court clerk and the prosecuting attorney having jurisdiction of the case along with tender of the estimated cost necessary to return the principal shall act as a request that a detainer be placed against the principal. Upon the sheriff or other officer of the jurisdiction where the case is pending assuming custody of the principal, the surety shall be relieved of the bond obligation. Should the state fail to place a detainer within thirty (30) days, Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays included, and after presentation and the tender of the estimated cost necessary to return the principal, the surety shall be relieved of the bond obligation.
(d)
In cases in which subsection (d)(3) of this section is not applicable, on application filed within one hundred twenty (120) days from the payment of judgment, the municipal court shall order remission under the following conditions:
(1)
Provided the bond amount has been paid at any time within one hundred twenty (120) days after judgment and the delay has not prevented the proper prosecution of the principal, upon application to the municipal court with prior notice to the prosecuting attorney of such application, the municipal court shall direct remission of ninety-five (95) percent of the bond amount remitted to the surety if the surety locates the principal causing the return of the principal to the city, apprehends, surrenders, or produces the principal, if the apprehension or surrender of the principal was substantially procured or caused by the surety, or if the location of the principal by the surety causes the adjudication of the principal by the municipal court. Should the surety, within two (2) years of the failure to appear, locate the principal causing the return of the principal to the city, apprehend, surrender, produce, or substantially cause the apprehension or surrender of the principal, or if the location of the principal by the surety causes the adjudication of the principal in the city the surety shall be entitled to a refund of fifty (50) percent of the bond payment. The application for fifty-percent remission shall be filed no later than thirty (30) days following the expiration of the two-year period following the date of judgment;
(2)
Remission shall be granted upon condition of the payment of court costs and of the expenses of returning the principal to the jurisdiction by the surety; or
(3)
If, within one hundred twenty (120) days after judgment, the surety surrenders the principal to the sheriff or responsible law enforcement officer, or the surrender has been denied by the sheriff or responsible law enforcement officer, or surety locates the principal in custody in another jurisdiction, the surety shall only be required to pay costs and five (5) percent of the face amount of the bond. If it is shown to the satisfaction of the municipal court, by the presentation of competent evidence from the sheriff or the holding institution, that the surrender has been made or denied or that the principal is in custody in another jurisdiction or that the surrender has been made and that five (5) percent of the bond amount and all costs have been tendered to the sheriff, the municipal court shall be authorized to direct that the judgment be marked satisfied and that the writ of execution (fi. fa.) be canceled.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-72.
Sec. 7-11. - Appeals.
In cases wherein a defendant has been convicted of any offense against the ordinances of the city and fined therefor and appeals from such convictions but fails to give bond for appearance at the court to which such person appeals, such person may be confined until the appeal is disposed of.
(Code 1973, § 2-404)
Charter reference— Certiorari, § 1-804.
Sec. 7-12. - Attendance of witnesses.
(a)
Whenever the attendance of any witness may be required before the court to establish any fact, the municipal judge or clerk of court or any member of the police force shall issue a subpoena directed to the witness stating the time and place of trial and the parties to the case which shall be served as other process by the chief of police, or any other member of the police force, or any person authorized to serve subpoenas under state law.
(b)
If any person summoned as a witness shall fail, neglect or refuse to attend the trial, or render an excuse sufficient in the judgment of the court, such defaulting witness shall be liable to a fine not exceeding charter provisions and, if the cause shall be continued on account of the absence of the witness, the court may issue an attachment against such witness requiring such witness to show cause on the day appointed for trial why such witness should not be further dealt with for contempt; and the chief of police or other member of the police force shall, by virtue of such attachment, arrest such witness and shall confine such witness, so as to have such witness before the court at such time as may be appointed for the further hearing of the original complaint; provided, the witness may give bond for personal appearance as in other cases before the court.
(Code 1973, §§ 2-412, 2-416)
Sec. 7-13. - Contempt—In presence of court.
Any person who during a sitting of the municipal court shall be guilty of contempt of court in the presence of the court or who shall refuse to abide any sentence or order of court shall be punished as provided in the charter and ordinances.
(Code 1973, § 2-414)
Sec. 7-14. - Same—For failure to appear.
Any person summoned to appear before the municipal court who shall fail, neglect or refuse to appear or make a satisfactory showing for such failure, neglect, or refusal to appear and answer the charges specified shall be guilty of contempt of court and may be punished as provided in the charter and ordinances. The cause may be continued until such time as the court may direct, and the court shall issue an order requiring the chief of police, or other member of the police force, to arrest the offender and bring the offender before the court to answer the contempt; and it shall be the duty of the chief of police to keep the offender in custody until the offender is brought before the court, unless the offender gives bond for appearance as provided by law.
(Code 1973, § 2-411)
Sec. 7-15. - Same—Trial.
Any person charged with the offense of contempt of court shall have the right to a fair and speedy trial, compulsory process, and be confronted with the witnesses against such person, and the right to be heard in person or by counsel, or both, as to such person shall seem proper.
(Code 1973, § 2-415)
Sec. 7-16. - Same—Punishment.
Any person who, during a sitting of the municipal court, shall be guilty of contempt of court in the presence of the court, or who shall refuse to abide any sentence or order of court shall be fined by the municipal judge in a sum not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) and cost or punishment by confinement for a period of not longer than sixty (60) days, or both, within the discretion of the municipal judge.
(Code 1973, § 2-414; Ord. No. 788, § 4, 3-28-83)
Charter reference— Punishment for contempt, § 1-803.
Sec. 7-17. - Seizure of unlawful weapon or device; punishment.
(a)
Whenever any person is arrested by any lawful officer of the city and such person is found to have on or about the person any unlawful weapon, such as a bowie knife, Arkansas toothpick, black-jack, knuckles, sling shot, pistol, burglar tools, or any other weapon or device which is so denominated or which shall hereafter be denominated as unlawful by general law and the ordinances of the city, the unlawful weapon or device weapon shall become the property of the city.
(b)
All such weapons and devices may be destroyed or otherwise disposed of under the supervision and order of the judge before the person arrested is tried, but it is expressly provided that in no event shall such weapon or device be returned to the person arrested or any of such person's relatives or friends; and it is expressly provided that they shall not be sold or offered for sale in any part of the city.
(c)
Any violation of the provisions of this section shall subject the defendant to punishment as provided in section 1-8.
(Code 1973, §§ 2-417, 2-418)
