ARTICLE V. - BICYCLES[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Bicycle regulations, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-290 et seq.

Sec. 18-151. - Compliance with chapter; responsibility of parents; scope of regulations.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required in this article.
(b)
The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this article.
(c)
These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street or upon any public path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(Code 1973, App. A, § 84)
Sec. 18-152. - Obedience to traffic-control devices.
(a)
Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official traffic-control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
(b)
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or "U" turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle to make any such turn; in which event, such person shall then obey the regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 86)
Sec. 18-153. - Speed.
No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than the maximum speed provided in this chapter for vehicles at the particular location.
Cross reference— Operation of vehicles generally, § 18-50 et seq.
Sec. 18-154. - Parking.
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or against a building or at a curb, in such manner as to afford the least obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 93)
Sec. 18-155. - Riding on sidewalks.
Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 94)
Sec. 18-156. - Acrobatic or fancy riding on streets.
No rider of any bicycle shall remove both hands from the handlebars, or feet from the pedals, or practice any acrobatic or fancy riding on any street; nor shall any person operating a bicycle upon a street participate in any race of speed or endurance in a contest with any other bicycle or vehicle, unless the street has been temporarily set aside for such purposes.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 96)
Sec. 18-157. - Operation on roadways and paths.
(a)
The operator of a bicycle, upon entering a bicycle lane or path, shall yield the right-of-way to all bicycles approaching upon the lane or path and, upon entering the roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles and bicycles in the roadway.
(b)
Any bicycle being operated on a public roadway shall yield to the right following an audible signal when overtaken by another vehicle. The driver of a vehicle overtaking a bicycle proceeding in the same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the overtaken bicycle.
(c)
No person shall ride or operate a bicycle upon a roadway adjacent to which or upon which bicycle lanes have been designated except within this bicycle lane or except as otherwise permitted by the provisions of this chapter. No person shall ride or operate a bicycle upon a roadway adjacent to which there is a bicycle path which is less than seventy-five (75) feet from the roadway and which is in a safe condition for bicycle riding.
(d)
When a roadway is determined to be unsafe for bicycling by the city, bicycle users may be restricted from the roadway by the erection of a sign prohibiting bicycle use and directing bicycle users to a suitable alternative route similar in directness and surface quality to the roadway.
Sec. 18-158. - Turning movements.
(a)
When completing a left turn on two-way roadways, bicyclists shall merge to the portion of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and shall negotiate the left turn so as to enter the intersecting roadway near the right side of the centerline, giving right-of-way to all vehicles proceeding through the intersection in the opposite direction.
(b)
When completing a right turn, motor vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to bicycles crossing the intersecting roadway or completing a right turn.
(c)
All vehicles or bicycles making turns at intersections shall not proceed into the intersection nor make this turn without first yielding the right-of-way to all bicycles or other vehicles within or approaching the intersection and shall proceed only when it is safe to do so.
(d)
A bicyclist may also negotiate a left turn by dismounting the bicycle and crossing as a pedestrian, leading the bicycle to the other side of the intersecting roadway and, hence, to the other side of the traffic roadway. When the person dismounts from a bicycle, such person shall then obey the regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(e)
When a bicycle "ride" control signal is shown, the bicyclist may proceed across the roadway in the direction of the signal and while so proceeding across the roadway has the right-of-way over other vehicles. When a bicycle "wait" control signal is shown:
(1)
The bicyclist facing the signal shall not commence to cross the roadway until the bicycle "ride" control signal is shown.
(2)
When a "wait" signal is shown after a bicyclist has entered the roadway, the bicyclist shall quickly proceed across the roadway and has the right-of-way for that purpose over other vehicles.
Secs. 18-159—18-170. - Reserved.
