ARTICLE 4. - OVERLAY DISTRICTS
DIVISION 4.1. - DISTRICTS

Sec. 21-4.1.1. - Districts.
In order to apply regulations of a base zoning district in concert with additional or altered regulations for design or building types and to implement the intent of this ordinance, the incorporated area of the City of Avondale Estates, DeKalb County, Georgia, is hereby divided into the following overlay zoning districts:
EXPAND
District Code District Name General Definition
AROD Adaptive Reuse Overlay
District An overlay district that provides exemptions and alternative compliance for existing structures and site conditions for the purpose of preserving remnants of the built environment that contribute to the history of Avondale Estates.
  Sec. 21-4.1.2. - General purpose.
A.
Overlay zoning districts "over-lay" applicable base zoning district classifications to alter some or all of the base zoning regulations that apply to particular sites. Overlay districts work to modify or supplement the regulations imposed by base zoning district when necessary to address special situations or accomplish specific objectives.
B.
Overlay zoning is intended to be used when the base zoning applied to an area remains generally appropriate, but when an additional, modified, or eliminated requirement could help implement the city's planning goals or address an area-specific planning, design or land use regulation issue.
Sec. 21-4.1.3. - Applicability.
A.
The boundaries of overlay zoning districts shall be shown on the official zoning map. The following procedures apply to the establishment, amendment, or termination of all overlay districts unless otherwise expressly stated.
1.
Overlay district regulations shall be established, amended, or terminated in accordance with the amendment procedures of division 7.5 - amendments and conditional uses.
2.
Except as otherwise expressly stated, zoning map amendments establishing, expanding or reducing the boundaries of an overlay district or terminating all or part of an overlay district shall be processed in accordance with the amendment procedures of division 7.5 - amendments and conditional uses.
Sec. 21-4.1.4. - Section interpretation.
A.
Section interpretation.
1.
All applicable regulations of the underlying base zoning district apply to property in an overlay district unless otherwise expressly stated in the overlay district regulations.
2.
When overlay regulations conflict with regulations that otherwise apply in the underlying base zoning district, the regulations of the applicable overlay govern. If property is classified in multiple overlay districts and the regulations of one (1) overlay district conflict with the regulations of another overlay district, the more restrictive regulation governs.
DIVISION 4.2. - ADAPTIVE REUSE OVERLAY DISTRICT

Sec. 21-4.2.1. - Purpose.
The downtown master plan is intended to encourage redevelopment in downtown Avondale Estates that follows the compact development pattern, architectural styles, a mix of uses, pedestrian facilities and amenities, and preservation of the existing structures found in the district. The adaptive reuse overlay district, in combination with the central business district zoning regulations, are intended to allow the downtown area to grow and thrive with a mixture of old and new development by supplementing the base zoning regulations with tailored building and design standards.
Sec. 21-4.2.2. - Applicable adaptive reuse projects.
A.
Any structures, buildings, or combination thereof within the central business district boundaries that was/were constructed in accordance with building and zoning codes in effect prior to January 1, 1970, are considered by this overlay to be historically significant buildings. To be considered an adaptive reuse project, a minimum of seventy-five (75) percent of the floor area of the entire project shall not consist of new construction or additions. This percentage does not preclude interior alterations within those areas. The retention of a minimum of seventy-five (75) percent of each previously existing exterior wall is required to include a structure in the previously existing floor area calculation.
B.
Exclusions. Any buildings or structures not considered to be a part of a defined adaptive reuse project are required to comply with all the regulations of this zoning ordinance and may not follow the relaxed provisions of adaptive reuse projects.
C.
Adaptive reuse projects located within the central business district boundaries, as defined on the Zoning Map, shall be exempt from division 3.2 - central business district, unless identified herein.
D.
In no case shall any existing characteristics be made more deficient than previously existed prior to the redevelopment.
Sec. 21-4.2.3. - Dimensional standards.
A.
Applicable standards. The following outlines the regulations that apply to adaptive reuse projects as stated or amended herein. If a regulation of this chapter is not identified, it does not apply to any existing structures.
B.
The following dimensions of table 21-4.2.3 - dimensional standards states the required dimensions for adaptive reuse projects, as opposed to those identified by zoning district:
EXPAND
Table 21-4.2.3 - Dimensional Standards
Regulation AROD
Maximum lot coverage 1 95%
Minimum Open Space None
Max building height 1 45'
Lot size (min. in square feet) None
Lot width (min. in feet) None
Front yard None
Side yard (min. in feet) None
Rear yard (min. in feet) None
  1 Or not to exceed existing.
C.
General provisions. Section 21-1.1.3 - applicability applies.
D.
Streetscape design. All developments shall comply with the minimum zone requirements as outlined in section 21-3.2.8.E - streetscapes, with the exception of the supplemental zone, if the applicant is able to verify that there is not enough room between the existing building and back of curb to accommodate it. To the extent practicable, walkways shall be constructed on the site to tie building entrances and/or pedestrian pathway systems into existing or proposed public sidewalk systems.
E.
Exterior finish materials. Any new construction or additions shall comply with the building material requirements of section 21-3.2.10.C. Unaltered portions of the existing structure are exempt from finish material requirements.
F.
Uses. The applicable use regulations of article 5 - uses and allowable uses in table 21-5.2.4 - table of permitted uses shall apply.
G.
Off-street parking and loading. Parking shall comply with division 6.2 - parking and access.
1.
If the parking for each use or combination of uses in accordance with section 21-9.1.10 - method for calculating minimum motor vehicle parking is deficient, the existing quantity of spaces shall be maintained, but the configuration may be altered as necessary.
H.
Fences and walls. All new retaining walls and fences shall comply with division 6.5 - fences and walls.
I.
All new dumpsters shall comply with section 21-6.6.1 - dumpsters.
J.
Sustainable certification. Adaptive reuse projects shall comply with sustainable certification requirements as outlined in division 6.8 - resiliency requirements.
K.
Outdoor lighting. All lighting shall comply with division 6.7 - outdoor lighting, including requirements to bring existing lighting into compliance.
L.
Nonconforming situations. Developments shall comply with division 8.3 - nonconformities, but adaptive reuse projects are exempt from section 21-8.3.9 - improvements required for redevelopment.
M.
Procedures. Adaptive reuse projects shall comply with article 7 - review and approval procedures.
N.
Signs. Any signs shall conform to chapter 5 - sign regulations.
