ARTICLE XII. - GROUNDWATER RECHARGE AREA PROTECTION

Sec. 5-450. - Title.
This article shall be known as the Groundwater Recharge Area Protection Ordinance of the City of Avondale Estates, Georgia.
(Ord. No. 9902, 6-28-99)
Sec. 5-451. - Findings and objectives.
(a)
Finding of facts. In order to provide for the health, safety and welfare of the public and a healthy economic climate within the city and surrounding communities, it is essential that the quality of public drinking water be ensured. For this reason, it is necessary to protect the subsurface water resources that Avondale Estates and surrounding communities rely on as sources of public water. Groundwater resources are contained within aquifers, which are permeable, rock strata occupying vast regions of the subsurface. These aquifers are replenished by infiltration of surface water runoff in zones of the surface known as groundwater recharge areas.
Groundwater is susceptible to contamination when unrestricted development occurs within significant groundwater recharge areas. It is, therefore, necessary to manage land use within groundwater recharge areas in order to ensure that pollution threats are minimized.
(b)
Objectives. The objectives of this article are:
(1)
Protect groundwater quality by restricting land uses that generate, use or store dangerous pollutants in recharge areas;
(2)
Protect groundwater quality by limiting density of development; and
(3)
Protect groundwater quality by ensuring that any development that occurs within the recharge area shall have no adverse effect on groundwater quality.
(Ord. No. 9902, 6-28-99)
Sec. 5-452. - Definitions.
[The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of this article, unless otherwise specifically stated:]
Aquifer means any stratum (rock layer) or zone of rock beneath the surface of the earth capable of containing or producing water from a well. (Note: This is the same definition used in the Groundwater Use Act).
Groundwater recharge area (synonymous with aquifer recharge area) means an area of the earth's surface where water infiltrates the ground, thereby replenishing the groundwater supplies within an aquifer.
Pollution susceptibility means the relative vulnerability of groundwater to pollution from chemical spills, leaching of pollutants from dump sites, animal waste from agricultural operations or pollution generated by other human activities.
Pollution susceptibility map(s) means maps prepared by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources (DNR) that show the relative susceptibility of groundwater to pollution. Pollution susceptibility maps categorize the land areas of the state into areas of high, medium and low groundwater pollution potential.
Significant groundwater recharge areas means areas mapped by DNR in Hydrologic Atlas 18 (1989 edition). Mapping of recharge areas is based on outcrop area, lithology (chemical nature and form of the rock), soil type and thickness, slope, density of lithologic contacts, geologic structure, presence of "karst" topography (sinkholes, caves and fissures associated with limestone and other carbonate rocks), and potentiometric surfaces.
(Ord. No. 9902, 6-28-99)
Sec. 5-453. - Establishment of a groundwater recharge area district.
A groundwater recharge area district is hereby established which shall correspond to all lands within the jurisdiction of the city that are mapped as significant recharge areas by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources in Hydrologic Atlas 18, 1989 edition or any subsequent editions thereof.
(Ord. No. 9902, 6-28-99)
Sec. 5-454. - Determination of pollution susceptibility.
Each recharge area shall be determined to have a pollution susceptibility of high, medium or low based on the Georgia Pollution Susceptibility Map prepared by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
(Ord. No. 9902, 6-28-99)
Sec. 5-455. - Permit requirements and enforcement.
No building permit, rezoning request or subdivision plan will be approved by the city unless the permit, request or plan is in compliance with the groundwater protection standards listed in section 5-456.
(a)
Enforcement. The city, its agent, officers and employees shall have authority to enter upon privately owned land for the purpose of performing their duties under this article and may take or cause to be made such examinations, surveys or sampling as the city deems necessary.
(1)
The codes enforcement officer is hereby designated as the administrator and enforcement officer for this article.
(2)
The codes enforcement officer shall have authority to enforce this article; issue permits hereunder; and address violations or threatened violations hereof by issuance of violation notices, administrative orders and civil and criminal actions. All costs and expenses in connection with such actions may be recovered as damages against the violator.
(3)
Law enforcement officials or other officials having police powers shall have authority to assist the codes enforcement officer in enforcement.
(4)
Any person who commits, takes part in or assists in any violation of any provision of this article shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. Each violation shall be a separate offense and, in the case of a continuing violation, each day's continuance shall be deemed to be a separate and distinct offense.
(5)
The codes enforcement officer shall have the authority to issue cease and desist orders in the event of any violation of this article. Cease and desist orders may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction, as identified in section 5-457.
(6)
When a building or other structure has been constructed in violation of this article, the violator shall be required to remove the structure.
(7)
When removal of vegetative cover, excavation or fill has taken place in violation of this article, the violator shall be required to restore the affected land to its original contours and to restore vegetation, as far as practicable.
(b)
Permit review and site plan requirement. With the exception of certain exempted activities identified in subsection 5-455(c), applications for a development permit within the groundwater recharge area district shall include a site plan. The following information is required for all site plans:
(1)
A map or maps, drawn to a scale of 1 inch = 50 feet, showing all planned improvements including the width, depth and length of all existing and proposed structures, roads, water courses and drainage ways, water lines, wastewater and stormwater facilities, and utility installations, shall be provided by the applicant.
(2)
Location dimensions and area of all impervious surfaces, both existing and proposed, on the site.
(3)
The orientation and distance from the boundaries of the proposed site to the nearest bank of an affected perennial stream or water body.
(4)
Elevations of the site and adjacent lands within two hundred (200) feet of the site at contour intervals of no greater than five (5) feet.
(5)
Locations and detailed design of any spill and leak collection systems designed for the purpose of containing accidentally released hazardous or toxic materials.
(6)
Calculations of the amount of cut and fill proposed and cross-sectional drawings showing existing and proposed grades in areas of fill or excavation. Elevations, horizontal scale and vertical scale must be shown on cross-sectional drawings.
(7)
Activities to comply with site plan. All development activities or site work conducted after approval of the site plan shall conform with the specifications of said site plan. Significant changes to the site plan that would alter the amount and velocity of storm-water runoff from the site, increase the amount of impervious surface within the development, alter the overall density of development, result in a considerable increase in the amount of excavation, fill or removal of vegetation during construction or otherwise result in an alteration of the overall appearance of the development as proposed, can be amended only with the approval of the city. Minor changes, such as the realignment of streets or minor alterations to drainage structures and other infrastructure to meet unexpected conditions are exempted from this requirement.
(b)
Exemptions to site plan requirements. The following activities and developments are exempt from the requirement for detailed site plans.
(1)
Single-family detached homes constructed within a subdivision of fewer than five (5) parcels.
(2)
Repairs to a facility that is part of a previously approved and permitted development.
(3)
Construction of minor structures, such as sheds or additions to single-family residences.
(c)
Review procedures. The application shall be made to the codes enforcement officer and will be reviewed within thirty (30) days. The review period shall include the preparation of findings (approval, approval with conditions or disapproval) by the codes enforcement officer. The applicant will receive written notification of the findings of the codes enforcement officer. If the review process is not completed within thirty (30) days, the application is considered to be approved. Decisions of the codes enforcement officer may be appealed to the board of mayor and commissioners.
(d)
Public notice and public hearing. Public notice of permit applications, through publication in local newspapers, is required. A public hearing on the application, to be held before the board of mayor and commissioners may be scheduled if requested by a citizen. Public announcement of the hearing shall be printed in a local newspaper of general circulation at least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing. A record of the proceedings shall be made and kept on file by the city clerk. Any person may testify at the hearing. Decisions of the board of mayor and commissioners may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction identified in section 5-457.
(e)
Duration of permit validity.
(1)
If construction described in the development permit has not commenced within twelve (12) months from the date of issuance, the permit shall expire.
(2)
If construction described in the development permit is suspended or abandoned after work has commenced, the permit shall expire twelve (12) months after the date that work ceased.
(3)
Written notice of pending expiration of the development permit shall be issued by the codes enforcement officer.
(f)
County health department approval required.
(1)
Construction will not proceed on a building, modular or mobile home to be served by a septic tank unless the county health department first approves the proposed septic tank installation as meeting the requirements of the DHR Manual and the environmental planning criteria.
(Ord. No. 9902, 6-28-99)
Sec. 5-456. - Groundwater protection standards.
(a)
For all pollution susceptibility areas, new waste disposal facilities must have synthetic liners and leachate collection systems.
(b)
New agricultural impoundments shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
For areas of high susceptibility, a liner shall be provided that is approved by the U.S. Soil Conservation Service (SCS).
(2)
For areas of medium susceptibility, an SCS approved liner shall be provided if the site exceeds fifteen (15) acre-feet.
(3)
For areas of low susceptibility, a SCS approved liner shall be provided if the site exceeds fifty (50) acre-feet.
(c)
No land disposal of hazardous waste shall be permitted within any significant groundwater recharge area.
(d)
For all significant groundwater recharge areas, the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials shall take place on an impermeable surface having spill and lead protection approved by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, Environmental Protection Division (EPD).
(e)
For all significant groundwater recharge areas, new above-ground chemical or petroleum storage tanks larger than six hundred fifty (650) gallons must have secondary containment for one hundred ten (110) percent of tank volume or one hundred ten (110) percent of the largest tanks in a cluster of tanks.
(f)
For high pollution susceptibility areas, new wastewater treatment basins shall have an impermeable liner approved by EPD.
(g)
For high pollution susceptibility areas, no new stormwater infiltration basins may be constructed.
(h)
For high pollution susceptibility areas, wastewater spray irrigation systems or the land spreading of wastewater sludge shall be practiced in accordance with department of natural resources criteria for slow rate land treatment. An application for a development permit for activities involving wastewater spray irrigation or land spreading of wastewater sludge must be accompanied by proof that the applicant has received a land application system permit from EPD.
(i)
Minimum lot sizes and septic systems. New homes served by septic tank/drain systems shall conform to minimum lot size requirements identified in Tables 6-1 through 6-3 below.
(Ord. No. 9902, 6-28-99)
Table 6-1. - Minimum lot-size requirements.
Source: DHR Manuel for On Site Sewerage Management Systems.
EXPAND
Pollution susceptibility New homes served by septic systems New mobile homes served by septic systems
High 150% of minimum lot sizes
specified in Table 6-2 150% of minimum lot sizes
specified in Table 6-3
Medium 125% of minimum lot sizes
specified in Table 6-2 125% of minimum lot sizes
specified in Table 6-3
Low 110% of minimum lot sizes
specified in Table 6-2 110% of minimum lot sizes
specified in Table 6-3
  Table 6-2. - Single family home minimum lot size where served by on-site septic tank systems.
Source: DHR Manual for On-Site Sewerage Management systems.
EXPAND
Slope of Lot
(%) Soil grouping (See Appendix A)
1 2 3 4 5
Minimum lot size in square feet
0—5 30,000 39,000 49,000 51,000 60.000
5—15 33,000 42,000 51,000 54,000 66,000
15—25 36,000 45,000 54,000 57,000 N/A
25—35 39,000 48,000 57,000 60,000 N/A
  Table 6-3. - Mobile home minimum lot-size where served by on-site septic tank systems.
Source: DHR Manual for On Site Sewerage Management Systems.
EXPAND
Slope of Lot
(%) Soil grouping (See Appendix A)
1 2 3 4 5
Minimum lot size in square feet
0—5 N/A 13,000 16,000 17,000 20,000
5—15 N/A 14,000 17,000 18,000 22,000
15—25 12,000 15,000 18,000 19,000 N/A
25—35 13,000 16,000 19,000 20,000 N/A
  Sec. 5-457. - Judicial review.
(a)
Jurisdiction. All final decisions of the Board of Mayor and Commissioners concerning denial, approval, or conditional approval of a permit shall be reviewable in DeKalb County Superior Court.
(b)
Alternative Actions. Based on these proceedings and the decision of the court, the Board of Mayor and Commissioners may, within the time specified by the court, elect to:
(1)
Institute negotiated purchase or condemnation proceedings to acquire an easement or fee interest in the applicant's land;
(2)
Approve the permit application with lesser restrictions or conditions (i.e., grant a variance); or
(3)
Institute other appropriate actions ordered by the court that fall within the jurisdiction of the Board of Mayor and Commissioners.
(Ord. No. 9902, 6-28-99)
Sec. 5-458. - Amendments.
These regulations may, from time to time, be amended in accordance with procedures and requirements in the general statutes and as new information becomes available.
(Ord. No. 9902, 6-28-99)
Sec. 5-459. - Assessment relief.
Assessors and boards of assessors shall consider the requirements of these regulations in determining the fair market value of land.
(Ord. No. 9902, 6-28-99)
Sec. 5-460. - Separability and abrogation.
All sections and subsections of this ordinance are considered separate and distinct. Should any section, subsection, paragraph or part of this article be declared by a court of jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, it shall not invalidate any other section, subsection, paragraph or part of this article.
All ordinances and regulations in conflict with this article are hereby repealed.
(Ord. No. 9902, 6-28-99)
APPENDIX A
Soil Groupings for Use with
Minimum Lot Size Tables
Group 1
(Well drained to excessive drained soils with percolation rates from <5 to 10 min./in.)
Ailey
Americus
Blaney
Blanton
Bonitay
Bonneau
Cainhoy (Galestown, Palm Beach)
Eustis
Flornation
Foxworth
Fripp
Fuquay (Norfolk and Tifton thick surface; Lakewood shallow)
Haywood
Kershaw
Lakeland (Huckabee)
Louisburg
Lucy
Molena
Paola
Troup
Valdosta
Wagram
Wicksburg
Group 2
(Well drained to moderately well drained soils with percolation rates from 10 to 30 min./in.)
Allen
Bodine
Brevard
Brookshire
Cahaba
Chandler
Citico
Clarendon
DeKalb
Edneyville
Etowah (Nollchucky)
Euharlee
Eunola
Evard
Faceville
Fullerton
Goldsboro
Haywood
Irvington
Izagora
Jefferson
Johns
Kalmia
Linker
Lockhart
Louisa
Lowndes
Masada
Maxton
Nella
Norfolk
Orangeburg
Porters
Red Bay (Ruston)
Sequatchie
Stilson
Tifton
Tusquitee
Wedowee
Wickham
Group 3
(Well drained to moderately well drained soils with percolation rates from 30 to 60 min./in. Also includes somewhat poorly drained soils with percolation rates from 5 to 30 min./in.)
Albany
Ardilla
Bartha
Braddock
Bradson
Capshaw
Carnegie
Centenary
Chipley
Decatur
Dillard
Dothan
Durham
Echaw
Fannin
Greenville (Magnolia)
Grover
Holston
Hornsville
Kanapana
Leefield
Leesburg
Locust
Lynchburg Ocilla
Minvale
Mountview
Olustee (Ona)
Pattsburg
Rigdon
Rome
Seneca
Shack (Clarksville)
Shelocta
Shouns
Suffolk
Tate
Tatum
Tellico
Tidings
Varina
Group 4
(Well drained to moderately well drained soils with percolation rates from 60 to 90 min./in. Also poorly drained soils with percolation rates from 10 to 15 min./in.)
Chestatee
Colbert
Cowarts
Cunningham
Cuthbert
Davidson
Dewey (Muse)
Dogue
Duplin
Dyke
Enders
Enon
Farragut
Georgeville
Gilead
Hayesville
Herndon
Hulett
Kolomoki
Leon
Litz
Lynn Haven
Madarin
Mascotte
Nankin
Nason
Rabun
Sapelo
Sawyer
St. Johns
Sequoia
Shabuta
Steekee
Waynesboro
Group 5
(Poorly drained soils that have watertables very near the surface with percolation rates from 5 to 10 min./in.)
Alapaha
Pelham
Plummer
Riceboro
(Ord. No. 9902, 6-28-99)
Secs. 5-461—5-469. - Reserved.
