ARTICLE 2. - BASE ZONING DISTRICTS
DIVISION 2.1. - RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS

Sec. 21-2.1.1. - Districts.
In order to regulate, restrict, and segregate the use of land, buildings, and structures; to regulate and restrict the height and bulk of buildings and the area of yards and other open spaces surrounding buildings; to regulate intensity of development, and to implement the intent of this ordinance, the incorporated area of the City of Avondale Estates, DeKalb County, Georgia, is hereby divided into the following residential zoning districts:
EXPAND
District Code District Name General Definition
R-24 Very Low Density, Single-Family Detached Residential A single-family residential district having a minimum lot size of 24,000 square feet intended for establishment of one (1) detached dwelling.
R-12 Low Density, Single-Family Detached Residential A single-family residential district having a minimum lot size of 12,000 square feet intended for establishment of one (1) detached dwelling.
MFR Multifamily Residential A multifamily residential district is intended to support mid-rise density dwellings, referred to as multi-unit buildings.
  Sec. 21-2.1.2. - Purpose.
A.
General. Avondale Estates's residential zoning districts are primarily intended to create, maintain, and promote a variety of housing and living opportunities for individual households and to help ensure consistency with the comprehensive plan. While the districts primarily accommodate residential use types, some non-residential uses are also allowed, as indicated in division 5.3 - residential uses. When this zoning ordinance refers to "residential-zoned districts," it is referring to zoning districts: R-24, R-12, and MFR categorized in this division.
B.
Single-family residential (R) districts. When this zoning ordinance refers to "R-zoned districts," it is referring to the single-dwelling zoning districts: R-24 and R-12. The primary purposes of the R districts are as follows:
1.
To help protect the established character of existing neighborhoods;
2.
To accommodate infill development that is in keeping with character of existing neighborhoods; and
3.
To accommodate uses and structures designed to serve the housing, recreational, educational, religious and social needs of the neighborhood.
C.
Multi-family residential (MFR) districts. When this zoning ordinance refers to "MF" zoning districts, it is referring to the multi-family residential zoning district: MFR. The primary purposes of the MFR, multi-family residential zoning district are as follows:
1.
To accommodate the development of multi-family residential development in areas designated for such development by the comprehensive plan;
2.
To accommodate infill development that is in keeping with the physical character of existing neighborhoods; and
3.
To accommodate uses and structures designed to serve the housing, recreational, educational, religious, and social needs of the neighborhood.
Sec. 21-2.1.3. - Dimensional standards.
A.
General. This section establishes basic lot and building regulations that apply in residential zoning districts. These regulations offer certainty for property owners, developers and neighbors about the limits of what is allowed; they are not to be construed as a guarantee that stated minimums and maximums can be achieved on every lot. Other factors, such as topography, the presence of protected resources, off-street parking, and other factors may work to further limit actual building and development potential.
B.
Minimum requirements in division 6.1 - general lot and building standards also apply.
C.
The lot and building regulations of the following table apply to all principal and accessory uses allowed in residential districts, unless otherwise expressly stated in this zoning ordinance:
EXPAND
Residential Regulation R-12 R-24 MFR
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.) 12,000 24,000 43,560
Minimum Lot Frontage (ft.) 60 100 100
Minimum Primary Building/Structure Setbacks (ft.)
Street Front Yard 40 40 50
Streetside Side Yard (corner lot)
•Front yard width 90 feet or less and 28 feet high or less 10 20 20
•Front yard width greater than 90 feet and 28 feet high or less 15 20 25
•Higher greater than 28 feet for any portion of the structure regardless of the front yard width 25 25
Interior Side 10 20 25
Rear 35 40 50
Minimum Accessory Building/Structure Setbacks (ft.)
Interior Side 12 12 12
Rear 1 10 10 10
Maximum Lot Coverage (percent) 40 30 35
Maximum Building Height (ft.)
Principal Building 35 35 35
Accessory Buildings/Structures 2 24 24 24
  1 Accessory buildings units shall be set back a minimum distance of 20 feet in the rear. See section 21-5.9.3 - accessory dwelling units.
2 Accessory buildings shall not be greater in height than the principal building. See section 21-5.9.2 - accessory buildings and structures.
(Ord. No. 2022-04, § 1, 9-14-2022)
DIVISION 2.2. - COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS

Sec. 21-2.2.1. - Districts.
In order to regulate, restrict, and segregate the use of land, buildings and structures; to regulate and restrict the height and bulk of buildings and the area of yards and other open spaces surrounding buildings; to regulate intensity and geography of commercial development and to implement the intent of this ordinance, the incorporated area of the City of Avondale Estates, DeKalb County, Georgia, is hereby divided into the following commercial zoning districts:
EXPAND
District
Code District Name General Definition
O-I Office-Institutional A district for office, institutional, and limited commercial uses not involving the sale or processing of merchandise unless otherwise permitted herein.
GC General Commercial A district for general business and independent uses designed to serve a community or area with convenience goods, retail sales, and personal services.
  Sec. 21-2.2.2. - Purpose.
The commercial districts are generally intended to promote consistency with the comprehensive plan and provide opportunities for shopping, employment, and entertainment. When this zoning ordinance refers to "commercial-zoned districts," it is referring to zoning districts: O-I and GC categorized in this division.
A.
Office-institutional (O-I) district. The primary purposes of the O-I district are as follows:
1.
To provide convenient locations for office and institutional uses;
2.
To provide locations for the development of cultural, recreational, educational, and health service facilities; and
3.
To provide transitional uses and services between single-family residential districts and more intensive commercial and mixed-use districts.
B.
General commercial (GC) district. The primary purposes of the GC district are as follows:
1.
To provide convenient local retail shopping and service areas within the city;
2.
To provide for the development of new local commercial districts; and
3.
To accommodate uses designed to serve the convenience shopping and service needs of groups of neighborhoods.
Sec. 21-2.2.3. - Dimensional standards.
A.
General. This section establishes basic lot and building regulations that apply in commercial zoning districts. These regulations offer certainty for property owners, developers, and neighbors about the limits of what is allowed; they are not to be construed as a guarantee that stated minimums and maximums can be achieved on every lot. Other factors, such as topography, the presence of protected resources, off-street parking, and other factors may work to further limit actual building and development potential.
B.
Minimum requirements in division 6.1 - general lot and building Standards also apply, including
C.
Building design. All buildings in all commercial districts shall comply with the building design requirements of section 21-6.1.3 - building design standards.
D.
The lot and building regulations of the following table apply to all principal and accessory uses allowed in commercial districts, unless otherwise expressly stated in this zoning ordinance.
EXPAND
Regulation COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
O-I GC
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.) 20,000 20,000
Minimum Lot Frontage (ft.) 100 100
Minimum Building/Structure Setbacks (ft.)
Street Front and Street Side 20 15
Interior Side 10 10
Rear 20 20
Maximum Lot Coverage (%) 80 80
Maximum Building Height (ft.) 45 45
