ARTICLE IV. - PARKING, STOPPING AND STANDING
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 18-81. - Parking for certain purposes.
No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for:
(1)
Displaying such vehicle for sale.
(2)
Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs necessitated by sudden emergency; in such emergency, such vehicle shall be moved or towed away with all due haste.
(3)
For displaying advertising.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 68)
Sec. 18-82. - Illegal parking—Presumption.
In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any such law or regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was at the time of such parking the registered owner of such vehicle, shall constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of such vehicle was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such violation occurred.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 120)
Sec. 18-83. - Same—Owner liable; vehicle subject to impoundment.
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow, permit or suffer any vehicle registered in such person's name to stand or park in any street in violation of this chapter or any other ordinance of the city regulating the parking of vehicles. Such person shall be equally liable with the operator for such violation and, in addition thereto, the vehicle may be removed and conveyed by the police department.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 127)
Sec. 18-84. - Manner of parking.
(a)
No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within six (6) inches of the curb or edge of the roadway, except as otherwise provided in this article.
(b)
Vehicles may be parked at an angle at such places as may be provided by property owners adjacent to the street where the indentations provided by such property owners extend a sufficient distance from the original curbline to allow vehicles parked at an angle in such places to project into such street beyond such curbline a distance no greater than the width of such vehicles, the amount of space occupied in such street thereby being no greater than in cases of parallel parking, or at such places where the roadway is of sufficient width as determined by the city manager and chief of police to allow for such angle parking.
(c)
No person shall park at an angle any vehicle twenty-four (24) feet or more in length on any street or roadway in the city.
Sec. 18-85. - Vehicles to be parked within marked spaces.
Whenever a space is marked off on any highway or street for the parking of a vehicle, the vehicle there parked shall be parked within the lines bounding that space.
Sec. 18-86. - Emergency parking restrictions.
When not inconsistent with this chapter or any other ordinance, the city manager and chief of police have authority in an emergency to prohibit the parking or stopping of vehicles on any street or portion of a street or to close a street to traffic. All these orders shall be temporary only.
Sec. 18-87. - Authority to prohibit parking in certain streets.
When not inconsistent with this chapter or any other ordinance, the city manager and chief of police may prohibit parking or stopping of vehicles on any street or portion of a street when traffic and engineering surveys indicate that stopping or parking may impede the free flow of traffic on the street.
Sec. 18-88. - Parking prohibited in specified places.
(a)
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the direction of a police officer or traffic control device in any of the following places:
(1)
Between the front building restriction line and the front street line except on a bona fide paved driveway leading to a garage, carport, or other paved parking place;
(2)
On a sidewalk or on the verge between the sidewalk and roadway;
(3)
On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge of a curb of a street;
(4)
Within an intersection;
(5)
On a crosswalk;
(6)
Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty (30) feet of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a different length is indicated by signs or markings;
(7)
Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
(8)
On any railroad tracks;
(9)
Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway;
(10)
At any curb marked in yellow by direction of the city manager and chief of police; or
(11)
At any place prohibited by the city manager and chief of police or by ordinance and indicated by official signs or markings.
(b)
No person shall stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger in any of the following places:
(1)
In front of or within three (3) feet of a public or private driveway or in such a manner as to block ingress or egress thereof;
(2)
Within fifteen (15) feet of a fire hydrant;
(3)
Within twenty (20) feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
(4)
Within thirty (30) feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop sign, yield sign, or traffic-control signal located at the side of the roadway;
(5)
Within twenty (20) feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station or, on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within seventy-five (75) feet of such entrance when so marked; or
(6)
Within any area marked as a bus stop.
(c)
No person shall park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or passengers within fifty (50) feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing.
(d)
No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under such person's control either into any prohibited area or move and leave such vehicle away from a curb such distance as is prohibited by this chapter or other ordinance.
Sec. 18-89. - Parking not to obstruct traffic.
No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, other than an alley, in such manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten (10) feet of the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
Sec. 18-90. - Parking adjacent to schools.
(a)
The police department may have signs erected indicating no parking upon any street adjacent to any school property when such parking would interfere with traffic or create a hazardous situation.
(b)
When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon a street adjacent to any school property, no person shall park a vehicle in such designated place.
Sec. 18-91. - Parking on narrow streets.
(a)
The city manager and chief of police are authorized to erect signs indicating no parking upon any street when the width of the roadway does not exceed twenty (20) feet, or upon one (1) side of a street as indicated by signs when the width of the roadway does not exceed thirty (30) feet.
(b)
When official signs prohibiting parking are erected upon narrow streets as authorized herein, no person shall park a vehicle upon any such street in violation of any such sign.
Sec. 18-92. - Restrictions on the parking of certain vehicles, trailers, boats, etc.
The parking, storing, or use of any boat, boat trailer, bus, house trailer, mobile home, motor home, motorized home, pole trailer, semi-trailer, trailer, travel trailer, camper trailer, truck camper, pick-up coach or utility trailer on any street, alley, highway, or other public place, or on any tract of land within the city shall be unlawful except as provided in the city's zoning ordinance.
Sec. 18-93. - Use of parking facilities at city hall.
Parking facilities at city hall shall be reserved for the parking of vehicles owned or operated by elected city officials, city employees, city boards, authorities, and committee members, and persons visiting or transacting business at city hall. These parking facilities may also be used for customers of businesses in the central business district zone. The parking of vehicles by any other persons shall be unlawful.
Sec. 18-94. - Fire zones.
It shall be unlawful to stand or park in an area on public property or private property used for public purposes which has been designated as a fire zone. The city may enforce this section by the issuance of a citation and the immediate removal of the vehicle to an impound lot.
Sec. 18-95. - Standing or parking on one-way streets.
(a)
The city manager and chief of police are authorized to erect signs upon either side of any one-way street to prohibit the standing or parking of vehicles and when such signs are in place no person shall stand or park a vehicle upon such street in violation of any such signs.
(b)
Unless prohibitive signs are erected on one-way streets, vehicles may also park on the left-hand side headed in the direction of traffic with the left-hand wheels of the vehicle within six (6) inches of the curb or the edge of the roadway.
Sec. 18-96. - Hazardous or congested places.
(a)
The city manager may determine and designate by proper signs places not exceeding one hundred (100) feet in length in which the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles would create an especially hazardous condition or would cause unusual delay to traffic.
(b)
When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places as authorized herein, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in such designated place.
Secs. 18-97—18-120. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - IMPOUNDING[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Authority, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-60-4, 40-6-206; abandoned vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 40-11-1 et seq.

Sec. 18-121. - When vehicles may be impounded.
Whenever any vehicle shall be found parked in any place within the city where parking is not permitted at that time, or whenever any vehicle shall be found parked in violation of the terms of this chapter or any ordinance relating to traffic, such vehicle may be removed and conveyed by any member of the police department by means of towing the same, or otherwise, to a vehicle pound.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 70)
Sec. 18-122. - Record of impounding to be made.
It shall be the duty of the officer so impounding a vehicle immediately to report the fact of such impounding together with any other information which will definitely identify the vehicle, to the police department, which shall cause a permanent record to be made thereof. The record shall contain the name and address of the owner of the vehicle, the state where licensed and the tag number and the nature and circumstances of the violation(s) as well as the disposition of each case once made.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 71)
Sec. 18-123. - Release of impounded vehicle.
Any person claiming a vehicle impounded under this chapter shall produce evidence of such person's identity and ownership or right of possession to the police department which shall issue an order to the person in charge of the pound to release the vehicle and deliver the same to such person upon payment of the fees for removal and storage. Thereupon, the impounded vehicle shall be surrendered by the person in charge thereof, who shall issue a receipt for such impounded vehicle and for payment of the fees for removal and storage.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 73)
Sec. 18-124. - Protest and bond permissible.
In case protest is made against the payment of any impounding or storage fee, the chief of police may authorize the person in charge of the impounded vehicle to discharge the same upon the following terms and conditions: Such person shall be charged with violation of this chapter or other traffic ordinance and required to make bond for such person's appearance and trial before the municipal judge. Thereupon, the chief of police shall authorize the person in charge of the impounded vehicle to deliver it to such person. If such person is convicted of violating this chapter or other traffic ordinance by the municipal judge, in addition to other costs the municipal judge shall assess as cost the fees for removal and storage which have accumulated in connection with the impounding of such vehicle.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 74)
Sec. 18-125. - Impounding does not preclude other prosecution.
The impounding of a vehicle shall not prevent or preclude prosecution for violations of the penal provisions of this chapter or any other ordinance relating to traffic.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 77)
Secs. 18-126—18-150. - Reserved.
