Chapter 9 - FINANCE AND TAXATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Taxing authority, § 1-102(1).
Cross reference— Expense reimbursement for board of mayor and commissioners, § 2-25.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 9-1. - Annual audit.
The board of mayor and commissioners shall award a contract annually to a qualified accountant or accounting firm to make a full examination and audit of the accounts and records of each city officer, agent or department having duties embracing the receipt, custody or disbursement of city funds. The accountant or accounting firm shall render its report in detail and with sufficient copies as determined by the city clerk. The city clerk shall file one (1) copy each with the state auditor, the members of the governing body, and the city manager.
(Code 1973, § 2-602)
Sec. 9-2. - Payment for fidelity bonds.
The premiums on all bonds of city officers required to give fidelity bonds shall be paid by the city out of city funds.
(Code 1973, § 2-601)
Sec. 9-3. - Official bond.
There shall be obtained by the governing body a blanket fidelity bond covering all officials and employees of the city who handle money belonging to the city, to be in such amount as prescribed in the governing body.
(Code 1973, §§ 2-308, 2-314, 2-324)
Charter reference— Bond required, § 1-603.
Sec. 9-4. - Purchases and contracts; city manager's authority to reallocate departmental budget appropriations.
(a)
The city manager and city clerk, upon the authorization of the city manager, are hereby authorized to purchase such supplies, materials and equipment and contract for such services as may be provided for by the appropriation ordinances of the board of mayor and commissioners. In making such purchases of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) or less, the city shall procure quotations from at least three (3) vendors whenever practicable. In cases where a purchase is expected to exceed twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00), the city shall procure competitive, sealed bids from at least three (3) vendors whenever practicable. Awards hereunder shall be made to the lowest, best and most responsible bidder for the particular grade or class of material, work or service desired. Any item purchased under statewide contract established by the State of Georgia Department of Administrative Services for the benefit of government entities throughout Georgia shall be exempt from the bidding process otherwise required by this section. Nothing in this section is intended to restrict the power of the city manager, here conferred, to employ such supervisors, labor and teams as are necessary to the proper conduct of the departments of the city, and to have payment therefor made.
(b)
The city manager is hereby authorized to make necessary purchases of goods and/or services not specifically enumerated in the annual budget at a cost of less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00). Purchases not specifically enumerated in the budget which have a cost of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or more shall be made only upon specific resolution of the board of mayor and commissioners.
(c)
The city manager is hereby authorized to reallocate departmental budget appropriations among the various line item expenditures of any department as the city manager deems necessary. The city manager shall also be authorized to effect interdepartmental transfers, in the same fund, not to exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00). Any such transfers shall be reported to the board of mayor and commissioners at its next regular meeting and shall be entered in the minutes.
(Code 1973, § 2-309; Ord. No. 09-04, § 1, 9-28-09; Ord. No. 16-04, § 1, 8-22-16)
Charter reference— City manager to act as purchasing agent, § 1-702(h).
Cross reference— Execution of contracts, § 2-6; duties of city clerk, § 2-50 et seq.
Secs. 9-5—9-19. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MUNICIPAL INDEBTEDNESS

Sec. 9-20. - Temporary loans—Authority; notes.
The board of mayor and commissioners may negotiate temporary loans as may be necessary to make available as needed the funds anticipated as coming into the city treasury from the sources of revenue or income shown in the annual appropriation ordinance and budget during the then current fiscal year. Such loans shall be evidenced by promissory notes issued in the name of the city by the mayor, and the mayor's signature shall be attested by the city clerk. Notes shall be issued for such amount, bear such rate of interest, and run for such periods not exceeding twelve (12) months, as may be provided by resolution of the board of mayor and commissioners. Notes issued hereunder shall not exceed in the aggregate the total uncollected portion of the revenue or income which is anticipated in their issuance. Such notes shall be paid at maturity from the receipts of the annual revenue and other income. This provision shall not prevent the issuance of such notes in short terms and their renewal at the end of such terms, provided the aggregate term covered by the original issue and all renewals thereof shall not exceed twelve (12) months. The full faith and credit of the city are hereby irrevocably pledged to the punctual payment of the principal and interest of all notes issued in conformity herewith, according to their terms.
(Code 1973, § 2-605)
Sec. 9-21. - Same—Proceeds of bond issues.
The board of mayor and commissioners may negotiate temporary loans for the purpose of making available at once a part of the proceeds of bond issues duly authorized and in process of issuance or sale and delivery. Such loans shall not in the aggregate exceed twenty-five (25) percent of the total proceeds of the bond issue which their issuance anticipates; they shall be evidenced by promissory notes issued in the name of the city by the mayor and the mayor's signature shall be attested by the city clerk. Such notes shall mature and be paid within six (6) months from the proceeds of the bond issue which their issue anticipates. In other respects, their issuance shall be governed by like conditions provided for revenue loans in section 9-20.
(Code 1973, § 2-606)
Secs. 9-22—9-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PROPERTY TAX[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 13-02, § 1, 2, adopted June 24, 2013, repealed the former Art. III., §§ 9-41—9-47, and enacted a new Art. III as set out herein. The former Art. III pertained to property and sanitation taxes and derived from Ord. No. 0503, § 1, adopted May 23, 2005. Provisions pertaining to sanitation fees are now set forth in Art. V, §§ 9-81—9-85 of this chapter.

Sec. 9-41. - Reserved.
Sec. 9-42. - Property tax levied; return of property.
(a)
An ad valorem tax is hereby levied on every house, building lot, and any and all other real estate within the City of Avondale Estates not exempt from taxation by law, which shall be assessed in accordance, with the City Charter and Georgia law, and on all merchandise, machinery, or special privileges, and on all personal property of every kind not otherwise exempted from personality ad valorem taxation which is held or owned by any company, firm, individual, or other person or persons, natural or created by law however held, whether individually, or as trustee, guardian, administrator, executor, receiver, assignee, agent or otherwise on January 1, 2013, and January 1 of each succeeding year.
(b)
Any person, firm, or corporation, joint stock company, partnership, or other person subject to the tax levied in subsection (a) who may have held or owned any such machinery, merchandise, equipment, franchise, special privileges, boats, motors, airplanes, and other personal property on January 1, 2013, and on the first day of January of each succeeding year shall on or before the first day of March, 2013, and on the first day of March of each succeeding year, make a return to the county tax commissioner of the amount of such merchandise, machinery, franchises, special privileges, and all other personal property of every kind subject to taxation.
(c)
The millage rate of ad valorem taxation pursuant to this section shall be established each year by ordinance adopted by the Board of Mayor and Commissioners in accordance with Georgia law.
(Ord. No. 13-02, § 1, 2, 6-24-2013)
Sec. 9-43. - Reserved.
Sec. 9-44. - Tangible personal property tax exemption.
In order that the reasonable cost of administering and collecting the tax does not exceed the tax that would be payable, tangible personal property of a taxpayer shall be exempt from ad valorem taxation if the actual fair market value of the total amount of taxable tangible personal property owned by the taxpayer within the city does not exceed seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500.00).
(Ord. No. 13-02, § 1, 2, 6-24-2013)
Sec. 9-45. - When taxes due and payable; penalty for late payment.
Taxes due the City of Avondale Estates by reason of this article shall be due and payable as follows:
(a)
Real estate. The first installment shall be due and payable no later than August 15th, without discount, and shall bear interest at one (1) percent per month if not paid when due, with a minimum interest of one dollar ($1.00), plus a late payment penalty of five (5) percent of the taxes past due.
The second installment shall be due and payable no later than November 15th of the year for which the tax is assessed, without discount, with interest at one (1) percent per month accumulated after the due date, with a minimum interest of one dollar ($1.00), plus a late payment penalty of five (5) percent of the taxes past due.
Any period of less than one (1) month shall be considered to be one (1) month for the purposes of assessing interest on late payment of taxes.
(b)
Personal property. The first installment shall be due and payable no later than August 15th, without discount, and shall bear interest at one (1) percent per month if not paid when due, with a minimum interest of one dollar ($1.00), plus a late payment penalty of five (5) percent of the taxes past due.
The second installment shall be due and payable no later than November 15th of the year for which the tax is assessed, without discount, with interest at one (1) percent per month accumulated after the due date, with a minimum interest of one dollar ($1.00), plus a late payment penalty of five (5) percent of the taxes past due.
Any period of less than one (1) month shall be considered to be one (1) month for the purposes of assessing interest on late payment of taxes.
(Ord. No. 13-02, § 1, 2, 6-24-2013)
Sec. 9-46. - When due date falls on Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday.
When the date prescribed by or imposed pursuant to this article for the filing of any return or the payment of any tax falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the deadline to file the return or to pay the tax shall be postponed until the first day following which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. If return or payment is by mail, timely return or payment will be ascertained by the postmark date.
(Ord. No. 13-02, § 1, 2, 6-24-2013)
Sec. 9-47. - Default of payment.
In default of payment of any portion of taxes, the city clerk shall issue a fi. fa. no later than December 31st of the year in which tax, including penalties and accumulated interest, is due and unpaid, which may be collected as provided by law, and with costs of such fi. fa. assessed against the property owner
(Ord. No. 13-02, § 1, 2, 6-24-2013)
Secs. 9-48—9-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - UNCLAIMED PROPERTY

Sec. 9-71. - Sale at auction.
The city may sell, at public outcry, to the highest bidder for cash any and all of the articles of personal property that have come into its hands and which, after an effort has been made to ascertain the true owner thereof without success, remain unclaimed for a period of sixty (60) days.
Sec. 9-72. - Catalog record.
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to maintain a separate and complete catalog record of all property coming into the city's hands. Such property shall be identified in detail by its usual name, make and model, manufacturer's name and serial number, if any. If no identifying name or numbers, it shall be fully described on the catalog record as to its physical properties and appearance. The record shall also show the date the property came into the hands of the city and the disposal thereof.
Sec. 9-73. - Effort to locate owner prior to sale.
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to make an effort to find the true owner of any article of personal property coming into the city's hands and, if the owner can be found, to deliver the property to the owner. If the true owner of the article cannot be found and the property remains unclaimed for a period of not less than sixty (60) days, the city may proceed to sell the article as provided in this article.
Sec. 9-74. - Terms of sale.
All articles sold shall be sold for cash to the highest bidder on an as-is basis and no warranties of any nature, either expressed or implied, either as to merchantable title, quality or performance are made by the city.
Sec. 9-75. - Advertisement of sale.
The sale shall be advertised in the city's newsletter and in a newspaper of general circulation in the county for one (1) week immediately preceding the sale date. The advertisement shall state the time and place of the sale, that it shall be open to the public, that all sales are to be made to the highest bidder, that only unclaimed property which has come into the possession of the city is being sold, and that the city makes no warranties, either expressed or implied, as to merchantable title, quality or performance, and that all articles are sold as-is.
Sec. 9-76. - Auctioneer; conduct of sale.
The city shall appoint an individual to conduct the sale authorized by this article under the guidance of an employee of the city. The individual acting as the auctioneer shall be the sole arbiter in the case of a disputed sale and shall not make a sale until all bidding on the article offered has ceased; however, there shall be no required number of bids before a sale is made.
Sec. 9-77. - Announcement of terms to be made during sale.
It shall be the duty of the person holding the sale authorized by this article to make public announcement before opening the sale that the city does not warrant title to any article, nor is there any other warranty, either expressed or implied, as to any article sold; that all sales are final and all articles are sold as-is. It shall be the duty of the person in charge to make this announcement at intervals during the progress of the sale.
Sec. 9-78. - Disposition of sale proceeds.
It shall be the duty of the city to make a true accounting of all the property sold and money collected from the sales conducted. Such money shall be deposited in the general fund.
Secs. 9-79, 9-80. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - SANITATION FEE

Sec. 9-81. - Sanitation fee levied.
In order to offset the cost of providing sanitation services to persons and property within the city, the city hereby imposes a fee upon every lot and parcel in the city receiving such service, which shall be assessed to the real property owner each year.
(Ord. No. 13-02, § 3, 6-24-2013)
Sec. 9-82. - Sanitation fee rate.
(a)
The annual sanitation fee rate shall be determined by the character and use of each parcel or lot. Every property use in the city shall be assigned to one (1) of the following two (2) categories for sanitation fee purposes:
(1)
Residential means any place where persons reside, including but not limited to single-family houses, apartments and condominiums.
(2)
Commercial means any use of property within the city for purposes other than residential as defined in this section.
(b)
For residential property uses, a separate fee shall be imposed for each housing unit. For commercial property uses, a separate fee shall be imposed on each business unit, with an additional fee levied for each additional receptacle required by and licensed to the business.
(c)
The amount of the annual sanitation fees shall be set by properly adopted resolution of the board of mayor and commissioners and may be amended at the discretion of the board of mayor and commissioners.
(d)
Multiple business units per building. Notwithstanding subsection (b), where multiple business units are located on a single lot, within a single building and share a single public entrance, each such business unit will not be required to pay a separate sanitation fee but will be treated collectively as a single business unit, subject to the following conditions and limitations:
(1)
The property owner must submit a written request identifying each business unit at the location and requesting that they be treated as a single business unit for sanitation fee purposes;
(2)
Where multiple business units are treated as a single business unit pursuant to this subsection (d), the property shall not be eligible for a reduced fee for additional receptacles. Instead, the property shall pay the full per-business-unit sanitation fee for each receptacle required;
(3)
The city manager may require the assignment of an additional receptacle(s) and the concomitant fee or revoke the treatment of multiple business units as a single unit for sanitation fee purposes at any time if the waste generated by the property exceeds the capacity of the receptacle(s) in service at the location.
(Ord. No. 20-01, § 1, 2-24-2020; Ord. No. 20-06, § 1, 9-29-2020)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 20-01, § 1, adopted Feb. 24, 2020, repealed the former § 9-82, and enacted a new § 9-82 as set out herein. The former § 9-82 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 13-02, § 3, adopted June 24, 2013.
Sec. 9-83. - Exemption where sanitation service not provided.
In those instances where the city declines or opts not to provide sanitation services due to the use of dumpsters as permitted in the city's waste management ordinance, no sanitation fee shall be assessed. A change to dumpster service may occur at any time during the year; however, the request from the property owner for such a change must be submitted to the city manager no later than December 15 of the preceding year and approved by the city manager prior to the first day of the tax year or the sanitation fee shall be assessed for that entire year.
(Ord. No. 13-02, § 3, 6-24-2013)
Sec. 9-84. - When fee due and payable.
(a)
Residential sanitation fees shall be due and payable by November 15 of each year, without discount, with interest at one (1) percent per month if not paid when due, with a minimum interest of one dollar ($1.00), plus a late payment penalty of five (5) percent of the fee due. Commercial sanitation fees shall be due and payable on the same schedule and with the same delinquency penalty as occupation tax, as specified in section 14-41(a).
(b)
Any period of less than one (1) month shall be considered to be one (1) month for the purposes of assessing interest on late payment of the sanitation fee.
(c)
When the date prescribed for payment of the sanitation fee by this section falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the payment of such fee shall be timely if paid by the first day following such due date which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. If payment is by mail, timely payment will be ascertained by the postmark date.
(d)
Commercial entities receiving service from a sanitation provider other than the city shall be deemed exempt from city sanitation fees upon providing proof of that service, such as a current bill and canceled check. When such alternative service begins during a year for which the sanitation fee has already been paid, the commercial organization shall be entitled to a prorated refund for the remainder of that year.
(Ord. No. 13-02, § 3, 6-24-2013; Ord. No. 20-01, §§ 2, 3, 2-24-2020)
Sec. 9-85. - Default of payment.
In the event that a property owner defaults on payment of the sanitation fee, the city clerk shall issue a fi, fa. no later than December 31 of the year in which said fee, including penalties and accumulated interest, is due and unpaid, which may be collected as provided by law, and with costs of such fi, fa. assessed against the property owner.
(Ord. No. 13-02, § 3, 6-24-2013)
