ARTICLE VI. - TATTOO ESTABLISHMENTS[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
State Law reference— Tattooing the body of certain minors, O.C.G.A. § 16-5-71; tattooing near persons' eye sockets, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-5.

Sec. 22-241. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Tattoo means to mark or color the skin, by pricking in coloring matter so as to form indelible marks or figures, or by the production of scars; provided, however, that the word "tattoo" shall not mean a tattoo placed upon the skin by a physician, osteopath or a technician acting under their direct supervision, pursuant to law.
Tattoo artist means any person who actually performs the work of tattooing.
Tattoo establishment means any room or place where tattooing is practiced, or where the business of tattooing is conducted, or any part thereof.
Tattoo operator means any person who controls, operates, conducts or manages any tattoo establishment, whether actually performing the work of tattooing or not.
(Code 1977, § 14-140)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-242. - Permit; requirements; restrictions.
(a)
No person shall operate a tattoo establishment or engage in the practice or business of tattooing as a tattoo operator or tattoo artist, unless such person has first secured a permit to do so from the city.
(b)
A condition precedent to the issuance of a permit by the city shall be satisfactory proof that the tattoo establishment has secured from the appropriate health authorities of the county a permit or certificate to operate such an establishment.
(c)
All permits granted shall be issued in the name of the individual person applying therefor, shall contain the location of the tattoo establishment where the applicant shall operate, and shall not be transferable as to either artist, operator or location.
(d)
No permit shall issue for the operation of a tattoo establishment or to any person engaged as a tattoo operator or tattoo artist, in any area which is zoned for any residential use by the zoning ordinance of the city, as the area may now or hereafter exist.
(e)
The permits issued under this article shall be cumulative and not in lieu of any occupation tax certificate issued by the city.
(f)
Any person desiring to operate a tattoo establishment or desiring to operate as a tattoo operator or tattoo artist shall make application for a permit to the department of police; the application to be on forms supplied by the department of police. The minimum age of each applicant shall be at least 18 years of age. Fingerprints of all applicants shall be taken by the department of police. Applicants for such permits shall also furnish to the department of police two photographs showing a front and side picture of the full face of the applicant, size 2½ inches by 2¾ inches. Applicants for such permits shall present to the department of police a medical certificate from a medical doctor certifying that such person is sound physically, mentally, has good eyesight and is not infected with a disease which can be communicated through openings in the human skin.
(Code 1977, § 14-141; Ord. No. 94-18, § 3, 12-5-94)
Sec. 22-243. - Restrictions upon persons eligible for tattoos.
No tattoo operator or tattoo artist shall tattoo any person who is under 16 years of age; any person who is under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or other stimulants or depressants; or any person of unsound mind.
(Code 1977, § 14-142)
Sec. 22-244. - Revocation of certificate.
Any person who shall conduct a tattoo establishment or engage in the business as a tattoo operator or tattoo artist without first securing a permit therefor, or who shall knowingly violate any of the sections of this article shall subject such a permit to revocation upon appropriate notice or hearing. Additionally, revocation of certificate or permit procured by the county health department shall, upon notice of hearing, constitute grounds for revocation of a permit issued by the city. An artist's or operator's permit shall be subject to revocation upon proof that the holder of such a permit has become infected with a disease which can be communicated through openings in the human skin.
(Code 1977, § 14-143; Ord. No. 94-18, § 3, 12-5-94)
Secs. 22-245—22-265. - Reserved.
