ARTICLE VIII. - MOBILE FOOD VENDORS[9]

Footnotes:
--- (9) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2013-02 , adopted Feb. 18, 2013, amended the Code by adding §§ 22-299—22-303, relative to mobile food vendors. Said ordinance did not explicitly create a new article for these provisions; however, as such subject is not addressed elsewhere in Ch. 22, a new article, titled as herein set out, has been created at the editor's discretion.

Sec. 22-299. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commissary shall mean an approved catering establishment, restaurant, or other approved place in which food, containers or supplies are kept, handled, prepared, packaged or stored and has also obtained approval from the health department.
Ice cream truck shall mean a motor vehicle in which ice cream, popsicles, ice sherbets or other frozen desserts of any kind are carried for the purpose of retail sale on the streets of the city.
Mobile food vendor shall mean a retail food establishment that reports to and operates from a commissary and is readily moveable, is a motorized wheeled vehicle, or a towed wheeled vehicle designed and equipped to serve food.
Pushcart shall mean a non-self-propelled vehicle limited to serving commissary prepared or prepackaged food and non-potentially hazardous food, unless the equipment is commercially designed and approved to handle food preparation and service. Pushcarts shall not be required to comply with mobile vehicular safety requirements.
Red zones are zones that mobile food vendors are not permitted to do business. Red zones may be established by majority vote of the Mayor and Council.
Temporary food establishment shall mean a retail food establishment, other than a licensed mobile food vendor or pushcart, that is not intended to be permanent and that operates at a fixed location for a period of time of not more than 14 consecutive days in conjunction with a single event or celebration.
( Ord. No. 2013-02 , 2-18-13)
Sec. 22-300. - License requirement.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, or offer for sale, food of any type from a commissary, mobile retail food establishment, pushcart or temporary food establishment without a license first having been granted under this section, except for city-sponsored events.
(b)
An application for a business license or a permit hereunder shall be submitted to the community development director or his or her designee setting forth all information required hereunder and in compliance with this ordinance. The community development director or his or her designee shall develop a form of application for the purpose of compliance with this article.
(c)
The following information shall be provided with each application for a mobile food vendor business license:
(1)
Name of the mobile food vendor;
(2)
Make, model, and license plate number of vending unit;
(3)
Owner's contact information;
(4)
Operator's contact information;
(5)
Type of vendor (street vending unit or sidewalk vending unit);
(6)
Copy of approved permit from the Cobb County Health Department or the Georgia Department of Agriculture;
(7)
List of operating locations and times;
(8)
Signatures from property owners indicating consent for the use of their property;
(9)
Signature of applicant indicating agreement to the listed requirements.
( Ord. No. 2013-02 , 2-18-13)
Sec. 22-301. - Prohibited conduct and requirements.
(a)
Except for ice cream trucks or pushcarts, no mobile food vendor shall conduct business or operate in the public right-of-way.
(b)
A mobile food vendor shall not operate on any private property without the prior consent of the owner.
(c)
A mobile food vendor shall maintain a $1,000,000.00 liability insurance policy. Proof of current liability insurance, issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in Georgia, protecting the mobile food vendor, the public and the city from all claims for damage to property and bodily injury, including death, which may arise from operation under or in connection with the permit. Such insurance shall name the city as an additional insured and shall provide that the policy shall not terminate or be canceled prior to the expiration date without 30 days advanced written notice to the city.
(d)
Except for ice cream trucks or pushcarts, a mobile food vendor shall not make sounds or announcements to call attention to the mobile food vehicle either while traveling on the public rights-of-way or when stationary. At all times said mobile food vendor shall be in compliance with the City of Smyrna noise ordinance.
(e)
The license and all applicable health certificates under which a mobile food vendor is operating must be firmly attached and visible on the mobile food vendor or pushcart at all times.
(f)
Any driver of a mobile food vendor motorized vehicle must possess a valid Georgia driver's license.
(g)
Except for ice cream trucks and pushcarts, mobile food vendors are allowed only in nonresidential districts, where no red zone has been established. Variances in residential districts may be granted by the community development director or his or her designee for neighborhood events.
(h)
Mobile food vendors shall not be located within 15 feet of any street intersection or pedestrian crosswalk or ten feet of any driveway.
(i)
No sale or offer for sale shall be made by any mobile food vendor between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. unless such sale is in conjunction with a city-approved special event or film production permit.
(j)
Vending structures shall not be left unattended or stored at any time on the open vending site when vending is not taking place or during restricted hours of operation.
(k)
The mobile food vendor shall comply with all state, federal and local health and safety regulations and requirements and shall obtain and maintain any and all licenses required by any other health, organization or governmental organization having jurisdiction over this subject matter.
(l)
The following safety regulations shall apply to any and all motorized vehicles operating under this article or used for mobile retail food establishments:
(1)
Every vehicle shall be equipped with a reverse gear signal alarm with a sound distinguishable from the surrounding noise level.
(2)
Every vehicle shall be equipped with two rear-vision mirrors, one at each side, firmly attached to the outside of the motor vehicle, and so located as to reflect to the driver a view of the highway to the rear, along both sides of the vehicle.
(m)
The mobile food vendor may sell food and non-alcoholic beverage items only.
(n)
Permitted signage shall mean any signage marketing and/or advertising for any mobile food vendor unit or cart that meet the following requirements:
(1)
Sandwich board signage located on the premises of where the mobile vendor unit is operating while the mobile food vendor unit or cart is actually operating.
(2)
Wall signage that is safely affixed to the mobile food vendor unit so as to be flat against the surface of that mobile food vendor unit or cart.
(o)
The area within which a mobile food vendor unit is operating shall, at all times, be kept clean and free from litter, garbage, rubble and debris. To that end, each mobile food vendor unit must provide a trash or garbage receptacle in which patrons or customers may place their litter or garbage. The receptacle shall be within ten feet of the mobile food truck unit. The receptacle must be adequate in size so waste does not begin to overflow from the receptacle. The operator of the mobile food vendor unit must remove this litter or garbage from the permitted location when he or she leaves the permitted location.
(p)
Operation of any mobile food truck units must maintain a minimum distance of 200 feet from any building housing an established licensed eating and drinking establishment. This distance will be measured from the serving window in a straight line to the property line of the nearest bricks and mortar food establishment. If a food truck operates less the 200 feet from any building housing an established licensed eating and drinking establishment, they must have expressed and signed consent from all affected establishments. This provision shall not apply to mobile food vendor units operating by invitation of the city at city-sponsored or city-approved events in the Smyrna Market Village or Village Green.
(q)
A drive-through shall not be used at any mobile food truck unit. A person operating a mobile food truck unit shall not conduct business with or accept orders from any patrons or customers while such patrons or customers are in their motor vehicles.
( Ord. No. 2013-02 , 2-18-13)
Sec. 22-302. - Indemnity.
As part of the permitting process set forth herein, any person or entity receiving a permit set forth herein shall execute an indemnity agreement indemnifying and releasing the City of Smyrna, its agents, employees and elected officials from any and all liability against any and all claims, actions and suits of any type whatsoever.
( Ord. No. 2013-02 , 2-18-13)
Sec. 22-303. - Enforcement and revocation.
The provisions of this article may be enforced through the city's code enforcement procedures or as otherwise authorized in this Code and may be pursued by appropriate remedy in a court of competent jurisdiction. The remedies that the city may pursue for a violation of this article include:
(1)
Any violation of this article may be punished as provided for in section 1-8 of the Code of Ordinances, Smyrna, Georgia;
(2)
Revocation of the business license of the owner or operator of the mobile food truck unit found in violation of this article;
(3)
Refusal of the city to renew the business license of the owner or operator of the mobile food truck unit found in violation of this article;
(4)
If code enforcement is utilized to enforce this article, a resulting code enforcement lien may be assessed against the private property upon which the mobile food truck operation operates or operated.
( Ord. No. 2013-02 , 2-18-13)
Secs. 22-304—22-314. - Reserved.
