Subpart B - RELATED LAWS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Subpart B, Related Laws, consists of laws related to, but not specifically amendatory of, the Charter set out in subpart A herein.

ARTICLE I. - HOMESTEAD TAX EXEMPTION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 89-4, § 1, approved by the mayor and council December 19, 1988, and by special referendum April 4, 1989, made effective the provisions of 1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 59), page 3878, and 1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 604), page 4896. Such provisions have been included herein as subpart B, art. I, §§ 1 and 2, respectively, at the discretion of the editor, inasmuch as such provisions were not expressly amendatory of the Charter set out in subpart A herein nor of the Code set out in part II of this volume. Section 1 was superseded by 1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 859), page 5725. See also the editor's note to art. III, div. 5, of the Charter.
Cross reference— Ad valorem taxation for general purposes authorized, subpart A, § 50.

Sec. 1. - Homestead tax exemption—Residents sixty-two years of age or older.
(a)
For purposes of this act, the term "homestead" means such term as defined and qualified in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-40.
(b)
Each resident of the City of Smyrna who is 62 years of age or older and who has resided within the City of Smyrna for a period of not less than three (3) years at the time of application for such exemption shall be granted an exemption on that person's homestead from City of Smyrna ad valorem taxes, except those taxes levied for school purposes and to pay interest on and retire bonded indebtedness, in the amount of $10,000.00. The value of the homestead in excess of the exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation.
(c)
The governing authority of the City of Smyrna may by ordinance provide procedures and requirements necessary for the proper administration of the homestead exemption provided for by this Act.
(d)
The exemption granted by this Act shall not apply to or affect any county school taxes, state taxes, or county taxes for county purposes.
(e)
The exemption provided for by this Act shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1992.
(f)
The exemption provided for by this Act shall be in addition to any other homestead exemption from City of Smyrna ad valorem taxes.
(g)
The exemption provided for by this Act shall be renewed from year to year as long as the owner occupies the residence as a homestead. It shall be the duty of any person granted the homestead exemption under this Act to notify the governing authority of the City of Smyrna or its designee in the event that such person for any reason becomes ineligible for that exemption.
(h)
Unless prohibited by the federal Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended, the election superintendent of the City of Smyrna shall call and conduct an election as provided in this section for the purpose of submitting this Act to the electors of the City of Smyrna for approval or rejection. The election superintendent shall conduct that election on July 21, 1992, and shall issue the call therefor not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to that date. The superintendent shall cause the date and purpose of the election to be published once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the date thereof in the official organ of Cobb County. The ballot shall have written or printed thereon the words:
EXPAND
"( ) YES

( ) NO Shall the Act be approved which provides for a $10,000.00 homestead exemption from certain City of Smyrna ad valorem taxes for certain residents 62 years of age or older?"
  All persons desiring to vote for approval of the Act shall vote "Yes," and those persons desiring to vote for rejection of the Act shall vote "No." If more than one-half of the votes cast on such question are for approval of the Act, it shall become of full force and effect immediately. If the Act is not so approved or if the election is not conducted as provided in this section, the remaining sections of this Act shall not become effective and this Act shall be automatically repealed on the first day of January immediately following that election date.
The expense of such election shall be borne by the City of Smyrna. It shall be the superintendent's duty to certify the result thereof to the Secretary of State.
(i)
The homestead exemption applicable to City of Smyrna ad valorem taxes set forth in a constitutional amendment proposed by 1962 Ga. Laws, page 976, as amended by 1972 Ga. Laws, page 1440 and as amended by 1979 Ga. Laws, page 1844, and duly ratified by the people and which was continued in force and effect by an act approved March 28, 1986 (1986 Ga. Laws, page 5525), is repealed in its entirety.
(j)
An Act providing for a $10,000.00 homestead exemption from certain City of Smyrna ad valorem taxes for certain residents 65 years of age or older, approved March 21, 1989 (1989 Ga. Laws, page 3878), is repealed in its entirety; and an Act providing for a $10,000.00 homestead exemption from certain City of Smyrna ad valorem taxes for certain residents 62 years of age or older, approved April 4, 1991 (1991 Ga. Laws, page 4693), is repealed in its entirety.
(k)
Except as otherwise provided in this section, this Act shall become effective upon its approval by the Governor or upon becoming law without such approval. Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 10 [subsections (a)—(g) and (j)] of this Act shall become effective only if this Act is approved in the referendum provided for in Section 8 [subsection (h)] of this Act.
(l)
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act are repealed.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 59), page 3878, §§ 1—10, ratified 4-4-89; 1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 859), page 5725, §§ 1—12, ratified 7-21-92)
Sec. 2. - Same—Disabled residents.
(a)
For purposes of this act, the term "homestead" means such term as defined and qualified in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-40.
(b)
Each resident of the City of Smyrna who is disabled is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from all City of Smyrna ad valorem taxes in the amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) if the resident's net income, together with the net income of the person's spouse who also resides at such homestead, as net income is defined by general law, from all sources, including benefits received from any retirement or pension fund when such benefits are based on contributions by the resident or his spouse, not including federal old-age, survivor, or disability benefits, does not exceed six thousand dollars ($6,000.00) for the immediately preceding taxable year for income tax purposes. The value of the homestead in excess of the exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation.
(c)
In order to qualify for the exemption provided for in this act, the person claiming such exemption shall be required to obtain a certificate from the federal Social Security Administration, or from the sanctioned agency authorized to pay disability benefits when the person claiming this exemption is not entitled to Social Security benefits under the provisions of the federal Social Security Administration, and from not less than one (1) nor more than three (3) physicians licensed to practice medicine in this state, certifying that such person is mentally or physically incapacitated to the extent that such person is unable to be gainfully employed and that such incapacity is likely to be permanent. Any such person shall not receive the benefits of such homestead exemption unless he, or through his agent, provides the governing authority of the City of Smyrna, or a person designated by the governing authority, with the certificates provided for in this act and files an application with said governing authority giving the amount of income which he and his spouse received during the last taxable year for income tax purposes, and such additional information relative to receiving the benefits of such exemption as will enable said governing authority to make a determination as to whether such person is entitled to such exemption. The governing authority shall provide the necessary forms for this purpose. Such applications shall be processed in the same manner as other applications for homestead exemption, and the provisions of law applicable to the processing of homestead exemptions, as the same now exist or may hereafter be amended, shall apply thereto, but after any such person has filed the proper application and certificates as provided in this subsection and has been allowed the exemption provided in this act, it shall not be necessary that he make application and file said certificates thereafter for any year; and the said exemption shall continue to be allowed to such person. It shall be the duty of any such person, however, to notify the governing authority in the event he becomes ineligible for any reason for the exemption provided in this act.
(d)
The governing authority of the City of Smyrna may by ordinance provide the procedures and requirements necessary for the proper administration of the homestead exemption provided for by this act.
(e)
The exemption granted by this act shall not apply to or affect any county school taxes, state taxes, or county taxes for county purposes.
(f)
The exemption granted by this act shall not [sic] apply to all tax years beginning January first of the year following the year in which this act is approved by the electors of the City of Smyrna.
(g)
The exemption granted by this act shall be in addition to any other homestead exemption from City of Smyrna ad valorem taxes.
(h)
Unless prohibited by the federal Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended, the election superintendent of the City of Smyrna shall call and conduct an election as provided in this [sub]section for the purpose of submitting this act to the electors of the City of Smyrna for approval or rejection. The election superintendent shall conduct that election on the date of the next municipal election or referendum and shall issue the call therefor not less than thirty (30) nor more than sixty (60) days prior to that date. The superintendent shall cause the date and purpose of the election to be published once a week for two (2) weeks immediately preceding the date thereof in the official organ of Cobb County. The ballot shall have written or printed thereon the words:
EXPAND
"( ) YES

( ) NO Shall the Act be approved which provides for a $10,000.00 homestead exemption from all City of Smyrna ad valorem taxes for certain disabled residents?"
  All persons desiring to vote for approval of the act shall vote "Yes," and those persons desiring to vote for rejection of the act shall vote "No." If more than one-half of the votes cast on such question are for approval of the act, it shall become of full force and effect immediately. If the act is not so approved or if the election is not conducted as provided in this [sub]section, the remaining [sub]sections of this act shall not become effective and this act shall be automatically repealed on the first day of January immediately following that election date.
The expense of such election shall be borne by the City of Smyrna. It shall be the superintendent's duty to certify the result thereof to the Secretary of State.
(i)
The homestead exemption applicable to City of Smyrna ad valorem taxes set forth in a constitutional amendment proposed by 1976 Ga. Laws, page 1929, which was duly ratified by the people and which was continued in force and effect by an act approved March 28, 1986 (1986 Ga. Laws, page 5523) shall stand repealed in its entirety on the date on which the exemption provided by this act becomes applicable.
(j)
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act are repealed.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 604), page 4896, §§ 1—10, ratified 4-4-89)
Secs. 3—10. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DOWNTOWN SMYRNA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 89-5, § 1, 4-3-89, provided for the inclusion of the provisions of 1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 216), page 4382, in the Charter but did not specify the manner thereof. Such provisions, being related to the Charter set out in subpart A but not expressly amendatory thereof, have been included as subpart B, art. II, §§ 11—32, at the discretion of the editor. Unless otherwise indicated by amendatory legislation cited in parenthetical historical notations following the sections herein, such provisions derive from 1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 216), page 4382. Section numbers have been changed by the editor for purposes of inclusion herein, and catchlines have been added for reference purposes.
Cross reference— Creation of Downtown Smyrna Development Authority, subpart A, Charter Appendix, art. VII, § VII, ¶ I.

Sec. 11. - Title.
This act may be cited as the "Downtown Smyrna Development Authority Act."
Sec. 12. - Created; liability; exemption from taxes; duties, etc.
Pursuant to an amendment to Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph I of the Constitution of 1945 (1970 Ga. Laws, page 1117) and now specifically continued pursuant to an act approved March 18, 1986 (1986 Ga. Laws, page 3957), as authorized by Article XI, Section I, Paragraph IV of the Constitution of 1983, there is created in and for the City of Smyrna a body corporate and politic to be known as the Downtown Smyrna Development Authority, which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation by that name, style and title, and said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity, except that the authority or the trustee acting under any trust indenture shall in no event be liable for any torts committed by any of the officers, agents and employees of the authority. The authority is granted the same exemptions and exclusions from taxes as are now granted to cities and counties for the operation of facilities similar to facilities to be operated by the authority as provided under the provisions of this act.
The authority shall consist of the mayor of the City of Smyrna and seven (7) members who shall be appointed by the mayor and council of the City of Smyrna. The members of the authority shall be appointed to serve for a term of one (1) year from the date of such appointment and until their successors shall have been selected and appointed, unless removed for cause under the rules of the authority. A majority of the seven (7) members must reside within the city limits and be eligible to vote in city elections.
Any member of the authority may be selected and appointed to succeed each member. Immediately after such appointments, the members of such authority shall enter upon their duties. Any vacancy on the authority shall be filled in the same manner as was the original appointment of the member whose termination of membership resulted in such vacancy, and the person so selected and appointed shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term. The authority shall elect one (1) of its members as chairman and another member as vice-chairman, and it shall also elect a secretary and treasurer who does not necessarily have to be a member of the authority, and, if not a member of the authority, he or she shall have no voting rights. Four (4) members of the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the authority. The members of the authority shall be reimbursed for all actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties out of funds of the authority. The authority shall make rules and regulations for its own government. It shall have perpetual existence.
(Mo. of 3-20-95)
Sec. 13. - Definitions.
As used in this act, the term:
(1)
Authority means the Downtown Smyrna Development Authority created in section 12 of this act [article].
(2)
Cost of the project means the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements and franchises acquired, and the cost of all conveyances in fee simple of the authority's title thereto and leases thereof; the cost of all machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction and for one year after completion of construction; the cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal and legal expenses, and of plans and specifications and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project; and administrative expenses and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing of projects authorized in this act, the construction of any project, and the placing of the same in operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act for such project.
(3)
Geographical area of the authority means the area encompassed by the geographical limits set forth in the first paragraph of section 14.
(4)
Project means and includes the acquisition, construction, remodeling, altering, renovating, equipping, maintaining and operating of buildings, both private and public, and the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertakings and extension and improvement of such buildings; the acquisition of parking facilities or parking areas in connection therewith; the construction, reconstruction, alteration, changing and closing of streets, roads and alleys; the acquisition of the necessary property therefor, both real and personal; and the lease and sale of any part or all of such buildings, including real and personal property, so as to assure the efficient and proper development, maintenance and operation of such buildings, streets, roads and alleys deemed by the authority to be necessary, convenient or desirable in connection therewith.
(5)
Revenue bonds, bonds and obligations as used in this act shall mean revenue bonds as defined and provided for in the "Revenue bond Law," (O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.), and such type of obligations may be issued by the authority as authorized under said "Revenue Bond Law" and any amendments thereto.
Sec. 14. - Geographical limits; special tax districts.
The geographical limits within the City of Smyrna which shall be subject to the provisions of the constitutional amendment authorizing the creation of the authority shall be as follows: "all that tract or parcel of land lying and being within the corporate limits of the City of Smyrna, as said corporate limits now exist and as the same hereafter may be added to, extended or changed."
The authority is authorized and empowered to create by resolution one (1) or more special tax districts within the geographical area of the authority.
Sec. 15. - Tax levy authorized.
The authority shall be authorized to levy, upon all real property subject to taxation by the authority in any taxing district created by the authority within the geographical area of the authority, on January first of each year a tax not to exceed five (5) mills upon the assessed value of all such property, according to the assessed value of such property for ad valorem tax purposes for the City of Smyrna. No taxes shall be levied by the authority for any purpose against owner-occupied property used exclusively for residential purposes or property used primarily for educational purposes or property used as places of worship and related facilities. All taxes levied by the authority shall become due and payable at the same time as ad valorem taxes levied by the City of Smyrna. Delinquent taxes shall bear the same interest and penalties as City of Smyrna ad valorem taxes.
Sec. 16. - Powers of authority.
The authority shall have the power:
(1)
To buy, acquire, develop, improve, own, operate, maintain, sell, lease and mortgage land, buildings and property, both private and public, of all kinds and character including, but not limited to, machinery, apparatus, equipment and utilities useful or desirable in connection therewith within the geographical area of the authority;
(2)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations, to administer trusts, and to enter into trust indentures;
(3)
To grant and loan any of its funds and to lease any of its property to private persons and corporations agreeing to operate and expand any commercial or business enterprise or establishment within the geographical area of the authority which, in the judgment of the governing body of the authority, will be of benefit to the economic improvement and development of said geographical area;
(4)
To borrow money and issue notes, obligations and revenue bonds therefor; to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge and assign any and all of its funds, property and income as security for the payment thereof and interest thereon; to secure the repayment of any such money so borrowed by the terms of the resolution authorizing such financing and to enter into a trust indenture relative thereto;
(5)
To appoint and employ officers, agents and employees and to provide for their compensation in order to effectuate the purposes of this act;
(6)
To encourage and promote the economic improvement, development and rehabilitation within the geographical area of the authority and to make long-range plans therefor in cooperation with the planning developments of the City of Smyrna and Cobb County;
(7)
To accumulate its funds from such tax levy authorized in this act from year to year and to invest and reinvest such funds;
(8)
To designate any of its officers to sign and act for the authority pertaining to the rights, powers and privileges conferred in this act;
(9)
To do any and all acts and things necessary, convenient or desirable to accomplish the purpose of this act and the rights, powers and privileges conferred in this act;
(10)
To contract with the City of Smyrna for the collection of any taxes levied by the authority;
(11)
To adopt such bylaws governing the conduct of the affairs of the authority and to elect such officers as the authority shall deem necessary;
(12)
To sue and be sued;
(13)
To adopt and amend a corporate seal;
(14)
To make and execute contracts and other instruments necessary or convenient to exercise the powers of the authority including, but not limited to, contracts for construction of projects, leases of projects, contracts for sale of projects, and contracts with respect to the use of projects;
(15)
To finance by loan, grant or lease, and to construct, erect, purchase, acquire, own, repair, remodel, renovate, rehabilitate, maintain, extend, improve, sell, equip, expand, add to, operate or manage projects and to pay the cost of any project from the proceeds of revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations of the authority or any other funds of the authority or from any contribution or loans by persons, corporations, partnerships, limited or general, or other entities, all of which the authority is authorized to receive and accept and use;
(16)
To borrow money to further or carry out its public purpose and to execute revenue bonds, notes, other obligations, leases, trust indentures, trust agreements, agreements for the sale of its revenue bonds, notes or other obligations, loan agreements, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds, security agreements, assignments, and such other instruments as may be necessary or desirable, in the judgment of the authority, to evidence and secure such borrowing;
(17)
To issue revenue bonds, notes or other obligations of the authority and use the proceeds thereof for the purpose of paying, or loaning the proceeds thereof to pay, all or any part of the cost of any project and otherwise to further or carry out the public purpose of the authority and to pay all costs of the authority incident to or necessary and appropriate to furthering or carrying out such purposes;
(18)
To provide by resolution for the issuance of bonds of the authority for the purpose of funding or refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and premium, if any. The issuance of such funding or refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the authority in respect to the same shall be governed by the provisions of this act insofar as the same may be applicable;
(19)
To make application directly or indirectly to any federal, state, county or municipal government or agency or to any other source, public or private, for loans, grants, guarantees or other financial assistance in furtherance of the authority's public purpose, and to accept and use the same upon such terms and conditions as are prescribed by the federal, state, county or municipal government or agency or other source;
(20)
To enter into agreements with the federal government or any agency thereof to use in the performance of the authority's functions the facilities or the services of the federal government or any agency thereof in order to further or carry out the public purpose of the authority;
(21)
To contract, for any period not exceeding fifty (50) years, with the State of Georgia, state institutions, or any municipality, county or political subdivision of the state for the use by the authority of any facilities or services of the state or any such state institution, municipality, county or political subdivision or for the use by any state institution or any municipality, county or political subdivision of any facilities or services of the authority, provided that such contracts shall deal with such activities and transactions as the authority and any such political subdivision with which the authority contracts are by law authorized to undertake;
(22)
To extend credit or make loans to any person, corporation, partnership, limited or general, or other entity for the costs of any project or any part of the costs of any project, which credit or loans shall be evidenced or secured by loan agreements, notes, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds, security agreements, assignments, and such other instruments or by rentals, revenues, fees or charges upon such terms and conditions as the authority shall determine to be reasonable in connection with such extension of credit or loans, including provision for the establishment and maintenance of reserves and insurance funds; and, in the exercise of powers granted by this paragraph in connection with any project, the authority shall have the right and power to require the inclusion in any such loan agreement, note, mortgage, deed to secure debt, trust deed, security agreement, assignment, or other instrument of such provisions for guaranty, insurance, construction, use, operation, maintenance, and financing of a project and such other terms and conditions as the authority may deem necessary or desirable;
(23)
As security for repayment of any revenue bonds, notes or other obligations of the authority, to pledge, mortgage, convey, assign, hypothecate, or otherwise encumber any property of the authority, real or personal, and to execute any lease, trust indenture, trust agreement, agreement for the sale of the authority's revenue bonds, notes or other obligations, loan agreement, mortgage, deed to secure debt, trust deed, security agreement, assignment or other instrument as may be necessary or desirable in the judgment of the authority to secure any such revenue bonds, notes or other obligations, which instrument may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default in any obligation of the authority, either in payment of principal or interest or in the performance of any term or condition contained in any such instrument;
(24)
To exercise any power granted by the laws of the State of Georgia to public or private corporations which is not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia;
(25)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly conferred by this act. The powers enumerated in each paragraph of this section are cumulative with and in addition to those enumerated in the other paragraphs of this section, and no such power limits or restricts any other such power; and
(26)
To exercise all of the powers vested in the authority by the amendment to Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph I of the Constitution of 1945, as continued pursuant to an act of the General Assembly (1986 Ga. Laws, page 3957), and all other necessary and ancillary powers necessary to carry out the provisions of said paragraphs as it pertains to the Downtown Smyrna Development Authority.
Sec. 17. - Source for payment of bonds, etc.
The revenue bonds or obligations authorized by this act to be issued shall not be payable from, nor a charge upon, any funds of the city other than funds derived from the levy of taxes on real property located within the taxing district or districts created by the authority or other revenues derived from leases or contractual agreements relating to the projects.
Sec. 18. - Authority to issue bonds, notes, etc.; payment thereof.
The authority is authorized to issue bonds, revenue bonds, notes or other obligations from time to time to carry out the purposes of this act. Revenue bonds, notes or other obligations so issued shall be paid solely from the revenues pledged to the payment thereof, which revenues may include any funds derived from the special tax levy provided in this act. Such bonds, revenue bonds, notes or other obligations shall be authorized by resolution of the governing body of the authority adopted at a regular or special meeting by a majority vote of the members of said governing body. The governing body of said authority, in determining the cost of any project for which bonds, revenue bonds, notes or other obligations are to be issued, may include all costs relative to the issuance thereof and, without intending to limit such cost, may include architectural, engineering, inspection, fiscal agents, and legal expenses estimated to accrue from the date of any bonds, revenue bonds, notes or other obligations through the period of construction and for six (6) months after such construction; and such bonds, revenue bonds, notes or other obligations shall bear such date or dates, mature at such time or times not exceeding thirty (30) years from their respective dates, bear interest at such rate or rates, may be in such denominations, may carry such registration privileges, may be subject to redemption, and may contain such terms, covenants, assignments and conditions as the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds, revenue bonds, notes or other obligations may provide. Bonds, revenue bonds, notes or other obligations and interest thereon so issued by said authority are declared to be tax exempt for any and all purposes. The terms, conditions, covenants and provisions contained in any such resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds, revenue bonds, notes or other obligations shall bind said governing body then in office and its successors thereof, including any covenant to levy taxes within the limits prescribed in this act for the purpose of providing such funds as may be necessary to pay the principal of and interest on any such issue or issues of bonds, revenue bonds, notes or other obligations and to create and maintain a reserve for that purpose. Revenue bonds, but not notes or other obligations, issued by said authority shall be validated in the Superior Court of Cobb County in the same manner as revenue bonds of municipalities are validated, as provided under the "Revenue Bond Law" (O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.). There shall be no limitation upon the amount of revenue bonds, notes or other obligations which the authority may issue. The interest rate or rates on or to be borne by any bonds, revenue bonds, notes or other obligations issued by the authority shall be determined by the members of the authority and, with respect to any interest rate that floats in response to a variable, the method of calculation shall be fixed by the authority, and any limitations with respect to interest rates or any maximum interest rate or rates found in the "Revenue Bond Law," the usury laws of the State of Georgia, or any other laws of the State of Georgia shall not apply to bonds, revenue bonds, note[s] or other obligations of the authority issued pursuant to this act. The members of the authority shall constitute the "governing body" as that term is used in this act.
Sec. 19. - Signatures on bearer bonds, etc.
In the event the authority shall issue its revenue bonds as bearer bond, the bonds shall be signed manually by the chairman of the authority or by use of the facsimile signature of the chairman; the official seal of the authority shall be affixed thereto and attested by the secretary and treasurer of the authority; and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the facsimile signatures of the chairman and the secretary and treasurer of the authority. Any coupon may bear the facsimile signature of such persons, and any bond may be signed, sealed and attested on behalf of the authority by such persons as at the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of the issuance of such bonds such persons may not have been so authorized or shall not have held office. In the event that the authority shall issue its revenue bonds in a form other than bearer bonds, the bonds may be signed by the chairman of the authority and by the secretary and treasurer of the authority by use of the facsimile signatures of the chairman and of the secretary and treasurer, and the official seal of the authority may be affixed as a facsimile seal, provided that provision is also made for a manual authenticating signature on each such bond by or on behalf of a designated financial institution or other person, inside or outside the state, or a municipality with whom the authority has a contract to provide services with regard to:
(1)
The issuance, authentication, transfer, registration, exchange, and related mechanical and clerical functions;
(2)
Record or bookkeeping or book entry functions;
(3)
Preparation, signing, and issuance of checks or warrants in payment of bonds;
(4)
Preparation and maintenance of reports and accounts; and
(5)
Performance of any other duties related to bonds.
In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes, the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery.
Sec. 20. - Location of authority.
For purposes of validation of revenue bonds as provided under the "Revenue Bond Law" (O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.), the authority shall be considered to be located in the City of Smyrna, Cobb County, Georgia.
Sec. 21. - Replacement of lost, etc., bonds.
The authority may provide for the replacement of any bonds issued by it which shall be lost, mutilated or destroyed.
Sec. 22. - Security on bonds; pledges and assignments; rights and remedies, etc.
In the discretion of the authority, any issue of bonds pursuant to this act may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a trustee, which may be any trust company[,] any bank having the powers of a trust company inside or outside the state, any national banking association organized under the laws of the United States, or an individual. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues, rents, receipts, earnings or other funds to be received by the authority, including the proceeds derived from the sale from time to time of any surplus property of the authority, either real or personal. The resolution providing for the issuance of such bonds or the trust indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee and may prescribe the procedure by which bondholders may enforce their rights. Such resolution or trust indenture may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects satisfactory to the trustee or to the bondholders, and may also require that the security given by any contractors and by any depository of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other moneys be satisfactory to such trustee or bondholders, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued pari passu with the revenue bonds initially issued pursuant to such resolution or trust indenture. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state or any national banking association organized under the laws of the United States to act as such depository and to furnish such security as may be required by the authority. All expenses incurred in connection with any such resolution or trust indenture may be treated as operating expenses of the authority. This section is illustrative and does not limit the types of instruments which may secure or provide for any issue of bonds or the terms and provisions which any resolution adopted by the authority or any instrument executed by the authority may contain. Any resolution adopted by the authority or any indenture of trust, trust agreement or other instrument executed by the authority may contain such terms and provisions as the authority shall approve. Such approval of the authority shall be conclusively established by the execution of any such resolution, indenture of trust, trust agreement or other instrument by the chairman or vice-chairman of the authority and the attestation of such execution by the secretary and treasurer or any assistant secretary of the authority. Nothing in this section or this act shall be construed to require for any issue revenue bonds a trustee or a trust indenture, trust agreement or similar instrument.
Sec. 23. - Authority to enter into agreements to provide security.
In addition to and not in limitation of other powers granted in this act as to the issuance of revenue bonds and security for such bonds, the authority shall have the power to enter into any financial and contractual arrangements which it deems appropriate with users or owners of projects in order to provide security to bondholders, and for such purposes it may also enter into joint agreements, arrangements or trust indentures with such users or owners and a trustee or trustees under any trust indenture in order that funds may be procured to accomplish the purposes of this act.
Sec. 24. - Continuation of powers, etc., while bonds outstanding.
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties or existence of the authority or of its officers, employees or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will adversely affect the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds.
Sec. 25. - Bonds issued for public purpose; income exempt from taxation.
All bonds of the authority issued under the provisions of this act are declared to be issued for an essential public purpose, and the said bonds and the income therefrom shall at all times be exempt from taxation within the state.
Sec. 26. - Bonds, etc., made securities in which funds may be invested.
Any bonds or revenue bonds issued by the authority under the provisions of this act are made securities in which all public officers and bodies of this state and all municipalities and all municipal subdivisions; all insurance companies and associations and other persons carrying on an insurance business; all banks, bankers, trust companies, savings banks and savings associations, including savings and loan associations, building and loan associations, investment companies and other persons carrying on a banking business; all administrators, guardians, executors, trustees and other fiduciaries; and all other persons who are now or may hereafter be authorized to invest in bonds or other obligations of the state may properly and legally invest funds, including capital in their control or belonging to them. The bonds or revenue bonds of the authority are also made securities which may be deposited with and shall be received by all public officers and bodies of this state and all municipalities and municipal subdivisions for any purpose for which the deposit of the bonds or other obligations of this state is now or may hereafter be authorized.
Sec. 27. - Authority's purpose declared public purpose.
The purpose of the authority is declared to be an essential and public purpose, promoting the public good and welfare and benefitting the citizens within the geographical area of the authority and of the City of Smyrna. This act shall be liberally construed to effect its purpose.
Sec. 28. - Applicability to all bonds, etc., of authority.
This act shall apply to all outstanding or authorized and unissued bonds, notes and other obligations, as well as all future bonds, notes and other obligations. Any and all bonds, notes or other obligations of the authority issued or validated prior to the effective date hereof are ratified and approved.
Sec. 29. - Property of authority declared held for public purpose; tax exempt.
It is declared that all property of the authority held pursuant to the terms of this act, whether real or personal, tangible or intangible, and of any kind or nature, and any income or revenue therefrom is held for an essential public purpose, and all such property is deemed to be public property and tax exempt.
Sec. 30. - Effect of invalidity, unconstitutionality on sections of act.
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this act shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases of this act, which shall remain of full force and effect as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional were not originally a part hereof. The General Assembly declares that it would have passed the remaining parts of this act if it had known that such part or parts hereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
Sec. 31. - Effective date.
This act shall become effective upon its approval by the governor or upon its becoming law without such approval.
Sec. 32. - Repeal of conflicting provisions.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act are repealed.
