ARTICLE IV. - ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 3-181. - Compliance with chapter.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale at wholesale or retail any alcoholic beverages without having first complied with the provisions of this chapter.
(b)
The police department shall from time to time visit licensed premises and determine compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2000-30, 11-20-00)
Sec. 3-182. - Criminal penalties for violation of chapter; administrative actions.
(a)
Alleged violations of this chapter may be cited to any court as provided by law and ordinance. Convictions under this chapter shall be punishable in the municipal court by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment for sixty (60) days, or both. Convictions may be considered due cause for suspension or revocation of any license by the governing authority.
(b)
The governing authority may and normally shall take administrative action under this chapter independent of court citations or the lack thereof, and independent of the disposition or lack of disposition thereof.
(c)
The intent of the table below is to be a guide for the governing authority in providing for fair and consistent procedures and possible penalties for alleged violations of this chapter. The authority to deviate from this guide, including but not limited to provisions regarding show cause hearings, computation of number of offenses, time periods, and penalties, is expressly reserved to the governing authority, as is the authority to consider mitigating circumstances in deciding upon possible penalties. The table calls for increased sanctions per increased violations or per increased class or seriousness; thus, among classes, a third offense under the least serious class III triggers sanctions that are reached on a second offense in the more serious class II or on a first offense in the most serious class I; and within the same class, sanctions increase as the number of violations increase. The table reflects a willingness to give a licensee the benefit of the doubt, with respect to administrative action, for an initial offense on the part of the licensee or the employee of the licensee, but to be less willing to do so upon subsequent violations. The table assumes routine enforcement efforts on the part of law enforcement officers.
Table To Be Used As A Guide For Possible Penalties At Show Cause Hearings
EXPAND
Offense Class III Violations
(less serious) Class II Violations
(serious) Class I Violations
(most serious)
§ 3-52 License to be displayed All sections of chapter not listed under class I or III § 3-61 Exotic dancing in connection with pouring licensee
§ 3-55 Pricing
§ 3-56 Prices to be conspicuously displayed § 3-66 Sales to certain persons prohibited
First 1 Warning letter 5-year class II probation 3 0 to 30-day suspension 2 , 5-year class I probation
Second 5-year class III probation 0 to 15-day suspension, 5-year class II probation 30- to 60-day suspension, 5-year class I probation
Third 0 to 30-day suspension, 5-year class III probation 15- to 60-day suspension, 5-year class II probation 60- to 180-day suspension, 5-year class I
probation
Fourth 30- to 60-day suspension, 5-year class III probation 60- to 180-day suspension, 5-year class II probation 180-day to 1-year suspension, 5-year class I
probation
Fifth 60- to 180-day suspension, 5-year class III probation 180-day to 1-year suspension, 5-year class II probation Revocation of license
  1 Number of offenses are to be tallied over a five-year period through and preceding the date of the most recent alleged violation.
City officials shall keep a list of offenses on record for each licensee. "Fifth" offenses applies to fourth or more offenses.
Offenses in one (1) class shall not be counted towards the number of offenses in a different class.
2 Suspensions should not be redeemable through payment of a fine or buy-out provision. Length of suspension should be based on mitigating factors as determined by governing authority.
3 Probation should be for possible subsequent violations in that class only.
(d)
In addition to the penalties provided herein for violation of this chapter, a licensee may be required, at his own expense, to repeat a responsible alcohol sales and service training course, at the discretion of the mayor and City Council.
(Ord. No. 2000-30, 11-20-00; Ord. No. 2002-18, § 2, 8-19-02; Ord. No. 2017-012 , § 1, 5-1-17)
Sec. 3-183. - Suspension and revocation of license by the governing authority.
(a)
Hearing required; due cause prerequisite. No license which has been issued or which may hereafter be issued by the city to any agent of or any person, partnership, corporation, retail dealer, for sale of any type of alcoholic beverages shall be suspended or revoked, except for due cause as defined in subsection (c) of this section and after a hearing requiring the licensee to appear and show cause to the mayor and council of the city why such license should not be suspended or revoked. At any such hearing, all parties to the hearing shall be entitled to be represented by counsel and shall be entitled to all subpoena powers provided by this Code or the City Charter, together with the right to examine all such witnesses under oath.
(b)
Notice of hearing. Notice in writing by the permits and licenses clerk addressed to the holder of such license stating the time, place and purpose of such show-cause hearing and a statement of the accusation upon which such hearing shall be held shall be delivered to the licensed location. Not less than three (3) nor more than twenty (20) days' notice of such hearing shall be deemed reasonable notice. However, shorter or longer periods shall be authorized as the mayor and council determine that the circumstances justify. Upon application in writing by the license holder, any witness or any party at interest, showing good cause and not for purposes of delay only, the hearing date may be advanced or continued, in which event no further notice shall be required in writing.
(c)
Definition. The expression "due cause" for the suspension or revocation of such license shall include, but not be limited to:
(1)
The violation of any provision of this chapter by the license holder, partner, officer, director, principal stockholder (who owns more than ten (10) percent ownership) or any employee engaged in the sale of alcoholic beverages, of this Code or any other ordinance or duly adopted regulation of the city, except misdemeanor traffic violations by the above-named persons, partnership, corporation or entity;
(2)
The violation of any provision of this chapter by the license holder, partner, officer, director, principal stockholder (who owns more than ten (10) percent ownership) or any employee engaged in the sale of alcoholic beverages, of any state law or regulation, any county ordinance or regulation, or any other ordinance, regulation or law regulating such businesses, or violation of any regulation made pursuant to authority granted for the purpose of regulating such business, or for the violation of any law of the United States of America, except misdemeanor traffic violations by the above-named persons, corporation or entity;
(3)
Falsifying, false swearing regarding or omission of any fact affecting the license application or any supplemental information required during the term of the license, with regard to the location of the business or the license holder, partner, officer, director, principal stockholder (who owns more than ten (10) percent ownership) or any employee engaged in the sale of alcoholic beverages; or any reason which would authorize the mayor and council of the city to refuse the issuance of a license;
(4)
The violation of any term, condition or provision of this chapter in any particular or as to any detail whatsoever shall be due and conclusive cause for suspension or revocation of any license described in this chapter;
(5)
The sale or offer of sale of any alcoholic beverage to any minor, as defined and prohibited by the laws of the state, or to any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years; or the failure to "card" or require proof of age, together with proof of the legal ability to purchase alcoholic beverages of any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years; or the failure to report to the police department of the city, in writing, any attempt to purchase alcoholic beverages by a minor or other person not entitled to make such purchase within twenty-four (24) hours of such attempted purchase; or
(6)
When the sale of alcoholic beverages at any location shall become a nuisance; shall adversely affect the public health, safety, morals or welfare of the community; or require police protection, enforcement or supervision to the extent not required by other retail sales of consumer goods or products.
(d)
Refund of license fee. In the event of revocation or suspension by the mayor and council, the licensee shall not be entitled to a refund or return of any portion of the license fee.
(e)
Provisions cumulative. The remedies and actions provided in this article, including but not limited to the suspension or revocation of the license, shall be cumulative, in addition to and nonexclusive of any other action, civil or criminal, pending, resolved or threatened, regarding the license, location, owner of the business or licensee.
(f)
Emergency action by mayor. Upon certification in writing to the mayor by any city or county official or duly sworn peace or police officer of the city, the county or state of any violation of the provisions of this chapter, and that such or other violations are continuing or are likely to continue or occur, the mayor shall be authorized to call for and cause notice to be given to the council and license holder for an emergency hearing to show cause why such license should not be suspended or revoked as provided under this chapter. In the event an emergency show-cause hearing shall be called by the mayor, the license shall be suspended from the time and date of delivery of such notice through the date and time of the show-cause hearing.
(g)
Authority to suspend or revoke. At any show-cause hearing, based upon the evidence presented as to the nature of the violation, the number or frequency of violations under the license held or at the subject location and any other pertinent information, the mayor and council shall be authorized to probate or to suspend such license for any appropriate time up to six (6) months or to permanently revoke such license.
(h)
Provision of schedule. The governing body may from time to time provide for a schedule prescribing the length of suspensions, revocation, or other penalties as it may determine appropriate to the nature of the offense, the person committing the offense, and other such factors as it may deem appropriate. Such schedule shall be on file with the permits and licenses clerk.
(Ord. No. 2000-30, 11-20-00; Ord. No. 2017-012 , § 1, 5-1-17)
Sec. 3-184. - Automatic revocation of city license upon revocation of state license.
Whenever the state shall revoke any permit or license to manufacture or sell at wholesale or retail any alcoholic beverages, the city license to manufacture or deal in such products shall thereupon be automatically revoked without any action by the mayor or governing body.
(Ord. No. 2000-30, 11-20-00)
Sec. 3-185. - Removal of signs after revocation.
When any license for selling alcoholic beverages is revoked, all signs indicating that such beverage may be sold or purchased shall be removed from the place of business, both outside and inside. Upon receipt by the police department of notice of such revocation, the police department shall take the necessary steps to see that this section is enforced.
(Ord. No. 2000-30, 11-20-00)
Secs. 3-186—3-200. - Reserved.
