Appendix A - ZONING[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— This appendix sets forth the zoning ordinance for the City of Buena Vista, Georgia. It has been included in this appendix, as enacted, for the information and convenience of the user. Unless otherwise indicated by a history note following a particular section, the ordinance is set out as enacted; the section numbers have been updated and catchlines have been retained. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, the same system of capitalization and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Any material in brackets has been added by the editor for the purposes of clarity.

ARTICLE I. - PURPOSE AND ENACTMENT

Sec. A-10. - Purpose and enactment.
The Mayor and City Council of the City of Buena Vista, Georgia, under the authority of the 1982 Georgia Constitution, as amended, and for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, or the general welfare of the municipality and designed to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers; to promote health and the general welfare; to provide adequate light and air, to prevent the overcrowding of land, to avoid undue concentration of population; to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and other public requirements, hereby ordains and enacts into law an official zoning ordinance for the incorporated area of the City of Buena Vista.
ARTICLE II. - SHORT TITLE

Sec. A-20. - Short title.
This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as "The Zoning Ordinance for the City of Buena Vista, Georgia."
ARTICLE III. - DEFINITION OF TERMS USED IN THIS ORDINANCE

Sec. A-30. - General.
Except as otherwise provided herein, all words shall have the customary dictionary meaning. The present tense includes the future tense, and the future tense includes the present. The singular number includes the plural and the plural includes the singular. The word "person" includes a firm, corporation, association, organization, trust or partnership. The word "lot" includes "plot" or "parcel." The word "shall" is always mandatory. The word "used" or "occupied," as applied to any land or building, shall be construed to include the words "intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied." The word "map" means the "Official Zoning Districts Map for the City of Buena Vista, Georgia."
Sec. A-31. - Specific definitions.
When used in this ordinance, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning given in this section:
(1)
Accessory use. A use customarily incidental to the principal use of land.
(2)
Alley. A platted service way providing a secondary means of access to abutting properties.
(3)
Automobile service station. Any area of land including structures thereon, used for the retail sale of gasoline or oil, automobile accessories, and incidental services including facilities for lubricating, hand cleaning and washing, or otherwise servicing automobiles, but excluding painting, major repair, or automatic washing.
(4)
Banner. A sign of paper, cloth, plastic or vinyl with no other substantial backing, not permanently affixed to any building or structure.
(5)
Banner, decorative. A sign of cloth, plastic or vinyl with no other substantial backing hung or projecting from a pole, provided said sign is not commercial in nature and does not advertise a specific product or item.
(6)
Bed and breakfast inn. Any owner-occupied building or portion thereof offering transient lodging accommodations and breakfast to not more than 12 guests where compensation is received.
(7)
Block. A piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highways or streets, other than alleys.
(8)
Boardinghouse. A building other than a hotel where, for compensation and/or by pre-arrangement, meals, or lodging and meals, are provided for three or more persons, but not exceeding 20 persons.
(9)
Buffer. A strip of land along a property line reserved for screening purposes from adjoining properties or public rights-of-way and planted with trees and/or shrubs in such a manner as to provide such screening.
(10)
Building. A structure, either temporary or permanent, having a roof impervious to weather and used or built for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind. This definition shall not include tents, cabanas, truck bodies, school buses and vehicles of any kind situated on private property and serving in any way the function of a building.
(11)
Building, accessory. A subordinate building, the use of which is incidental to that of the dominant use of the main building.
(12)
Building, alterations of. Any change in the supporting members of a building (such as bearing walls, beams, columns, and girders) except such change as may be required for its safety; any addition to a building; any change in use resulting from moving a building from one location to another.
(13)
Building, height of. The distance measured from the average elevation of the proposed finished grade at the front of the height level between the eaves and ridge for gable, hip, and gambrel roofs and to the deck line of a mansard roof.
(14)
Building, main. A building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which it is situated. In any residential district, any dwelling shall be deemed to be a main building on the lot on which it is situated.
(15)
Clinic. An establishment where patients, who are not lodged overnight, are admitted for examination and treatment.
(16)
Club. Building and facilities owned or operated by a corporation, association, person or persons for social, educational or recreational purposes, but not primarily for profit or to render a service to the general public.
(17)
Commission. The Buena Vista Planning and Zoning Commission.
(18)
Condominium. A form of individual ownership of a unit, combined with joint ownership of common areas of the building and grounds in a development. (Georgia Condominium Act, Georgia Code Annotated 85-16E.)
(19)
Conventional construction. A building constructed on the building site from basic materials delivered to the site. A conventional building is subject to local codes and ordinances.
(20)
City Council. The Mayor and City Council for the City of Buena Vista, Georgia.
(21)
Cut. A portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation; the depth below original ground surface to excavated surface. Also known as excavation.
(22)
Day-care center. Any place operated by a person, society, agency, corporation, or institution, or any other group wherein are received for pay seven or more children under 17 years of age for group care, without transfer of custody, for more than four hours and less than 24 hours per day.
(23)
Day-care home. Any place operated by any person who received for pay three to six children under 17 years of age for group care, without transfer of custody for more than four hours and less than 24 hours per day.
(24)
Department. The Department of Natural Resources.
(25)
Development. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavating or drilling operations.
(26)
Director. The Director of the Environmental Protection Division.
(27)
District. A section of the City of Buena Vista within which the zoning regulations are uniform.
(28)
Drainage structure. Any roadway drainage structure, as defined below, and any piping or ditching for stormwater management purposes.
(29)
Dwelling. Any building or portion thereof which is designed for or used for residential purposes.
(30)
Dwelling, multifamily. A building designed for or occupied exclusively by three or more families living independently of each other.
(31)
Dwelling, single-family. A building designed for or occupied exclusively by one family.
(32)
Dwelling, two-family (duplex). A building designed for or occupied exclusively by two families living independently of each other.
(33)
Easement. A grant by a property owner for the use of land for a specific purpose or purposes by the general public, or a corporation or a certain person or persons.
(34)
Erosion. The process by which land surface is worn away by the action of wind, water, ice or gravity.
(35)
Existing grade. The vertical location of the existing ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
(36)
Fallout shelter. A structure or portion of a structure intended to provide protection to human life during periods of danger to human life from nuclear fallout, air raids, storms or other emergencies.
(37)
Family. One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit, provided that, unless all members are related by blood, marriage or adoption, no such families shall contain over three persons. In addition, a related family may have up to two unrelated individuals living with them. The term "family" does not include any organization or institutional group.
(38)
Fence. A structure or partition erected for the purpose of enclosing a piece of land, or to divide a piece of land into distinct portions, or to separate two contiguous estates.
(39)
Filling. The placement of any soil or other solid material either organic or inorganic on a natural ground surface or an excavation.
(40)
Finished grade. The final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting or filling and conforming to the proposed design.
(41)
Floor area. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the total number of floors of a building measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the centerline of walls separating two buildings, but not including the attic space providing headroom of less than seven feet; unusable basement or cellar space not used for retailing; uncovered steps or fire escape; open porches; accessory water or cooling towers; accessory off-street parking spaces; and accessory off-street loading berths.
(42)
Frontage lot. The distance for which the front boundary line of the lot and the street line are coincident.
(43)
Frontage street. All the property on the side of a street between two intersecting streets (crossing or terminating), or if the street is dead-ended, then all the property abutting on one side between an intersection street and the dead end of the street.
(44)
Garage, parking. A building or portion thereof designed or used for storage of motor-driven vehicles, and at which motor fuels and oils may be sold, and, in connection with, may be performed general automotive servicing as distinguished from automotive repair.
(45)
Garage, private. An accessory building or a portion of a main building used for the parking or storage of automobiles of the occupants of the main building. A carport would be considered as a private garage.
(46)
Garage, repair. A building or portion thereof, other than a private or parking garage, designed or used for the storage, servicing, repairing, equipping or hiring of motor-driven vehicles.
(47)
Halfway house (drug rehabilitation center). A licensed home for inmates on release from more restrictive custodial confinement or initially placed in lieu of such more restrictive custodial confinement, wherein supervision, rehabilitation, and counseling are provided to mainstream residents back into society, enabling them to live independently. Such placement is pursuant to the authority of the State Department of Corrections.
(48)
Home occupation. An occupation for gain or support conducted only by members of a family residing on the premises and entirely within the main dwelling.
(49)
Hotel. A building in which lodging or board are provided for more than 20 persons and offered to the public for compensation and in which ingress and egress to and from each sleeping room is generally made through the interior of the building.
(50)
Institution. A nonprofit corporation or a nonprofit establishment.
(51)
Junkyard. A lot, land or structure, or part thereof, used primarily for the collecting, storage and sale of wastepaper, rags, scrap metal or discarded materials; or for the collecting, dismantling, storage and salvaging of machinery or vehicles not in running condition, or for the sale of parts thereof.
(52)
Kennels. Any location where raising, grooming, caring for or boarding of dogs, cats, or other small animals for commercial purposes is carried on.
(53)
Kindergarten. A school for pre-elementary school children ranging in age from four through six years; which operates for less than four hours per day.
(54)
Laundromat. A business that provides home-type washing, drying and/or ironing machines for hire.
(55)
Laundry and dry cleaning, pick up. A business that provides only for the convenience of taking and picking up of laundry, such as establishments not having any equipment for processing of the laundry.
(56)
Loading space. A space within the main building or on the same lot, providing for the standing, loading or unloading of trucks, and other carriers.
(57)
Lot. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land which satisfies the dimensional requirements for the district within which it is located, has frontage along a street, and is intended as a unit for transfer of ownership or for building development.
(58)
Lot of record. A lot or parcel of land whose existence and location and dimensions have been recorded in the Office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Marion County.
(59)
Lot, corner. A lot having frontage of two or more streets at their intersection.
(60)
Lot, double frontage. A lot having a frontage of two streets and distinguished from a corner lot.
(61)
Lot, interior. A lot other than a corner lot.
(62)
Lowest floor. The floor, including basement, in a building, which is the lowest elevation above mean sea level.
(63)
Manufactured home. A dwelling defined in the state code as a manufactured home, subject to the standards and regulations of the Department of Housing and Urban Development adopted June 15, 1976, and as amended.
(64)
Manufactured home park. Any tract of land that is approved by the Buena Vista Planning and Zoning Commission for the renting of spaces for sleeping purposes or where spaces are set aside and offered for rent or use by manufactured homes for living or sleeping purposes, including any land, building, structure, or facility used by occupants of mobile homes on such premises.
(65)
Motel. A building or group of buildings containing sleeping accommodations for rental primarily to automobile transients and in which ingress and egress to and from each sleeping room is generally to the outside of the building.
(66)
Nonconforming use. A use of land existing at the time of the enactment of this ordinance, or at the time of a zoning amendment and which does not conform with the regulations of the use district in which it is located.
(67)
Nursing home (rest home, convalescent). An establishment which provides full-time convalescent or chronic care or both for three or more individuals who are not related by blood or marriage to the operator and who, by reason of chronic illness or infirmity, are unable to care for themselves. No care for the acutely ill [is] provided in such a home; a hospital or sanitarium shall not be construed to be included in this definition.
(68)
Open space. A yard area which is not used for or occupied by a driveway, off-street parking, loading space, drying yard or refuse storage space.
(69)
Personal care home. A building, group of buildings, facility, or place in which are provided two or more beds and other facilities and services, including room, meals, and personal care, for non-family ambulatory adults. For the purposes of these regulations, personal care homes shall be classified as family personal care homes.
(70)
Personal care homes, congregate. A personal care home, which offers care to 16 or more persons.
(71)
Personal care homes, family. A personal care home in a family-type residence, non-institutional in character, which offers care to two through six persons.
(72)
Personal care homes, group. A personal care home in a residence or other type building or buildings, non-institutional in character, which offers care to seven through 15 persons.
(73)
Plat. A map, plan or layout of a county, city, town, section or subdivision indicating the location and boundaries of properties.
(74)
Playschool. A school for pre-kindergarten children ranging in age from three to four years and which operates for less than four hours a day.
(75)
Principal use. The primary purpose for which land or a building is used.
(76)
Professional. When used in connection with "use" and "occupancy," a use or occupancy by persons generally engaged in rendering personal, executive, sales, or administrative services of activities, including accountants, architects, professional engineers and land surveyors, doctors, lawyers, insurance offices, real estate offices, religious organizations, stockbrokers and administrative agencies considered professional in character. The term, however, does not include repairs or sales of tangible personal property stored or located within the structure nor any use which would create loud noise or noxious odors.
(77)
Recreational vehicle. Any type of portable structure without a permanent foundation, which can be towed, hauled or driven and designed for temporary living accommodations for recreational, camping, and travel use, including, but not limited to, travel trailers, truck campers (on or off the truck), camping trailers and self-propelled motor homes.
(78)
Recreational vehicle park. A parcel of land which is used solely for the rental or lease of lots for transient campers, trailers, motor homes, or temporary parking of any other recreational vehicle that is not a manufactured home.
(79)
Regulatory flood elevation. For purposes of this ordinance, the crest elevation in relation to mean sea level expected to be reached by the one percent flood (base flood elevation) plus two feet.
(80)
Restaurant, drive-in. An eating and/or drinking establishment which caters to motor-driven vehicle business where the person being served consumes his food and/or drink while sitting in a motor-driven vehicle, as opposed to a restaurant serving exclusively inside an enclosed building.
(81)
Right-of-way. Access over or across particularly described property for a specific purpose or purposes.
(82)
Right-of-way line. The dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a continuous street, railroad, or other public utility right-of-way.
(83)
Roadway drainage structure. Bridges, culverts and ditches associated with roadway construction, which allow stream flows to move freely under a stream crossing or to convey stormwater runoff from a roadway to a stream.
(84)
Roominghouse. A building other than a hotel where lodging for three but not more than 20 persons is provided with no meals served.
(85)
Shopping center. A group of commercial establishments, planned, and developed as a unit, with common off-street parking provided on the property.
(86)
Sign. Any words, lettering, parts of letters, figures, numerals, phrases, sentences, emblems, devices, designs, trade names or marks, or combinations thereof, by which anything is made known, such as the designation of an individual, a firm, an association, a profession, a business, a commodity, or product which are visible from any public way and used as an outdoor display.
(87)
Sign area. The smallest square, rectangle, triangle, circle, or combination thereof encompassing the entire advertising area excluding architectural trim and structural supports.
(88)
Sign, outdoor advertising. A structural poster panel or painted sign, either freestanding or attached to a building, for the purpose of conveying information, knowledge, or ideas to the public about a subject unrelated to the premises upon which it is located.
(89)
Sign, permanent. Any sign attached securely to a building, roof, wall or a canopy or the ground by means of concrete, bolts, metal braces, treated wood or cedar and continuing in the same state or without essential change to the sign structure.
(90)
Sign, portable. Any sign which is mounted or designed for mounting on wheels, or which is mounted or designed for mounting on a code vehicle, and the primary purpose of which is advertising.
(91)
Sign structure. A structure composed of a single pole or multiple poles which is located on the ground on top of another structure and which supports no more than two signs.
(92)
Sign structure facing. The surface of the sign upon, against, or through which the message of the sign is exhibited, not including architectural trim and structural support.
(93)
Sign, temporary. Any sign that is not a permanent or portable sign.
(94)
Site plan. Drawing which puts forth the pattern in these dimensions of the activity, circulation and visual form to take place on a particular piece of land.
(95)
Slope. Degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, usually expressed in percent or degree.
(96)
Story. That portion of a building, other than a cellar, included between the surface of the floor and the ceiling above it.
(97)
Street. A public or private thoroughfare, which affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
(98)
Street, centerline. The centerline of a street is the line surveyed and monumented by the governing body as such or, if a centerline has not been surveyed and monumented, it shall be that line running midway between the outside curbs or ditches of the streets.
(99)
Street, half. A street, which does not meet the minimum right-of-way widths as set forth in this ordinance.
(100)
Street line. The legal line between street right-of-way and abutting property.
(101)
Street, major. A street designated as a major street on the "Zoning Districts Map" of the City of Buena Vista, Georgia.
(102)
Street, secondary. A street designated as a secondary street on the "Zoning Districts Map" of the City of Buena Vista, Georgia.
(103)
Structure. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a location on the ground, or attached to something having a location on the ground.
(104)
Subdivider. Any person who undertakes the subdivision of land as herein defined.
(105)
Subdivision. Any division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, legacy, or building development. This includes any division of land involving a new street or a change in existing streets, and includes re-subdivision and, where appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided; provided, however, that the following are not included in this definition: (a) The combination or recombination or portions of previously platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are equal to the standards of the municipality.
(106)
Substantial improvement. For a structure built prior to the enactment of this ordinance, any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure either: (1) before the improvement or repair is started, or (2) if the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred. For the purpose of this definition, substantial improvement is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however, include any projects for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications, which are solely necessary.
(107)
Townhouse. A single-family dwelling unit which is erected in a row as part of a single building, on adjoining lots, each being separated from the adjoining unit or units by an approved fire-resistant party wall or walls extending from the basement or cellar floor to the roof along the dividing lot line.
(108)
Trailer home, mobile home, orhouse trailer. See "Manufactured home."
(109)
Trailer park. See "Manufactured home park."
(110)
Wall. An erection of stone, brick, or other material raised to some height and intended for purposes of security or enclosure.
(111)
Yard. A space on the same lot with a main building, such space being open, unoccupied and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky except where encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly permitted.
(112)
Yard, front. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with the main building, extending the full width of the lot and situated between the right-of-way line and the front line of the building projected to the side lines of the lot. The depth of the front yard shall be measured between the front line of the building and the right-of-way line. Covered porches, whether enclosed or unenclosed, shall be considered as part of the main building and shall not project into a required front yard. On corner lots, the front yard shall be considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least dimension.
(113)
Yard, rear. An open space on the same lot with the main building, such space being unoccupied except possibly by an accessory building and extending the full width of the lot and situated between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the main building projected to the side lines of the lot. On all corner lots, the rear yard shall be at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
(114)
Yard, side. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a main building, situated between the side line of the building and the adjacent side line of the lot extending from the rear line of the front yard to the front line of the rear yard. If no front yard is required, the front boundary of the side yard shall be the front line of the lot and if no rear yard is required, the rear boundary of the side yard shall be considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its greatest dimension.
ARTICLE IV. - ZONING ADMINISTRATION

Sec. A-40. - Duties and powers of the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall be the Building Inspector of the City of Buena Vista, Georgia, or any public official of the said City designated by the Mayor and City Council of the said City if there is no Building Inspector whose duties and powers are as follows:
40.1.
The enforcement of the provisions of this ordinance shall be the responsibility of the Zoning Enforcement Officer. The Zoning Enforcement Officer may cause any building, structure, place, or premises to be inspected and examined and to order the remedying of any condition found to exist in violation of any provision of this ordinance. Upon failure of any person, firm or corporation to immediately remedy any such violation, the Zoning Enforcement Officer may initiate proceedings pursuant to article XVIII of this ordinance. In the case of repeated violations of this resolution by any person, firm, or corporation, the Zoning Enforcement Officer may initiate such proceedings without first providing such person, firm or corporation an opportunity to remedy the situation.
40.2.
The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall not have authority to take final action on applications or matters involving variances, nonconforming uses, or other exceptions, which this ordinance has reserved for public hearings before the Commission and the City Council.
40.3.
The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall keep records of all and any permits, certificates of occupancy issued, and all submitted subdivision plats, with notations of all special conditions involved. He shall file and safely keep copies of all sketches and plans submitted, and the same shall form a part of the records of his office and shall be made as a public record.
Sec. A-41. - Permits and certificates.
Permits and certificates shall be issued in accordance with the following provisions:
41.1.
Building permit. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall issue a building permit, issued under the building code adopted by the City Council, for any permitted use of land or structural alteration provided such proposed use of land or structure, or structural alteration is in conformance with the provisions of this ordinance.
41.1.1.
An application shall be accomplished by two copies of a dimensional sketch or a to-scale plan signed by the owner, or his authorized agent, to include, as a minimum, the following: lot dimensions with property line monuments located thereon; shape, size, height, and location of the buildings proposed to be erected, demolished, altered, or moved, and of any building already on the lot; yard dimensions and the use of structures, including the number of dwelling units within each structure where appropriate; easements (private and public); watercourses; fences; street names and street right-of-way lines; and such other information regarding abutting property as directly affects the application. However, the Building Inspector may waive the requirements of sketches and plans if, in his judgment, it is justified for any reason.
41.1.2.
Each permit shall be conspicuously posted and displayed on the premises described in the permit during the period of construction or reconstruction.
41.1.3.
If the proposed excavation, filling, construction, or movement set forth in said sketch or plan are in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance, and other appropriate codes and ordinances of the City Council then in effect, the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall sign and return one copy of the sketch plan to the applicant and shall issue a building permit. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall retain one copy of the building permit and one copy of the sketch or plan for his records.
41.1.4.
If the sketch or plan submitted describes work which does not conform to the requirements of this ordinance, the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall not issue a building permit but shall return one copy of the sketch or plan to the applicant along with a signed refusal in writing. Such refusal shall state the reasons for refusal and shall cite the portions of this ordinance with which the submitted sketch plan does not comply. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall retain one copy of the sketch plan and two copies of the refusal.
41.1.5.
Any building permit shall automatically expire six months from the date of issuance if the person, firm, or corporation to which the certificate or permit was issued has not clearly demonstrated that the permit is being exercised for the purpose for which it was issued, or if the work so authorized is suspended or discontinued for a period of six months.
41.2.
Certificate of occupancy. Certificates of occupancy shall be issued by the Zoning Enforcement Officer in accordance with the following provisions:
41.2.1.
Certificate of occupancy required. A certificate of occupancy shall be required in advance of occupancy or use of:
(1)
A building hereafter erected;
(2)
A building hereafter altered so as to affect height, or side, front or rear yards;
(3)
A change of type of occupancy or use of any building on premises.
41.2.2.
Issuance of certificate of occupancy. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall sign and issue a certificate of occupancy if the proposed use of land or building, as stated on the application for such certificate and signed thereto by the owner or his appointed agent, is found to conform to the applicable provisions of this ordinance and the building, as finally constructed, generally complies with the sketch or plan submitted for the building permit.
41.2.3.
Denial of certificate of occupancy. A certificate of occupancy shall not be issued unless the proposed use of a building or land conforms to the applicable provisions of this ordinance, or unless the building, as finally constructed, complies with the sketch plan upon which the building permit was issued.
Sec. A-42. - Establishment of Planning and Zoning Commission.
42.1.
Membership.
42.1.1.
The Commission shall consist of five members, who shall be residents of the City of Buena Vista, Georgia appointed by the City Council.
42.1.2.
The terms of the members shall be for four years except in the appointment of the first Commission under the terms of this article, three shall be appointed for a term of two years and the remaining two members shall be appointed for a term of four years.
42.1.3.
Any vacancy in membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by the Mayor and City Council member who appointed the vacating member. The Mayor and City Council shall have the authority to remove any member who fails to attend meetings of the Commission, becomes ill or incapacitated to the extent that he or she cannot perform the duties of a member of that Commission or for other good cause.
42.1.4.
All members shall serve without compensation but will be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their official duties as is approved by the City Council. No reimbursable expenses will be incurred by the Commission or any member thereof without prior approval of the City Council.
42.2.
Organization, rules, staff, finances.
42.2.1.
The Commission shall elect its chairman from among its members. The term of the chairman shall be one year with eligibility for reelection.
42.2.2.
The Commission shall select a secretary from among its members who shall serve a term of one year with eligibility for reelection.
42.2.3.
The Commission shall determine its time of meeting and adopt policies and procedures which govern its meetings, but such policies and procedures must be approved by the City Council for their implementation. Printed copies of such policies and procedures shall be available to the general public.
42.2.4.
All meetings of the Commission shall be conducted at the City Hall or such other place as is made available to the Commission by the City Council. All meetings of the Commission at which official action is taken shall be open to the public and all records of the Commission shall be a public record.
42.2.5.
The Commission may appoint such employees and staff as it may deem necessary for its work and may contract with state planning agencies and city planners and other consultants for such services as it may require, but only with prior approval of the City Council. Any expenditures for such employees and staff and contracts must also have prior approval of the City Council.
42.2.6.
The Commission shall prepare minutes of all its meetings and shall furnish the City Council with a copy of those minutes each month.
Sec. A-43. - Duties and powers of the Commission.
It shall be the function and duty of the Buena Vista Planning and Zoning Commission to make such careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of existing conditions and probable future developments and to prepare such plans for physical, social, and economic growth as will best promote public health, safety, morals, convenience, prosperity, or the general welfare as well as efficiency and economy in the development of its political jurisdiction. In particular, the Commission shall have the power and may do the following:
43.1.
Prepare a master plan or parts thereof for the development of its political jurisdiction.
43.2.
Prepare and recommend for adoption to the Mayor and City Council a zoning ordinance or resolution.
43.3.
Prepare and recommend for adoption to the Mayor and City Council regulations for the subdivision of land within its political jurisdiction, and to administer the regulations that may be adopted.
43.4.
Prepare and recommend for adoption to the Mayor and City Council a plat or plats of an official map showing the exact location of the boundary lines of existing, proposed, extended, widened or narrowed streets, public open spaces or public building sites, together with regulations to control the erection of buildings or other structures within such lines, within its political jurisdiction or a specified portion thereof.
43.5.
To hear and make recommendations to the City Council in regard to appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Zoning Enforcement Officer, or other administrative official, in the enforcement of this ordinance.
43.6.
To make recommendations to the City Council regarding special exceptions as described in section A-172.
43.7.
To make recommendations to the City Council upon appeal in specific cases such variances from the terms of this ordinance as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this ordinance will in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of this ordinance shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. In determining whether or not a variance should be granted, the Commission shall be guided by the standards set forth in section A-45.
43.8.
The powers of this ordinance shall be limited to the incorporated areas of the City of Buena Vista, GA.
43.9.
The Buena Vista Planning and Zoning Commission may make, publish, and distribute maps, plans and reports and recommendations relating to the plan and development to the City of Buena Vista, GA to public officials and agencies, public utility companies, civic, education, professional and other organizations and citizens. It may recommend to the executive or legislative officials of the City of Buena Vista, GA programs for public improvements and the financing thereof. All public officials may, upon request, furnish, to the Commission, within a reasonable time, such available information, as it requires for its work.
Sec. A-44. - Procedure for requesting a hearing before the Commission.
Requests for a hearing before the Commission for a zoning change review or a variance shall observe the following procedures:
44.1.
An application must be submitted in writing to the Zoning Enforcement Officer from whom the appeal is taken and to the Commission a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof.
44.2.
An application shall be accompanied by an acceptable site plan with such reasonable information shown thereon as may be required by these zoning laws. Such site plan shall include, as a minimum, the following: lot dimensions and the use of structures; easements (private and public); watercourses, and if existing and proposed; fences; street names and street right-of-way lines; and such other information regarding abutting property as directly affects the application. Any application filed containing the minimum requirements set forth above shall be deemed adequate.
44.3.
The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall cause to have posted in a conspicuous place on the property in question one or more signs, each of which shall not be less than 12 square feet in area, shall contain information as to the proposed change and the date and the time of the public hearing, and the cost of each shall be paid by the applicant prior to the public hearing.
44.4.
The Commission shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of zoning applications, variances or other matters referred to said Commission, give at least 15 days' public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and make a recommendation to the City Council to approve or deny the same within 45 days from the date of such public hearing.
44.5.
In exercising the powers granted the Commission in section A-43 of this ordinance, the said Commission may make a recommendation to the City Council, in conformity with the provisions of the ordinance, to reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or may modify the order, requirements, decisions or determination of the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
44.6.
Action for a hearing before the Commission shall not be initiated on the same parcel of land more often than once every six months without specific approval of the Commission.
44.7.
Any petition for a hearing before the Commission may be withdrawn prior to action thereon by said Commission at the discretion of the person, firm or corporation initiating such a request upon written notice to the secretary of said Commission.
44.8.
The power of the Commission is limited to making a recommendation to the City Council as to what the City Council shall rule.
Sec. A-45. - Standards for variances.
45.1.
The City Council is hereby authorized to grant variances from the strict application of this resolution upon proof by a preponderance of the evidence that:
45.1.1.
By reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, shape, topographical conditions, or other extraordinary situations or conditions peculiar to a specific parcel of property, the strict application of these regulations would result in peculiar or unusual, practical, difficulties to or exceptional or undue hardship upon the owner of such property;
45.1.2.
Such variance is the minimum reasonably necessary to overcome the aforesaid exceptional conditions;
45.1.3.
Such variance can be granted without substantial impairment to the intent, purpose, and integrity of this ordinance and/or the comprehensive plan or other master plan adopted for the property;
45.1.4.
Such variance will not be detrimental to the use and enjoyment of adjoining or neighboring properties.
These provisions, however, shall not permit the City Council to grant any variance to any setback or yard requirements for property zoned for commercial or industrial purposes when such property abuts or immediately adjoins any property zoned for residential purposes, unless such residential property is proposed for commercial or industrial use on the land development plan.
45.2.
Variances cannot be granted for use of land or structures not permitted or prohibited, or to increase the density of development for a tract beyond that permitted by the zoning district.
45.3.
If the hardship invoking the provisions of this section was the result of the applicant's intentional disregard or willful failure to comply with the terms of this ordinance, the City Council may refuse to grant a variance.
45.4.
A variance cannot be granted to cure a violation of the ordinance unless and until the City Council finds as a fact that:
45.4.1.
The violation cannot be reasonably remedied by any other means;
45.4.2.
The act creating the violation was not deliberate, intentional, or the result of gross negligence;
45.4.3.
Such variance can be granted without substantial impairment to the intent and purpose of this ordinance and will not be detrimental to the use and enjoyment of adjoining or neighboring properties; and
45.4.4.
The violator has not previously requested and been granted a variance under the provisions of this subsection, except that this provision shall not apply if the violator can establish that such previous violation was the result of an accident or other excusable causes.
ARTICLE V. - ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS

[Sec. A-50. - Purpose.]
This article is established to provide districts for the various uses of land within the City and to provide for the interpretation of district boundaries on the zoning map.
Sec. A-51. - Zoning districts.
For the purposes of this ordinance, the City of Buena Vista, Georgia, is divided into ten districts designated as follows:
EXPAND
A-1 Agricultural District
R-1 Single-Family Residential District
R-2 Two-Family Residential District
R-3 Multifamily Residential District
R-MH Manufactured Residential District
C-1 Commercial Highway District
C-2 General Commercial District
C-3 Central Business District
I-1 Light Industrial District
I-2 Heavy Industrial District
  Sec. A-52. - Zoning map.
The boundaries of these districts are hereby established as shown on the map entitled "Zoning Districts Map - Buena Vista, Georgia," dated ________ and certified by the City Clerk. Said map is hereby made part of this ordinance; it shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk and available for public inspection.
Sec. A-53. - Map amendment.
If, in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance, changes are made in district boundaries portrayed on the zoning map, such changes shall be made on the official zoning map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the City Council.
Sec. A-54. - Interpretation of district boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the aforesaid districts shown on the zoning map, the following rules apply:
54.1.
Where district boundaries are depicted as approximately following the centerline of streets or highways, centerlines of streams or drainageways, street lines, or highway right-of-way lines, such centerlines, street lines, or highway right-of-way lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
54.2.
Where district boundaries are so depicted that they approximately follow the lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be said boundaries.
54.3.
Where district boundaries are so depicted that they are approximately parallel to the centerlines of streets, highways, or railroads, or rights-of-way of same, such district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance there from as indicated on the zoning map. If no distance is given, such dimension shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on said zoning map.
54.4.
Where a district boundary line as appearing on the zoning map divided a lot in single ownership at the time of enactment of this ordinance, the district requirements for the least restricted portion of such lot shall be deemed to apply to the whole therefore provided that such extension shall not include any part of such a lot more than 35 feet beyond the district boundary line.
54.5.
In case the exact location of a boundary cannot be determined by the foregoing methods, the City Council shall, upon application, determine the location of the boundary.
ARTICLE VI. - APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS

[Sec. A-60. - Purpose.]
This article is established to provide the conditions that must be met by anyone under the jurisdiction of this ordinance, except as hereinafter provided.
Sec. A-61. - Use.
No building or structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied and no building or structure or part thereof shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or altered except in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located.
Sec. A-62. - Height and density.
No building or structure shall hereafter be erected, constructed, reconstructed, or altered to:
(a)
Exceed the height limits;
(b)
House a greater number of families or occupy a smaller lot area per family; or
(c)
Have narrower or smaller front, side, or rear yards than are herein required.
Sec. A-63. - Lot size and occupancy.
No lot, even though it may consist of one or more adjacent lots in the same ownership at the time of passage of this ordinance, shall be reduced in size so that lot width or size of yards or lot area per family or any other requirement of this ordinance is not maintained. This section shall not apply when a portion of a lot is acquired for public use.
Sec. A-64. - Yards and other spaces.
No part of a yard or other open space of the off-street parking or loading space required adjacent to any building for the purpose of complying with the provisions of the ordinance shall be included as a part of the yard or off-street parking or loading space required for another building.
Sec. A-65. - One principal building on a lot.
Only one principal building and its customary accessory buildings may hereafter be erected on any one lot.
Sec. A-66. - Public street frontage.
No building shall be erected on a lot that does not abut for at least 25 feet on a public street.
ARTICLE VII. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

[Sec. A-70. - Purpose.]
This article is established to regulate nonconforming uses, off-street parking, and off-street loading and unloading; to strive for the ultimate termination of nonconforming uses, and to provide suitable off-street parking, loading and unloading space for each type [of use].
Sec. A-71. - Nonconforming building and uses.
It is the intent of this ordinance to recognize that elimination of existing buildings and structures or uses that are not in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance is as much a subject of health, safety and general welfare as is the prevention of the establishment of new uses that would violate the provisions of this ordinance. It is also the intent of this ordinance to administer the elimination of nonconforming uses, buildings, and structures as to avoid any unreasonable invasion of established private property rights.
Therefore, any structure or use of land existing at the time of the enactment of this ordinance, and amendment of this ordinance, and amendments thereto, but not in [conformity] with its use regulations and provisions, may be continued subject to the [following] provisions and exceptions:
71.1.
Unsafe structures. Any structure or portion thereof declared unsafe by an authority may be restored to a safe condition, provided the requirements in this section are met.
71.2.
Alterations. Any change in a nonconforming building, use, or building site or yard area is subject to the following:
71.2.1.
No nonconforming building can be structurally altered, except repairs on or installation of plumbing fixtures required by law; the changing of interior partitions; and interior remodeling.
71.2.2.
No nonconforming building or lands, except those residential dwellings needing repairs on or installation of plumbing fixtures as required by law, can be substantially added to, moved, or extended in any manner unless such building or land is changed so as to conform with the provisions of this ordinance.
71.2.3.
Whenever an existing residential dwelling must require repairs on or installation of plumbing fixtures which will force the location of the future addition of the dwelling nearer the lot line than the requirements set forth in this ordinance, the addition to the dwelling shall be allowed to extend to the existing building line but no nearer the property line than any existing portion of the dwelling.
71.3.
Extension. A nonconforming use of land shall be restricted to the lot occupied by such use as of the effective date of this ordinance. A nonconforming use of a building shall not be extended to include either additional building or land after the effective date of this ordinance.
71.4.
Restoration of damaged buildings. A nonconforming building, structure, or improvement which is hereafter damaged or destroyed to an extent exceeding 50 percent of the reasonable estimated replacement cost of the structure, building or improvement may not be reconstructed or restored to the same nonconforming use except upon approval of the City Council.
71.5.
Change in use. A nonconforming use, which is changed to a conforming use, shall not be permitted to revert to the original or a less restrictive use.
71.6.
Discontinuance. A nonconforming use which became such after the adoption of this ordinance and which has been discontinued for a continuous period of one year shall not be re-established and any future use shall be in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance.
Sec. A-72. - Off-street automobile parking.
Off-street automobile parking spaces shall be provided on every lot on which any of the following uses are hereafter established. The number of automobile parking spaces provided shall be at least as great as the number specified below for the various uses:
72.1.
Automobile sales and repair garages. One space for each regular employee plus one space for each 250 square feet of floor area used for repair work.
72.2.
Churches. One space for each three seats in the principal auditorium.
72.3.
Gasoline filling stations. Three spaces for each grease rack or similar facility plus one space for each gas pump attendant.
72.4.
Hospitals and nursing homes or similar institutions. One space for each three beds plus one space for each staff or visiting doctor and one space for each three employees.
72.5.
Hotels. One space for each two guest bedrooms plus one space for each four employees.
72.6.
Industrial use. One space for each two employees on a single shift plus one space for each company vehicle operating from the premises.
72.7.
Lodges and clubs. One space for each five members.
72.8.
Office building. One space for each 300 square feet of floor space.
72.9.
Places of amusement or assembly without fixed seats. One space for each 200 square feet of floor space devoted to patron use.
72.10.
Places of public assembly. One space for each four seats in the principal assembly room.
72.11.
Residential. One space for each dwelling unit.
72.12.
Restaurants. One space for each 75 square feet of floor area devoted to patron use, plus one space for each four employees.
72.13.
Retail business. One space for each 250 square feet of sales space, except in the C-1 General Commercial District.
72.14.
Roominghouses and boardinghouses. One space for each two bedrooms.
72.15.
Schools. One space for each two faculty and staff employees; for each three other employees; and for each five high school students.
72.16.
Tourist courts and motels. One space for each accommodation.
72.17.
Trailer or mobile home parks. One space for each trailer space.
72.18.
Wholesale business. One space for each two employees.
Each space shall be at least 300 square feet in area and shall have vehicular access to a public street. Turning space shall be provided (except for single-family residences) so that no vehicle will be required to back into the street.
Sec. A-73. - Location of parking space on other property.
If the required automobile parking spaces cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot on which the principal use is conducted, such spaces may be provided on other off-street property provided such property lies within 400 feet of the main entrance to each principal use. Such automobile parking space shall be associated with the principal use and shall not thereafter be reduced or encroached upon in any manner.
Sec. A-74. - Extension of parking spaces into a residential district.
Required parking space may extend up to 120 feet into a residential zoning district, provided that:
(a)
The parking space adjoins a commercial or industrial district;
(b)
Has its only access to or fronts upon the same street as the property in the commercial or industrial district for which it provides required parking space; and
(c)
Is visually separated from abutting properties in the adjoining residential district by a ten-foot-wide evergreen planted buffer strip.
Sec. A-75. - Site requirements.
All off-street parking shall be laid out, constructed, and maintained in accordance with the following requirements:
75.5.1.
All such parking areas shall be hard surfaced with concrete or plant bituminous material and shall be maintained in dust-proof condition and that a good stand of grass be maintained on the remainder of the lot.
75.5.2.
Lighting facilities shall be so arranged that light is reflected away from adjacent properties.
75.5.3.
The parking lot shall be adequately drained.
75.5.4.
Along the lot lines of the parking area which abut residential districts, a dense planting of trees and shrubs shall be established on a strip of land not less than eight feet in width adjacent to the districts, and provided that such planting be not less than six feet in height and a substantial bumper rail of wood, metal or concrete shall be installed on the inside of the planting strip.
75.5.5.
A raised curb of at least six inches shall be erected along all of the property lines, except for driveway openings, and those lot lines abutting residential districts where the requirements in section 75.5.4 shall prevail.
75.5.6.
No sign, whether permanent or temporary, shall be placed within the public right-of-way. Signs and planting strips shall be arranged so that they do not obstruct visibility for drivers or pedestrians.
Sec. A-76. - Off-street loading and unloading space.
On every lot on which a business, trade or industry is hereafter established, space with access to a public street or alley shall be provided as indicated below for loading and unloading of vehicles off the public right-of-way.
Minimum loading and unloading space required:
76.1.
Retail business. One space of 300 square feet for each 3,000 square feet of floor area or fraction thereof.
76.2.
Wholesale and industry. One space of 500 square feet for each 10,000 square feet of floor area or fraction thereof.
76.3.
Bus and truck terminals. Sufficient space to accommodate the maximum number of buses or trucks to be stored or to be loaded or unloaded at the terminal at any one time.
Sec. A-77. - Storage and parking of trailers, recreational vehicles and commercial vehicles.
Commercial vehicles, recreational vehicles, and trailers of all types, including boat, camping and hauling, shall not be parked or stored on any lot occupied by a dwelling or any lot in any residential district except in accordance with the following requirements:
77.1.
No more than one commercial vehicle per dwelling shall be permitted; and in no case shall a commercial vehicle used for hauling explosives, gasoline or liquefied petroleum products be permitted.
77.2.
Hauling trailers or boat trailers shall be permitted if not parked or stored in the front yard, or a side yard, which abuts a street.
77.3.
Recreational vehicles shall be permitted if not parked or stored in the front yard, except as permitted in section 77.4. For the purpose of this section, the front yard shall be defined as the portion of the lot which faces the main entrance to the dwelling located thereon. This shall apply to both interior and corner lots.
77.4.
For a period not to exceed seven days a single recreational vehicle shall be permitted to be parked anywhere on a residential lot. During this seven-day period the recreational vehicle is allowed to be temporarily occupied.
Sec. A-78. - Landscaping requirement, screening and lighting.
78.1.
Landscaping requirements. The intent of this section shall be to promote the public health, safety and general welfare by providing for installation and maintenance of certain landscaped areas; to protect the character and stability of residential, business, institutional and industrial areas and to conserve the value of land and building or surrounding properties and neighborhoods.
78.1.1.
Definitions. As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning set opposite them for any and all purposes:
(1)
Encroachment. Encroachment is defined as any protrusion of a vehicle outside of a parking space, display area or accessway into a landscaped area.
(2)
Landscaping. Landscaping shall consist of any of the following or a combination thereof: material such as, but not limited to, grass, ground covers, shrubs, vines, hedges, trees or palms; and non-living durable material commonly used in landscaping, such as, but not limited to, rocks, pebbles, sand, walls or fences, but excluding paving.
(3)
Trees. Self-supporting woody plants of species which normally grow to an overall height of a minimum of 15 feet.
(4)
Shrubs and hedges. A self-supporting, non-deciduous species of plants and normally grown in the City of Buena Vista.
(5)
Vines. Vines are plants, which normally require support to reach mature form.
78.1.2.
Landscaping of off-street parking and other vehicular use areas shall conform to the minimum requirements hereinafter provided:
(1)
Installation. The owner, tenant and/or agent, if any, shall be jointly and severally responsible for installing landscaping according to accepted commercial planting procedures with quality plants and materials. All elements of landscaping shall be installed so as to meet all other applicable ordinances and code requirements of the City of Buena Vista.
(2)
Maintenance. The owner, tenant and/or agent, if any, shall be jointly and severally responsible for maintaining such landscaping in a healthy, neat and orderly condition. The owner shall provide each landscaped area with a readily available water supply.
(3)
Plant materials.
(a)
Plant materials used in conformance with provisions of this section shall equal or exceed existing or future standards as set for the State of Georgia. Grass sod shall be clean and reasonably free of weeds and noxious pests or diseases.
(b)
Trees shall be species of an average mature spread or crown greater than 15 feet and trunk(s), which can be maintained in a clean condition with over seven feet of clear wood. Trees having an average mature spread or crown less than 15 feet may be substituted by grouping the same so as to create the minimum 15-foot crown spread.
(c)
Shrubs and hedges. Shrubs shall be of good quality and in keeping with the architecture and landscaping. Hedges shall be of non-deciduous species and planted and maintained so as to form a continuous, unbroken, solid, visual screening within a maximum of two years after planting.
(d)
Vines. Vines shall be used in conjunction with fences, screens or walls to meet physical barrier requirements as specified.
(e)
Ground covers. Ground covers used in lieu of grass shall be placed in such a manner as to present a finished appearance.
(f)
Lawn grass. Grass shall be species normally grown as permanent lawn in the City of Buena Vista. Grass areas may be sodded, plugged, sprigged or seeded except that solid sod shall be used in swales or other areas subject to erosion and providing that in areas where other than solid sod is used, nurse grass seed shall be sown for early coverage with protection until coverage is otherwise achieved.
(4)
Landscaping the interior of off-street parking and vehicular use areas. The owner, tenant and/or agent of an off-street parking or other vehicular use area shall landscape the interior of these areas to define aisles and other vehicular use areas and to provide relief from the expense of paving.
(5)
Sight distance for landscaping adjacent to public rights-of-way and points of access. No landscaping, tree, fence, wall or similar item shall be maintained in the vicinity of any corner, street, intersection or accessway intersecting a public right-of-way that the Building Inspector of the City of Buena Vista, or his designee, determines is an obstruction to visibility, extends into sight lines or is a traffic hazard.
(6)
Existing plant material. The Building Inspector or his designee may adjust the application of the above standards, in part or in whole, to allow credit for healthy plant material on a site prior to its development if, in his opinion, such an adjustment is consistent with the intent of this section.
78.1.3.
Other applicable regulations. The provisions of this ordinance shall be subject to other applicable regulations where such regulations are more restrictive and not otherwise inconsistent with the provisions of this ordinance.
78.2.
Screening and lighting.
78.2.1.
In any commercial or industrial district, any operation not conducted within a building, such as drive-in businesses, outdoor recreation, outdoor storage of materials, and outdoor servicing activities, shall be enclosed by a wall or fence of solid appearance or tight evergreen hedge not less than six feet in height where necessary to conceal such areas or facilities from a residential district adjoining or facing across a street in the rear or on the side of the principal building or use.
78.2.2.
In any district where reference is made requiring adequate screening or buffering of a specified operation, such screen or buffer shall be a wall or fence of uniform material, solid in appearance or tight evergreen hedge not less than six feet in height, as may be required by Buena Vista Planning and Zoning Commission.
78.2.3.
Outdoor lighting of all types shall be directed so as to reflect away from all residential dwellings, and shall be so situated as not to reflect directly into any public rights-of-way.
Sec. A-79. - Zoning for property to be annexed.
All land to be annexed into the corporate limits of the City of Buena Vista shall be zoned in accordance with the procedures required in section 36-66-4(d) of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
ARTICLE VIII. - USE PROVISIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS

Sec. A-80. - R-1 Single-Family Residential District.
The R-1 Single-Family Residential District is composed chiefly of existing low-density residential areas of the City and vacant or open areas where similar residential development appears likely to occur. This is the most restrictive residential district The principal use of land is for single-family dwellings and related recreational, religious and educational facilities normally required to provide an orderly and attractive residential area. These residential areas are intended to be defined and protected from the encroachment of uses which are not appropriate to residential environment. Stability of property values, attractiveness, order and efficiency are encouraged by providing for adequate light, air and open space for dwellings and related facilities and through consideration of the proper functional relationship of the different uses.
The following uses are permitted in the R-1 district:
80.1.
Single-family dwellings, except trailers and mobile homes.
80.2.
Agriculture, excluding the commercial raising of poultry and livestock.
80.3.
Accessory building and uses when located on the same lot or parcel of land as the main structure and customarily incidental thereto and provided the requirements in section A-121 are met.
80.4.
Church bulletin boards not exceeding 20 square feet in area.
80.5.
Churches, fraternal organizations and clubs not operating for a profit, provided that:
(a)
There is a planted buffer strip at least ten feet wide along the side and rear lines; and
(b)
The buildings are located not less than 50 feet from any lot line.
80.6.
Home offices are provided in section A-123.
80.7.
Fallout shelters provided the requirements in section A-122 are met.
80.8.
Public buildings, structures and grounds, except cemeteries.
80.9.
Schools, including private schools, nursery schools, day-care centers and homes, and kindergartens. The off-street parking provisions of article VII, section A-72, are applicable to these uses.
80.10.
Signs not more than six square feet in area advertising the sale or rental of the property on which they are located.
80.11.
Home swimming pools provided the location is not closer than ten feet to any property line and the pool is enclosed by a wall or fence of at least four feet in height and providing approval from the Marion County Health Department has been obtained.
80.12.
Dogs and cats provided the requirements in section A-138 are met.
80.13.
Satellite dish antennas provided the requirements in section A-127 are met.
80.14.
Bed and breakfast inns provided the requirements in section A-128 are met
80.15.
Substations, electric or gas, provided that:
(a)
The structures are placed not less than 50 feet from any property line;
(b)
The structures are enclosed by a woven wire fence at least eight feet high;
(c)
No vehicles or equipment stored on the premises; and
(d)
The lot includes a planted buffer strip at least ten feet wide along the side and rear property lines.
Sec. A-81. - R-2 Two-Family Residential District.
The R-2 Two-Family Residential District is designed to provide for a medium population density. The district permits a mixture of dwelling types; to provide more interesting aesthetic categories of dwelling; and to situate these uses where they are well served by public and commercial services.
The following uses are permitted in the R-2 district:
81.1.
Any use permitted in an R-1 district.
81.2.
Two-family dwelling (duplex).
81.3.
Townhouses, provided the requirements in section A-120 are met.
81.4.
Satellite dish antennas provided the requirements in section A-127 are met.
81.5.
Home offices are provided in section A-123.
81.6.
Residential businesses as provided in section A-123.
Sec. A-82. - R-3 Multifamily Residential District.
It is the intent of the R-3 residential district to provide for high population density. The principal use of land may range from single-family dwelling to multiple family and garden apartment uses. Certain uses which are more compatible functionally with intensive residential uses than with commercial uses are permitted. The recreational, religious, and educational facilities normally required to provide an orderly and attractive residential area are permitted. Stability of property values, attractiveness, order and efficiency are encouraged by providing for adequate light, air and open space for dwellings and related facilities and through consideration of the proper functional relationship of each use permitted in the district.
The following uses are permitted in the R-3 district:
82.1.
Any use permitted in the R-2 district.
82.2.
Multifamily dwelling.
82.3.
Boardinghouses and roominghouses.
82.4.
Hotels.
82.5.
Office buildings exclusively used for professional occupancy and of such character and nature that such use will not adversely affect adjacent and nearby residential properties.
82.6.
Satellite dish antennas provided the requirements in section A-127 are met.
82.7.
Home offices as provided in section A-123.
82.8.
Public and private schools and libraries.
82.9.
Hospitals
82.10.
Family personal care homes subject to the rules of the Georgia Department of Human Resources governing personal care homes.
82.11.
Group personal care homes subject to the rules of the Georgia Department of Human Resources governing personal care homes.
Sec. A-83. - R-MH Residential Manufactured Home District.
It is the intent of this district to provide adequate locations and densities for manufactured home parks, individual manufactured homes and other uses permitted by these regulations within this district. Stability of property values, attractiveness, order and efficiency of the surrounding property and of the subject property are encouraged and shall be protected by the restrictions and reservations contained in this section.
The following uses are permitted in the R-MH district:
83.1.
Any use permitted in the R-1 district.
83.2.
Individual manufactured homes provided such lot, whether existing or created, has the minimum square footage as herein specified for a lot in this district and provided that adequate sanitary sewage facilities are installed or connected to as recommended by the State Health Department. Prior to the connection of such manufactured home to City utilities and all other public utilities, the following restrictions and requirements shall be complied with:
(a)
Proper moving permit is obtained from City Hall.
(b)
The lot and manufactured home has been landscaped in front of such home.
(c)
All wheels, axles and tow bars have been removed.
(d)
The manufactured home has met the required manufacturer's or industry standards for tie downs and anchors.
(e)
Manufactured homes must be blocked, not skirted.
(f)
The manufactured home is owned by the lot owner.
83.3.
Manufactured home parks provided the property has been designed, developed, and designated as a manufactured home park according to the City of Buena Vista Mobile Home Park Ordinance.
83.4.
Service and auxiliary buildings located and specifically designed to serve only the residents of one manufactured home park, not to include automobile or manufactured home repair facilities of any type. Permitted buildings shall be limited to the following uses:
(a)
Manufactured home park management office.
(b)
Storage for maintenance tools, equipment, and supplies.
(c)
Residence for the exclusive use of a watchman, caretaker, owner or manager of a manufactured home park.
(d)
Recreation, assembly, and laundry facilities for the exclusive use of the manufactured home residents and their guests.
83.5.
Home offices as provided in section A-123.
Sec. A-84. - R-AG Agricultural-Residential District.
It is the intent of this district to provide for the continued existence of agricultural uses, and lower density residential development than is found in the R-1 residential district.
The R-AG district comprises that portion of the City of Buena Vista which is primarily rural in nature, but which can be expected to experience urban development in the future.
The following uses are permitted in the R-AG district:
84.1.
Agriculture, forestry, livestock and poultry production, provided that the area available for said operation is not less than ten acres in area, and that no structure containing poultry or livestock and no storage of manure or odor- or dust-producing substance or use shall be located within 200 feet of a property line. Provided, however, there shall be no more than one horse, cow or pig or combination thereof per one acre, no more than one goat or sheep or combination thereof per one-half acre and no more than ten fowl or rabbits or combination thereof per one-half acre. All animals (except domestic animals, i.e., dog, cat) shall be kept in a structure or corral.
84.2.
Any use permitted in the R-1 residential district.
84.3.
Accessory buildings and uses when located on the same lot or parcel of land as the main structure and customarily incident thereto and provided the requirements in section A-121 are met.
84.4.
Home swimming pools provided the location is not closer than ten feet to any property line and the pool is enclosed by a wall or fence of at least four feet in height and provided approval from the Marion County Health Department has been obtained.
84.5.
Hospitals.
84.6.
Cemeteries.
84.7.
Golf courses.
84.8.
Facilities providing municipal services.
ARTICLE IX. - USE PROVISIONS FOR BUSINESS DISTRICTS

Sec. A-90. - C-1 Highway Commercial District.
Within a C-1 Highway Commercial District, uses are restricted to those which are designed to serve the automobile, its passengers and highway users rather than individuals who use an automobile as a convenience to perform necessary daily and weekly personal needs. The district is intended to be restricted to state and federal highways which may also have other business districts located on them.
The following uses are permitted in the C-1 district:
90.1.
Retail shops customarily serving tourist or highway trade.
90.2.
Agricultural equipment sales and service.
90.3.
Automobile parts sales stores.
90.4.
Automobile sales rooms and used car lots.
90.5.
Boat sales or rental, new or used.
90.6.
Bus terminals.
90.7.
Business and outdoor advertising signs.
90.8.
Car wash.
90.9.
Funeral parlor.
90.10.
Cold storage and frozen food lockers.
90.11.
Commercial greenhouses and nurseries.
90.12.
Drive-in grocery.
90.13.
Drive-in theaters.
90.14.
Drugstores.
90.15.
Gasoline service stations, provided that points of access and egress shall be located ten feet or more from the intersection of street lines, shall not exceed 30 feet in width, and shall not be closer than 40 feet apart.
90.16.
Laundry and dry cleaning establishments.
90.17.
Miniature golf course.
90.18.
Monument sales establishment.
90.19.
Mobile homes and travel trailer sales.
90.20.
Motels.
90.21.
Off-street parking lots.
90.22.
Private clubs, lodges, and meeting halls.
90.23.
Public and semi-public recreation facilities, including bowling alleys.
90.24.
Public uses and structures.
90.25.
Repair garages.
90.26.
Restaurants, grills, and similar eating establishments, including drive-ins.
90.27.
Trailer parks.
90.28.
Signs: outdoor advertising, and professional or announcement.
90.29.
Veterinarian office, animal hospital and kennel.
Sec. A-91. - C-2 General Commercial District.
The intent of this district shall be to provide a commercial district designed to serve the automobile, its passengers, and highway users and to provide community shopping facilities consisting of a wide variety of sales and service facilities and locations that will be accessible to all shoppers and highway users or both.
The following uses are permitted in the C-2 district:
91.1.
Any retail business or service, including manufacturing in connection with a retail store or shop providing that such manufacturing is incidental to the retail use and all goods manufactured are sold on the premises.
91.2.
Automobile sales rooms and repair garages.
91.3.
Bus terminals and taxicab stands.
91.4.
Clubs and lodges.
91.5.
Funeral parlors.
91.6.
Gasoline service stations, provided that points of access and egress shall be located ten feet or more from the intersection of street lines, shall not exceed 40 feet in width and shall not be closer than 20 feet apart.
91.7.
Hotels and motels.
91.8.
Offices and banks.
91.9.
Newspapers and printing plants.
91.10.
Off-street parking lots.
91.11.
Professional offices for physicians, dentists, lawyers, engineers, and the like.
91.12.
Public uses and structures.
91.13.
Public utility structures.
91.14.
Radio stations.
91.15.
Restaurants, bars, grills, and similar eating and/or drinking establishments, excluding drive-in establishments.
91.16.
Signs: outdoor advertising, and professional or announcement.
91.17.
Theaters, indoor.
91.18.
Existing buildings in the C-2 area may be converted in whole or in part for residential use either for single-family occupancy or multifamily occupancy, including apartments but excluding boardinghouses and roominghouses. Any new buildings constructed in the C-2 area may also be used for residential purposes, including single-family occupancy or multifamily occupancy but excluding boardinghouses and roominghouses. Also excluded are single-family dwellings.
Sec. A-92. - C-3 Central Business District.
This commercial district is for the conduct of retail trade and personal service enterprises to meet the regular needs and for the convenience of the people of adjacent residential areas. Because these shops and stores may be an integral part of the neighborhood closely associated with residential, religious, recreational and educational uses, more restrictive requirements for light, air, open space and off-street parking are made than are provided in other commercial districts.
Property and buildings in a C-3 Central Business District shall be used only for the following purposes:
92.1.
Retail stores and shops which supply the regular and customary needs of the residents of the neighborhood and which are primarily for their convenience, as follows:
(1)
Antique shop.
(2)
Automobile parking lot.
(3)
Baby shop.
(4)
Bakery goods store.
(5)
Bank and savings and loan office.
(6)
Barbershop.
(7)
Beauty shop.
(8)
Book or stationary store.
(9)
Camera shop.
(10)
Curio or gift shop.
(11)
Drugstore or fountain.
(12)
Dairy products or ice cream store.
(13)
Delicatessen.
(14)
Dress shop.
(15)
Florist shop, greenhouse, nursery.
(16)
Furniture store.
(17)
Grocery store.
(18)
Hardware store.
(19)
Jewelry or notion store.
(20)
Lodge hall.
(21)
Meat market.
(22)
Medical facility.
(23)
Messenger or telegraph service.
(24)
Newspaper or magazine sales.
(25)
Office business.
(26)
Optometrists, sales and service.
(27)
Photographer studio.
(28)
Pharmacy.
(29)
Radio and television sales and service.
(30)
Restaurant.
(31)
Self-service laundry or dry cleaning.
(32)
Sewing machine sales, instruction.
(33)
Sporting goods sales.
(34)
Shoe repair shop.
(35)
Tailor shop.
(36)
Toy store.
(37)
Variety store.
92.2.
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above uses.
ARTICLE X. - USE PROVISIONS FOR INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS

Sec. A-100. - I-1 Light Industrial District.
The I-1 Light Industrial District is established to provide an area for firms engaged in light manufacturing and distribution of goods; to discourage uses incompatible with light manufacturing; to protect the surrounding land uses; and to protect the existing industries within the district. The uses permitted under this section shall be conducted in such a manner that no noxious odors, fumes or dust will be emitted beyond the property line of the lot on which the use is located.
The following uses are permitted in the I-1 district:
100.1.
Agricultural equipment sales and repair.
100.2.
Apparel manufacturing plants.
100.3.
Baking establishments.
100.4.
Bottling and distribution plants.
100.5.
Business and outdoor advertising signs.
100.6.
Cabinet and woodworking shops.
100.7.
Electrical repair shops.
100.8.
Furniture manufacturing.
100.9.
Gasoline service stations, according to the provisions specified in section 90.1.
100.10.
Ice plants and cold storage plants.
100.11.
Laundry and dry cleaning establishments.
100.12.
Machine shops and light metal fabrication plants.
100.13.
Public utility structures.
100.14.
Restaurants, cafes, and similar establishments.
100.15.
Truck terminals and warehouses.
100.16.
Wholesale and storage businesses including building material yards.
100.17.
Other light industries, provided that any industry that may cause injurious or obnoxious noise, vibrations, smoke, gas, fumes, odor, dust, fire hazards, or other objectionable conditions, shall be required to show that the proposed location, construction, and operation will not injure present or prospective industrial development in the district.
Sec. A-101. - I-2 Heavy Industrial District.
The I-2 district is established to provide a suitable area for the location of heavy manufacturing plants, to protect the surrounding land uses, to protect the industries located in the district, and to discourage uses that are incompatible with those designated for this district. The uses permitted under this section shall be conducted in such a manner that no noxious odor, fumes or dust will be emitted beyond the property line of the lot on which the use is located.
The following uses are permitted in the I-2 district:
101.1.
Any use permitted in an I-1 district.
101.2.
Bulk storage of petroleum.
101.3.
Concrete batch plants.
101.4.
Junkyards, auto salvage and scrap yards.
101.5.
Metal fabricating plants.
101.6.
Millwork and flooring processing.
101.7.
Business and outdoor advertising signs.
101.8.
Railroad terminals and warehouses.
101.9.
Radio transmission towers.
101.10.
Stockyards for livestock and swine, slaughterhouses, and the processing of poultry and livestock.
101.11.
Textile manufacturing and processing.
101.12.
Other heavy industries, provided that any industry that may cause injurious or obnoxious noise, vibrations, smoke, gas, fumes, odor, dust, fire hazard, or other objectionable condition, shall be required to show that such conditions will not adversely affect the surrounding districts.
ARTICLE XI. - OTHER REQUIREMENTS BY DISTRICT

Sec. A-110. - Area, yard and height requirements.
This section is established to identify the minimum lot size and width, front and side yard setback, and building height allowed within each designated district.
EXPAND
Minimum Lot Size Minimum Front Yard from Right-of-Way of Street
(feet)
District Lot Area w/ Public Sewer
(sq. feet) Lot Area w/ Septic Tank
(feet) Lot Width at Building Line
(feet) Major Streets All Other Streets Minimum Side Yards
(feet) Minimum Rear Yard
(feet) Maximum Height
(feet)
R-1 9,000 20,000 75 30 25 10 on each side 20 35
R-2 6,500 20,000 60 30 25 10 on each side 20 35
R-3 3,000 20,000 60 30 25 10 on each side 20 35
R-MH 10,895 20,000 75 30 25 40 on each side 40 40
R-AG 3 acres 3 acres 75 40 30 40 on each side 40 40
C-1 30 25 None, 10 if provided 30 40
C-2 30 25 None, 10 if provided 40
C-3 None None None 30 50
I-1 50 35 30 35 80
I-2 50 35 30 35 120
  Sec. A-111. - Private development maintenance.
111.1.
Purpose. The purpose of this section is to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the inhabitants of Buena Vista, Georgia, by regulating the occupancy and maintenance of manufactured home parks, travel trailer parks, apartments, planned unit developments (PUD) and all other developments with privately maintained infrastructure.
111.2.
Definitions. When used in this section, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning given. The words not defined below shall have the meaning given in section A-31.
(1)
Common area. Any area or space designed for joint use of tenants occupying the private development.
(2)
Density. The number of dwellings per gross acre.
(3)
Driveway. A private way used by vehicles and pedestrians on a private development or for common access to a group of lots or common facilities.
(4)
Governing authority. Means the Mayor and City Council of the City of Buena Vista, Georgia.
(5)
Management. The person who owns or has charge, care or control of the private development.
(6)
Occupied area. That area of an individual lot which has been covered by a dwelling and its accessory structures.
(7)
Private development. Any development in which the infrastructure (water and sewer mains, streets, driveways, etc.) is not owned by the City of Buena Vista. Private development shall include, but is not limited to, apartment complexes, manufactured home parks, private retirement communities, and condominiums.
(8)
Service building. A structure housing sanitary, operational, office, recreational, maintenance and other facilities built to conform to required standards.
(9)
Sewer connection. Pipes, fittings and appurtenances from the drain outlet of the structure to the inlet of the corresponding sewer riser pipe of the sewer system serving the private development.
(10)
Travel trailer park. An area where one or more travel trailers can be parked, designed or intended to be used as temporary living quarters for one or more families and intended primarily for automobile transi[ents] whether or not a charge is made for such accommodation.
(11)
Water connection. Pipes, fittings and appurtenances from the water riser pipe to the water inlet pipe of the distribution system within the structure.
111.3.
Permits required. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, alter or extend any private development within the limits of Buena Vista, Georgia, unless the Zoning Enforcement Officer issues a valid permit after approval of the City Council. Construction must begin within 180 days after issuance of the permit.
111.4.
Applications. All applications for permits for private developments shall be submitted to the Zoning Enforcement Officer of Buena Vista, Georgia, after submission and approval of the final site plan.
111.4.1.
Site plan. A private development site plan layout shall be drawn at a scale no smaller than 100 feet to one inch and shall show the following information:
(1)
Five black or blue line prints of the final site plan shall be submitted and shall contain the following information:
(a)
Name and address of applicant.
(b)
Name and address of the owner of the land.
(c)
Location (vicinity map) and legal description of the private development.
(d)
North arrow.
(e)
The area and dimensions of the tract of land.
(f)
The number, location and size of all lots.
(g)
The location, width and area of roadways, parkways, streets, driveways and walks.
(h)
The location of service buildings and any other proposed structures.
(i)
Location and design of parking spaces.
(j)
Gross density.
(2)
Approval of the final site plan shall be noted on all five prints and attested to by the signature of the Clerk of the City Council. Three prints shall be returned to the applicant, and two prints retained in the files of the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
Before acting on the site plan layout, the Commission may request a report from any person or agency directly concerned with the proposed development, such as the District Highway Engineer, Superintendent of Schools, and Public Utilities. Such reports shall certify compliance with or note deviations from the requirements of this chapter and include comments on other factors which bear upon the public interest. The responsibility of securing said reports is that of the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
Any time after approval of the final site plan by the Commission, application may be made for a permit for the construction of the private development. Five complete sets of construction plans shall be submitted to the Zoning Enforcement Officer and the Zoning Commission:
(1)
The approved final site plan.
(2)
Location of water and sewer lines and user pipes and manholes.
(3)
Plans and specifications of the water supply, sewer lines, storm drainage system, refuse and sewerage disposal facilities.
(4)
Plans and specifications of all buildings to be constructed, altered or extended within the private development.
(5)
The location and details of lighting and electrical systems.
Upon review of the application the Zoning Enforcement Officer and the Zoning Commission shall issue a permit when a review of the application and inspection of the site demonstrates that the proposed or existing private development meets the requirements of this chapter.
111.5.
Revocation of permits. Any permit for a private development may be revoked when it is found to be in violation of this chapter.
(1)
Should the Zoning Enforcement Officer find that conditions exist which are in violation of any provision of this section, he shall give notice to the permittee or owner that, unless such conditions or practices are corrected within 30 days, the permit will be revoked.
(2)
If at the end of 30 days, a further inspection reveals that the conditions or practices have not been corrected, the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall then revoke the permit and give notice of such suspension in writing to the permittee or owner. Upon notice of revocation, the permittee or owner shall cease operation and/or construction of the private development.
111.6.
Inspections.
(1)
The Zoning Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized and directed to make such valid inspections as are necessary to determine satisfactory compliance with this chapter.
(2)
The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall have the power to enter at reasonable times upon public property for the purpose of inspecting and investigating conditions relating to enforcement of this chapter. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall have the power to enter at reasonable times upon any private property that the officer has probable cause that a violation or violations of this code section has occurred. For the purposes of this code section, conditions which appear to be in violation of this code section which are in plain view may form the basis for probable cause.
(3)
The Zoning Enforcement Officer may request inspections by and verifications of compliance from the Department of Public Health or any of the rules and regulations of state and/or local Health Departments. Representatives of the Department of Health shall have the same powers of entry and inspection as provided for Zoning Enforcement Officer.
(4)
The Health Officer's representative, upon finding by inspection existing violations of requirements relating to the protection of health and/or safety of residents of the private development, shall notify the Zoning Enforcement Officer of such violations and requirements for corrections. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall then proceed with enforcement under the provisions of appropriate sections of these regulations.
111.7.
Existing private developments.
(1)
Private development operating permitted prior to passage of this ordinance, may continue to operate under the terms of such permit or license except that such developments must comply with the standards required by the following sections: section 111.5, section 111.6, section 111.8, section 111.9, and section 111.10.
(2)
Expansion of the capacity of an existing private development shall require full compliance with section A-111.
111.8.
Appeals.
111.8.1.
Petition. Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in connection with the enforcement of any provision of this section relating to private developments, or of any regulation adopted pursuant thereto, may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the Planning and Zoning Commission, provided that such person shall file in the office of the Zoning Enforcement Officer a written statement of the grounds for such request. The filing of the request for a hearing shall operate as a stay of the notice and the suspension except in the case of an order issued under section 111.9. Upon receipt of such request, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall set a time and place for such hearing and shall give the petitioner written notice thereof.
111.8.2.
Hearing. At such hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to be heard and to show why such notice should be modified or withdrawn.
111.8.3.
Order of Planning and Zoning Commission. After such hearing, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall make findings as to compliance with the provisions of this section and regulations issued thereunder and shall issue a recommendation to the City Council to sustain, modify or withdraw the notice. The City Council at a regularly scheduled meeting or a specially called meeting shall issue an order sustaining, modifying or withdrawing the notice. Upon failure to comply with any order sustaining or modifying a notice, the certificate of occupancy affected by the order shall be revoked.
111.9.
Emergencies. Whenever the Zoning Enforcement Officer finds that an emergency exists which requires immediate action to protect the public health including violations of any of the applicable rules and regulations of the Department of Public Health or Georgia Department of Public Health, he may without notice or hearing issue an order reciting the existence of such an emergency and requiring that such action be taken as he may deem necessary to meet the emergency including the suspension of the permit or license. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, such order shall be effective immediately. Any person to whom such an order is directed shall comply therewith immediately, but upon petition to the Planning and Zoning Commission, he shall be afforded a hearing as soon as possible. The provisions of section 111.8 shall be applicable to such hearing and the order issued thereafter.
111.10.
Nonconforming private developments.
(1)
For the purposes of this section, "nonconforming private development" shall be defined as a private development which was in existence prior to passage of this ordinance and which does not conform to the technical standards found in section 111.11.
(2)
All nonconforming private developments within the City of Buena Vista shall, within 12 months from the adoption of this ordinance, conform to the technical standards, section 111.11.
(3)
Nonconforming parks shall submit to the Zoning Enforcement Officer of Buena Vista, Georgia, two copies of a site plan within 60 days from the adoption of the ordinance from which this section derives. The site plan shall contain that information listed in section 111.4.1(1). The site plan shall also contain the location of refuse facilities, street lighting facilities, and the location of required buffer areas.
111.11.
Technical standards. New private developments shall conform with the technical standards in this section. Nonconforming private developments shall conform with the following technical standards in this section within 12 months from the adoption of the ordinance.
111.11.1.
Roadways, driveways and off-street parking.
(1)
Pavement. Roadways within the private development shall be constructed in accordance with City of Buena Vista standards.
(2)
Width. Roadway pavement shall be of adequate width to serve the traffic of the private development and in any case shall meet the following minimum requirements:
(a)
Two-way streets: 23 feet.
(b)
One-way streets: 12 feet.
(c)
Cul-de-sac: 30 feet radius.
(3)
Minimum maintenance standards. Roadways shall be maintained free of ruts, holes, and standing water.
(4)
Inspections. All streets and driveways within private developments shall be subject to review and inspection by the City of Buena Vista.
(5)
Access. All private developments shall be provided with safe and convenient vehicular access from abutting public streets or roads or highways. Said access shall be provided by streets, driveways or other means. Alignment and gradient shall be properly adapted to topography.
(6)
Driveways. Paved driveways shall be provided where necessary for convenient access to the private development. The minimum width shall be ten feet.
(7)
Off-street parking. Off-street parking areas shall be provided in all private developments for the use of occupants and guests. All requirements found in section A-72 shall apply.
111.11.2.
Landscaping. All private developments shall comply with the landscaping requirements in section 78.1.
111.11.3.
Outdoor lighting. All private developments shall be furnished with lighting units so spaced and equipped with luminaries placed at such mounting heights as will [provide] sufficient levels of illumination for the safe movement of pedestrians and vehicles at night.
111.11.4.
Drainage. The ground surface in all parts of every private development shall be graded and equipped to drain all surface water in a safe, efficient manner in order to eliminate water pockets, low areas or bogs.
111.11.5.
Soil and ground cover. Exposed ground surfaces in all parts of every mobile home park shall be paved, or covered with stone screenings, or other landscaping material, or protected with a vegetative growth that is capable of preventing soil erosion and of eliminating objectionable dust and/or mud.
111.11.6.
Water supply system. An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply of water shall be provided in each private development. Where a public supply of water of satisfactory quantity, quality and pressure is available, connection shall be made thereto and its supply used exclusively. When a satisfactory public water supply is not available, a private water supply system may be developed and used as approved by the Georgia Department of Public Health in accordance with rules and regulations for water supply quality control.
The water supply system of the private development shall be constructed and connected in accordance with the plumbing code of Buena Vista, Georgia. Each dwelling or, in the case of two- and multifamily dwellings and commercial uses, each building shall be provided with a water connection. Such connection shall be in accordance with the provisions of the plumbing code of Buena Vista, Georgia.
111.11.7.
Wastewater system. An adequate and safe sewerage system shall be provided in all private developments for conveying and disposing of all sewage. Each dwelling or, in the case of two- and multifamily dwellings and commercial uses, each building shall be provided with a sewer connection. Such system and connection shall be designed, constructed and maintained in accordance with the provisions of the plumbing code of Buena Vista, Georgia.
111.12.
Variances. Where, because of topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site, strict adherence to the provisions of this section would cause an unnecessary hardship, the Planning and Zoning Commission after investigating the facts surrounding the request shall either recommend to the City Council that they approve or disapprove the request for a variance and the City Council may authorize a variance, if such variance can be made without destroying the intent of these regulations. In granting variances, the City Council may impose such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objective of the standards of requirements so varied.
ARTICLE XII. - SPECIAL PROVISIONS

Sec. A-120. - Townhouses.
Within the districts permitting townhouses, the following requirements shall apply:
120.1.
No more than ten nor fewer than three continuous townhouses shall be built in a row with approximately the same front line.
120.2.
No side yard is required except that on corner and interior lots. The end of the building in any townhouse grouping shall conform to the side yard requirements of that district.
120.3.
Not more than 40 percent of the lot area shall be occupied by the building.
120.4.
Insofar as practicable, off-street parking facilities shall be grouped in bays, either adjacent to streets or in the interior of blocks; and no off-street parking space shall be more than 100 feet by most direct pedestrian route, from a door of the dwelling unit it intends to serve.
120.5.
All townhouse complexes shall be required to tie into the public sanitary sewer system. No other means of waste disposal shall be permitted.
120.6.
All other requirements within the district in which the townhouses are located shall prevail.
Sec. A-121. - Accessory and temporary buildings.
121.1.
Accessory buildings. The location of accessory buildings and uses in residential districts must meet the following requirements:
121.1.1.
Where an accessory building is attached to the main building, a substantial part of one wall of the accessory building shall be an integral part of the main building, or such accessory building shall be attached to the main building in a substantial manner by a roof, and therefore such requirements applicable to the main building.
121.1.2.
A detached accessory building shall be not closer than 20 feet to the main building, nor closer than five feet to any lot line, provided that accessory buildings on corner lots adjacent to public rights-of-way shall meet the setback requirements for corner lots in section A-91.
121.1.3.
A detached accessory building, not more than two stories in height, may be constructed on not more than 30 percent of the rear yard.
121.1.4.
No detached accessory buildings may be located on the front yard of a lot.
121.2.
Temporary buildings. Temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work only may be permitted in any district and shall be removed immediately upon completion of construction.
Sec. A-122. - Fallout shelters.
Fallout shelters are permissible as principal or accessory uses and structures in any district, subject to the following conditions:
122.1.
If any portion of the structure extends above the ground, that portion above must comply with the yard and lot coverage regulations of the district in which it is located, and the site plan for such shelter must be approved by the Building Inspector.
122.2.
If the structure is completely underground, it needs to comply with yard requirements or percentage of lot coverage requirements.
122.3.
A fallout shelter, underground or above ground, shall be confined to a side or rear yard and shall not be located in the front yard between the main building and the street on which it fronts.
122.4.
Fallout shelters may contain or be contained in other structures or may be constructed separately.
Sec. A-123. - Home occupations.
123.1.
Intent. Regulations for home occupations are intended to provide categories of use, such that permitted home occupations can be better matched to the character of the zoning district in which they are allowed. The term "home occupation" is understood to mean all categories of home occupations, both home offices and residential businesses.
(1)
Home occupations shall be subject to the conditions set forth below. The applicant for approval to conduct a home occupation shall bear the burden of providing conclusive evidence to the Planning and Zoning Commission that these conditions have been met. The Planning and Zoning Commission may modify the conditions listed below to be more restrictive, or place additional conditions, which are more restrictive than those listed below on any approval, granted the applicant.
(2)
If the home occupation is approved, the applicant is responsible for the operation of the said home occupation in conformance with these conditions. The applicant shall submit a written description of the proposed home occupation demonstrating that it will comply with each of the conditions applicable for the specific type of occupation.
(3)
The business must be owned by the owner of the property on which the home occupation is located, or the business owner must have written approval of the owner of the property if the applicant is a tenant.
(4)
The home occupation and dwelling unit shall comply with all applicable building and fire codes.
(5)
No more than one home occupation is allowed in a residence at one time.
123.2.
Home office. A home office is an office, business or profession conducted entirely within a dwelling which is carried on by an occupant thereof, and which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential dwelling purposes, and which fully complies with the following standards:
(1)
A home office may be maintained for a business conducted away from the home, as long as the home office complies with all other requirements of this section.
(2)
Home offices shall not include the repair and/or maintenance of motor vehicles, large-scale manufacturing or any use which may endanger the health, safety or welfare of the neighborhood.
(3)
No use that creates noise, dust, vibration, odor, smoke, glare, or electrical interference that would be detectable beyond the dwelling unit is permitted.
(4)
The home office shall not allow customers or clients to come to the premises.
(5)
Home offices shall be limited to no more than 25 percent of the total heated floor area of the residence.
(6)
There will be no changes which would alter the character of the dwelling or reveal from the exterior that the dwelling is being use in part for other than residential purposes.
(7)
No outside storage or display is permitted.
(8)
No one, other than family members who reside on the premises, may be employed in the office.
(9)
One business vehicle used exclusively by the resident is permitted. The vehicle shall be no larger in size than a pick-up truck, panel truck or van and is limited in size to 1½-ton carrying capacity.
(10)
[Any pickups from and deliveries to the site in regard to the business shall be restricted to vehicles having no more than two axles and shall be restricted] to no more than two pickups or deliveries per day.
(11)
No signs shall be placed on the premises in conjunction with the home office.
123.3
Residential business. Residential businesses are small offices or small-scale retail or service businesses which are clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential dwelling purposes, and which fully comply with the following standards:
(1)
Residential businesses may include, but are not limited to, beauty shops, barbershops, professional offices and minor repair shops.
(2)
Residential businesses shall not include the repair and/or maintenance of motor vehicles, large-scale manufacturing or any use which will create noise, noxious odors, or any hazard that may endanger the health, safety or welfare of the neighborhood.
(3)
The residential business shall not involve group instruction or group assembly of people on the premises.
(4)
The business or profession must be conducted entirely within the dwelling.
(5)
The dwelling must be the bona fide residence of the principal practitioner at the time of the application and, if approved, the residential business shall be valid only as long as the principal practitioner resides in the dwelling, is conducting business and has a current business certificate.
(6)
Residential businesses shall be limited to no more than 35 percent of the total heated floor area of the residence.
(7)
There will be no changes which would alter the character of the dwelling or reveal from the exterior that the dwelling is being used in part for other that residential purposes.
(8)
The portion of the residence in which the business is conducted shall be completely enclosed in a manner that the business is not visible from the surrounding property.
(9)
No outside storage is allowed.
(10)
The City Council may place any reasonable conditions on the application deemed necessary to ensure the orderly operation of the proposed business and its compatibility with the surrounding properties.
(11)
Property on which the residential business is proposed must have frontage on a public road.
(12)
Parking for customers/clients must be provided on site as stipulated in section A-72 of this ordinance. The location of the parking shall be approved by the City Council.
(13)
Days and hours of operation requiring access by the public, customers and/or clients shall be Monday through Saturday, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
(14)
The principal practitioner shall be permitted to park one commercial vehicle in the approved parking area. The commercial vehicle is limited to a passenger car, van or light truck of up to 1½-ton carrying capacity.
(15)
Any utility trailer needed for the orderly operation of the business must be specifically requested and approved by the City Council. The request must include the proposed use and size of the trailer.
(16)
One business sign shall be permitted provided the sign is not larger than two square feet in area.
Sec. A-124. - Automobile service stations.
Within the districts permitting automobile service stations, the following requirements shall apply:
124.1.
Location. The property on which an automobile service station is located shall not be within 100 feet of any residential district, or any property containing a school, public playground, church, hospital, public library, institution for children or dependents.
124.2.
Site requirements. An automobile service station shall have a minimum frontage on the primary street of 120 feet and a minimum area of 12,000 square feet. All buildings shall be set back 40 feet from all street right-of-way lines, and all canopies shall be set back 15 feet from all street right-of-way lines same as above.
124.3.
Access to site. Vehicular entrances or exits at an automobile service station:
124.3.1.
Shall not be provided with more than two curb cuts for the first 120 feet of street frontage or fraction thereof.
124.3.2.
Shall contain an access width along the curb line of the street of not more than 40 feet as measured parallel to the street at its narrowest point and shall not be located closer than 20 feet to a street intersection or closer than ten feet to the adjoining property.
124.3.3.
Shall not have any two driveways or curb cuts any closer than 20 feet at both the right-of-way line and the curb or edge of the pavement along a single street.
124.4.
Gasoline pump islands. All gasoline pump islands shall be set back at least 15 feet from the right-of-way line, or where a future widening line has been established, the setback line shall be measured from such line; and where pump islands are constructed perpendicular to the right-of-way line, the pump island shall be located not less than 30 feet back of the right-of-way line; however, the pumps shall be at least 60 feet from the centerline of an arterial street, 55 feet from the centerline of a collector street and 45 feet from the centerline of other streets.
124.5.
Off-street parking. A minimum of two off-street parking spaces required with an additional off-street parking space for each lubrication and wash bay.
124.6.
Other site improvements. In addition to the above requirements, the following additional site improvements shall be adhered to:
124.6.1.
A raised curb of at least six inches in height shall be erected along the street property lines, except for driveway openings.
124.6.2.
A solid fence or wall six feet in height shall be erected along all adjacent property lines facing any adjacent residential lot.
124.6.3.
Exterior lighting shall be arranged so that it is deflected away from adjacent properties.
124.6.4.
Signs, whether permanent or temporary, shall not be placed within the public right-of-way and shall not obstruct visibility for drivers or pedestrians.
124.6.5.
All driveways, parking storage, and service areas shall be paved and curbed and a good stand of grass shall be maintained on the remainder of the lot.
124.7.
Storage of flammable products. Outside above-ground tanks for the storage of gasoline, liquified petroleum gas, oil or other flammable liquids or gases shall be prohibited at any automobile service station in all zoning districts.
124.8.
Signs. The following regulations shall apply to automobile service station signs:
124.8.1.
All requirements of section A-125 shall apply unless noted in section 124.8.2 below.
124.8.2.
All types of signs shall be permitted under the gas pump island canopy provided they do not constitute a public nuisance or safety hazard. For gas pump island canopies attached to the main building, the above signs are allowed to point midway between the gas pumps and the main building wall. These signs do not count against the sign area requirements listed in section A-125.
124.9.
All service stations in existence at the time this ordinance is passed shall be exempt from the requirements of section A-124 and all subsections.
Sec. A-125. - Signs.
125.1.
Intent. This section shall govern the location, size, setback and height of signs in each of the use districts established in this ordinance to ensure safe construction, light, air, and open space, to reduce hazards at intersections, to prevent the accumulation of trash, and to protect property values of the entire community.
125.2.
General provisions.
125.2.1.
Any applicant for a sign permit, or owner or permittee of a sign herein regulated shall be bound by all provisions and restrictions governing said signs as contained in the Buena Vista Zoning Ordinance.
125.2.2.
No sign or sign structure shall be erected without a building permit (see section 41.1), except that no permit shall be required for those signs exempted from permit requirements pursuant to section 125.5.
125.2.3.
All signs shall be subject to the same side yard and height limitations imposed upon other buildings and structures in the use district
[MISSING PAGE]
Editor's note— The ordinance provided to the publisher was missing a page and could not be recovered.
(7)
Any sign which obstructs free ingress to, or egress from a required door, window, fire escape or other required exit way.
(8)
Signs which make use of words such as "STOP," "LOOK," "DANGER," or similar words, phrases, symbols or characters in such a manner as to imitate traffic signs or to imply the need or requirement of stopping or the existence of danger.
(9)
Any sign or other advertising structure containing any obscene, indecent or immoral matter.
(10)
Any sign unlawfully installed, erected, or maintained.
(11)
Any sign now or hereinafter existing which no longer advertises a bona fide business, campaign or service or product sold.
125.2.8.
No portion of any pylon or overhanging sign, except official street or highway markers which shall adhere to the applicable state and local laws shall be less than ten feet above the level of a sidewalk or other pedestrian thoroughfare, nor shall [it] be less than 16 feet above the level of a public driveway, alley or street.
125.2.9.
For the purpose of computing sign area for multiple frontage lots, only the portion of the lot having the longest frontage shall be used in determining allowable sign area.
125.2.10.
All signs must adhere to the provisions of the building code of the City of Buena Vista, including all revisions and amendments thereto.
125.2.11.
Height of a sign shall be considered to be the vertical distance between the highest part of the sign structure, whichever is higher, and the average grade of the surrounding property.
125.3.
Maintenance and removal of signs.
125.3.1.
Any sign or sign structure now or hereafter existing, which is abandoned or no longer advertises a bona fide business or a product sold, shall be taken down and removed by the owner, agent, or person having beneficial use of the building, structure, or land upon which such sign shall be found, within 30 days after written notification by the Zoning Enforcement Officer. Failure to remove such sign on notification shall be a violation of this ordinance. A sign shall be deemed to have been abandoned if it is located on property which becomes vacant and occupied for a period of three months or more or if it pertains to a time, event or purpose which no longer applies. Permanent signs applicable to a business temporarily suspended because of a change of ownership or management shall not be deemed abandoned unless the property remains vacant for a period of six months or more.
125.3.2.
All signs shall be maintained so as to present a neat, clean appearance. Painted areas shall be kept in good condition and illumination, if provided, shall be maintained in good working order.
125.3.3.
Any legally established nonconforming sign or sign structure shall be permitted without alteration in size or location, provided that the requirements of section A-71 of this ordinance are adhered to and provided that nothing herein shall prevent maintenance, repairing, or posting of legally established nonconforming signs.
125.3.4.
In the event of the destruction, partial or complete, of a sign or bulletin, the owner thereof shall have the right to reconstruct, rebuild, renovate, or repair the sign substantially to the same condition as before the destruction, provided said sign is located within a zoning district which allows said type of sign.
[125.4.
Reserved.]
125.5.
Signs exempt from permit requirements. No permit shall be required for the construction, erection or location of the following signs:
125.5.1.
Real estate signs advertising the sale, rental, or lease of the land or building upon which signs are located, provided:
(1)
In residential districts, there shall be no sign in excess of eight square feet and no more than three such signs on any single lot;
(2)
In commercial districts, there shall be no sign in excess of 32 square feet, and no more than three such signs on any single lot; and
(3)
In industrial districts, there shall be no sign in excess of 90 square feet, and no more than three such signs on any single lot.
125.5.2.
Professional name plates not exceeding two square feet in area, such signs to be non-illuminated and attached to the building.
125.5.3.
One sign or bulletin board indicating the name of the institution, church, or other place of worship or civic association not exceeding 20 square feet in area on premises of public or semi-public institutions.
125.5.4.
Signs located on the premises relating to active construction projects.
125.5.5.
Memorial signs or tablets, including names of buildings and date of erection when cut into masonry, bronze, or other materials.
125.5.6.
Traffic or other municipal or public signs or notices posted or erected by or at the direction of a governmental agency.
125.5.7.
Customary signs, in conjunction with residential usage, including mailbox lettering, names of residents, house numbers, and other similar usage.
125.5.8.
One subdivision identification sign at the main entrance or entrances to the subdivision and within the subdivision, provided they shall not be illuminated, shall be so designed to be in the public interest and shall make no reference to the sale or lease of the lots or houses located within said identified subdivision. Any additional signage within the subdivision shall be considered a special exception.
125.5.9.
Non-advertising directional signs or symbols ("entrance," "exit," "no trespassing," etc.) located on and pertaining to a parcel of private property, none to exceed four square feet in area, or a directional sign for churches provided that such sign shall not exceed four square feet and shall be within one mile of said church.
125.5.10.
Official flags, emblems, or insignia of the United States, the State of Georgia, other countries and states, or religious groups, civic organizations or nonprofit service clubs not advertising a product or service.
125.5.11.
Seasonal displays and decorations not advertising a product, service or entertainment.
125.5.12.
Banners, posters and displays advertising special events for municipal, county or state functions or events sponsored by the Chamber of Commerce. Such signs shall not violate any provisions of section 125.2.7 unless otherwise provided for under this subsection. All signs requested under this subsection shall be made through the Zoning Enforcement Officer who shall review the request to ensure that all applicable provisions of the ordinance have been adhered to prior to giving approval. If a request involves placing a banner or other sign on public right-of-way, including over any publicly owned street, then it shall be forwarded to the City Manager for City and/or State Department of Transportation approval where applicable. All such signs shall not be displayed more than 30 days prior to an event and must be removed within 72 hours after said event, and shall not be displayed for more than 30 days.
125.5.13.
Decorative banners sponsored by a governmental agency or area chamber of commerce, provided that such signs shall not violate any provisions of section 125.2.7 unless otherwise provided for under this subsection. All signs requested under this subsection shall be made through the Zoning Enforcement Officer who shall review the request to ensure that all applicable provisions of the ordinance have been adhered to prior to giving approval. If a request involves placing a decorative banner or other sign on public right-of-way, including over any publicly owned street, then [Department of] Transportation approval [is required,] where applicable.
125.5.14.
Outdoor display price signs, where permitted, provided such sign shall not exceed one square foot.
125.6.
Signs as permitted uses. The following signs are permitted uses in the following specified zoning districts:
125.6.1.
All residential districts. Within the R-1, R-2, R-3, and R-MH residential districts, the following signs are permitted:
(1)
One sign for each subdivision relating to the sale of property within such subdivision, provided that such sign shall be within said subdivision, shall not exceed 32 square feet per sign area, shall not be illuminated, and shall be maintained at subdivider's expense. Failure to remove these signs will be a violation of this ordinance.
(2)
One sign for identifying multifamily dwellings of more than four units provided that such sign shall be located only on the premises of the multifamily dwellings, shall not exceed nine square feet in area, shall indicate nothing other than the name and/or address of the premises and the name of the management, and may have indirect illumination.
125.6.2.
Highway Commercial (C-1) District. Within the Highway Commercial (C-1) District, the following signs are permitted:
(1)
Business sign or signs having a maximum aggregate area not to exceed four square feet for each lineal foot of building or lot frontage, provided that no sign shall project more than five feet beyond the face of the building, and two freestanding signs shall be permitted per business. One of the freestanding signs shall not exceed 25 feet in height. Individual businesses in a shopping center complex are not permitted to erect a freestanding sign except as described in section 125.6.2.(2) below.
(2)
[Shopping centers shall be allowed one shopping center identification sign per road frontage. The signs shall have a maximum aggregate area not to exceed one square foot for each lineal foot of total lot frontage. The only freestanding signs permitted at shopping centers shall be shopping center identification signs. When a freestanding business sign located on a shopping center property advertising a business within the shopping center exists on or before the effective date of these regulations and such sign would not be erected under the provisions of these regulations, said sign shall be deemed to be nonconforming. A nonconforming freestanding business sign on a shopping center property may be continued] for a period of two years following the effective date of these regulations, provided that:
(a)
The sign shall be maintained in good condition;
(b)
The nonconforming sign shall not be structurally altered except in conformance with the provisions of these regulations; and
(c)
The nonconforming sign shall not be re-established after damage exceeding 50 percent of the current replacement cost.
After such period, the owner of said sign shall bring the sign into conformance with these regulations or shall remove the sign.
(3)
Temporary signs to be used for announcing special events or occasions of public interest, or grand openings or other special events relating to the premises on which the sign is to be located.
(4)
Portable signs pursuant to the provisions of section 125.9.
(5)
One square foot price signs shall be permitted on outdoor displays provided that the merchandise is within ten feet of the building or inside a fence or enclosure.
125.6.3.
General Commercial District (C-2). Within the C-2 General Commercial District, the following signs are permitted:
(1)
Business sign or signs having a maximum aggregate area not to exceed three square feet for each lineal foot of building or lot frontage, provided that no sign shall project more than three feet beyond the face of the building, and only two freestanding signs shall be permitted per business. However, one of the freestanding signs shall not exceed 20 feet in height. Individual businesses in a shopping center complex are not permitted to erect a freestanding sign except as described in section 125.6.3(2) below.
(2)
Shopping centers shall be allowed one shopping center identification sign per road frontage. The signs shall have a maximum aggregate area not to exceed one square foot for each lineal foot of total lot frontage. The only freestanding signs permitted at shopping centers shall be shopping center identification signs. When a freestanding business sign located on a shopping center property advertising a business within the shopping center exists on or before the effective date of these regulations and such sign would not be erected under the provisions of these regulations, said sign shall be deemed to be nonconforming. A nonconforming freestanding business sign on a shopping center property may be continued for a period of two years following the effective date of these regulations, provided that:
(a)
The sign shall be maintained in good condition;
(b)
The nonconforming sign shall not be structurally altered except in conformance with the provisions of these regulations; and
(c)
The nonconforming sign shall not be re-established after damage exceeding 50 percent of the current replacement cost.
After such period, the owner of said sign shall bring the sign into conformance with these regulations or shall remove the sign.
(3)
Temporary signs to be used for announcing special events or occasions of public interest, or grand openings or other special events relating to the premises on which the sign is to be located.
(4)
Portable signs pursuant to the provisions of section 125.9.
(5)
One square foot price signs shall be permitted on outdoor displays provided that the merchandise is within ten feet of the building or inside a fence or enclosure.
125.6.4.
Central Business District (C-3). The following signs are permitted within a C-3 Central Business District:
(1)
Business sign or signs having a maximum aggregate area not to exceed two square feet for each lineal foot of building or lot frontage, provided that no sign shall project more than two feet beyond the face of the building;
(2)
Only one freestanding sign shall be permitted per business;
(3)
Temporary signs to be used for announcing special events or occasions for public interest, or grand openings or other special events relating to the premises on which the sign is to be located.
125.6.5.
Light [and heavy] industrial districts. Within the I-1 Light Industrial and I-2 Heavy Industrial Districts, the following signs are permitted:
(1)
Business sign or signs having a maximum aggregate area not to exceed three square feet for each lineal foot of building or lot frontage, provided that no sign shall project more than five feet beyond the face of the building, and only one pylon sign shall be permitted per business.
(2)
One freestanding sign having a maximum area of one square foot for each lineal foot of lot frontage for the identification of the shopping center, in addition to the sign area requirements for each individual business in the shopping center as permitted in section 125.6.5(1).
(3)
Temporary signs to be used for announcing special events or occasions of public interest, or grand openings or other special events relating to the premises on which the sign is to be located.
(4)
Portable signs pursuant to the provisions of section 125.9.
125.7.
Signs as special exception. Within the Highway Commercial (C-1), General Commercial (C-2), Light Industrial (I-1), and Heavy Industrial (I-2) Districts only along arterial and collector streets and the interstate highway system, outdoor advertising signs may be permitted as special exception pursuant to the provisions of section 125.8. Any special exception request which is granted shall automatically expire 12 months from the date of approval if the person, firm, or corporation to which the special exception application was issued has not clearly demonstrated that the application is being exercised for the purpose for which it was issued.
125.8.
Special requirements for outdoor advertising signs. When, after review of an application for erection or construction of an outdoor advertising sign, the Commission finds that the proposed sign complies with the minimum requirements set out below and that the construction or erection of the proposed sign is in the public interest, the Commission may approve the application.
125.8.1.
General requirements.
(1)
The outermost vertical projection of an outdoor advertising sign shall be set back a minimum of ten feet from the established right-of-way lines of streets or highways.
Such projection shall not be located any closer than 20 feet to any structure or building.
(2)
Multiple stack signs shall be prohibited.
(3)
V-shaped signs are allowed provided that the horizontal distance of the outermost portion of the sign face does not exceed 20 feet on the wide angle side.
(4)
Maximum sign area shall not exceed 600 square feet.
(5)
No outdoor advertising sign shall be located within a 1,500-foot radius to another outdoor advertising sign.
(6)
Maximum height shall not exceed 50 feet above street grade except signs constructed along the interstate highway system shall be erected at such height as the Commission may determine.
(7)
No outdoor advertising sign shall be located within 1,500 feet of the property line of public schools, cemeteries, public parks, playgrounds or recreation areas, scenic areas or public buildings used primarily as places of public assembly.
(8)
No outdoor advertising structure shall be located within 500 feet of any property line of a residential district on the same right-of-way.
(9)
No outdoor advertising structure shall be located within 500 feet of any property line of a residential district used for residential purposes.
(10)
The amount of existing signage in the area of a proposed outdoor advertising sign may be a determinative factor in the Commission's decision.
125.8.2.
Application requirements for outdoor advertising signs. Applications for special exceptions for construction or erection of outdoor advertising signs shall contain the following information:
(1)
Name, address and telephone number of the sign erector and the sign owner;
(2)
A sketch showing the dimensions of the proposed outdoor advertising sign and the position of the sign in relation to nearby buildings or structures and to nearby streets, along with a photograph of the proposed sign location;
(3)
Plans and specifications and structural details of construction on the ground shall be furnished. A single submission may be permitted for standardized signs. All signs must conform to the standards of the building code and other codes that may be applicable;
(4)
Any electrical permit required for electrical hookup for a sign must be obtained; and
(5)
A permit fee shall be due with each application for a permit.
(6)
The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall require a Georgia Department of Transportation permit on any sign located on a state route prior to issuing a permit.
125.8.3.
Discontinuance. A nonconforming outdoor advertising sign which became such after the adoption of this ordinance and which has been discontinued for any reason for a continuous period of one year, shall not be re-established. In the event that any nonconforming outdoor advertising sign is to be replaced within the 12-month limitation, it must be constructed in the same location and otherwise shall be in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance.
125.9.
Special requirements governing the location and use of portable signs. Portable signs are considered special-purpose signs which, because of their manner of construction, design and use, create unique problems of safety, regulation and enforcement. The use of portable signs shall be governed by the criteria set out in this section.
125.9.1.
Conditions of use.
(1)
A portable sign must advertise or convey information concerning the premises upon which the sign is located. However, a portable sign used for the purpose of conveying information concerning events or occasions of public interest or for purposes of political advertisement shall be exempt from the provisions of this subsection.
(2)
Except as provided in 125.9.1(3) below, a business may utilize a portable sign for purposes of commercial advertising for 90-day periods, provided that each such use must be separated by a 30-day interval.
(3)
A portable sign may not be used by any business for the purpose of commercial advertising where the use of such sign will exceed the maximum allowable sign area requirements for that business except:
(a)
Where the business is newly opened or has undergone a change of ownership within 45 days of the date of the application for the permit; or
(b)
Where the portable sign is used to advertise a special event or occasion relating to such business, provided that such uses shall not exceed periods of 90 days separated by at least a 30-day interval.
(4)
Except for those signs which convey knowledge or ideas non-commercial in nature, or which are utilized by political candidates, no person, firm, business, or organization may utilize simultaneously more than one portable sign.
(5)
A portable sign may not advertise or convey information about more than one business activity.
125.9.2.
Location requirements. The location and use of portable signs shall be in accordance with the requirements set forth below.
(1)
A 50-foot interval shall be maintained between portable signs.
(2)
No portable signs shall be placed within the interior portion of a shopping center. For the purposes of this section, the interior portion of a shopping center is defined as the space within the existing building lines of the building or structures in the shopping center.
(3)
Portable signs shall not be located closer than ten feet to the inside curb line of the street on which the premises abuts or, in the event the street abutting the premises has no curb, within ten feet from the edge of the pavement. In no event shall a portable sign be located within the street right-of-way.
125.9.3.
Structural requirements.
(1)
Any sign involving electrical components shall comply with the pertinent requirements of the Georgia Mandatory Building Code.
(2)
Unsafe signs are prohibited.
(3)
Signs involving electrical connections and requiring use of an extension cord or other type of electrical wire for purposes of connecting the sign to an electrical outlet shall not be located, maintained or constructed so as to require more than 100 feet of such electrical wiring. Minimum requirements for all extension cords that cross any driveway surface in conjunction with portable signs shall be 12-gauge, three conductor wire with strength types of SJ or so designated as identified in Article 400-4 of the 1978 National Electrical Code. Any provision of the ordinances of the City of Buena Vista setting forth requirements for length of wire, wire size and gauge shall supersede this provision. Portable signs which require artificial lighting shall be illuminated only with white lights, none of which shall have a maximum wattage in excess of 50 watts per bulb. Floodlights, flashing, rotating or intermittent moving lights are prohibited. Regardless of the wattage of the individual bulbs used, the total illumination of the individual sign shall not create a traffic hazard.
(4)
No portable sign shall exceed 72 square feet of display or sign area for each face of the sign.
(5)
Signs shall be constructed and placed on location in such a manner that they cannot be readily moved. Recognizing that many portable signs are the property of businesses engaged in the business of renting such signs, it shall be the responsibility of both the business renting the sign and the occupier, owner or lessor of the premises on which a sign is located, to ensure that the sign is maintained in conformity with these regulations.
125.9.4.
Application procedures. All applications for portable sign permits shall be submitted to the Zoning Enforcement Officer on such forms as may be prescribed. At a minimum, an application shall be accompanied by an acceptable site plan with such reasonable information shown thereon as may be required by the Zoning Enforcement Officer. Such site plan shall include the following: lot dimensions, location of all structures, street names, street right-of-way lines, the distance from all street curbs or pavement edges to the portable sign, the distance from all side yard property lines to the portable sign, pedestrian walkways, vehicle driveways, and the distance to the nearest portable sign.
125.9.5.
Inspection of portable signs. Prior to issuance of a permit for a portable illuminated sign, the applicant must demonstrate to the Zoning Enforcement Officer that such sign meets all code requirements of the City of Buena Vista.
125.9.6.
The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall submit the application for a sign along with all accompanying documents to the City Council, who shall either approve or deny such request. The City Council may place such conditions as it deems necessary for the approval of such application.
125.10.
Temporary political signs. The provisions of the laws of the State of Georgia concerning campaign posters as set out in Official Code of Georgia Annotated 21-2-3 shall be enforced in the City, and the municipal court shall act as a committal court for violations thereof.
Sec. A-126. - Cemeteries.
Within the districts permitting cemeteries, the following requirements shall apply:
126.1.
The site proposed for a cemetery shall not interfere with the development of a system of collector streets in the vicinity of such a site. In addition, such site shall have direct access to a thoroughfare.
126.2.
Any new cemetery shall be located on a site containing not less than 20 acres.
126.3.
All structures shall be set back no less than 25 feet from any property line or street right-of-way line.
126.4.
All graves or burial lots shall be set back not less than 25 feet from any property line or minor street right-of-way lines, and not less than 50 feet from any collector, arterial, expressway, or freeway right-of-way lines.
126.5.
The entire cemetery property shall be landscaped and maintained.
Sec. A-127. - Satellite dish antennas.
Satellite dish antennas shall be permitted in any district subject to the following requirements:
127.1.
In residential and commercial districts, the satellite dish antenna shall be located in the rear yard and [be] subject to the same setbacks governing accessory buildings for that district. Satellite dish antennas must meet applicable building setback requirements for the district in which said dish antenna is to be located.
127.2.
In commercial and industrial districts, the satellite dish antenna must be located in the rear yard or on the roof of the main building; provided said dish antenna does not exceed Federal Aviation Administration height limitations for the district in which said dish antenna is to be located.
127.3.
No more than one satellite dish antenna shall be allowed per lot.
127.4.
In residential districts, the satellite dish antenna shall not exceed 20 feet in height. In commercial and industrial districts, a ground-based satellite dish antenna shall not exceed 20 feet in height.
Sec. A-128. - Bed and breakfast.
Bed and breakfast inns shall be permitted by special exception provided the following requirements are met:
128.1.
The proposed use of the property will not adversely affect the immediate neighborhood.
128.2.
The proposed use of the property will not create noise, light or traffic conditions detrimental to the neighboring residents.
128.3.
No exterior alterations, other than those necessary to assure the safety of the structure, shall be made to the dwelling for the purpose of providing a bed and breakfast inn.
128.4.
Meals, other than breakfast, may be served by the resident owner to paying guests.
128.5.
The resident owner shall keep a current guest register including names, addresses and dates of occupancy of all guests.
128.6.
The resident owner shall comply with all business license and revenue collection ordinances of the City of Buena Vista and the State of Georgia.
128.7.
The building shall comply with all requirements for dwellings included in the building code.
128.8.
The resident owner shall provide one off-street parking space for every guest room.
128.9.
The principal use of any such structure or structures shall be residential.
128.10.
Any business sign shall be attached to the building or be freestanding up to five feet in height and shall not be larger than two square feet in sign area.
128.11.
All bed & breakfast inns which were in operation prior to the enactment of this ordinance or were operated at a specific location any time within the previous ten years shall be exempt from the requirements of section A-128 & following sections under A-128.
ARTICLE XIII. - EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS

[Sec. A-130. - Purpose.]
This article is established to provide relief from unnecessary hardships that may occur from the application of this ordinance to a specific piece of property. Further, it is intended to provide for the establishment of group project developments that could not reasonably adhere to the provisions of this ordinance. Any person or other legal entity desiring to come within exceptions and modifications set forth in article XIII shall make applications to the Planning and Zoning Commission, who shall make an investigation of such application and make a recommendation to the City Council to either approve or disapprove the applications. The City Council shall either approve or disapprove such applications. The City Council may place such conditions it deems advisable to the approval of such application.
Sec. A-131. - Existing lots.
Where the owner of a plot of land consisting of one or more adjacent lots of record at the time of the enactment of this ordinance did not at that time own sufficient contiguous land to enable him to conform to the minimum lot size requirements of this ordinance, or if the topography, physical shape or other unique feature of such lots of record prevent reasonable compliance with the setback or other requirements of this ordinance, such plot of land may nevertheless be used as a building site. The yard and other space requirements of the district in which the piece of land is located may be reduced by the smallest amount that will permit reasonable use of the property as a building site; however, in no case shall the building inspector permit any lot in a residential district to be used as a building site which is less than 4,000 square feet in total area, 25 feet in width, or has front, side and rear yard setbacks of less than 15 feet (front), three feet (side), and five feet (rear), respectively.
Sec. A-132. - Front yard setback for dwellings.
The front yard setback requirements of this ordinance for dwellings shall not apply on any lot where the setback of an existing building or buildings located wholly or in part within 100 feet on each side of such lot within the same block and zoning district and fronting on the same side of the street is less than the required minimum setback. In such cases, the setback on such lots may be less than the required setback but not less than the average of the setbacks of the aforementioned existing buildings.
Sec. A-133. - Height limits.
The height limitations of this ordinance shall not apply to church spires, belfries, cupolas, domes, and similar structures not intended for human occupancy, nor to monuments, water towers, transmission towers, chimneys, smokestacks, derricks, conveyors, flagpoles, radio or television towers, or aerials, except in the vicinity of airports.
Sec. A-134. - Corner lots.
The side yard setback requirements for corner lots shall be the same as the front setback requirements for the next adjacent lot fronting on the street that the side yard of the corner lot faces.
Sec. A-135. - Vision clearance.
In all use districts except the General Commercial District (C-2), no fences, walls, shrubbery, or other obstructions (excluding traffic and street signs) to vision between the heights of three feet and 15 feet shall be permitted within 20 feet of the intersection of the right-of-way lines of streets or railroads.
Sec. A-136. - Group projects.
A group project (housing, commercial, industrial, educational, medical, religious, civic) of two or more buildings to be constructed on a plot of land of at least two acres not subdivided into customary streets and lots, and which will not be so subdivided, may be constructed provided:
136.1.
Uses are limited to those permitted within the district in which the project is located.
136.2.
The overall intensity of land use is no higher and the standard of open space is no lower than that permitted in the district in which the project is located.
136.3.
Building heights do not exceed the height limits permitted in the district in which the project is located.
136.4.
The distance of every building from the nearest property line shall meet the front yard setback and side yard requirements of the district in which the project is located.
136.5.
If the project is a planned shopping center, it shall be located on a major thoroughfare.
136.6.
Off-street automobile parking space requirements for the proposed uses are provided for on the lot as specified by article VII, section A-71.
136.7.
If the project lies within or abuts upon a residential district, there shall be a ten-foot-wide, appropriately planted buffer strip along the rear and side lot lines abutting the residential properties.
Sec. A-137. - Additional dwellings on a single lot.
The City Council, after a review of an application and public hearing thereon, may grant a special exception to permit one additional single-family dwelling, or manufactured home on the same lot or parcel of land as that of the main dwelling provided that:
137.1.
Each additional dwelling conforms to the minimum lot area, minimum width and maximum lot coverage requirements for such dwellings as set forth in section A-111 and conforms to the setback requirements as set forth in section A-111.
137.2.
The arrangement of such additional dwellings are in such a manner that if the lot or parcel of land is ever subdivided, no nonconforming lots or nonconforming buildings are created; and
137.3.
Each additional dwelling or manufactured home has access to a public street by means of an unobstructed passageway of at least 15 feet in width.
137.4.
Special exceptions to permit manufactured homes as an additional dwelling on a single lot shall be effective for a period of one year and may be renewed by the City Council.
Sec. A-138. - Animals in a residential district.
Animals may be kept in the residential districts subject to the district regulations and the following conditions:
138.1.
The minimum lot area upon which a horse or pony may be kept in a residential district is one horse per one acre.
138.2.
The minimum lot area upon which fowl may be kept is one acre. The maximum number of fowl that may be kept is ten fowl per one acre.
138.3.
A maximum number of four dogs and four cats may be kept in a residential district.
Sec. A-139. - Fences and walls.
A fence or wall not exceeding a height of six feet shall be permitted in all districts without a permit from the City Council. Any fence or wall exceeding six feet in height except for such fences or walls located in I-1 Light Industrial; and I-2 Heavy Industrial District, or fences or walls serving public utility or recreational areas must have the approval of the City Council. Any fence or wall allowed may extend up to and adjacent to a public right-of-way, except for arterial or collector streets where the setback shall be ten feet so long as the allowed fence or wall does not interfere with vision clearance of vehicular traffic or constitute an obstruction to vision which, in the discretion of the City Council, would create a condition hazardous or dangerous to the general public. All fences or walls shall also meet the approval of the City Engineering Department and shall be removed at the owner's expense when required for public improvements to rights-of-way.
ARTICLE XIV. - PROCEDURES FOR SUBDIVISION PLAT APPROVAL

Sec. A-140. - Platting authority.
The Commission shall be the official platting authority.
Sec. A-141. - Pre-application review.
Whenever the subdivision of a tract of land within the jurisdiction of the Commission is proposed, the subdivider should consult early and informally with the Zoning Enforcement Officer for advice and assistance. The subdivider may submit sketch plans and data showing existing conditions within the site and in its vicinity and the proposed layout and development of the subdivision. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall return within 15 days the submitted sketch to the subdivider and shall inform the subdivider where the plans do not comply with the regulations set forth in the ordinance. No fee shall be charged for the pre-application review and no formal application shall be required.
Sec. A-142. - Procedure for preliminary plat approval.
Prior to the cutting or grading of any street or the making of any street improvements or the installation of utilities, the subdivider shall submit to the Commission a preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision in accordance with the following:
142.1.
Application for preliminary plat approval. Following the pre-application review of a proposed subdivision, the subdivider shall submit to the City Council, at least ten days prior to the next regular meeting of the Commission, a letter requesting review and approval of a preliminary plat and other documents, as specified in section A-143 herein.
142.2.
Review of preliminary plat. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall check the plat for conformance to the rules and regulations of this ordinance and report his findings and recommendations to the Commission, who shall review the application and make a written recommendation to the City Council to approve or disapprove such application. The City Council shall hold a public hearing on the application and approve or disapprove such application.
142.2.1.
Preliminary approval. Following the hearing of the preliminary plat and other related material, the City Council may express preliminary approval noting the conditions of such approval on three copies of the preliminary plat with one copy being returned to the subdivider, one copy to the office of the Building Inspector for the City Council and one copy to be added to the records of the City Council. Approval of a preliminary plat does not constitute approval of a final plat. It indicates only approval of the layout as a guide to the preparation of the final plat.
142.2.2.
Expiration time. Preliminary approval shall expire and be of no further effect 12 months from the date of the preliminary approval unless final plat approval has been given on at least one lot of the development.
142.2.3.
Disapproval. Following the hearing of the preliminary plat and other related material, the City Council may find reasons detrimental to the public safety, health, and general welfare, or in conflict with adopted plans of the City Council which required the disapproval of the preliminary plat. A statement of the reasons for disapproval shall be made on two copies of the preliminary plat with one copy being added to the records of the City Council. The applicant may reapply for preliminary plat approval in accordance with section 142.1 herein.
142.2.4.
Automatic approval. Failure of the City Council to act on the preliminary plat within 30 days after submission thereof, without due cause, shall be deemed to be approval of the plat and a certificate of preliminary approval shall be issued by the City Council on demand; provided, however, that the subdivider may waive this requirement and consent to an extension of time.
Sec. A-143. - Preliminary plat specifications.
143.1.
Scale. The preliminary plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn at a scale not smaller than 200 feet to one inch.
143.2.
Sheet size. Sheet size shall not be greater than 18 inches by 24 inches. If the complete plat cannot be shown on a sheet of this size, it may be shown on more than one sheet with an index map on a separate sheet of a reduced scale.
143.3.
Ground elevations.
The preliminary plat shall show elevations based on the datum plane of the U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey, with a contour interval of five feet [or less if determined by the City Council].
The City of Buena Vista also reserves the right to require ground elevation on any plat of one lot or more submitted for approval.
143.4.
Information to be provided on preliminary plat. The preliminary plat shall contain the following information:
(1)
Name and address of owner of record and/or subdivider.
(2)
Proposed name of subdivision and its acreage.
(3)
North point and graphic scale and date.
(4)
Vicinity map showing location in relation to obvious geographic locations.
(5)
Exact boundary lines of the tract by bearing and distance.
(6)
Names of owners of record of adjoining land with its approximate acreage.
(7)
Existing streets, utilities and easements on and adjacent to the tract, including the size and width of each.
(8)
Proposed layout including streets, alleys and easements with both dimensions and proposed street names.
(9)
Block letters and lot numbers.
(10)
Provisions for water supply, sewerage and drainage.
(11)
Minimum building front yard setback lines.
(12)
Such typical street cross sections and centerline profiles as may be required.
(13)
Location of streams, lakes, and swamps and land subject to flooding as determined from past history flooding.
(14)
Existing zoning district classifications of the proposed subdivision and of adjoining properties.
(15)
Inscription stating "NOT FOR FINAL RECORDING."
143.5.
Certificate of preliminary approval. A certificate of approval of the preliminary plat by the City Council shall be inscribed on the plat as follows:
"In that all the requirements of Preliminary Approval having been fulfilled, this subdivision plat was given Preliminary Approval by the Buena Vista City Council on ________ 20___. This Preliminary Approval does not constitute approval of the Final Plat. This Certificate of Preliminary Approval shall expire and be null and void on ________ 20___.
EXPAND
_____
Date _____
Mayor
_____
Clerk, City of Buena Vista"
  143.6.
Initiation of installing physical improvements. After receiving a certificate of preliminary approval by the Commission, the subdivider may then proceed to grade the streets and install all improvements required under this ordinance and any other applicable regulations of the City Council. In lieu of the completion of all improvements prior to submission of the final plat, the subdivider may post a performance bond with the Treasurer of the City Council in an amount and with surety conditions satisfactory to it, providing for and assuring to the City Council the actual construction and installation of such improvements within the period of time specified by the City Council and stated in the bond.
Sec. A-144. - Final plat procedure.
After completion of the physical development of the subdivision or the posting of a performance bond, the subdivider shall submit to the City Council a final plat in accordance with the following procedures:
144.1.
Application for final plat approval. After the preliminary plat of a proposed land subdivision has been given preliminary approval by the City Council, the subdivider may, within one year or within such additional time as may be granted by the City Council, submit to the Zoning Enforcement Officer, at least ten days prior to the next regular meeting of the City Council, the following:
144.1.1.
A letter requesting review and approval of the final plat.
144.1.2.
Four printed copies of the final plat with signed certifications and other documents as specified in section A-145 herein.
144.1.3.
A final plat filing fee will be charged in accordance with the City of Buena Vista Fee Schedule at the time of filing the final plat.
144.2.
Review of the final plat. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall check the plat for conformance with the tentatively approved preliminary plat and with regulations of this ordinance.
144.2.1.
The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall present the request for a final approval of the plat along with all related documents, as well as his recommendation to the Commission, who shall meet and make a recommendation to the City Council, who shall hold a meeting, and either approve or disapprove the final approval of the plat. If the City Council approves the plat, the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall write "Approved by City Council, this _______ day of ________." on the various copies of the final plat and shall sign the same as Zoning Enforcement Officer. No approval of the final plat shall be given unless all conditions of the preliminary approval have been met and fully complied with.
144.2.2.
Disapproval. The City Council may find the final plat in conflict with the tentatively approved preliminary plat, or with [an] ordinance requiring the disapproval of said plat. The disapproval shall be placed on two copies of the final plat with one copy being returned to the subdivider and one copy being added to the records of the City Council.
144.2.3.
Automatic approval. Failure of the City Council to act on the final plat within 30 days after submission thereof shall be deemed to be approval of the plat and certificate of final approval shall be issued by the City Council on demand; provided, however, that the subdivider may waive this requirement and consent to an extension of time.
Sec. A-145. - Final plat specifications.
145.1.
Conformance with the preliminary plat. The final plat shall conform to the conditions of the tentatively approved preliminary plat.
145.2.
Original tracing specifications. The final plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn on any acceptable tracing material as required by the Office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Marion County. The scale shall be 100 feet or 50 feet to the inch on a sheet size of not greater than 18 inches by 24 inches. If the complete plat cannot be shown on one sheet of this size, it may be shown on more than one sheet with an index at a reduced scale.
145.3.
Additional specifications. The final plat shall conform with the Georgia Plat Act and shall contain the following information:
(1)
Name and address of owner of record and of subdivider.
(2)
North point and graphic scale and date.
(3)
Vicinity map showing location and acreage of the subdivision.
(4)
Names and [addresses of] owners of record of adjoining land with its appropriate acreage.
(5)
Location of streams, lakes, and swamps and land subject to flood as determined from past history of flooding.
(6)
Bearing and distance to permanent points on the nearest existing street lines or benchmarks or other permanent monuments [not less than three] shall be accurately described on the plat.
(7)
Municipal and county lines shall be accurately tiled to the lines of the subdivision by distance and angles when such lines traverse or are reasonably close to the subdivision.
(8)
The closest land lot corner shall be accurately tied to the lines of the subdivision by distance and angles.
(9)
Land lot and land district numbers shall be shown.
(10)
Exact boundary lines of the tract determined by a field survey, giving distances to the nearest one-tenth foot and angles to the nearest minute shall be balanced and closed with an apparent error of closure not to exceed one in 5,000.
(11)
Name of subdivision, exact locations, widths, and names of all streets and alleys within and immediately adjoining the new subdivision shall be shown on the plat.
(12)
Street right-of-way lines shall show angles of deflection, angles of intersection, radii, and lines of tangents.
(13)
Lot lines shall be shown with dimensions to the nearest one-tenth.
(14)
Lots shall be numbered in numerical order and blocks letter alphabetically.
(15)
Each lot shall have a house number.
(16)
Location, dimension, and purposes of any easements and any areas to be reserved or depicted for the public use shall be shown on the plat.
(17)
Accurate location, material, and description of monuments and markers shall be described on the plat.
(18)
Minimum building front yard setback lines shall be shown.
145.4.
Surveyor's certification. A signed certification by a registered land surveyor certifying to the accuracy of the survey and stamp shall be placed on the final plat as follows:
"The field data upon which this map is based have a closure precision of one foot in _______ feet and an angular error of _______ per angle point, and was adjusted using the _______ rule.
This map or plat has been calculated for closure and is found to be accurate within one foot in _______ feet.
The linear and angular measurements shown on this plat were obtained by using a _____ and _____.
EXPAND
By: ___________
Georgia Registered Land Surveyor No. _____"
  145.5.
Owner's certification. A signed certification of ownership shall be placed on the final plat as follows:
"Owner's Certification:
State of Georgia, County of Marion.
The undersigned certifies that he is the owner of the land shown on this plat and acknowledges this plat and allotment to be his free act and deed and dedicates the public use forever all areas shown or indicated on this plat as streets, alleys, easements, or parks.
EXPAND
_____
Date _____
Owner's Name"
  145.6.
Certificate of approval by the City Council. A signed certification of the City Council shall be placed on the final plat as follows:
"We certify that the owner, or his agent, has completed the construction and installation of the streets, drainage, utilities and other improvements in accordance with the laws and specifications of the City of Buena Vista, Georgia; or has posted a performance bond in lieu thereof.
EXPAND
_____
Date _____
Building Official, City of Buena Vista, GA
_____
City Clerk, City of Buena Vista, GA"
  Sec. A-146. - Certification of final approval by the City Council.
Certification of final approval by the City Council shall be placed on the final plat only after every item in sections A-144 and A-145 of this ordinance has been complied with and shall state the following:
"I certify that all requirements for final approval of this plat have been fulfilled in accordance with the ordinances of the City of Buena Vista, Georgia, and the requirements of the Buena Vista Planning Commission.
EXPAND
_____
Date _____
Chairperson, Commission"
  Sec. A-147. - Recording of final plat.
Upon the approval of a final plat by the City Council, the owner or his agent shall have the final plat recorded in the Office of the Clerk of the Superior Court prior to the sale of any lot in the subdivision. Upon recording of the approved final plat, a copy of any private covenants or deed restrictions shall be provided by the subdivider for the records of the Commission.
ARTICLE XV. - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND MINIMUM STANDARDS OF DESIGN FOR THE SUBDIVISION OF LAND

Sec. A-150. - General design requirements.
150.1.
Suitability of land. Land subject to flooding, improper drainage, or erosion, or which is for topographical, geological or other reasons unsuitable for residential use, shall not be platted for residential use or for other uses that will continue to increase the danger to health, safety, or property destruction, unless the hazards can be and are corrected.
150.2.
Name of subdivision. The name of the subdivision must have the approval of the City Council. The name shall not duplicate nor closely approximate the name of any existing subdivision.
150.3.
Access. Access to every subdivision shall be provided over a public street.
150.4.
Through traffic. Minor streets shall be so laid out that their use by through traffic will be discouraged.
150.5.
Conformance to adopted major thoroughfare and other plans.
All street and other features of the major thoroughfare plan of the City of Buena Vista, Georgia, shall be platted by the subdivider in the location and to the dimension indicated on the major street plan adopted by the City Council.
When features of other plans adopted by the City Council (such as schools or other public building sites, parks, or other land for public use) are located in whole or in part in a land subdivision, such features shall be either dedicated or reserved by the subdivider for acquisition within a reasonable time by the appropriate public agency.
Sec. A-151. - General requirements for streets and other rights-of-way.
151.1.
Continuation of existing streets. Existing streets shall be continued at the same or greater width, but in no case less than the required width.
151.2.
Connections with future subdivisions. Streets shall be reserved at strategic locations to provide for future access to adjoining properties which may be subdivided in the future. Each street connection shall intersect property lines at a 90-degree angle.
151.3.
Street names. Street names shall require the approval of the City Council. Streets that are obviously in alignment with streets already in existence and already named shall be given the name of the existing streets. Names of new streets shall not duplicate or closely approximate those existing streets.
151.4.
Street jogs. Street jogs with centerline offsets less than 125 feet shall not be permitted.
151.5.
Cul-de-sacs. Cul-de-sacs or dead-end streets shall be provided at the closed end with a turnaround having a property line radius of at least 50 feet with an outside pavement radius of at least 40 feet.
151.6.
Development along major streets, limited-access highways or railroad rights-of-way. Where a subdivision abuts or contains an expressway, freeway, arterial or collector street, or a railroad right-of-way, the City Council may require a street approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way either as a marginal access street or at a distance suitable for an appropriate use of intervening land, with a non-access reservation suitably planned. Due regard should be given requirements for approach grades and future grade separations in determining distances. Lots shall have no access to expressways, freeways, or arterial streets, but only to an accessible street in which case the City Council may require double frontage lots.
151.7.
Half streets. Half streets shall be prohibited except where essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other requirements of these regulations, and where the City Council finds it will be practical to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining property is subdivided, the other half of the street shall be platted within such tract.
151.8.
Alleys. The requirements for providing alleys within a subdivision are as follows:
151.8.1.
Alleys shall be provided in multifamily, commercial, and industrial districts, except where other definite and assured provision is made for service access such as off-street parking, loading and unloading consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed.
151.8.2.
Alleys shall not be provided in one- and two-family residential developments unless the subdivider provides evidence satisfactory to the City Council of the need for alleys.
151.8.3.
Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be avoided, but, where necessary, corners shall provide sufficient radius to permit safe vehicular movements.
151.8.4.
Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but, if unavoidable, shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities at the dead-end as determined by the City Council.
151.9.
Reserve strips and easements.
151.9.1.
Reserve strips controlling the access to streets shall be prohibited except where this control is definitely placed in the hands of the City Council under conditions approved by the City Council. The City Council may restrict access to expressways, freeways, arterial and collector streets by requiring all lots to face and have access to only minor streets.
151.9.2.
Easements having a minimum width of ten feet and located along the side or rear lot lines shall be provided, as is necessary, for utility lines and underground mains and cables. Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater or drainage right-of-way of adequate width. Parallel streets may be required by the City Council therewith.
Sec. A-152. - Rights-of-way width requirements.
152.1.
The minimum street right-of-way widths shall be as follows:
(1)
Freeways and expressways: 150 feet.
(2)
Arterial streets: 100 feet.
(3)
Collector streets: 80 feet.
(4)
Minor commercial and industrial streets: 60 feet.
(5)
Minor residential streets: 60 feet.
(6)
Dead-end streets (cul-de-sacs): 50 feet.
(7)
Marginal access streets: 50 feet.
(8)
Alleys: 20 feet.
152.2
The City Council may require a larger right-of-way than those listed in section 152.1.
Sec. A-153. - Street design requirements.
153.1.
Street intersections. Street intersections shall be as nearly at right angles as possible with no street intersection being at any angle of less than 75 degrees.
153.2.
Right-of-way radius. The streets right-of-way radius at street intersections shall be at least 20 feet. Where the angle of street intersection is less than 90 degrees, the City Council may require a longer radius.
153.3.
Additional width on existing streets. Subdivisions that adjoin existing streets shall dedicate additional rights-of-way, if needed, to meet the minimum street width requirements set forth in section A-152.
153.3.1.
The entire right-of-way shall be provided where any part of the subdivision is on both sides of the existing streets.
153.3.2.
When the subdivision is located on only one side of an existing street, one-half of the required right-of-way, measured from the centerline of the existing roadway, shall be provided.
Sec. A-154. - Design standards for block and lots.
154.1.
Design lengths and widths. Block lengths and widths shall be determined based on the following requirements:
154.1.1.
Blocks shall not be greater than 2,200 feet nor less than 400 feet in length.
154.1.2.
Blocks shall be wide enough to provide two tiers of lots of minimum depth, except where abutting upon major streets, limited-access highways or railroads, or where other situations make this requirement impractical, in which case the City Council may approve a single tier of lots of minimum depth.
154.1.3.
Blocks shall have pedestrian walkways not less than ten feet wide, where deemed essential, to provide circulation, or access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation and other community facilities.
154.2.
Lot sizes. Lot dimensions shall conform to the requirements set forth in the zoning districts in which the land to be subdivided is located. Residential corner lots shall have adequate width to permit appropriate building setback from and orientation to both abutting streets.
154.3.
Building lines. A building line meeting the front and side yard setback requirements of the zoning district in which the subdivision is located shall be established on all lots.
154.4.
Lots abutting dedicated streets. Each lot shall abut a dedicated street.
154.5.
Double frontage lots. Double frontage lots should be avoided except where essential to provide separations of residential development from traffic arterials or to overcome specific disadvantage of topography and orientation. A planting screen easement of at least ten feet, and across which there shall be no right of access, shall be provided along the line of lots abutting such a traffic artery of other disadvantage use.
Sec. A-155. - Modifications of subdivision requirements.
155.1.
Modifications of the provisions set forth in the subdivision regulations may be authorized by the City Council in specific cases when, in its opinion, undue hardship may result from strict compliance; provided only such determination shall be based fundamentally on the fact that unusual topographical and other exceptional conditions requiring such modifications will not adversely affect the general public or nullify the intent of these regulations; provided further that any such modifications granted by the City Council shall be made in writing to the subdivider and also made a part of the City Council's records and the plat.
155.2.
Application for any modifications must be filed in writing with necessary supporting documents with the reasons and facts supporting the application.
Sec. A-156. - Stormwater management.
156.1.
Application procedure.
156.1.1.
Stormwater management plans shall be submitted to the Building Department or City Engineer for approval. These plans shall comply with the requirements set forth in section 156.2 below.
156.1.2.
The City Engineer and/or Zoning Enforcement Officer may require that the plans be certified by a state-registered civil engineer to ensure compliance with all regulations.
156.2.
Standards for stormwater management.
156.2.1.
A combination of storage and controlled release of stormwater runoff shall be required when the proposed development shall increase the peak rate of runoff by more than one percent for a ten-year frequency storm;
156.2.2.
Should the peak rate of stormwater runoff from the site exceed the permitted peak release rate, then on-site retention or detention shall be required. All retention or detention facilities shall be designed for all intensities up to and including the 100-year frequency for all duration of rainfall. All stormwater management facilities shall comply with the provisions of the Buena Vista Stormwater Ordinance. The peak runoff from the site after the development shall not be greater than the permitted peak release rate; and
156.2.3.
The live retention or detention storage to be provided shall be calculated on the basis of the 100-year frequency rainfall, as published by the National Weather Service for the affected site. The retention or detention volume required shall be that necessary to handle the runoff of the 100-year rainfall for any and all duration from the proposed development, less than that volume discharged during the same duration at the approved release rate as specified above.
156.3.
Permit. A stormwater management plan approved by the City Engineer and/or Zoning Enforcement Officer shall constitute a permit that will satisfy the requirements of this section.
ARTICLE XVI. - REQUIRED SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS

Sec. A-160. - Monuments.
Right-of-way and property line monuments shall be in place in each subdivision in accordance with the following:
160.1.
Right-of-way monuments. A concrete marker imbedded at least two feet into the ground shall be required at the intersection of the centerline of all street rights-of-way. Such concrete markers shall be at least four inches in diameter. The top surface of such concrete marker shall be level with the surface of the street.
160.2.
Property line monuments. An iron pin or concrete marker at least two feet into the ground shall be required at each lot corner and each point where the property line changes direction. Such an iron pin shall be at least three-quarter inch in diameter. The top surface of such iron pin shall be approximately level with the ground surface. Such concrete marker shall be at least four inches in diameter. The top surface of such iron pin shall be approximately level with the ground surface.
Sec. A-161. - Special classification of streets for construction.
All streets shall be classified for construction purposes only as follows:
161.1.
Standard street. A standard street shall be paved, curbed and guttered in accordance with the specifications required herein, and shall be required in all zoning districts. Right-of-way width requirements shall be in accordance with section A-152 herein.
Sec. A-162. - Additional street design requirements.
162.1.
Grades, horizontal curves, tangents, and sight distances. The following street design requirements shall be adhered to in addition to other requirements stated herein:
EXPAND
Arterial Streets Collector Streets Other Streets
Maximum street grades 6% 8% 12%
Minimum radii of centerline curvature 800' 500' 100'
Minimum length of tangent between
reverse curves 300' 200' 100'
Minimum stopping sight distance 350' 240' 200'
  162.2.
Vertical curves. All changes in grade shall be connected by vertical curves of minimum length in feet equal to 15 times the algebraic difference in percent of grades for expressways, freeways, arterial and collector streets, and one-half this minimum length for other streets. Profiles of all streets showing natural and finished grades drawn to a scale of not less than one inch equals 100 feet horizontally and one inch equals 20 feet vertically may be required by the City Council.
Sec. A-163. - Basic construction requirements for all streets.
163.1.
Grading. All streets, roads and alleys shall be graded to their full width by the subdivider so that pavements and sidewalks, where required or if installed in the future, can be constructed on the same level plane. The preparation of the right-of-way before grading is started and the construction of cuts and fills shall be accomplished in accordance with the requirements herein and other specifications of the City Council.
163.2.
Storm drainage. An adequate drainage system based on at least the ten-year rainfall frequency, including necessary curb, pipes, culverts, headwalls, and ditches, shall be provided for the proper drainage of all surface water.
163.3.
Installation of utilities. After grading is completed and approved and before any base is applied, all of the underground utilities, water mains, sewer mains, gas mains, or any other underground utilities, and all service connections related thereto, shall be installed completely and proved throughout the length of the street and across the flat section. Service connections for sanitary sewer and water shall be extended to the right-of-way lines.
163.4.
Slopes and shoulder improvements. The minimum ratio for all fill or cut slopes shall be two to one and the minimum width for all shoulders from back edge of the curb, if installed, shall be eight feet. All shoulders shall slope one-half inch to the foot. When all construction is completed, all slopes and shoulders shall be cleared of all rubbish and shall have a stand of grass to prevent undue erosion, either by sprigging or seeding.
Sec. A-164. - Roadway surfacing and paving.
For standard streets, the following minimum requirements shall be adhered to for the surfacing and paving of said streets:
164.1.
Pavement base. The pavement bases, not including the surface courses, shall be one of the following types and shall be of the following minimum thickness as designated for each street:
EXPAND
Other Streets Collector Streets Arterial Streets
Graded aggregate base 6" 7" 8"
Soil bituminous stabilized
base 6" 7" 8"
Soil bound macadam base 6" 7" 8"
Soil cement base 6" 7" 8"
Sand clay base 8" 8" 8"
  164.2.
Thickness of pavement. The pavement shall be one of the following types and shall be designated for each street classification:
EXPAND
Other Streets Collector Streets Arterial Streets
Portland cement surface 6" 6" 8"
Asphaltic concrete surface 2" 2¾" * 3½" **
  * - The 2¾ inch consists of a 1½ inch binder and a 1¼ in surface.
** - The 3½ inch consists of a two-inch binder and a 1½ inch surface.
164.3.
Minimum pavement width. All minor residential streets shall have a minimum pavement width of 27 feet from back of curb to back of curb, or 24 from edge of pavement to edge of pavement if no curb or gutters are installed. All other street width requirements shall be determined by the City Council as required.
164.4.
Pavement breaks for utility connections. When it is necessary for a subdivider or any utility company to break existing pavement for the installation of utilities for drainage facilities, or for any other purposes, the subdivider or utility company shall be financially responsible for the repair of the pavement. The pavement shall be in accordance with the specifications required herein for construction of streets.
164.5.
Curbs and gutters. Either the regular six-inch or four-inch rollover concrete curbs and gutters with a minimum overall width of 24 inches shall be constructed on all standard streets. Cement concrete valley gutter shall be permitted across minor residential streets at street intersections only when no storm sewers are available as determined by the Zoning Enforcement Officer. Valley gutters shall be at least six feet in width. Whenever driveway openings are provided for lots abutting the street, the driveway shall be six inches thick and a minimum of ten feet in width at the sidewalk or at the street right-of-way line. The driveway shall have a minimum three foot radius at the curb line.
164.6.
Temporary turnarounds. Temporary turnarounds shall be required at the discretion of the City Council. Said turnarounds shall consist of a tack coat with one inch of asphalt.
164.7.
Quality control and testing requirements. It will be the responsibility of the developer or his authorized representative to ensure that all tests required are made. The cost of all testing and quality control will be performed at the expense of the developer by qualified testing laboratories approved by the City Council. In all test reports, thickness of base and asphaltic concrete will be shown.
Table 6-10.5: Quality Control and Testing Requirements
EXPAND
Type of Test to be Performed Minimum Number of
Tests to be Performed Testing Standards
Sub-grade compaction
(density in place) One (1) per 500 L.F. of
roadway 95% max. density
ATSM-1557
Field Tests ASTM D-1556 F-2922 & D-2167
Base compaction One (1) per 500 L.F. of
roadway 100% max. density
ATSM-1557
Field Test-ASTM D-1556, D-2922 & D-2167
Asphaltic concrete (density in place) One (1) per 1,000 L.F. of roadway 92% laboratory density
Asphaltic concrete
(thickness in cores) Intervals not to exceed 500 L.F. Deficient in thickness not more than ½"
  Sec. A-165. - Installation of utilities.
165.1.
Water. Water mains for both domestic use and fire protection shall be properly sized by the City and connected with the public system. The lines shall be constructed in such a manner as to adequately serve the subdivision. The lines shall be sized and installed in conformance with water specifications for the City. The City Council may participate in sharing the costs of construction and installation of water system for any difference in the cost to lay oversized pipe and outfall systems, which are needed in excess of the required water facilities needed to exclusively serve the new subdivision as determined by the Mayor and Council.
165.2.
Sewer. A publicly connected sanitary sewer system shall be installed, and the subdivider shall incur the cost for the installation of all sewer systems, which are required to serve the new subdivision including the cost of installing and tying in with the existing sewer system. The City Council may participate in sharing the cost of construction and installation of sewer systems for any difference in the cost of oversized pipe and outfall systems, which are needed in excess of the required sewer facilities needed to exclusively serve the new subdivision as determined by the Mayor and Council. All sewer facilities shall be installed in accordance with the standards of the Georgia Department of Human Resources and with the sewer specifications for the City.
165.3.
Gas. When gas mains are connected with the gas distribution system of the City, the lines shall be installed in such a manner as to serve adequately all lots shown on the subdivision plats. The gas line shall be constructed in conformance with the gas specifications for the City.
165.4.
Underground electrical system. If the subdivider installs an underground electrical system, he shall provide the Building Inspector with detailed plans showing the exact location of the lines.
165.4.1.
Overhead street lighting. In cases where an underground electrical system has been installed, the subdivider shall provide terminal facilities and lighting fixtures for street lighting. This fixture shall be placed on the street pavement and in a location so as not to hinder the flow of traffic.
165.4.2.
Cost of overhead street lighting. In cases of underground electrical systems, the subdivider shall assume the entire cost for installation of terminal street lighting fixtures.
Sec. A-166. - Sidewalks.
166.1.
Sidewalk dimensions. Unless otherwise specified, all sidewalks shall be four inches thick with a minimum width of five feet. A 30-inch grass planting strip shall be provided between the back of the planting curb and the sidewalk. The 30-inch grass planting strip between the back of the curb and the sidewalk shall not be required on streets designated as alternate transportation routes.
Sec. A-167. - Administrative procedures.
The administrative procedures for installing the subdivision improvements required herein shall be as follows:
167.1.
When construction may begin. Construction and installation of any required public improvement as described herein shall not begin until the City Council has given preliminary approval of the new subdivision. The subdivider shall then confer with the Zoning Enforcement Officer to determine the method and estimated cost of the construction and installation of the required improvements.
167.2.
Plans to be filed with the City Council. Four copies of all plans for streets, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, sidewalks, and other required public improvements showing the proposed plan and profile of each shall be submitted to and approved by the City Council prior to beginning construction and installation of the system. The plan shall be prepared from an actual engineering survey, originating at the existing street, sewer, sidewalk and other required public improvements, prepared on standard plan and profile sheets showing cross sections. Each system for any one new subdivision shall be prepared by a registered professional engineer.
167.3.
Inspections and approval by the City Council. During the construction and installation of the required public improvements, the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall, from time to time, make field inspections and supervise said work as predetermined and agreed upon by the Zoning Enforcement Officer, the City Council and the subdivider. After completion of all the construction and installation of the required public improvements and if said work has met the specifications as described herein, as determined by the Zoning Enforcement Officer, the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall notify the subdivider in writing of the approval of said work.
167.4.
Official acceptance by the City Council. The City Council shall officially accept the completed work on the construction and installation of required public improvements one year from the date of the written acceptance by the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
167.5.
Performance bond. If the subdivider does not wish to construct and install any required public improvements as described herein prior to submitting the subdivision plat to the City Council for final approval, a performance bond shall be required as provided for in section 143.6, such bond being equal to the estimated cost of construction. When the work has been completed satisfactorily, the City Council shall release 90 percent of the funds in escrow with a letter of approval to the subdivider. The remaining ten percent shall remain in escrow for maintenance purposes.
167.6.
Maintenance of completed work. The subdivider shall maintain his completed work until the official acceptance by the City Council as described in section 167.4 above. The subdivider shall be required to sign a maintenance agreement with the City Council. If a maintenance bond is posted by the subdivider, a bond equaling ten percent for the construction cost shall be required. During the maintenance period the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall make final inspection and notify the subdivider and the bonding company, or in cases where funds are being held in escrow, the cost for making such corrections shall be deducted from these funds, and the subdivider charged with any costs above the amount of escrow funds. If the work is acceptable at this time, the remaining ten percent of the escrow funds shall be released to the subdivider.
167.7.
Cost of improvements.
167.7.1.
Subdivider's responsibility. The subdivider shall incur the cost of construction and installation of all required public improvements based on the following:
(1)
Streets. Incur the cost for the construction of streets up to 27 feet in pavement width from back of curb to back of curb or 24 feet in pavement width from the edge of pavement to edge of pavement if no curbs and gutters are installed.
(2)
Water and sewer systems. Incur the cost for the installation of all water and sewer systems which is required to serve the new subdivision and tie in with existing water and sewer systems, based on the specifications set forth herein.
(3)
Monuments. Entire cost.
167.7.2.
City council's responsibility. The City Council shall partially participate in sharing the cost of construction and installation of required public improvements for the following conditions:
(1)
Streets. Incur cost for any additional required pavement which is in excess of 27 feet for streets with curbs and gutters and in excess of 24 feet for streets without curbs and gutters, and any additional grading and paving related thereto.
167.7.3.
Property owner's responsibility. Whenever the City Council is petitioned by the property owners to upgrade an existing substandard street to a standard street, the property owners shall then incur the entire cost for said improvements based on the footage along the property line of each lot abutting the street which is being improved and on the requirements in section 167.7.1 above.
167.7.4.
Estimated costs for construction and installation. The current unit prices in effect at the time of submission of plans shall be used in determining the total estimated cost for construction and installation of required public improvements in new subdivisions.
167.8.
"As-built" plans. The developer will provide the City of Buena Vista two sets of "as-built" plans based upon actual work constructed. Record drawings will show references for valve and manhole locations, distances between manholes and utility service locations.
ARTICLE XVII. - PROCEDURE FOR REQUESTING AN AMENDMENT TO THE BUENA VISTA ZONING ORDINANCE

Sec. A-170. - Amendments to the text of the ordinance.
When the City Council, Commission, or any person, firm, or corporation desires to amend, supplement, or change the text of the regulations contained herein, the following procedures shall be followed:
170.1.
An application must be submitted in writing to the Zoning Enforcement Officer describing the proposed amendment, supplement, or change. All applications shall be submitted no less than ten days prior to the regular meeting of the Commission.
170.2.
The application shall be sent to the Commission for review and recommendation, and said Commission shall have 30 days within which to submit a report to the City Council. If the Commission fails to submit a report within the 30-day period, it shall be deemed to have approved the proposed amendment. This shall be effective provided that within the 30-day period there has been a regular scheduled meeting of the Commission and that all information requested by the Commission concerning said application has been made available to the Commission.
170.3.
All applications shall be sent to the City Council with the recommendations of the Planning and Zoning Commission; the City Council shall hold a public hearing thereon provided that legal notice has been published in a newspaper of general circulation in the City no less than 15 days and no more than 45 days prior to the hearing.
170.4.
The City Council shall hold a public hearing at the earliest possible time under the time limits spelled out above to consider the proposed text amendment. The recommendations of the Commission shall be read aloud into the minutes at the public hearing. The City Council shall take action on said proposed text amendment within 45 days from the date of the public hearing by approving or disapproving the recommendation, by approving it with modifications, or by remanding the matter with instructions to the Planning and Zoning Commission. Upon re-submission by the Commission, the City Council shall hold a public hearing as described above and take final action on the request.
170.5.
Any petition for a text amendment may be written prior to action thereon by the City Council at the discretion of the person, firm, or corporation initiating such a request upon written notice to the Clerk of the City.
170.6.
Any petition for a text amendment to these regulations, unless said petition is initiated by the City Council or the Commission, shall be accompanied by a fee payment equal to the cost of advertising for the required public hearing.
Sec. A-171. - Official zoning district map amendments.
When the City Council, Commission, or any person, firm or corporation desires to amend the official zoning district map, the following procedures shall be followed:
171.1.
An application must be submitted in writing to the Zoning Enforcement Officer and must be accompanied with a site plan of the proposed use included in any petition for a zoning map amendment. Such site plan shall include building site, parking areas, and egress and ingress into the proposed area, and shall include the existing land use on adjacent and surrounding properties. All applications shall be submitted no less than 20 days prior to the next regular meeting of the Commission. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall cause to have posted in a conspicuous place on the property or parcel of land involved in the zoning amendment a minimum of one sign for every 500 feet of road frontage, each of which shall be not less than six square feet in area with yellow background and black lettering. Each sign shall contain information as to the proposed change and the date and time of an informational hearing before the City Council for the purpose of discussing the proposed change and giving the public opportunity for input relative to said change. The cost of each sign placed on the property advertising the informational hearing shall be paid by the applicant prior to said hearing. Said sign shall be posted 15 days prior to date of informational hearing.
171.2.
The Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend approval, approval with conditions, or denial of the proposed zoning amendment. A report of the Planning and Zoning Commission's recommendation accompanying a summary of the proceedings of the hearing shall be submitted to [the] Mayor and City Council. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall include recommendations for conditions or limitation on uses appropriate to ameliorate the impact on the surrounding area. Where the applicant does not agree to such conditions or limitation on uses, the recommendation shall be interpreted as a recommendation for denial unless the conditions or limitations are accepted by the applicant.
171.3.
The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall cause to have posted in a conspicuous place on the property or parcel of land involved in the zoning amendment one or more signs not less than six square feet in area with orange background and black lettering; each sign shall contain information as to the proposed change and the date and time of the required public hearing, and the cost of each sign shall be paid by the applicant prior to the public hearing. Said signs shall be posted 15 days prior to date of public hearing.
171.4.
Before enacting any amendment to the zoning map, the City Council shall hold a public hearing thereon provided that legal notice has been published in a newspaper of general circulation in the City no less than 15 days and no more than 45 days prior to the hearing.
171.5.
The City Council shall hold a public hearing at the earliest possible time under the time limits spelled out above to consider the proposed zoning map amendment. The recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be read aloud into the minutes at the public hearing. The City Council shall take action on said proposed zoning map amendment within 45 days from the date of their public hearing.
171.6.
The City Council shall hold a public hearing at the earliest possible time under the time limits spelled out above to consider the proposed zoning map amendment. The recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be read aloud into the minutes at the public hearing. The City Council, after receiving the recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission, shall take appropriate official action on the application and shall notify the applicant of the action taken. The City Council shall act upon the recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission within 45 days from the date of their public hearing by approving or disapproving the recommendation, by approving it with modifications or conditions, or by remanding the matter with instructions to the Planning and Zoning Commission.
171.7.
A property owner, or his appointed agent, shall not initiate action for a zoning map affecting the same parcel of land more often than once every six months.
171.8.
Any petition for a map amendment to this resolution, unless said petition is initiated by the City Council or the Commission, shall be accompanied by a fee payment determined by the City Council.
171.9.
In reviewing a proposed amendment to the official zoning district map and taking action on said proposed amendment, the following standards governing the exercise of the zoning power are adopted in accordance with O.C.G.A. section 36-66-5(b):
(1)
The existing land uses and zoning classification of nearby property;
(2)
The suitability of the subject property for the zoned purposes;
(3)
The extent to which the property values of the subject property are diminished by the particular zoning restrictions;
(4)
The extent to which the destruction of property values of the subject property promotes the health, safety, morals or general welfare of the public;
(5)
The relative gain to the public as compared to the hardship imposed upon the individual property owner;
(6)
Whether the subject property has a reasonable economic use as currently zoned;
(7)
The length of time the property has been vacant as zoned considered in the context of land development in the area in the vicinity of the property;
(8)
Whether the proposed zoning will be a use that is suitable in view of the uses and development of adjacent and nearby property;
(9)
Whether the proposed zoning will adversely affect the existing use or usability of adjacent or nearby property;
(10)
Whether the zoning proposal is in conformity with the policies and intent of the land use plan;
(11)
Whether the zoning proposal will result in a use which will or could cause an excessive or burdensome use of existing streets, transportation facilities, utilities, or schools; and
(12)
Whether there are other existing or changing conditions affecting the use and development of the property which give supporting grounds for either approval or disapproval of the zoning proposal.
Sec. A-172. - Special exceptions.
When the City Council, Commission, or any person, firm or corporation desires a special exception, the following procedures shall be followed:
172.1.
An application must be submitted in writing to the Zoning Enforcement Officer and must be accompanied with a site plan of the proposed use included in any petition for a special exception. Such site plan shall include building site, parking areas, and egress and ingress into the proposed area, and shall include the existing land use on adjacent and surrounding properties. All applications shall be submitted no less than 20 days prior to the next regular meeting of the Commission. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall cause to have posted in a conspicuous place on the property or parcel of land involved in the special exception a minimum of one sign for every 500 feet of road frontage, each of which shall be not less than six square feet in area with yellow background and black lettering. Each sign shall contain information as to the proposed change and the date and time of an informational hearing before the Commission for the purpose of discussing the proposed special exception and giving the public opportunity for input relative to said change. The cost of each sign placed on the property advertising the informational hearing shall be paid by the applicant prior to said hearing. Said sign shall be posted 15 days prior to date of informational hearing.
172.2.
After the review of the application by the Commission and the informational hearing, the Commission shall have 30 days within which to submit a report to City Council. If the Commission fails to submit a report within the 30-day period, it shall be deemed to have approved the special exception. This shall be effective provided that within the 30-day period there has been a regularly scheduled meeting of the Commission and that all information requested by the Commission concerning said application has been made available to the Commission.
172.3.
The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall cause to have posted in a conspicuous place on the property or parcel of land involved in the zoning amendment one or more signs not less than six square feet in area with orange background and black lettering; each sign shall contain information as to the proposed change and the date and time of the required public hearing, and the cost of each sign shall be paid by the applicant prior to the public hearing. Said signs shall be posted 15 days prior to date of public hearing.
172.4.
Before enacting any special exception, the City Council shall hold a public hearing thereon provided that legal notice has been published in a newspaper of general circulation in the City no less than 15 days and no more than 45 days prior to the hearing.
172.5.
The City Council shall hold a public hearing at the earliest possible time under the time limits spelled out above to consider the proposed special exception. The recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be read aloud into the minutes at the public hearing. The City Council shall take action on said proposed special exception within 45 days from the date of their public hearing.
172.6.
Any petition for a special exception may be withdrawn prior to action thereon by the City Council at the discretion of the person, firm, or corporation initiating such a request upon written notice to the Clerk of the City.
172.7.
A property owner, or his appointed agent, shall not initiate action for a special exception affecting the same parcel of land more often than once every six months.
172.8.
Any petition for a special exception to this resolution, unless said petition is initiated by the City Council or the Commission, shall be accompanied by a fee payment determined by the City Council.
172.9.
In reviewing a proposed application for a special exception, the following standards shall apply where applicable:
172.9.1.
The existing land use pattern.
172.9.2.
Whether the proposed use would have an adverse effect on the land development plan.
172.9.3.
Whether all proposed structures, equipment or material will be readily accessible for fire and police protection.
172.9.4.
Whether the proposed use will be of such location, size, and character that, in general, it will be in harmony with the appropriate and orderly development of the area in which it is proposed to be situated and will not be detrimental to the orderly development of adjacent properties or a deterrent to the improvement of adjacent properties in accordance with the zoning classification of such properties, the existing land use pattern or the land development plan.
172.9.5.
Whether, in the case of any use located in or directly adjacent to a residential district or area:
(1)
The nature and intensity of operations will be such that both pedestrian and vehicular traffic to and from the use and the assembly of persons in connection therewith will not be hazardous or inconvenient to, or incongruous with, said residential district or area, or conflict with the normal traffic of the neighborhood; and
(2)
The location and height of buildings, and other structures, and the nature and extent of screening, buffering or landscaping on the site will be such that the use will not hinder or discourage the appropriate development and use of adjacent land and buildings in conformance with existing zoning districts and development pattern.
172.9.6.
Whether the proposed use will increase the population density resulting in the increase or overtaxing of the load on public facilities such as schools, utilities, streets, etc.; or approval of the use would encourage adjacent areas to develop at higher densities than provided in the comprehensive plan resulting in the overtaxing of such public facilities.
172.9.7.
Whether the proposed use will cause a health hazard, a public safety problem, or create a nuisance or cause excessively increasing traffic and associated congestion; create a drainage problem; generate unnecessary disturbance due to noise, the emittance of smoke or other contaminants, odor, electrical interference or cause pollution to land, air and/or water.
172.9.8.
Whether the proposed change will adversely affect property values in adjacent areas.
172.9.9.
Whether there are substantial reasons why the property cannot be used for a permitted use in the district where the property is located.
ARTICLE XVIII. - ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES

Sec. A-180. - Violation.
This ordinance is adopted pursuant to the 1982 Georgia Constitution as amended. A violation of any provision of this ordinance constitutes a misdemeanor, and every day such violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense. Upon conviction, any person violating any provision of this ordinance shall be fined not less than $500.00 and up to 90 days in jail, either, or both, or any part of either for each offense.
Sec. A-181. - Zoning enforcement.
It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector and he is hereby given the authority to administer and enforce the provisions of this ordinance. It shall be unlawful to construct, reconstruct, or alter any buildings or other structures without first obtaining a building permit from the Zoning Enforcement Officer or to use such buildings or structures of any land without first obtaining an occupancy permit from the Zoning Enforcement Officer, and the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall not issue any permit unless the zoning requirements of this ordinance are complied with.
Sec. A-182. - Subdivision enforcement.
182.1.
The filing or recording of a plat of a subdivision without approval of the City Council constitutes a violation of this ordinance, and the description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transferring or other document used in the process of selling or transfer shall not exempt the transaction from such penalties. The City Council, through its attorney or other designated official, may enjoin such transfer or sale or agreement by appropriate action.
182.2.
No plat or plan of a subdivision within the City of Buena Vista shall be filed or recorded by a subdivider in the Office of the Clerk of Superior Court of Marion County until it has been submitted to and approved by the Commission and the City Council and such approval entered in writing on the plat by the secretary of the Planning and Zoning Commission and by the Mayor and City Clerk as aforesaid.
Sec. A-183. - Remedies.
In case any building or structure is or is proposed to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure of land is or is proposed to be used in violation of this ordinance, the Building Inspector, City Attorney or other appropriate authority of the City of Buena Vista or any adjacent or neighboring property owner who would be specifically damaged by such a violation may, in addition to other remedies, institute injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance, or use; or to correct or abate such violation; or to prevent the occupancy of said building, structure, or land.
ARTICLE XIX. - LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS

[Sec. A-190. - Purpose.]
This article is established to present the legal status of this ordinance and to resolve differences and conflicts between this ordinance and other ordinances.
Sec. A-191. - Conflict with other regulations.
Whenever the regulations of this ordinance require more restrictive standards than are required in or under any other statute, the requirements of this ordinance shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any other statute require more restrictive standards than are required by this ordinance, the provisions of such statute shall govern.
Sec. A-192. - Separability.
Should any section or provision of this ordinance be declared invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration shall not affect the validity of the ordinance as a whole or any part thereof which is not specifically declared to be invalid or unconstitutional.
Sec. A-193. - Effective date.
This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the date of its adoption, the public welfare demanding it.
Sec. A-194. - Repealer.
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed and rescinded.
