PART I - CHARTER[1]
PREFACE
This Charter is presented for the use and benefit of the citizens of the City of Buena Vista, Georgia.
It is not a revision of an old Charter but is a completely new one put together through the diligent efforts of the Mayor and Council in cooperation with the Middle Flint Area Planning and Development Commission.
The Charter is divided into seven articles for easy reference. The numbering system used is similar to the system used in many state and municipal codes and charters. Each section number consists of two component parts separated by a period, the figure before the period referring to the article number, the figure after the period referring to the position of the section within the article. The numbering system is open-ended, thus allowing new sections to be inserted in their proper places simply by using the correct section number designation.
If it is desired to add new materials, they may be included by the addition of a fraction after the article number; e.g., if new material is to be included between articles 2 and 3, it may be designated as article 2.5.
The Charter as provided is complete and up to date. The successful maintenance of the Charter will depend largely on the officials of the City of Buena Vista. It is strongly recommended that amendments to the Charter be inserted immediately and that all deleted pages be saved and filed for historical reference purposes.
A thorough, cross-referenced index is furnished with the Charter to facilitate its use. Each particular item has been placed under several headings in the index to direct the user to the particular item in which he is interested.
The publication of this Charter has been greatly aided by the cooperation and interest of the Mayor and Council.
EXPAND
Middle Flint APDC
Ellaville, Georgia
  Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the Charter of the City of Buena Vista, Georgia, adopted on January 4, 1977. Amendments to the Charter are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Charter. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform, and the same system of capitalization, citation to state statutes and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

ARTICLE I. - INCORPORATION, POWERS

Sec. 1.10. - Incorporation.
This Act shall constitute the whole Charter of the City of Buena Vista, repealing and replacing the Charter provided by an Act of the General Assembly, approved July 31, 1920 (1920 Ga. Laws, page 792). The City of Buena Vista, Georgia, in the County of Marion and the inhabitants thereof, are hereby constituted and declared a body politic and corporate under the same name and style of Buena Vista, Georgia, and by that name shall have perpetual succession, may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, in all the courts of law and equity, and in all actions whatsoever, and may have and use a common seal and change it at pleasure.
Sec. 1.11. - Corporate boundaries.
(a)
The boundaries of the City of Buena Vista shall be those existing on the effective date of the adoption of this Charter with such alterations as may be made from time to time in the manner provided by law. The current boundaries of the City of Buena Vista, at all times, shall be shown on a map to be retained permanently in the office of City Clerk and to be designated: "City of Buena Vista, Georgia." Alterations in these boundaries shall be indicated by appropriate entries upon or additions to such map. Such entries or additions shall be made by and under the direction of the Mayor. Photographic or other copies of such map certified by the Mayor shall be admitted as evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as with the original map.
(b)
The City Council may provide for the redrawing of any such map. A redrawn map shall supersede for all purposes the earlier map or maps which it is designated to replace.
Sec. 1.12. - Examples of powers.
The corporate powers of this City may include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
(1)
Property taxes. To levy and to provide for the assessment, valuation, revaluation, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation.
(2)
Other taxes. To levy and collect such other taxes as may be allowed now or in the future by state law.
(3)
Business regulation and taxation. To levy and to provide for the collection of license fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades and professions; to license and regulate the same; to provide for the manner and method of payment of such licenses and taxes; and to revoke such licenses after due process for failure to pay any City taxes or fees.
(4)
Appropriations and expenditures. To make appropriations for the government of the City, to authorize the expenditure of money for any purposes authorized by this Charter and for any purpose for which a municipality is authorized by the laws of the State of Georgia, and to provide for the payment of expenses of the City.
(5)
Municipal debts. To appropriate and borrow money for the payment of debts of the City and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized by this Charter or the laws of the state.
(6)
Municipal property ownership. To acquire, dispose of, and hold in trust or otherwise, any real, personal, or mixed property, in fee simple or lesser interest, inside or outside the property limits of the City.
(7)
Gifts. To accept or refuse gifts, donations, bequests or grants from any source for any purpose related to the powers and duties of the City and the general welfare of its citizens, on such terms and conditions as the donor or grantor may impose.
(8)
Condemnation. To condemn property, inside or outside the corporate limits of the City for present or future use, and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the governing authority, under section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia, 1933 (O.C.G.A. § 22-1-1 et seq.), or under other applicable general laws of the State of Georgia, [as] are or may be enacted.
(9)
Municipal utilities. To acquire, lease, construct, operate, maintain, sell and dispose of public utilities, including, but not limited to, a system of waterworks, sewers and drains, sewage disposal, gas works, electric light plants, transportation facilities, public airports, and any other public utility; to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, assessments, regulations and penalties and withdrawal of service for refusal or failure to pay same and the manner in which such remedies shall be enforced.
(10)
Public utilities and services. To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public service, to prescribe the rates, fares, regulations and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with such regulations by the Public Service Commission.
(11)
Roadways. To lay out, open, extend, widen, narrow, establish or change the grade of, abandon, or close, construct, pave, curb, gutter, adorn with shade trees, otherwise improve, maintain, repair, clean, prevent erosion of, and light roads, alleys, and walkways within the corporate limits of the City; and to grant franchises and rights-of-way throughout the streets and roads, and over the bridges and viaducts, for the use of public utilities.
(12)
Public improvements. To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation and maintenance of public ways, parks and playgrounds, recreational facilities, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, public housing, airports, hospitals, terminals, docks, parking facilities, or charitable, cultural, educational, recreational, conservation, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies, and facilities; and any other public improvements, inside or outside the corporate limits of the City; and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia, 1933 (O.C.G.A. § 22-1-1 et seq.), or other applicable general laws of the State of Georgia, as are or may be enacted.
(13)
Sidewalk maintenance. To require real estate owners to repair and maintain in a safe condition the sidewalks adjoining their lots or lands; and to enact ordinances establishing the terms and conditions under which such repairs and maintenance shall be effected, including the penalties to be imposed for failure to do so.
(14)
Building regulation. To regulate the erection and construction of buildings and all other structures; to adopt building, housing, plumbing, electrical, gas, and heating and air conditioning codes and to regulate all housing, building, and building trades; to license the construction and erection of buildings and all other structures.
(15)
Planning and zoning. To provide such comprehensive City planning for development by zoning; subdivision regulation and the like as the City Council deems necessary and reasonable to ensure a safe, healthy, and aesthetically pleasing community.
(16)
Public peace. To provide for the prevention and punishment of drunkenness, riots, and public disturbances.
(17)
Special areas of public regulation. To regulate or prohibit junk dealers; pawn shops; the manufacture, sale or transportation of intoxicating liquors; the use and sale of firearms; to regulate the transportation, storage and use of combustible, explosive and inflammable materials, the use of lighting and heating equipment, and any other business or situation which may be dangerous to persons or property; to regulate and control the conduct of peddlers, and itinerant trades, theatrical performances, exhibitions, shows of any kind whatever, by taxation or otherwise; to license, tax, regulate or prohibit professional fortunetelling, palmistry, adult bookstores, and massage parlors.
(18)
Regulation of roadside areas. To prohibit or regulate and control the erection, removal, and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings and any and all other structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the rights-of-way of streets and roads or within view thereof, within or abutting the corporate limits of the City, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation of such ordinances.
(19)
Health and sanitation. To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(20)
Air and water pollution. To regulate the emission of smoke or other exhaust which pollutes the air and to prevent the pollution of natural streams which flow within the corporate limits of the City.
(21)
Fire regulations. To fix and establish fire limits and from time to time to extend, enlarge or restrict same; to prescribe fire safety regulations not inconsistent with general law, relating to both fire prevention and detection and to firefighting, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation thereof.
(22)
Public hazards, removal. To provide for the destruction and removal of any building or other structure which may or might become dangerous or detrimental to the public.
(23)
Solid waste disposal. To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse and to regulate the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse by others; and to provide for the separate collection of glass, tin, aluminum, cardboard, paper, and other recyclable materials and to provide for the sale of such items.
(24)
Garbage fees. To levy, fix, assess, and collect a garbage, refuse and trash collection and disposal and other sanitary service charge, tax, or fee, for such services as may be necessary in the operation of the City from all individuals, firms, and corporations residing in or doing business therein benefiting from such services; to enforce the payment of such charges, taxes or fees, and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges.
(25)
Sewer fees. To levy a fee, charge or sewer tax as necessary to assure the acquiring, constructing, equipping, operating, maintaining, and extending of a sewage disposal plant and sewer system, and to levy on the users of sewers and the sewer system a sewer service charge fee or sewer tax for the use of the sewers; and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges and for enforcing payment of same; to charge, impose and collect a sewer connection fee or fees, and to charge the same from time to time; such fees to be levied on the users connecting with the sewer system.
(26)
Nuisance. To define a nuisance and provide for its abatement whether on public or private property.
(27)
Municipal property protection. To provide for the preservation and protection of property and equipment of the City and the administration and use of same by the public, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof.
(28)
Jail sentences. To provide that persons given jail sentences in the City's court shall work out such sentence in any public works or on the streets, roads, drains and squares in the City; or to provide for commitment of such persons to any county work camp or jail by agreement with the appropriate county officials.
(29)
Animal regulations. To regulate and license, or prohibit the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same, if in violation of any ordinance or lawful order; also to provide for their disposition by sale, gift, or humane disposal, when not redeemed as provided by ordinance; to provide punishment for violation of the ordinance enacted hereunder.
(30)
Motor vehicles. To regulate the operation of motor vehicles and exercise control over all traffic, including parking, upon or across the streets, roads, alleys and walkways of the City.
(31)
Taxicabs. To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the City; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in the amounts to be prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate and rent parking spaces in public ways for the use of such vehicle.
(32)
Pensions. To provide and maintain a system of pensions and retirement for officers and employees of the City.
(33)
Special assessments. To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the costs for any public improvements.
(34)
Contracts. To enter into contracts and agreements with other governmental entities and with private persons, firms and corporations providing for services to be made therefor.
(35)
City agencies and delegation of power. To create, alter or abolish departments, boards, offices, commissions and agencies of the City, and to confer upon such agencies the necessary and appropriate authority for carrying out all the powers conferred upon or delegated to same.
(36)
Penalties. To provide penalties for violations of any ordinance adopted pursuant to the authority of this Charter and the laws of the State of Georgia.
(37)
Police and fire protection. To exercise the power of arrest through duly appointed policemen and to organize and operate a firefighting agency.
(38)
Emergencies. To establish procedures for determining and proclaiming that an emergency situation exists within or without the City, and to make and carry out all reasonable provisions deemed necessary to deal with or meet such an emergency for the protection, safety, health or well-being of the citizens of the City.
(39)
Urban redevelopment. To organize and operate an urban redevelopment program.
(40)
Public transportation. To organize such public transportation systems as are deemed beneficial.
(41)
General health, safety, and welfare. To define, regulate and prohibit any act, practice, conduct or use of property which is detrimental to the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of the inhabitants of the City and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(42)
Other powers. To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, or general welfare of the City and its inhabitants; and to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this Charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully stated herein; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under other laws of the State of Georgia. No listing of particular powers in this Charter shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers, but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to municipalities under the constitution or applicable laws of the State of Georgia.
Sec. 1.13. - Exercise of powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the City, its officers, agencies, or employees shall be carried into execution as provided by this Charter. If this Charter makes no provision, such shall be carried into execution as provided by ordinance or as provided by pertinent laws of the State of Georgia.
ARTICLE II. - GOVERNING BODY

Sec. 2.10. - Creation; composition; number; election.
The governing authority of this City shall be composed of a Mayor and five Councilmen who shall be elected in the manner provided by article V of this Charter.
Sec. 2.11. - Terms and qualification of office.
The members of the governing body shall serve for terms of four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. No person shall be eligible to serve as Mayor or Councilman unless he shall have been a resident of the City for a period of one year immediately prior to the date of the election of Mayor or members of the Council and shall continue to reside therein during his period of service and shall be registered and qualified to vote in municipal elections of the City.
Sec. 2.12. - Vacancy; filling of; forfeiture of office.
(a)
The Office of Mayor or Councilman shall become vacant upon the incumbent's death, resignation, forfeiture of office or removal from office in any manner authorized by this Charter or the laws of the State of Georgia.
(b)
A vacancy in the Office of Mayor or Councilman shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, as provided for in article V of this Charter.
(c)
The Mayor or any Councilman shall forfeit his office if he:
(1)
Lacks at any time during his term of office any qualifications of the office as prescribed by this Charter or the laws of the State of Georgia;
(2)
Willfully and knowingly violates any express prohibition of this Charter; or
(3)
Is convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude.
Sec. 2.13. - Compensation and expenses.
The salaries of the Mayor and Council shall be fixed by said Mayor and Council at the first regularly scheduled meeting of the City Council immediately following the regular election held each year except as otherwise limited by the general laws of the State of Georgia. The Mayor and Council of the City shall be entitled to receive their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
Sec. 2.14. - Prohibitions.
Except as authorized by law, no member of the Council shall hold any other elective City office or City employment during the term for which he was elected.
Sec. 2.15. - Code of ethics.
The Council may enact by ordinance a code of ethics which shall apply to all elected officials, appointed officers and employees of this City.
Sec. 2.16. - Inquiries and investigations.
The Council may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the City and the conduct of any department, office, or agency thereof and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony and require the production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of these powers by the Council shall be punished as provided by ordinance.
Sec. 2.17. - General power and authority of the Council.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided by law or by this Charter, the Council shall be vested with all the powers of government of this City as provided by article I of this Charter.
(b)
In addition to all other powers conferred upon it by law, the Council shall have the authority to adopt and provide for the creation of such ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this Charter, the constitution and the laws of the State of Georgia, which it shall deem necessary, expedient, or helpful for the peace, good order, protection of life and/or property, health, welfare, sanitation, comfort, convenience, prosperity, or well-being of the inhabitants of this City. The Council may enforce such ordinances by imposing penalties for the violation thereof.
(c)
The Council may, by ordinance, create, change, alter, abolish, or consolidate offices, agencies, and departments of the City and may assign additional functions to any of the offices, agencies, and departments expressly provided for by this Charter.
Sec. 2.18. - Chief executive officer.
The Mayor shall be the chief executive of this City. He shall possess all of the executive and administrative powers granted to the City under the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, and all the executive and administrative powers contained in this Charter.
Sec. 2.19. - Powers and duties of Mayor.
As the chief executive of this City, the Mayor:
(a)
Shall see that all laws and ordinances of the City are faithfully executed;
(b)
Shall preside at all meetings of the Mayor and Council and vote in the event of a tie vote among the Council;
(c)
Shall appoint and remove all officers, department heads, and employees of the City by and with the consent of Council except as otherwise provided for in this Charter;
(d)
Shall exercise supervision over all executive and administrative work of the City and provide for the coordination of administrative activities;
(e)
May prepare and submit to the Council a recommended annual operating budget and recommended capital budget;
(f)
May submit to the Council at least once a year a statement covering the financial conditions of the City and, from time to time, such other information as the Council may request;
(g)
Shall recommend to the Council such measures relative to the affairs of the City, improvement of the government, and promotion of the welfare of its inhabitants as he may deem expedient;
(h)
Shall call special meetings of the Council as provided for in section 2.23(b);
(i)
Shall approve or disapprove ordinances as provided in section 2.20;
(j)
May examine and audit all accounts of the City;
(k)
Shall require any department or agency of the City to submit written reports whenever he deems it expedient;
(l)
Shall perform other duties as may be required by general state law, this Charter or ordinance.
Sec. 2.20. - Submission of ordinances to the Mayor; veto power.
(a)
Every ordinance adopted by the Council shall be presented promptly by the Clerk to the Mayor.
(b)
The Mayor, within ten calendar days of receipt of an ordinance, shall return it to the Clerk with or without his approval, or with his disapproval. If the ordinance has been approved by the Mayor, it shall become law upon its return to the Clerk; if the ordinance is neither approved nor disapproved, it shall become law at 12:00 noon on the tenth calendar day after its adoption; if the ordinance is disapproved, the Mayor shall submit to the Council through the Clerk a written statement of his reasons for his veto. The Clerk shall record upon the ordinance the date of its delivery to and receipt from the Mayor.
(c)
Ordinances vetoed by the Mayor shall be presented by the Clerk to the Council at its next meeting and should the Council then or at its next general meeting adopt the ordinance by an affirmative vote of three members, it shall become law.
(d)
The Mayor may disapprove or reduce any item or items of appropriation in any ordinance. The approved part or parts of any ordinance making appropriations shall become law, and the part or parts disapproved shall not become law unless subsequently passed by the Council over the Mayor's veto as provided herein. The reduced part or parts shall be presented to Council as though disapproved and shall become law unless overridden by Council as in subsection (c) above.
Sec. 2.21. - Mayor Pro Tem; selection; duties.
The Council shall elect by majority vote from among its members a Mayor Pro Tem who shall assume the duties and powers of the Mayor upon the Mayor's disability or absence. The Council shall elect an acting Mayor Pro Tem from among its members for any period in which the Mayor Pro Tem is disabled, absent or acting as Mayor. Any such absence or disability shall be declared by majority vote of all members of the Council.
Sec. 2.22. - Organization meeting.
(a)
The Council shall meet for organization on the first scheduled meeting in January next following the City election. The meeting shall be called to order by the City Clerk and the oath of office shall be administered to the newly elected members as follows: "I do solemnly swear that I will well and truly perform the duties of (Mayor or Councilman as the case may be) of this City and that I will support and defend the Charter thereof as well as the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and of the United States of America."
(b)
Following the induction of members, the Council by majority vote of all the members thereof shall elect one of their number to be Mayor Pro Tem. The Mayor Pro Tem shall serve for a term of one year and until his successor is elected and qualified.
Sec. 2.23. - Regular and special meetings.
(a)
The Council shall hold regular meetings at such times and places as prescribed by ordinance. The Council may recess any regular meeting and continue such meeting on any weekday or hour it may fix and may transact any business at such continued meeting as may be transacted at any regular meeting.
(b)
Special meetings of the Council may be held on call of the Mayor or two members of the Council. Notice of such special meetings shall be served on all other members personally, or by telephone, or shall be left at their residences in advance of the meeting. Such notice shall not be required if the Mayor and all Councilmen are present when the special meeting is called. Notice of any special meeting may be waived in writing before or after such meeting and attendance at the meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of any special meeting. Only the business stated in the call may be transacted at the special meeting except by unanimous consent of all members present. With such consent, any business which may be transacted at a regular meeting may be conducted at the special meeting.
(c)
All meetings of the Council shall be public to the extent required by general state law and notice to the public of special meetings shall be made fully as is reasonably possible 48 hours prior to such meetings.
Sec. 2.24. - Rules of procedure.
The Council shall adopt its rules of procedure and order of business consistent with the provisions of this Charter and shall provide for keeping a journal of its proceedings which shall be a public record.
Sec. 2.25. - Quorum; voting.
Three Councilmen shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact business of the Council. Voting on the adoption of ordinances shall be taken by voice vote, and the ayes and nays shall be recorded in the journal, but any member of the Council shall have the right to request a roll call vote. The affirmative vote of three Councilmen shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion except as otherwise provided in this Charter.
Sec. 2.26. - Action requiring an ordinance.
(a)
Except as herein provided, every official action of the Council which is to become law shall be by ordinance. Each proposed ordinance or resolution shall be introduced in writing and in the form required for final adoption. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not expressed in its title. The enacting clause shall be: "The Council of the City of Buena Vista hereby ordains …" and every ordinance shall so begin.
(b)
An ordinance may be introduced by any member of the Council and read at a regular or special meeting of the Council. Ordinances shall be considered and adopted or rejected by the Council in accordance with the rules which it shall establish; provided, however, [that] an ordinance shall not be adopted the same day it is introduced, except by unanimous consent of Council or for emergency ordinances as provided in section 2.27. Upon introduction of any ordinance, the Clerk shall as soon as reasonable distribute a copy to the Mayor and to each Councilmember and shall file a reasonable number of copies in the office of the Clerk and at such other public places as the Council may designate.
Sec. 2.27. - Emergency ordinances.
To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property, or public peace, the Council may adopt one or more emergency ordinances but such ordinances may not levy taxes; grant, renew or extend a franchise; regulate the rate charged by any public utility for its services; or authorize the borrowing of money except as provided by law. An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form and manner prescribed for ordinances generally except that it shall be plainly designated as an emergency ordinance and shall contain, after the enacting clause, a declaration stating that an emergency exists and describing it in clear and specific terms. An emergency ordinance may be adopted with or without amendment or rejected at the meeting at which it is introduced, but the affirmative vote of at least three Councilmen shall be required for adoption. It shall become effective upon adoption or at such later time as it may specify. Every emergency ordinance shall automatically stand repealed 60 days following the date upon which it was adopted, but this shall not prevent reenactment of the ordinance in the manner specified in this section if the emergency still exists. An emergency ordinance may also be repealed by adoption of a repealing ordinance in the same manner specified in this section for adoption of emergency ordinances.
Sec. 2.28. - Codes of technical regulations.
(a)
The Council may adopt any standard code of technical regulations by reference thereto in an adopting ordinance. The procedure and requirements governing such adopting ordinance shall be as prescribed for ordinances generally except that:
(1)
The requirements of section 2.26(b) of this Charter for assuring public access to the ordinance shall be construed to include copies of any code of technical regulations as well as the adopting ordinance; and
(2)
A copy of each adopted code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance, shall be authenticated and recorded by the City Clerk pursuant to section 2.29 of this Charter.
(b)
Copies of any adopted code of technical regulations may be made available by the City Clerk for distribution or for purchase at a reasonable price.
Sec. 2.29. - Signing, authenticating, recording; codification; printing.
(a)
The City Clerk shall authenticate by his signature and record in full in a properly indexed book, kept for the purpose, all ordinances adopted by Council. Every ordinance shall be signed by the Mayor after adoption.
(b)
The Council may provide for the preparation of a general codification of all the ordinances of the City. The general codification shall be adopted by the Council by ordinance and shall be published promptly together with all amendments thereto, with this Charter and any amendment thereto, and such codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations as the Council may specify. This compilation shall be known and cited officially as "The Code of the City of Buena Vista, Georgia." Copies of the Code may be furnished to all officers, departments, and agencies of the City and made available for purchase by the public at a reasonable price as fixed by the Council.
(c)
The Council shall cause each ordinance and each amendment to this Charter to be printed promptly following its adoption. Following publication of the first Code of this City and at all times thereafter, the ordinances and Charter amendments shall be printed in substantially the same style as the Code currently in effect and shall be suitable in form for incorporation therein. The Council shall make such further arrangements as deemed desirable with respect to reproduction and distributions of any current changes in or additions to codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations included in the Code.
ARTICLE III. - ADMINISTRATIVE AFFAIRS

Sec. 3.10. - Administrative and service departments.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, the Council shall prescribe the functions or duties and establish, abolish, or alter all nonelective offices, positions of employment, departments and agencies of the City, as necessary for the proper administration of the affairs and government of this City.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter or general state law, department heads and other appointed officers of the City shall be appointed solely on the basis of their respective administrative and professional qualifications as shall be prescribed by the governing authority.
(c)
All appointive officers and department heads shall receive such compensation as prescribed by Council.
(d)
There may be a director of each department or agency who shall be its principal officer. Each director may, subject to the direction and supervision of the Mayor, be responsible for the administration and direction of the affairs and operations of his department or agency.
(e)
All Directors under the supervision of the Mayor shall be nominated by the Mayor with confirmation of appointment by the Council. The Mayor may suspend or remove Directors under his supervision but such shall not be effective unless written notice of such action and the reasons therefor are given to the Director involved and the Council. The Director involved may appeal to the Council who, after a hearing, may override the Mayor's action by a vote of three Councilmembers.
Sec. 3.11. - Boards, commissions and authorities.
(a)
The Council shall create by ordinance such boards, commissions and authorities to fulfill any investigative, quasi-judicial or quasi-legislative function the Council deems necessary and shall by ordinance establish the composition, period of existence, duties and powers thereof.
(b)
All members of boards, commissions and authorities of the City shall be appointed by the Council for such terms of office and in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance, except where other appointing authority, term of office or manner of appointment is prescribed by this Charter or general state law.
(c)
The Council may provide for the compensation and reimbursement for actual and necessary expenses of the members of any board, commission, or authority.
(d)
Any vacancy on a board, commission, or authority of the City shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner prescribed herein for original appointment, except as otherwise provided by this Charter or general state law.
(e)
No member of a board, commission or authority shall assume office until he has executed and filed with the Clerk of the City an oath obligating himself to faithfully and impartially perform the duties of his office, such oath to be administered by the Mayor.
(f)
Any member of a board, commission or authority may be removed from office for cause by a vote of three members of the Council.
(g)
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter or by general state law, each board, commission or authority of the City shall elect one of its members as chairman and one member as vice-chairman and may elect as its secretary one of its own members or may appoint as secretary an employee of the City. Each board, commission, or authority of the City government may establish such bylaws, rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this Charter, ordinances of the City, or general state law, as it deems appropriate and necessary for the fulfillment of its duties or the conduct of its affairs, copies of which shall be filed with the Clerk of the City.
Sec. 3.12. - City Attorney.
The Council may appoint a City Attorney, together with such Assistant City Attorneys as may be authorized, and shall provide for the payment of such Attorney or Attorneys for services rendered to the City. The City Attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the City in all litigation in which the City is a party; may be the prosecuting officer in the municipal court; shall attend the meetings of the Council as directed; shall advise the Council, Mayor, and other officers and employees of the City concerning legal aspects of the City's affairs; and shall perform such other duties as may be required of him by virtue of his position as City Attorney.
Sec. 3.13. - City Clerk.
The Council may appoint a City Clerk to keep a journal of the proceedings of the City Council and to maintain in a safe place all records and documents pertaining to the affairs of the City and to perform such other duties as may be required by law or as the Council may direct.
Sec. 3.14. - Tax Collector.
The Council may appoint a Tax Collector to collect all taxes, licenses, fees and other monies belonging to the City subject to the provisions of this Charter and the ordinances of the City, and the Tax Collector shall diligently comply with and enforce all general laws of the State of Georgia relating to the collection, sale, or foreclosure of taxes by municipalities.
Sec. 3.15. - City Accountant.
The Council may appoint a City Accountant to perform the duties of an accountant.
Sec. 3.16. - Consolidation of functions.
The Council may consolidate any two or more of the positions of City Clerk, City Tax Collector, and City Accountant or any other positions or may assign the functions of any one or more of such positions to the holder or holders of any other positions.
Sec. 3.17. - Position classification and pay plans.
The Mayor may be responsible for the preparation of a position classification and pay plan which shall be submitted to the Council for approval upon request by the Council. Said plans may apply to all employees of the City and any of its agencies, departments, boards, commissions or authorities. When a pay plan has been adopted, the Council shall not increase or decrease the salaries of individual employees except by amendment of said pay plan. For purposes of this section, all elected and appointed City officials are not City employees.
Sec. 3.18. - Personnel policies.
The Council may adopt rules and regulations consistent with this Charter concerning:
(1)
The method of employee selection and probationary periods of employment; and
(2)
The administration of the position classification and pay plan, methods of promotion and application of service ratings thereto, and transfer of employees within the classification plan; and
(3)
Hours of work, vacation, sick leave, and other leaves of absence, overtime pay, and the order and manner in which layoff shall be effected; and
(4)
Such dismissal hearings as due process may require; and
(5)
Such other personnel policies as may be necessary to provide for adequate and systematic handling of personnel affairs.
ARTICLE IV. - MUNICIPAL COURT

Sec. 4.10. - Creation of recorder's [municipal] court.
There is hereby established a court to be known as the recorder's [municipal] court of the City which shall have jurisdiction and authority to try offenses against the laws and ordinances of the City and to punish for a violation of the same.
Sec. 4.11. - Chief judge; associate judge.
(a)
The recorder's [municipal] court shall be presided over by a chief judge and such part-time, full-time, or standby associate judges as shall be provided by ordinance.
(b)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge on the recorder's [municipal] court unless he shall have attained the age of 21 years and be a resident of the same judicial circuit as the recorder's [municipal] court is located in. All judges shall be appointed by Council.
(c)
Compensation of the judges shall be as determined by Council who may also remove for cause such judge or judges by a majority vote of the Council.
(d)
Before entering on duties of his office, each judge shall take an oath given by the Mayor, that he will honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of his office to the best of his ability without fear, favor, or partiality, which shall be entered upon Council minutes.
Sec. 4.12. - Convening.
The recorder's [municipal] court shall be convened at regular intervals as designated by Council or at such times as deemed necessary by the judge to keep current the dockets thereof.
Sec. 4.13. - Jurisdiction; powers.
(a)
The recorder's [municipal] court shall try and punish for crimes against the City and for violation of its ordinances. The recorder's [municipal] court shall have authority to punish those in its presence for contempt, provided that such punishment shall not exceed $75.00. The recorder's [municipal] court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction not exceeding a fine of $500.00 or imprisonment for 60 days, or both. As an alternative to fine or imprisonment, the recorder's [municipal] court may sentence any offender upon conviction to labor in a City work gang or on the streets, sidewalks, squares or other public works for a period not exceeding 60 days.
(b)
The recorder's [municipal] court shall have authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the costs of operation and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the costs of meals, transportation and caretaking of prisoners bound over to superior courts for violations of state law.
(c)
The recorder's [municipal] court shall have authority to establish bail and recognizances to ensure the presence of those charged with violations before said court and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash or personal or real property as surety for appearance of persons charged with violations. Whenever any person shall give bail for his appearance and shall fail to appear at the time fixed for trial, his bond shall be forfeited by the judge presiding at such time and an execution issued thereon by serving the defendant and his sureties with a rule nisi at least two days before a hearing on the rule nisi. In the event that cash or property is accepted in lieu of bond for security for the appearance of a defendant at trial and if such defendant fails to appear at the time and place fixed for trial, the cash so deposited shall on order of the judge be forfeited to the City or the property so deposited shall have a lien against it for the value forfeited, which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as a lien for City property taxes.
(d)
The recorder's [municipal] court shall have authority to bind prisoners over [to] the appropriate court when it appears by probable cause that a state law has been violated.
(e)
The recorder's [municipal] court shall have the same authority as superior courts to compel the production of evidence in the possession of any party; to enforce obedience to its orders, judgments and sentences; and to administer such oaths as are necessary.
(f)
The recorder's [municipal] court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summons, subpoenas and warrants which may be served as [or] executed by any officer as authorized by this Charter or by state law.
(g)
The recorder's [municipal] court is specifically vested with all of the jurisdiction and powers throughout the entire area of the City granted by general state laws generally to Mayor's, recorder's [municipal] and police courts and particularly by such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances and prosecution of traffic violations.
Sec. 4.14. - Appeal.
The right of appeal and any bond as may be required to secure the costs on appeal to the Superior Court of Marion County from the recorder's [municipal] court shall lie in the same manner and under the same procedure as generally prescribed for appeals and appeal bonds from the probate court; provided, however, that any person who fails to file his appeal within ten days of the date on his conviction shall be deemed to have waived any such right. An appeal to the superior court shall be a de novo proceeding.
Sec. 4.15. - Rules for court.
With the approval of the Council, the judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the recorder's [municipal] court; provided, however, that the Council may adopt in part or in toto the rules and regulations relative to the procedure of the operation of the superior court under the general laws of the State of Georgia. The rules and regulations made or adopted for said court may be filed with the City Clerk and shall be available for public inspection upon request.
ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS

Sec. 5.10. - Applicability of general law.
All elections shall be held and conducted in accordance with the Georgia Municipal Election Code, Title 34A of the Code of Georgia of 1933 (1968 Ga. Laws, page 885) [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq., "Georgia Election Code"], as now or hereafter amended.
Sec. 5.11. - Election of Council and Mayor.
On the first Monday of December 1977, and on said date biannually thereafter, there shall be an election for the Mayor and two Councilmen. On the first Monday in December 1978, and on said date biannually thereafter, the remaining three Councilmen shall be elected to serve two-year terms. Thereafter, the Mayor and Councilmen shall be elected on the same date in the order of expiration of terms of those so elected such that a continuing body is created.
Sec. 5.12. - Special elections; vacancies.
In the event that the Office of Mayor or Councilmember shall become vacant for any cause whatsoever, the Council or those remaining shall order a special election to fill the balance of the unexpired term of such office; provided, however, [that] if such vacancy occurs within six months of the expiration of the term of that office, the Council or those remaining shall appoint a successor for the remainder of the term. In all other respects, the special election shall be held and conducted in accordance with the Georgia Municipal Election Code, Title 34A of the Code of Georgia of 1933 (1968 Ga. Laws, page 885) [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq., "Georgia Election Code"], as now or hereafter amended.
Sec. 5.13. - Nonpartisan elections.
Political parties shall not conduct primaries for City offices, and all names of candidates for City offices shall be listed without party labels.
Sec. 5.14. - Other provisions.
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, the Council shall, by ordinance, prescribe such rules and regulations it deems appropriate to fulfill any options and duties under the Georgia Municipal Election Code, Title 34A of the Code of Georgia of 1933 (1968 Ga. Laws, page 885) [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq., "Georgia Election Code"], as now or hereafter amended.
Sec. 5.15. - Grounds for removal.
The Mayor, Councilmembers, or others provided for in this Charter shall be removed from office for any one or more of the following causes:
(a)
Incompetence, misfeasance or malfeasance in office;
(b)
Conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude;
(c)
Failure at any time to possess any of the qualifications of office as provided by this Charter or by law;
(d)
Knowingly violate any express prohibition of this Charter;
(e)
Abandonment of office or neglect to perform the duties thereof; or
(f)
Failure for any other cause to perform the duties of office as required by this Charter or by law.
Sec. 5.16. - Procedure for removal.
Removal of an above-described officer may be accomplished by one of the following methods:
(a)
By majority vote of the full Council after an investigative hearing, the officer to be removed not voting if he is a member of the Council. In the event an elected officer is sought to be removed by the action of the Council, such officer shall be entitled to a written notice specifying the ground for removal and to a public hearing which shall be held not less than ten days after the service of such written notice. Any elected officer sought to be removed from office as herein provided shall have the right of appeal from the decision of the Council to the Superior Court of Marion County. Such appeal shall be governed by the same rules as govern appeals to the superior court from the probate court.
(b)
By information filed in the Superior Court of Marion County as provided by law.
ARTICLE VI. - FINANCE

Sec. 6.10. - Property tax.
The Council may assess, levy, and collect an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the City that is subject to such taxation by the state and county. This tax is for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the City government; providing governmental services; for the repayment of principal and interest on general obligations; and for any other public purpose as determined by the Council in its discretion. The City is hereby exempted from the provisions of Georgia Code sections 92-4101 through 92-4104 inclusive [O.C.G.A. § 48-5-1 et seq.].
Sec. 6.11. - Millage rate; due dates; payment methods.
The Council, by ordinance, shall establish a millage rate for the City property tax; a due date; and in what length of time these taxes must be paid. The Council, by ordinance, may provide for the payment of these taxes by installments or in one lump sum, as well as to authorize the voluntary payment of taxes prior to the time when due. The tax rate set by such ordinance shall be such that reasonable estimates of revenues from such levy shall at least be sufficient, together with other anticipated revenues, fund balances, and applicable reserves, to equal the total amount approximated for each of the several funds set forth in the annual operating budget for defraying the expenses of the general government of the City.
Sec. 6.12. - Occupation and business taxes.
The Council, by ordinance, shall have the power to levy such occupation or business taxes as are not denied by general state law. Such taxes may be levied on both individuals and corporations who transact business in the City or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein to the extent such persons have a constitutionally sufficient nexus to the City to be so taxed. The Council may classify businesses, occupations, professions or callings for the purpose of such taxation in any way which may be lawful and compel the payment of such taxes as provided in this article.
Sec. 6.13. - License; permits; fees.
The Council, by ordinance, shall have the power to require any individuals or corporations who transact business in this City or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein to obtain a license or permit for such activity from the City and pay a reasonable fee for such license or permit where such activities are not now regulated by general state law in such a way as to preclude City regulation. Such fees may reflect the total cost to the City of regulating the activity and, if unpaid, shall be collected as provided in this article for delinquent taxes and fees. The Council, by ordinance, may establish reasonable requirements for obtaining or keeping such licenses as the public health, safety, and welfare necessitates.
Sec. 6.14. - Service charges.
The Council, by ordinance, shall have the power to assess and collect fees, charges, and tolls for sewer, sanitary, health services, or any other services rendered within and without the corporate limits of the City for the total cost to the City of providing such services. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in this article for delinquent taxes and fees.
Sec. 6.15. - Special assessments.
The Council shall have [the] power and authority to assess all or part of the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening, or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, sewers, or other utility mains and appurtenances, from the abutting property owners, under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by ordinance. Such special assessments shall become delinquent 30 days after their due dates, shall thereupon be subject, in addition to fi. fa. charges, to a penalty of ten percent, and shall thereafter be subject to interest at the rate of seven percent per annum from date due until paid. A lien shall exist against the abutting property superior to all other liens except that it shall be of equal dignity with liens for county and City property taxes. Said lien shall also be enforceable by the same procedures and under the same remedies as provided for in this article for City property taxes.
Sec. 6.16. - Construction; other taxes.
The City shall be empowered to levy any other tax allowed now or hereafter by state law, and the specific mention of any right, power or authority in this article shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general powers of the City to govern its local affairs.
Sec. 6.17. - Collection of delinquent taxes and fees.
The Council, by ordinance, may provide generally for the collection of delinquent taxes, fees, or other revenue due the City by whatever reasonable means as are not precluded by general state law. This shall include providing for the dates when the taxes or fees are due; late penalties or interest; issuance and execution of fi. fas.; creation and priority of liens; making delinquent taxes and fees personal debts of the persons required to pay the taxes or fees imposed; revoking City licenses for failure to pay any City taxes or fees; allowing exceptions for hardship; and providing for the assignment or transfer of tax executions.
Sec. 6.18. - Transfer of executions.
The City Clerk shall be authorized to assign or transfer any fi. fa. or execution issued for any tax or for any street, sewer, or other assessment in the same manner and to the same extent as provided by Georgia law regarding sales and transfers of tax fi. fas. Such transfer or assignment, when made, shall vest the purchaser or transferee with all right, title, and interest as provided by Georgia law governing sales and transfers of tax fi. fas.; provided, however, that upon levy of execution and sale of property pursuant to such tax fi. fa., whether assigned, transferred, or executed by the City, the owner of such property in fee simple or lesser interest shall not lose his right to redeem the property in accordance with the requirements of redemption of property sold under state or county ad valorem tax fi. fas. as said requirements now exist or as may be hereinafter provided by law.
Sec. 6.19. - General obligation bonds.
The Council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized under this Charter or the general laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuances by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
Sec. 6.20. - Revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the Council as provided by an Act of the General Assembly of Georgia, approved March 31, 1937, known as the Revenue Bond Law (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761) [O.C.G.A. §§ 36-82-60—36-82-85] as now or hereafter amended, or by any other Georgia law as now or hereafter provided.
Sec. 6.21. - Short-term notes.
The City must obtain and repay any short-term loans between January 1 and December 31 of each year or as is otherwise provided by present or future state law.
Sec. 6.22. - Fiscal year.
The Council shall set the fiscal year by ordinance. The fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for financial accounting and reporting of each and every office, department, agency and activity of the City government, unless otherwise provided by general state or federal law.
Sec. 6.23. - Preparation of budgets.
The Council may provide an ordinance on the procedures and requirements for the preparation and execution of an annual operating budget and a capital improvement program and a capital budget, including requirements as to the scope, content and form of such budgets and programs.
Sec. 6.24. - Additional appropriations.
The Council may make appropriations in addition to those contained in the current operating budget at any regular meeting or at any special meeting called for such purpose. Any such additional appropriations, however, may be made only from an existing unappropriated surplus in the fund to which it applies.
Sec. 6.25. - Capital improvements budget.
(a)
The Mayor may submit to the Council a proposed capital improvements budget with his recommendations as to the means of financing the improvements proposed for the ensuing fiscal year. The Council shall have power to accept with or without amendments or reject the proposed program and proposed means of financing. The Council shall not authorize an expenditure for the construction of any building, structure, work, or improvement unless the appropriations for such project are included in the capital improvements budget, except to meet a public emergency threatening the lives, health, or property of the inhabitants, provided that such authorization is passed by majority vote of the membership of the Council.
(b)
No appropriation provided for in the capital improvements budget shall elapse until the purpose for which the appropriation was made shall have been accomplished or abandoned; provided, however, that the Mayor may submit amendments to the capital improvements budget, accompanied by his recommendations thereon, at any time during the fiscal year. Any such amendments to the capital improvements budget shall become effective only upon adoption by a vote of the Council.
Sec. 6.26. - Independent audit.
There shall be an annual, independent audit of all City accounts, funds and financial transactions by a certified public accountant selected by the Council. The audit shall be conducted according to generally accepted governmental accounting principles. Any audit of any funds by the state or federal governments may be accepted as satisfying the requirements of this Charter. Copies of all audit reports shall be available at printing cost to the public.
Sec. 6.27. - Contracting procedures.
No contract with the City shall be binding on the City unless:
(1)
It is in writing.
(2)
It is made or authorized by the Council and such approval is entered in the Council minutes.
Sec. 6.28. - Centralized purchasing.
The Council may by ordinance prescribe procedures of a system of centralized purchasing for the City.
Sec. 6.29. - Sale of City property.
(a)
The Council may sell and convey any real or personal property owned or held by the City for governmental or other purposes as provided by general state law as now or later amended at section 69-318 of the 1933 Code of Georgia (1976 Ga. Laws, page 350) [O.C.G.A. § 36-37-6].
(b)
The Council may quitclaim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon report by the Mayor and adoption of a resolution, both finding that the property is not needed for public or other purposes and that the interest of the City has no readily ascertainable monetary value.
(c)
Whenever in opening, extending or widening any street, avenue, alley or public place of the City, a small parcel or tract of land is cut off or separated by such work from a larger tract or boundary of land owned by the City, the Council may authorize the Mayor to execute and deliver in the name of the City a deed conveying said cutoff or separated parcel or tract of land to an abutting or adjoining property owner or owners in exchange for rights-of-way of said street, avenue, alley or public place or in settlement of any alleged damages sustained by said abutting or adjoining property owner. All deeds and conveyances heretofore and hereafter so executed and delivered shall convey all title and interest the City has in such property, notwithstanding the fact that no public sale after advertisement was or is hereafter made.
ARTICLE VII. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 7.10. - Eminent domain.
The Council is hereby empowered to acquire, construct, operate and maintain public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets, market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewage treatment, waterworks, electrical systems, gas systems, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities, and any other public improvements inside or outside the City, and to regulate the use thereof, and, for such purposes, property may be taken under chapter [section] 36-202 of the Georgia Code, subject to such amendments as shall be enacted, or any other Georgia law [O.C.G.A. § 22-1-1 et seq.] applicable now or provided in the future.
Sec. 7.11. - Franchises.
The Council shall have the power to grant franchises for the use of the City's streets and alleys, for the purposes of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, electric companies, cable television, gas companies, transportation companies and other similar organizations. The Council shall determine the duration, provisions, terms, whether the same shall be exclusive or nonexclusive, and the consideration for such franchises; provided, however, [that] no franchise shall be granted for a period in excess of 25 years and no franchise shall be granted unless the City receives just and adequate compensation therefor. The Council shall provide for the registration of all franchises with the City Clerk in a registration book to be kept by him. The Council may provide by ordinance for the registration within a reasonable time of all franchises previously granted.
Sec. 7.12. - Official bonds.
The officers and employees of the City, both elective and appointive, shall execute such official bonds in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the Council may from time to time require by ordinance or as may be provided by state law.
Sec. 7.13. - Existing ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations.
Existing ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the City not in conflict with this Charter shall continue in force unless repealed or amended for two years from the effective date of this Charter. During such two-year period, the Council shall review all such provisions and shall readopt, repeal or amend each such that a codification as provided by section 2.29(b) is begun.
Sec. 7.14. - Prior ordinances.
All ordinances, bylaws, rules and regulations now in force in the City not inconsistent with this Charter are hereby declared valid and of full effect and force until amended or repealed by the Council.
Sec. 7.15. - Existing personnel and officers.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this Charter, all personnel and officers of the City and their rights, privileges and powers shall continue beyond the time this Charter takes effect for a period of 60 days before or during which the existing Council shall pass a transition ordinance detailing the changes in personnel and appointive officers required or desired and arranging such titles, rights, privileges and powers as may be required or desired to allow a reasonable transition.
Sec. 7.16. - Pending matters.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this Charter, all rights, claims, actions, orders, contracts and legal or administrative proceedings shall continue and any such ongoing work or cases shall be dealt with by such City agencies, personnel or office as may be provided by the Council.
Sec. 7.17. - Penalties.
The violation of any provisions of this Charter, for which penalty is not specifically provided for herein, is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $500.00 or by imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
Sec. 7.18. - Construction.
(a)
Section captions in this Charter are informative only and are not to be considered as a part thereof.
(b)
The word "shall" is intended to be mandatory and the word "may" is not.
(c)
The word "City" shall mean the City of Buena Vista, Georgia.
(d)
The word "Council" shall mean the City Council of this City.
(e)
The singular shall include the plural and the masculine the feminine, and vice versa.
Sec. 7.19. - Severability.
If any article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof of this Charter shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect or impair other parts of this Charter, unless it clearly appears that such other parts are wholly and necessarily dependent upon the part held to be invalid or unconstitutional, it being the legislative intent in enacting this Charter that each article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence or part thereof be enacted separately and independent of each other.
Sec. 7.20. - Repealer.
An Act incorporating the City of Buena Vista in the County of Marion approved July 31, 1920 (1920 Ga. Laws, page 792), is hereby repealed in its entirety and all amendatory acts thereto are likewise repealed in their entirety. All other laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Charter are hereby repealed.
Sec. 7.21. - Effective date.
This Charter shall become effective upon ________.
