Chapter 10 - BUSINESSES AND BUSINESS REGULATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 4; derelict and blighted property, ch. 8, art. IV; taxation, ch. 32.
State Law reference— Commerce and trade generally, O.C.G.A. § 10-1-1 et seq.; professions and businesses generally, O.C.G.A. § 43-1-1 et seq.; authority for imposition of punishment for failure to comply with regulatory fee ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-8; municipal authority to levy occupational taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-6(b); imposition of regulatory fees by local governments on certain businesses, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-8 et seq.; issuance of local business licenses, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-6; investigation of business for issuance of county or municipal license, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-9.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 10-1—10-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BUSINESS LICENSES

Sec. 10-19. - Application.
(a)
Each and every person, firm, or corporation transacting or offering to transact any business, or working at or offering to work at any trade, occupation, or profession within the limits of the city (except those who are exempt by law) shall obtain a license to transact such business, trade, occupation or profession to be issued by the city clerk in accordance with further provisions of this article.
(b)
No business license shall be issued or renewed by the city until the applicant or permittee demonstrates compliance with all provisions of this Code, municipal ordinances, and state laws, rules and/or regulations.
Sec. 10-20. - Term of license.
Licenses to be issued shall authorize the carrying on of a particular business, trade, occupation, or profession for a period of a calendar year beginning January 1, and expiring at 12:00 midnight, December 31 of the year for which granted. Any new business shall obtain a license before beginning business. Any person licensed under this article or any previous licensing ordinance shall renew their licenses on or before December 15 for the following year. Any business failing to pay the required fee by December 31 shall be subject to a penalty of 25 percent of the required fee. If the license fee and any assessed penalty is not paid by January 15 of each year, the business, trade, occupation or profession shall be subject to closure.
( Ord. No. 2021-03-01 , § 1, 4-6-2021)
Sec. 10-21. - Fees and procedures for issuance.
At the time of application for a license, the applicant shall pay to the city clerk the required license fee as set out in the consolidated fee schedule. The city council may amend the amount of any license fee imposed from time to time as it deems necessary.
Sec. 10-22. - Issuance of license.
Upon the payment of the business license fee assessed in this article, it shall be the duty of the city clerk to issue to each person a business certificate.
Sec. 10-23. - Certificate to be displayed.
All persons shall exhibit and display the certificate in some conspicuous place in their business establishment. Any transient or nonresident person, firm, or corporation doing business with the city shall carry such certificate either upon his person or on any vehicle or other conveyance which is used in such business, and such person shall exhibit the same to any authorized enforcement officer of the city when requested to do so.
Sec. 10-24. - Change of address.
Any person moving from one location to another shall notify the city clerk of such move and the new address in writing, no later than five days after moving. The same business license certificate will be valid at the new location.
Sec. 10-25. - Change of ownership.
No business license certificate may be transferred from one person to another. Additions to or deletions from the ownership of the business, which do not affect the liability and the principal ownership of a business for which the certificate is issued, may be made without cancelling the old business license certificates and applying for a new certificate. Whenever any person shall lease, operate, manage or control the business franchise or property of other persons, they shall pay a separate business license fee for each business.
Sec. 10-26. - Penalties.
If any person shall fail or refuse to obtain a license and pay the license fee therein required of them for the year for which the same is required within the time required, he shall, upon conviction, be punished in accordance with section 1-13.
