Chapter 12 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Emergency management generally, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; local organizations for emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27; authority to promulgate local rules and regulations, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-28; mutual aid, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-1 et seq.

Sec. 12-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Disaster means any natural, technological, civil emergency, or threat thereof, that causes or has the potential to cause damage of sufficient severity and magnitude to result in a declaration of a state of emergency declared by a county, the Governor or the President of the United States.
Emergency means any natural or manmade event requiring the activation of the local emergency operations plan.
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services; police services (public safety); medical and health services; rescue; engineering; warning services; communications; defense from radiological, chemical, and other special weapons; evacuation of persons from stricken areas; emergency welfare services; emergency transportation; (nuclear power) plant protection; temporary restoration of public service utility services; and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
Local emergency management director means the person nominated by the local governments and appointed by the state emergency management director to implement the local emergency operations plan.
State emergency management director means the person appointed by the governor to head the state emergency management agency.
(Ord. No. 0127, § I, 5-5-2009)
Sec. 12-2. - Local organization for emergency management.
In agreement with the governing officials of the cities within the county, there is hereby established the county emergency management agency. The county commissioner, with the concurrence of officials of the cities within the county, shall nominate, for appointment by the state emergency management director, a director of the county emergency management agency. Upon appointment, the local emergency management agency director shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration, and operations of the local organization for emergency management, subject to the direction and control of the executive officer or governing body and shall serve at the pleasure of such executive officer or governing body. When appointed, the local emergency management agency director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
Representing the governing officials of the county on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
Assisting local officials in organizing county departments for emergency operations.
(3)
Developing, in conjunction with county and city departments, the county emergency operations plan for emergency functions. Such plan will be in consonance with the state emergency operations plan and shall be submitted to the governing officials of the county and the cities within the county for approval, and thence to the state emergency management agency for approval.
(4)
Maintaining the emergency management agency and carry out the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports, to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
Submitting reports as required by governmental officials in keeping with good management practices, e.g., financial, daily activities, etc.
(6)
Obtaining, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the county emergency operations center.
(7)
Coordinating the activities of the county emergency operating staff during periods of emergency and under the supervision of county governing officials.
(Ord. No. 0127, § II, 5-5-2009)
Sec. 12-3. - Towns County emergency management agency.
(a)
The county emergency management agency shall be established around existing county and city departments. The emergency support functions (ESFs) and department/agency assignments are as follows: (Department/agency assignment listed below are examples only. It is the responsibility of local governments to make assignments based upon local capabilities.)
EXPAND
Emergency Support Function (ESF) Department or Agency
Transportation (P) County road department
(S) City public works
Communications (P) County 911/dispatch
(S) City police department
Public works and engineering (P) County 911/dispatch
(S) City police department
Firefighting (P) County fire department
(S) City fire department
Emergency management (P) County emergency management agency
(S) County/city governments
Mass care, housing and human services (P) County DFACS
(S) Red Cross chapter
Resource support (P) County emergency management agency
(S) County/city governments
Public health and medical services (P) County public health
(S) Local hospital
Search and rescue (P) County fire/rescue
(S) City fire/rescue
Hazardous materials department (P) County fire
(S) City fire/rescue
Agriculture and natural resources (P) County extension agent
(S) County emergency management agency
Energy (P) County emergency management agency
(S) Local utilities
Public safety and security services (P) County police department
(S) City police department
Long-term recovery and mitigation (P) County emergency management agency
(S) County government
External affairs (PIO) (P) County government
(S) City government (PIO)
(P)=Primary responsibility
(S)=Secondary responsibility
  (b)
As appropriate to the local organization, these functions can be assigned to existing departments or may be separate. Functions should be assigned consistent with the local emergency operations plan.
(c)
Heads of county departments listed above are responsible for developing appropriate annexes and standard operating procedures (SOPs) to the emergency operations plan (EOP) for their assigned emergency functions, such annexes and/or SOPs will be submitted to the emergency management director for inclusion in the local EOP for submission to appropriate local officials for approval.
(Ord. No. 0127, § III, 5-5-2009)
Sec. 12-4. - Powers during an emergency or disaster.
In the event of a manmade or natural disaster or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the county, the county commissioners separately, or jointly with the mayors of the cities, or, in their absence, their legally-appointed successors may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such periods as such emergency or disaster continues, the following powers:
(1)
To appropriate and expend funds, execute contracts, and to obtain and distribute equipment, materials, and supplies for emergency management purposes;
(2)
To provide for the health and safety of persons and property, including emergency assistance to the victims of any emergency or disaster resulting from manmade or natural causes or enemy attack and to direct and coordinate the development of emergency management plans and programs in accordance with the policies and plans set by the federal and state emergency management agencies;
(3)
To appoint, employ, remove, or provide, with or without compensation, chiefs of services, warning personnel, rescue teams, auxiliary fire and police personnel, and other emergency management workers;
(4)
To establish a primary and one or more secondary control centers to serve as command posts during an emergency or disaster;
(5)
Subject to the order of the governor or the chief executive of the political subdivision, to assign and make available for duty the employees, property, or equipment of the subdivision relating to firefighting, engineering, rescue, health, medical and related services, and to police, transportation, construction, and similar items or services for emergency management purposes, within or outside of the physical limits of the subdivision;
(6)
In addition to the heretofore stated powers and authorities, to acquire, temporarily or permanently, by purchase, lease, or otherwise, sites required for installation of temporary housing units for disaster victims; and to enter into whatever arrangements, including purchase, of temporary housing units and payment of transportation charges, which are necessary to prepare or equip such sites to utilize the housing units (see generally, Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.).
(Ord. No. 0127, § IV, 5-5-2009)
Sec. 12-5. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the county, performing emergency functions pursuant to this chapter, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as county officers and employees. Immunity does not apply in cases of willful misconduct, gross negligence or bad faith.
(Ord. No. 0127, § V, 5-5-2009)
Sec. 12-6. - Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, rule, order or regulation made pursuant to this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished in accordance with section 1-13.
(Ord. No. 0127, § VI, 5-5-2009)
Sec. 12-7. - State of emergency and duration of emergency.
Upon notice given to a majority of councilmembers, the mayor may declare by proclamation a state of emergency within the city. Said proclamation shall state the conditions requiring the declaration and the anticipated length of the emergency.
(Ord. No. 0202, § 1, 8-6-2013)
Sec. 12-8. - Powers during emergency.
After declaration of such emergency, the mayor, as chief executive, shall have the right to exercise any or all of the following:
(1)
The power to use employees of the city to assist in the safety and preservation of life, limb and property of citizenry of the city.
(2)
The power to close streets and sidewalks and to delineate areas within the city wherein an emergency exists.
(3)
The power to impose emergency curfew regulations.
(4)
The power to close business establishments within the affected area.
(5)
The power to close any and all municipally-owned buildings and other facilities to the use of the general public.
(6)
The power to use available city funds without budget amendment or to suspend city financial policy to immediately protect life, limb and property.
(7)
To fully cooperate with state and federal agencies in the preservation of life, limb and property of the citizenry of the city.
(8)
The power to do any and all acts necessary and incidental to the preservation of life, limb and property of the citizenry of the city.
(9)
No emergency power set forth herein may be effective for more than 72 hours after the declaration of an emergency by the mayor. However, upon declaration of a second or further emergency to exist, the emergency powers, as set forth herein, may be exercised during such further emergency period, but never for more than 72 hours in one declared emergency period.
(10)
No emergency period shall extend beyond the next regular, special or called meeting of the city council.
(Ord. No. 0202, § 2, 8-6-2013)
