Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Incorporation and powers, Art. I; ordinances, § 3.16 et seq.; general provisions, Art. VII.
State Law reference— Ordinances generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3.

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of the City of Stone Mountain, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1976, § 1-1008)
Charter reference— Codification of ordinances, § 3.20.
Sec. 1-2. - Rules of construction and definitions.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the mayor and city council:
City. The words "city", "the city" or "this city" shall be construed as if the words "of Stone Mountain" followed them.
Computation of time. Unless otherwise specifically provided, the time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be computed by excluding the first day or the last; except, that if the last day shall fall on a Sunday or a legal holiday, another day shall be added in the computation.
County. The words "the county" or "this county" shall mean DeKalb County, Georgia.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males, unless the context indicates otherwise.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers, or to a quorum.
Keeper and proprietor. The words "keeper" and "proprietor" shall mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and co-partnerships, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.
Land and real estate. "Land" and "real estate" includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
Mayor and city council. The words "mayor" and "city council" shall mean the mayor and city council of the City of Stone Mountain.
Month. The word "month" shall mean a calendar month.
Number. The singular or plural shall each include the other, unless expressly excluded.
Oath. The word "oath" includes affirmation.
O.C.G.A. The letters "O.C.G.A." mean the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Officials, etc. References to officials, departments, boards, commissions or other agencies by title only shall be construed as if followed by the words "of the City of Stone Mountain."
Owner. The word "owner" applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or person in possession under a bond for title.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal property. "Personal property" includes every species of property, except real property, as defined in this section.
Property. "Property" includes real, personal and mixed estates and interests.
Real property. "Real property" shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" shall mean sidewalk as defined in the general traffic laws of the state.
State. The words "the state" or "this state" shall be construed to mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" shall mean street as defined in the general traffic laws of the state.
Tenant or occupant. The word "tenant" or "occupant" applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies, the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone, or with others.
Written, in writing. "Written" or "in writing" shall be construed to include a representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
(Code 1976, § 1-1009)
State Law reference— Construction of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; definitions relating to motor vehicles and traffic, O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code, printed in boldface type, are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(Code 1976, § 1-1011)
Sec. 1-4. - Certain ordinances, etc., not affected by Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city.
(3)
Any right or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution of the council to any person.
(4)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city.
(5)
The annual appropriation ordinance.
(6)
Any ordinance consistent with this Code levying or imposing taxes.
(7)
Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city.
(8)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing charges therefor.
(9)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city.
(10)
Any ordinance extending the limits of the city.
(11)
Any ordinance relating to personnel policy and procedures.
(12)
All traffic and parking regulations applicable to specific locations.
All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this section.
(b)
The ordinance adopting this Code shall not be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by the ordinance adopting this Code.
(Code 1976, § 1-1003)
Sec. 1-5. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as those ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(Code 1976, § 1-1004)
Sec. 1-6. - Effect of repeal or expiration of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained therein, shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1976, § 1-1005)
State Law reference— Operation of laws, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-5.
Sec. 1-7. - Official copy of Code.
A copy of this Code shall be kept on file in the office of the clerk, preserved in looseleaf form, or in such other form as the clerk may consider expedient. It shall be the express duty of the clerk or someone authorized thereby to insert in their designated places all amendments or ordinances which indicate the intention of the mayor and city council to make the same a part of such Code when the same have been printed or reprinted in page form, and to extract from such Code all provisions which may be from time to time repealed by the mayor and city council. This copy of the Code shall be available for all persons desiring to examine it; it shall be considered the official Code of Ordinances of the city; and shall be so certified by the clerk.
(Code 1976, § 1-1006)
Sec. 1-8. - Amendments to Code.
(a)
Any and all additions or amendments to this Code, when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the mayor and city council to make the same a part hereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated into this Code so that reference to the "Code of the City of Stone Mountain, Georgia," shall be understood and intended to include such additions and amendments.
(b)
In case of the amendment of any section of this Code for which a penalty is not provided, the general penalty as provided in section 1-11 of this Code shall apply to the section as amended; or in case such amendment contains provisions for which a penalty, other than the aforementioned general penalty, is provided in another section in the same chapter, the penalty so provided in such other section shall be held to relate to the section amended, unless such penalty is specifically repealed therein.
(Code 1976, § 1-1007)
Sec. 1-9. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the mayor and city council. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive parts of permanent and general ordinances passed by the council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In the preparation of a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated in the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of the ordinance sections inserted in the Code; but in no case, shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-10. - Severability of parts of Code.
The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code or the application thereof to any person or circumstances shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or other invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code or the application thereof to other persons or circumstances, since the same would have been enacted without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional or invalid phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, section or application.
(Code 1976, § 1-1010)
Sec. 1-11. - General penalty.
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision of this Code or any such ordinance shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment, or forced labor on the city streets and property, not to exceed ninety (90) days. Each day during which an offense is committed or continued shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1976, § 1-1012)
Charter reference— Municipal powers, § 1.12; powers of municipal court, § 5.13.
State Law reference— Penalties for violations of ordinances, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-30-8, 36-35-6.
