Chapter 9 - ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES
ARTICLE I. - LANDSCAPING RESTRICTIONS

Sec. 9-1. - Landscape watering restrictions.
(a)
Short title. This section may be known and referred to as the "Outdoor Landscape Watering Ordinance."
(b)
Restriction on outdoor watering of landscape. Outdoor watering for purposes of planting, growing, managing, or maintaining ground cover, trees, shrubs, or other plants may occur only between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m.; provided, however, that this limitation shall not create any limitation upon the following outdoor water uses:
(1)
Commercial raising, harvesting, or storing of crops; feeding, breeding, or managing livestock or poultry; the commercial production or storing of feed for use in the production of livestock, including, but not limited to, cattle, calves, swine, hogs, goats, sheep, and rabbits, or for use in the production of poultry, including, but not limited to, chickens, hens, ratites, and turkeys; producing plants, trees, fowl, or animals; or the commercial production of aquacultural, horticultural, dairy, livestock, poultry, eggs, and apiarian products or as otherwise defined in O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3;
(2)
Capture and reuse of cooling system condensate or stormwater in compliance with applicable city ordinances and state guidelines;
(3)
Reuse of gray water in compliance with O.C.G.A. § 31-3-5.2 and applicable local board of health regulations;
(4)
Use of reclaimed wastewater by a designated user from a system permitted by the environmental protection division of the state department of natural resources to provide reclaimed wastewater;
(5)
Watering personal food gardens;
(6)
Watering new and replanted plant, seed, or turf in landscapes, golf courses, or sports turf fields during installation and for a period of 30 days immediately following the date of installation;
(7)
Drip irrigation or irrigation using soaker hoses;
(8)
Hand watering with a hose with automatic cutoff or handheld container;
(9)
Use of water withdrawn from private water wells or surface water by an owner or operator of property if such well or surface water is on said property;
(10)
Watering horticultural crops held for sale, resale, or installation;
(11)
Watering athletic fields, golf courses, or public turf grass recreational areas;
(12)
Installation, maintenance, or calibration of irrigation systems; or
(13)
Hydroseeding.
(c)
Enforcement.
(1)
No person shall use or allow the use of water in violation of the restrictions on outdoor water use contained in this section.
(2)
The code enforcement officer shall be the enforcement authority for this section. The city manager may also authorize other departments as may be deemed necessary to support enforcement.
(3)
Criminal and alternative penalties. Any violation of this section may also be enforced by a citation or accusation returnable to the municipal court or by any other legal means as set forth in this Code.
(Ord. of 2010(2), §§ 1, 2)
Secs. 9-2—9-10. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CAR WASH RECYCLING

Sec. 9-11. - General provisions.
(a)
Purpose and intent. The purpose of this article is to reduce water consumption form commercial car wash facilities by requiring all new conveyor car washes to install operational recycled water systems.
(b)
Applicability.
(1)
This article applies to all new conveyor car washes permitted and constructed after February 1, 2017, regardless of the water source.
(2)
The provisions of this ordinance do not apply to conveyor commercial car washes that were permitted or constructed before February 1, 2017.
(3)
The provisions of this ordinance do not apply to self-service car washes or in-bay car washes.
(Ord. of 1-23-2017, § 1)
Sec. 9-12. - Definitions.
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this ordinance, have the meaning defined in this section:
(1)
In-bay automatic car wash means a commercial car wash where the driver pulls into the bay and parks the car. The vehicle remains stationary while a machine moves back and forth over the vehicle to clean it, instead of the vehicle moving through the tunnel.
(2)
Conveyor car wash means a commercial car wash where the car moves on a conveyor belt during the wash. The driver of the vehicle can remain in the vehicle or wait outside of the vehicle.
(3)
Recycled water system means a water system that captures and reuses water previously used in wash or rinse cycles.
(4)
Self-service car wash means a commercial car wash where the customers wash their cars themselves with spray wands and brushes.
(Ord. of 1-23-2017, § 1)
Sec. 9-13. - Commercial car wash water recycling requirement.
All new commercial conveyor car washes, permitted and constructed after February 1, 2017, must install operational recycled water systems. A minimum of 50 percent of water utilized will be recycled.
(Ord. of 1-23-2017, § 1)
