Chapter 22 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority of municipalities to own, operate and maintain streets, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3; street obstructions, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-10; municipal street systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-90 et seq.; street improvements, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 22-1. - Address numbers.
The provisions of chapter 50, article III of the Code of Ordinances, Cherokee County, Georgia, as now or hereafter amended, are hereby adopted by reference.
Sec. 22-2. - Road drainage code.
The provisions of chapter 50, article V, of the Code of Ordinances, Cherokee County, Georgia, as now or hereafter amended, are hereby adopted by reference.
Sec. 22-3. - No smoking policy within city facilities.
There shall be no smoking of tobacco products in city buildings, facilities, vehicles and lease space and equipment, except in those areas as designated by city council. In addition, smoking is prohibited within 100 feet of any flammable substance and outdoor working including fueling stations, three-wall garages and storage areas. However, in other outdoor spaces where fuel and other flammable substances are contained in approved containers, smoking may be permitted. Smoking will be permitted in outside work areas which are not within 100 feet of any flammable or combustible substance.
Sec. 22-4. - Streets and sidewalks not to be damaged.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drag or run, or cause to be dragged or run, any harrow or other implement, engine, machine, or tool upon any asphalt, bithulitic, warrenite, or other type of permanently paved street or sidewalk of the city which shall be liable in any way to injure or cut the surface thereof. It shall also be unlawful to injure any dirt street in the same manner.
(Code 1986, § 4-1-7)
Sec. 22-5. - Posting advertising on city property.
No person shall post or display any signs, circulars, advertising or other printed or graphics matter on any public property in the city without first having obtained permission in writing from the city to do so.
(Code 1986, § 4-1-8)
Secs. 22-6—22-28. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EXCAVATIONS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 22-29. - Street repair.
When any part of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other public place of the city shall be torn or dug up for any purpose, the person making that excavation or opening shall have the duty of refilling the excavation or opening so as to restore it to essentially the same condition that existed prior to the excavation or opening. Any person neglecting, refusing, or failing to comply with any provisions of this section shall be guilty of a violation thereof; and where any neglect, refusal or failure is continued, after notice from the city clerk, every day's continuance thereafter shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Code 1986, § 4-1-4)
Sec. 22-30. - Sidewalk construction.
No sidewalk of any description shall be built by any individual of any brick, wood, or other material without a written permit from the city.
(Code 1986, § 4-1-6)
Sec. 22-31. - Leaving unprotected.
It shall be unlawful for any person who obtains a permit under this article to do any excavation of any kind which may create or cause a dangerous condition in or near any street, alley, sidewalk, or public place of the city without placing and maintaining proper guardrails and signal lights or other warnings at, in, or around the work, sufficient to warn the public of any excavation or work, and to protect all persons using reasonable care from injuries on account of the work.
(Code 1986, § 4-1-5)
Secs. 22-32—22-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 22-51. - Permit to dig in streets.
No person shall make any excavations or openings or dig any ditch, trench, tunnel, or hole in, along, across, or under any street, sidewalk, or other public place for the purpose of laying or placing therein any pipe, wires, poles, or for any other purposes, unless a written permit therefor has been issued by the city clerk. A permit shall not be required where the work is performed under a contract with the city, but in the event that work requires a sidewalk or street to be wholly or partially obstructed, the person shall notify the city clerk and the police department at least two hours before obstructing the sidewalk or street, unless prevented by sudden emergency.
(Code 1986, § 4-1-1)
Sec. 22-52. - Application for permit.
All persons desiring a permit in order to make an opening in any street or sidewalk, as set forth in section 22-51, shall make written application therefor, which application shall show the location of the proposed opening, the purpose therefor and the approximate number of square yards of surface to be cut.
(Code 1986, § 4-1-2)
Sec. 22-53. - City indemnified.
Any person obtaining a permit as provided for in sections 22-51 and 22-52 agrees, as a condition of the issuance of the permit, to indemnify and hold harmless the city against any claims or expenses, including attorney's fees for bodily injury or property damage for accidents or occurrences arising out of the person's operations.
(Code 1986, § 4-1-3)
Secs. 22-54—22-79. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - STREETLIGHTING
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 22-80. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Lot means any single tract or land which falls within any of the zoning classifications, as defined by the zoning chapter; provided, however, that in areas zoned for purposes other than single-family residential, different criteria may be adopted by the city for the payment of energy costs and retirement of construction costs.
Lot owner means only that individual or corporation registered with the city water system as a customer shall be considered as a owner although the customer may not be vested with exclusive title.
(Ord. of 5-16-2005, § C)
Sec. 22-81. - Exceptions to terms of article.
The city may grant exceptions to the literal terms of this article where special conditions or hardships exist.
(Ord. of 5-16-2005, § M)
Sec. 22-82. - Federal, state laws to prevail in conflicts.
If any provision of this article is in conflict with any state or federal law, or with any rule, regulation or order of any state or federal agency having jurisdiction of the subject matter of this article, it is hereby deemed to be the intention of the city that the state or federal law or rule, regulation or order, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be of full force and effect.
(Ord. of 5-16-2005, § N)
Sec. 22-83. - Contract with public utilities.
The city may contract with the public utilities for the purpose of carrying out the terms of this article.
(Ord. of 5-16-2005, § K)
Sec. 22-84. - Streetlight conformance by subdivision developer: acceptance of public ways.
(a)
The owner, developer, or other person developing a subdivision is required to provide streetlight services and shall be required to conform to all of the standards herein provided for and, in addition thereto, shall be required to obtain a permit from the city prior to commencing any construction of any streetlight facilities.
(b)
The owner, developer, or other person developing a shopping center, industrial park, office park, or like development shall install streetlights along public rights-of-way adjoining that property in conformance with the standards herein provided for; and, in addition thereto, shall be required to obtain a permit from the city prior to commencing any construction of any streetlight facilities.
(c)
A streetlight permit fee may be required by the city.
(d)
The city shall not accept any facilities proposed to be dedicated until such time as the provisions hereof have been complied with. Water service will not be provided until such time as the streetlight facilities are approved and accepted by the city.
(Ord. of 5-16-2005, § F)
Sec. 22-85. - Lighting in areas other than single-family residential.
Streetlighting in districts other than single-family residential shall be permitted only:
(1)
With the approval of the city subject to the safety, economic, and other factors involved; and
(2)
Upon compliance with the standards herein provided for.
(Ord. of 5-16-2005, § G)
Sec. 22-86. - Installation and operation standards adopted; exception.
In order to ensure adequate illumination of public rights-of-way and promote safety and security, The American National Standard Practice for Roadway Lighting of the Illumination Society, as approved by the American National Standards Institute (1983), as may be amended, is hereby adopted as the standard for the installation and operation of lighting in the service area of the city water system with the following exceptions:
(1)
Lighting fixtures installed within the public rights-of-way to be operated for the purpose of street illumination shall comply with these standards. The minimum average horizontal footcandle illumination level by roadway classification shall be:
EXPAND
Roadway
Classification Commercial Area Intermediate Area Residential Area
Major 1.2 0.9 0.6
Collector 0.8 0.6 0.4
Local or
residential 0.6 0.5 0.3
  The uniformity of illumination shall be such that the point of lowest illumination shall have at least one-third of the average horizontal footcandle required illumination level, except that on local or residential streets it may be not less than one-sixth of this average.
(2)
Any party requesting permission to install or operate lighting fixtures within public rights-of-way shall furnish plans and specifications to the city for approval showing that the proposed lighting meets the standards, and no lighting shall be installed or operated without this approval. Should the city disapprove the request to install or operate lighting fixtures within any public rights-of-way, the written disapproval will be sent in writing to the party requesting approval. The written communication shall include the specific reasons for disapproval.
(3)
Roadway or streetlighting luminaries or fixtures installed within the public rights-of-way as security lights or for the purpose of lighting areas other than the public streets, shall be oriented in such a manner to ensure that the lateral light distribution pattern is parallel to the street and the vertical light distribution, at the initial light source, is perpendicular to the street, so as to protect the users of the street from the objectionable glare. The approval of the city shall be obtained before installation of these lights.
(4)
Other lighting fixtures to be installed within or outside of public rights-of-way for whatever purpose shall be installed and operated in such a manner to prevent glare from being a hazard to or interfering with the normal use of the public rights-of-way.
(Ord. of 5-16-2005, § H)
Sec. 22-87. - Procedures to be followed by subdivision developers.
Streetlights shall be required to be provided by the developers of all new subdivisions, except, however, subdivisions containing only lots which are five acres or larger are exempt. The developer shall:
(1)
Submit a final streetlight layout prepared by the utility company which will provide the lighting service showing exact location of streetlights within the subdivision. This drawing must be approved by the city prior to obtaining any building permit within that subdivision. Fixtures and standards/poles installed or used shall be approved by the utility company which will be responsible for the maintenance of the facilities and by the city. The fixtures shall be mounted a minimum of 25 feet above the ground, and shall have appropriate arm length to place the light over the street. No arm shall be less than 2½ feet long. One light shall be located at each street intersection within the subdivision.
(2)
Pay all costs for standards/poles, fixtures, and any other related items or materials necessary for the installation.
(3)
Submit proof of payment for complete installation to the city.
(4)
Submit a copy of an executed agreement with the utility company for complete maintenance of all installations.
(Ord. of 5-16-2005, § O)
Sec. 22-88. - Subdivisions with underground electric.
In subdivisions utilizing underground cable for electrical service, the developers shall be required to accomplish the same items listed in section 22-87.
(Ord. of 5-16-2005, § P)
Sec. 22-89. - Permitting.
Review and approval of plans may be delegated by the city in whole or in part to the city engineer or any other designee of the city, and a fee may be charged for the same.
(Ord. of 5-16-2005, § Q)
Secs. 22-90—22-106. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 22-107. - Petition for creation of district.
(a)
Any lot owner within the service area of the city water system may present a request for the creation of a streetlight district to the city. Upon receipt of the request, the city council shall determine the appropriate boundaries for a streetlighting district which will serve the lot owner presenting the request and neighboring lot owners. The petitioner shall then prepare a plat showing the proposed streetlighting district, and a petition for the creation of the proposed streetlighting district shall then be circulated by petitioner among the lot owners in the proposed district to sign showing whether it is their preference that the proposed district be created. Once a petition has been returned to the city, there shall be no changes in the preferences recorded thereon, and the petition shall clearly state the same. If 75 percent of the lot owners in the proposed district sign the petition for the creation of a streetlighting district, the city shall determine whether or not to create the proposed streetlighting district. Safety and economic factors shall be the prime consideration in making such determination; however, creation of the same is strictly within the discretion of the city.
(b)
The petition for creation of the proposed streetlighting district must be returned to the city within 90 days after it is obtained from the city; provided, however, that the city may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time for the return of the petition an additional 30 days for a total of 120 days, when a request for such extension is made before expiration of the original 90 days.
(Ord. of 5-16-2005, § I)
Sec. 22-108. - Creation of districts under special conditions.
In areas where special conditions as to safety, security, land topography, economic, and other factors may be involved, the city may create special streetlighting districts and provide for special streetlighting under such terms and conditions as may be determined by the city, any other provisions of this article to the contrary notwithstanding.
(Ord. of 5-16-2005, § J)
Sec. 22-109. - Lighting cost declared a service.
The city council does hereby declare that the cost and service for creation of streetlight districts or streetlighting hereafter created shall be a service and not a tax, as authorized by article IX, section IV, paragraph II of the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(Ord. of 5-16-2005, § A)
Sec. 22-110. - Charges.
All charges shall be set by the city council and are subject to change. In all cases, the rates for a streetlight district shall be sufficient to cover the expenses and costs associated with the lights for that district. The charges shall be levied on a per-lot basis.
(Ord. of 5-16-2005, § L)
Sec. 22-111. - Responsibility for cost; retirement of existing contracts.
(a)
The cost of providing and maintaining streetlight service in streetlight districts, and in streetlight districts hereafter created, shall be borne by the residents, lot owners, and property owners located within the boundaries of a particular subdivision. The charge therefor shall be determined by the city council and shall be posted and open for public inspection in the offices of city hall. The charge in the proposed streetlighting district to be created by petition shall be included on the petition circulated through the proposed district and may include an initial prorated charge in connection with the installation of the streetlights. In the event of excessive vandalism to streetlights within a district which results in the city being billed for repairs, the city may prorate those repair bills and add a pro rata share to those bills for the charge.
(b)
In those districts now in existence, or which may hereafter be created in which there is construction cost, the same shall be retired as per agreement or contract, with the public utility or other person to whom the indebtedness is owed, and shall be billed accordingly per lot.
(Ord. of 5-16-2005, § B)
Sec. 22-112. - Payment date: delinquencies.
The due date for the payment of the service and the sums herein provided for shall be the same date of each month as water bills due to the city water system and subject to the same penalties for late payment and for failure to pay. Any service provided by the city water system may be discontinued for late payment or nonpayment.
(Ord. of 5-16-2005, § D)
Sec. 22-113. - Responsibility for collections.
The billing, accounting, collecting, and receiving of the monies herein provided for is hereby declared to be the responsibility of the city water system.
(Ord. of 5-16-2005, § E)
Secs. 22-114—22-139. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - PARADES, ASSEMBLIES AND OTHER USES OF PUBLIC PROPERTY
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 22-140. - Definitions.
The following words where used in this article, unless the context requires otherwise, shall be deemed to have the following meanings:
Administrator. The city clerk shall be the administrator for the receipt and processing of applications for a permit for a private organization or group of private persons to hold a parade, assembly, demonstration, road closing, or other use of public property for private purposes. The city clerk may be assisted by other employees of the clerk's office.
Private organization or group of private persons means any firm, partnership, corporation, association, or group of individuals more than three in number, or their representatives, acting as a unit.
Private purpose means any purpose not commanded or directed by statute, ordinance, or other regulation to be performed by the state, county, city or other governmental entity.
(Code 1986, § 7-4-1; Ord. of 5-5-1986)
Sec. 22-141. - Defense to prosecution.
It shall be a defense to any prosecution under this article for failing to obtain a permit before engaging in any activity, described in this article, that a permit has in fact been issued in the manner provided by law. It shall be presumed that no permit has been issued unless at his trial, the accused produces in court a valid permit or a certified copy thereof.
(Code 1986, § 7-4-8; Ord. of 5-5-1986)
Sec. 22-142. - Subsequent amendments; other fees.
This article shall be subject to amendment or repeal, in whole or in part, at any time, and no amendment or repeal shall be construed to deny the right of the city to assess, levy and collect any permit fees prescribed. The payment of any permit fee herein provided for shall not be construed as prohibiting the assessment, levy, or collection of additional permit fees upon the same person.
(Code 1986, § 7-4-9; Ord. of 5-5-1986)
Sec. 22-143. - Violations.
(a)
It shall be a violation of this article for any private organization or group of private persons, whether residents of this city or elsewhere, to engage in any activity within the city limits for which this article requires a permit, without first obtaining a permit to do so, under the provisions of this article.
(b)
Any individual or any other person, whether the same be a corporation, partnership, or any other form of association, who engages in any activity for which this article requires a permit, without a permit having first been obtained under the provisions of this article, shall be guilty of a violation of this article.
(Code 1986, § 7-4-7; Ord. of 5-5-1986)
Sec. 22-144. - Administration of article.
The administrator shall administer and enforce the provisions of this article for the application for and issuance of permits under this article.
(Code 1986, § 7-4-4; Ord. of 5-5-1986)
Sec. 22-145. - Duties of administrator.
The administrator, or an authorized representative, shall have, among others, the following duties:
(1)
To prepare and provide the necessary forms for the application for a permit and for the submission of any required information as may be necessary to properly administer and enforce the provisions of this article.
(2)
To review the application for completeness, collect whatever fee may be required, and, where appropriate, receive the approval in writing of the department of transportation, state highway patrol, and the sheriff, or any other necessary public officer for the requested activity.
(3)
To submit the completed application and associated documents or other information to the council for action on the application.
(4)
Upon approval of the application by the council, to issue to the private organization or group of private persons a permit within a reasonable time of such approval.
(Code 1986, § 7-4-5; Ord. of 5-5-1986)
Secs. 22-146—22-173. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 22-174. - Required.
Every private organization or group of private persons who wish to use public property for private purposes in holding a parade, assembly, demonstration, road closing, or other activity within this city is hereby required to have a permit from the city for the privilege of engaging in any such activity within the corporate limits, unless city permitting is prohibited under state law or the activity is exempted by this Code.
(Code 1986, § 7-4-2; Ord. of 5-5-1986)
Sec. 22-175. - Application; fee.
(a)
Every private organization or group of private persons required to procure a permit, under the provisions of this Code, shall submit an application for the permit to the administrator. The application shall conform to the requirements of this section in addition to any other provisions of this Code.
(b)
Unless otherwise provided in this Code, each application shall be a written statement upon forms provided by the city and submitted not less than ten days before the date the parade, assembly, demonstration, road closing, or other activity is proposed by the applicant.
(1)
Each application shall contain the following information:
a.
Name and home address of the applicant, if an individual or home office address, if a corporation or partnership;
b.
Time and place where the proposed activity is to be carried on, including routes of passage of parades or other processions;
c.
Kind and class of activity to be carried on;
d.
Names and home addresses of the partners, if a partnership;
e.
Names and home addresses of the officers and directors, if a corporation;
f.
Any additional information which the administrator may find reasonably necessary to the fair administration of this article which may include a complete record of all arrests and convictions against the applicant and every partner, officer, or director of the applicant for violations of any and all laws and ordinances of the city, state, or federal government other than minor traffic violations.
(3)
Each application shall be signed and sworn to by the applicant, if an individual or by a partner, if a partnership, or by an officer, if a corporation.
(4)
All information furnished or secured under the authority of this article:
a.
Shall be kept in strict confidence by the city;
b.
Shall not be subject to public inspection; and
c.
Shall be utilized solely by the officers of the city responsible for administering the provisions of this article.
(5)
False statements on any application for a license shall be grounds for immediate revocation of the permit or denial of the application.
(6)
Any application, permit, and registration fees as fixed from time to time by the council required under this Code shall accompany the application.
(Code 1986, § 7-4-3; Ord. of 5-5-1986)
Sec. 22-176. - Procedure for issuance.
(a)
If any provision of this article provides for the review of an application for a permit by a city officer designated therein, the administrator shall forward a copy of the application to that officer. The officer charged with the duty of reviewing the application shall make a recommendation thereon, favorable or otherwise, and shall return the recommendation to the administrator after receiving a copy of the application.
(b)
Upon the receipt of the recommendation of the reviewing officer as hereinabove provided or, upon the receipt of the application if no reviewing officer is designated, the administrator shall forward the recommendation and application to the council for consideration and action.
(c)
Unless some significant interference with the rights of nonparticipating citizens exists, or the orderly flow of traffic would be obstructed unreasonably, or the public safety is endangered, or there is other unreasonable interference with the public welfare, peace, safety, health, good order, and convenience of the general public, the permit shall be granted.
(d)
Upon the express approval of the council, the administrator shall issue a permit to the applicant therefor. The permit shall state the nature of the activity authorized and bear the date of issuance and the signature of the administrator.
(Code 1986, § 7-4-6; Ord. of 5-5-1986)
Sec. 22-177. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - FESTIVALS

Sec. 22-178. - Purpose.
The following are general rules for conducting or regulating festivals in the City of Waleska, Georgia.
(Ord.of 5-16-2013(2) § 1)
Sec. 22-179. - Definitions.
Words and terms used in this article are defined as follows:
Alcoholic beverage. Means and includes, but is not limited to, malt beverages and wine as defined in this section.
Controlled zone. A zone within the festival area in which special regulations may apply as recommended in each case by the city clerk and authorized by the mayor and council including wristband identification of persons authorized to purchase and hold in possession alcoholic beverages in a public park or street.
Festival. A program of cultural and/or entertainment events open to the general public and taking place either fully or in part on public streets, thoroughfares, parks, squares, or other public property in connection with a community festival. To be regulated by this article, each such festival must be designated as a festival by the Mayor and Council.
Festival area. The area specifically designated and defined by the Mayor and Council as the location of festival events and activities.
(Ord.of 5-16-2013(2) § 1)
Sec. 22-180. - Designation of a community festival.
On the recommendation of the city clerk, the mayor and council may designate and name certain community festival days and during such festival days authorize cultural and entertainment events and initiate the regulatory provisions of this article within the festival area.
(Ord.of 5-16-2013(2) § 1)
Sec. 22-181. - Designation of a festival area.
The Mayor and Council shall designate the festival area in the resolution that designates the event as a festival and have the right to add any regulations per the specific festival.
(Ord.of 5-16-2013(2) § 1)
Sec. 22-182. - Designation and management of controlled zone.
(1)
Upon recommendation of the city clerk, the mayor and council may designate one or more controlled zones within the festival area, and may authorize the city clerk to implement regulations and controls which will be specific for each designated controlled zone. Such regulations and controls may include but are not limited to the following:
(a)
Fencing and gating. Fencing designated controlled zone(s) and establishing entrance gates for controlling and limiting access to each controlled zone.
(b)
Identification, entrance criteria. Requiring wristbands or other means of identifying persons who have met entrance criteria. Entrance criteria may include but are not limited to prohibiting persons from entering with weapons, alcoholic beverages, pets, skates, bicycles, and other items which may be dangerous, disruptive, or inconvenient in crowded conditions, and prohibiting entry by persons appearing to be intoxicated.
(c)
Identification, consumption of alcoholic beverages. Requiring wristbands or other means of identifying persons who have displayed proof of attaining the age of 21 years, and who are authorized to purchase or hold in possession alcoholic beverages within the controlled zone, both within and outside of licensed alcoholic beverage establishments. A fee as set by the mayor and council may be charged for such wristband. The transfer of wristband from one person to another person is prohibited and if a violation occurs, the wristband will be forfeited. Displaying such a wristband does not relieve alcoholic beverage establishments of responsibility for determining if a person has attained the age of 21 years before dispensing alcohol to that person.
(d)
Containers, cups. Any establishment serving alcoholic beverages where the individuals purchasing said beverages will be walking around in the containment area shall only serve the alcoholic beverage in a disposable cup. Disposable cups must be composed of a material that is not glass, ceramic, aluminum, or other hard substance. Plastic or Styrofoam cups are allowed. The city also reserves the right to determine additional regulations in regards to the containers/cups when approving the festival.
(e)
Transport of alcoholic beverages into or out of a designated controlled zone. The transport of alcoholic beverages for personal consumption either into or out of any designated controlled zone is prohibited.
(f)
Designation of festival manager and/or city within controlled zone. The mayor and council may designate a festival manager and/or the City of Waleska to manage the festival activities to organize and manage festival activities within a controlled zone. Furthermore, the designated festival manager and/or the city will be responsible for approving or not approving the vendors/establishments that seek participation in the festival.
(2)
Insurance. Any organization authorized to organize and manage festival activities within a controlled zone shall take out and keep in force for all activities associated with such event a special events liability policy. Such policy shall provide the following:
(a)
Minimum coverage limits: The city clerk will recommend to the mayor and council an adequate minimum coverage limit depending on the scope of festival.
(b)
Named as additional insured: The mayor and council of the City of Waleska, a Georgia municipal corporation, its elected officials, officers, employees and agents. In some cases other local, state, and federal governments or private individuals or corporations may be required to be named as an additional insured if the property is leased, is under lease, or private property is being used to conduct the festival.
(c)
Certificate of insurance: A certificate of insurance shall be issued to the additional insured at least five days prior to the beginning of the event. Such certificate shall be on a standard form and will provide for notification of the additional insured within ten days of termination of coverage.
(d)
Coverage shall include claims for damages because of bodily injury and for dramshop liability.
(Ord.of 5-16-2013(2) § 1)
Sec. 22-183. - Restricting hours of alcohol sales.
Hours of alcohol sales will be set forth in the resolution establishing the festival.
(Ord.of 5-16-2013(2) § 1)
Sec. 22-184. - Qualified vendors.
All qualified vendors must have a City of Waleska pouring license or have completed the application process for a temporary City of Waleska pouring license and a State of Georgia alcohol license prior to the event date. Temporary permits are issued to qualified vendors in accordance with regulations set by the mayor and council
(Ord.of 5-16-2013(2) § 1)
Sec. 22-185. - Permit.
Permit applications shall be obtained from the City of Waleska before requesting approval to organize and/or conduct a festival.
(Ord.of 5-16-2013(2) § 1)
Sec. 22-186. - No waiver.
Nothing contained herein shall waive the sovereign immunity of the City of Waleska as currently existing or as may hereafter amended. Further, this ordinance shall not constitute a waiver or modification of state law, city ordinances or federal law.
(Ord.of 5-16-2013(2) § 1)
