PART I - CHARTER[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the Charter of the City, as adopted by 1978 Ga. Laws (Act No. 771), page 3040. Amendments to the Charter are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. The title, enactment, transitional, ratification, publication and effective date provisions have been omitted, and where a section has been amended or repealed by a later provision, only the current language has been printed. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Home rule for municipalities, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ II; municipal Home Rule Act of 1965, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - CREATION, INCORPORATION, POWERS
INCORPORATION

Section 1.10. - Name.
This city and the inhabitants thereof are hereby constituted and declared a body politic and corporate under the name and style of Dacula, Georgia, and by that name shall have perpetual succession.
BOUNDARIES

Section 1.11. - Corporate boundaries.
(a)
The boundaries of this city shall be those existing on the effective date of the adoption of this charter with such alterations as may be made from time to time in the manner provided by general State law. The boundaries of this city at all times shall be shown on a map, a written description or any combination thereof, to be retained permanently in the office of city clerk and to be designated, as the case may be: "Official Map (or Description) of the Corporate Limits of the City of Dacula, Georgia." Alteration in these boundaries shall be indicated by appropriate entries upon or additions to such map or description. Such entries or additions shall be made by and under the direction of the city clerk. Photographic, typed, or other copies of such map or description certified by the city clerk shall be admitted as evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as with the original map or description.
(b)
The city council may provide for the redrawing of any such map by ordinance to reflect lawful changes in the corporate boundaries. A redrawn map shall supersede for all purposes the earlier map or maps which it is designated to replace.
MUNICIPAL POWERS

Section 1.12. - Powers and Construction.
(a)
This city shall have all powers possible for a city to have under the present or future Constitution and laws of this State as fully and completely as though they were specifically enumerated in this charter.
(b)
The powers of this city shall be construed liberally in favor of the city. The specific motion or failure to mention particular powers shall not be construed as limiting in any way the powers of this city.
Section 1.13. - Exercise of Powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the city, its officers agencies, or employees shall be carried into execution as provided by this charter. If this charter makes no provision, such shall be carried into execution as provided by ordinance or as provided by pertinent laws of the State of Georgia.
ARTICLE II. - GOVERNMENT STRUCTURE
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

Section 2.10. - City Council Creation; Composition; Number; Election.
The legislative authority of the government of this city, except as otherwise specifically provided in this charter, shall be vested in a city council to be composed of a mayor and four council members. The mayor and council members shall be elected in the manner provided by Article V of this chapter [charter].
Section 2.11. - Council Terms and Qualifications of Office.
The members of the council shall serve for terms of four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. No persons shall be eligible to serve as mayor or council member unless he shall have been a resident of the city for a period of at least one year immediately prior to the date of the election of mayor or members of the council; each shall continue to reside there during his period of service and shall be registered and qualified to vote in municipal elections of this city.
(1982 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1050), § 1, p. 4249)
Section 2.12. - Vacancy; Filling of Vacancies.
(a)
Vacancies. The office of mayor or council member shall become vacant upon the incumbent's death, resignation, forfeiture of office or removal from office in any manner authorized by this charter or the general laws of the State of Georgia.
(b)
Filling of Vacancy. A vacancy in the office of mayor or council member shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, as provided for in Article V [of this charter].
Section 2.13. - Compensation and Expenses.
The mayor and council members shall receive compensation for their services in an amount set by ordinance.
Section 2.14. - Prohibitions.
(a)
Holding Other Office. Except as authorized by general State law, the mayor or any council member shall not hold any other city office or city employment during the term for which he was elected.
(b)
Voting When Personally Interested. Neither the mayor nor any other member of the council shall vote upon any question in which he is personally interested.
Section 2.15. - Inquiries and Investigations.
The council may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the city and the conduct of any department, office, or agency thereof, and, for this purpose, may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony, and require the production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of these powers by the council shall be punished as provided by ordinance.
Section 2.16. - General Power and Authority of the Council.
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the council shall be vested with all the powers of government of this city as provided by Article I [of this charter].
Section 2.17. - Regular and Special Meetings.
(a)
The council shall hold regular meetings at such times and places as prescribed by ordinance.
(b)
Special meetings of the council may be held on call of the mayor or two members of the council. Notice of such special meetings shall be served on all other members personally or by telephone personally, at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Such notice to council members shall not be required if the mayor and all council members are present when the special meeting is called. Such notice of any special meeting may be waived by a council member in writing before or after such a meeting, and attendance at the meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice on any business transacted in such council member's presence. Only the business stated in the call may be transacted at the special meeting.
(c)
All meetings of the council shall be public to the extent required by general State law.
Section 2.18. - Rules of Procedure.
The council shall adopt its rules of procedure and order of business consistent with the provisions of this charter [and] shall provide for keeping the minutes of its proceedings, which shall be a public record.
Section 2.19. - Quorum; Voting.
Three elected or duly appointed public officials shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact the business of the council. Voting on the adoption of ordinances shall be taken by voice vote and the ayes and nays shall be recorded in the minutes of the council. Any member of the council shall have the right to request a roll-call vote. The affirmative vote of the majority of those council members present shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion except as otherwise provided in this charter.
(2003 Ga. Laws (Act No. 300), § 1, p. 4395; Ord. of 3-5-2020(1) )
Section 2.20. - Ordinance Forms; Procedure.
(a)
Every proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing and in the form required for final adoption. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not expressed in its title. The enacting clause shall be "The Mayor and Council of the City of Dacula hereby ordains …" and every ordinance shall so begin.
(b)
An ordinance may be introduced by either the mayor or any member of the council and be read at a regular or special meeting of the city council. Ordinances shall be considered adopted or rejected by the city council in accordance with the rules which it shall establish.
(Ord. of 12-11-1997, §1)
Section 2.21. - Action Requiring an Ordinance.
In addition to other acts required by general State law or by specific provisions of this charter to be done by ordinances, acts of the council which have the force and effect of law shall be done by the ordinance.
Section 2.22. - Emergencies.
To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property, or public peace, the council may convene on call of the mayor or one council member and promptly adopt an emergency ordinance, but such ordinance may not levy taxes; grant, renew, or extend a franchise; regulate the rate charged by any public utility for its services; or authorize the borrowing of money except for loans to be repaid within 30 days. An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form prescribed for ordinances generally, except that it shall be plainly designated as an emergency ordinance and shall contain, after the enacting clause, a declaration stating that an emergency exists and describing the emergency in clear and specific terms. An emergency ordinance may be adopted with or without amendment, or rejected at the meeting at which it is introduced. It shall become effective upon adoption or at such later time as it may specify. Every emergency ordinance shall automatically stand repealed 30 days following the date upon which it was adopted, but this shall not prevent reenactment of the ordinance in the manner specified in this section if the emergency still exists. An emergency ordinance may also be repealed by adoption of a repealing ordinance in the same manner specified in this section for adoption of emergency ordinances.
(2003 Ga. Laws (Act No. 300), § 2, p. 4395)
Section 2.23. - Codes of Technical Regulations.
The council may adopt any standard code of technical regulations by reference thereto in an adopting ordinance. The procedure and requirements governing such adopting ordinance shall be as prescribed for ordinances generally.
Section 2.24. - Codification of Ordinances.
All ordinances passed by the mayor and council having the force and effect of law shall be codified in a compilation known and cited officially as "The Code of the City of Dacula, Georgia [2015]." All ordinances contained therein shall be deemed to have been duly passed by the mayor and council and duly signed, authenticated and recorded by the city clerk.
Section 2.25. - Election of Mayor; Forfeiture.
The mayor shall be elected and serve for the term of four years and until his successor is elected and qualified. He shall be a qualified elector of this city and shall have been a resident of this city for at least a full year immediately preceding his election. He shall continue to reside in this city during the period of his service. He shall forfeit his office on the same grounds and under the same procedure as for council members.
Section 2.26. - Mayor Pro Tem.
The council shall elect by majority vote from among its members a mayor pro tem who shall assume the duties and powers of the mayor upon declaration by the council of the mayor's disability or absence.
Section 2.27. - Powers and Duties of Mayor.
As the chief executive of this city, the mayor shall:
(a)
See that all laws and ordinances of the city are faithfully executed;
(b)
Shall approve or veto all ordinances or motions passed by the council. However, a veto may be overridden by a vote of the majority of the council at its next regular meeting;
(c)
Appoint and remove all officers, department heads, and employees of the city upon the advice and consent of the city council;
(d)
Recommend to the council such measures relative to the affairs of the city, improvement of the government, and promotion of the welfare of its inhabitants as he may deem expedient;
(e)
Call special meetings of the council;
(f)
Be entitled to cast his vote in order to break a tie vote of the council on any matter; and
(g)
Perform other duties as may be required by general state law, charter, or ordinance.
(Ga. Laws 1981, p. 3467; Act of 4-17-2003, § 3)
ARTICLE III. - ADMINISTRATIVE AFFAIRS

Section 3.10. - Boards, Commissions and Authorities.
(a)
The mayor and council shall create by ordinance such boards, commissions and authorities to fulfill any investigative, quasi-judicial and quasi-legislative function the mayor and council deem necessary and shall by ordinance establish the composition, period of existence, duties and powers thereof.
(b)
All members of boards, commissions and authorities of the city shall be appointed by the mayor and council for such terms of office and in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance, except where other appointing authority, term of office or manner of appointment is prescribed by the charter or general State law.
(c)
No member of any board, commission or authority shall hold any elective office in the city.
(d)
Any vacancy on a board, commission or authority of the city shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner prescribed herein for original appointment, except as otherwise provided by the charter or general State law.
ARTICLE IV. - JUDICIAL BRANCH
MUNICIPAL COURT

Section 4.10. - Creation; Name.
There shall be a court to be known as the municipal court of the City of Dacula.
Section 4.11. - Judge.
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge on the municipal court unless he is a resident of Gwinnett County, is a member of the State Bar of Georgia, and has been actively engaged in the practice of law for at least three years. The judge shall be appointed by the city council. The city council shall also have the power to remove the judge.
Section 4.12. - Convening.
The municipal court shall be convened at regular intervals determined by the council.
Section 4.13. - Jurisdiction; Powers.
(a)
The municipal court shall try and punish violators of all city ordinances.
(b)
The municipal court shall have the authority to bind prisoners over to the appropriate court when it appears by probable cause that a State law has been violated.
(c)
The municipal court shall have the same authority as superior courts to compel the production of evidence in the possession of any party; to enforce obedience to its orders, judgments and sentences; and to administer such oaths as are necessary.
(d)
The municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summons, subpoena and warrants which may be served as executed by any officer as authorized by this charter or by general State law.
(e)
The municipal court is specifically vested with all of the jurisdiction and powers throughout the entire area of this city granted by general State laws to mayors, municipal and police courts, and particularly by such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances and prosecution of traffic violations.
(f)
The municipal court shall not subject anyone to a fine greater than $1,000.00 or imprisonment greater than 90 days for each offense committed.
(Ord. of 12-11-1997, § 1)
Section 4.14. - Rules for Court.
With the approval of the council, the judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court; provided, however, that the council may adopt, in part or in toto, the rules and regulations for procedure of the superior court under the general laws of the State of Georgia. The rules and regulations made or adopted for said court shall be filed with the city clerk, shall be available for public inspection, and, upon request, a copy shall be furnished to all defendants in municipal court proceedings at least 48 hours prior to said proceedings.
ARTICLE V. - ELECTION AND REMOVAL
ELECTIONS AND REMOVALS

Section 5.10. - Applicability of General Law.
All primaries and elections shall be held and conducted in accordance with the Georgia Municipal Election Code, Title 34A of the Code of Georgia of 1933 (Ga. Laws 1968, p. 885), as now or hereafter amended.
Editor's note— Section 5.10 has been superseded and made obsolete by the provisions of Ga. Const. art. II, §§ I—III and the "Georgia Election Code" O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.
Section 5.11. - Regular Elections; Time for Holding.
On the first Tuesday following the first Monday of November, and on that day annually, there shall be an election for the mayor and the city council. The terms of office shall begin at the time of taking the oath of office. (Superseded by O.C.G.A. § 21-3-51.)
Editor's note— Section 5.11 has been superseded and made obsolete by the provisions of Ga. Const. art. II, §§ I—III and the "Georgia Election Code" O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.
Section 5.12. - Special Elections; Vacancies.
In the case of a vacancy in the office of a council member, from failure to elect, death, removal, or any cause whatsoever, such vacancy shall be filled by appointment by the mayor and the remaining council members. In the case of a vacancy in the office of mayor, from failure to elect, death, removal, or any cause whatsoever, such vacancy shall be filled by appointment by the council. Such appointments shall be for the remainder of the unexpired term of office and no election shall be held to fill such vacancy.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 586), § 1, p. 3631)
Section 5.13. - Other Provisions.
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the council shall, by ordinance, prescribe such rules and regulations as it deems appropriate to fulfill any options and duties under the Georgia Municipal Election Code, Title 34A of the Code of Georgia of 1933 (Ga. Laws 1968, p. 885), as now or hereafter amended.
Editor's note— Section 5.13 has been superseded and made obsolete by the provisions of Ga. Const. art. II, §§ I—III and the "Georgia Election Code" O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.
Section 5.14. - Nonpartisan Elections.
Political parties shall not conduct primaries for city offices and all names of candidates for city offices shall be listed without party labels.
Section 5.15. - Election by Majority.
The person receiving a majority of the votes cast for any city office shall be elected.
Editor's note— Section 5.15 has been superseded and made obsolete by the provisions of Ga. Const. art. II, §§ I—III and the "Georgia Election Code" O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.
Section 5.16. - Grounds for Removal.
The mayor, council members, or others provided for in this charter shall be removed from office for any one or more of the following causes:
(a)
Incompetence, misfeasance or malfeasance in office;
(b)
Conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude;
(c)
Failure at any time to possess any of the qualifications of office as provided by this charter or by law;
(d)
Knowingly violate any express prohibition of this charter;
(e)
Abandonment of office or neglect to perform the duties thereof;
(f)
Failure for any other cause to perform the duties of office as required by this charter or by law; or
(g)
By a recall election. A recall of an incumbent of an elective office shall be initiated upon a written request to that effect signed by at least thirty percent of the registered voters eligible to vote for such office in the last preceding general municipal election. The council shall prescribe rules and regulations governing the initiation and preparation of such written request and the procedures for holding the recall election.
If at such election a majority of the registered voters voting in such recall election approve the recall of an incumbent, upon certification of the results of the election, the office shall be vacant. If a majority of the registered voters voting in a recall election shall disapprove the recall of an incumbent, he shall remain in office.
ARTICLE VI. - FINANCE

Section 6.10. - Property Tax.
The council may assess, levy, and collect an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city that is subject to such taxation by the State and county. This tax is for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government; providing governmental services; for the repayment of principal and interest on general obligations; and for any other public purpose as determined by the council in its discretion. This city is hereby exempted from the provisions of Georgia Code Sections 92-4101 to 92-4104, inclusive.
Section 6.11. - Millage Rate, Due Rates, Payment Methods.
The council, by ordinance, shall establish a millage rate for the city property tax, a due date and in what length of time these taxes must be paid. The council, by ordinance, may provide for the payment of these taxes by installments or in one lump sum, as well as to authorize the voluntary payment of taxes prior to the time when due.
Section 6.12. - Occupation and Business Taxes.
The council, by ordinance, shall have the power to levy such occupation or business taxes as are not denied by general State law. Such taxes may be levied on both individuals and corporations who transact business in this city or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein [to] the extent [that] such persons have a constitutionally sufficient nexus to this city to be so taxed. The council may classify businesses, occupations, professions or callings for the purpose of such taxation in any way which may be lawful and compel the payment of such taxes.
Section 6.13. - License, Permits, Fees.
The council, by ordinance, shall have the power to require any individuals or corporations who transact business in this city or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein to obtain a license or permit for such activity from the city and pay a reasonable fee for such license or permit where such activities are not regulated by general State law in such a way as to preclude city regulation. Such fees may reflect the total cost to the city of regulating the activity and, if unpaid, shall be collected as provided in Section 6.17. The council, by ordinance, may establish reasonable requirements for obtaining or keeping such licenses as the public health, safety, and welfare necessitates.
Section 6.14. - Service Charges.
The council, by ordinance, shall have the power to assess and collect fees, charges, and tolls for sewer, sanitary, health services, or any other services rendered within and without the corporate limits of the city for the total cost to the city of providing such services. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in Section 6.17.
Section 6.15. - Special Assessments.
The council, by ordinance, shall have the power to assess and collect the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, sewers, or other utility mains and appurtenances from the abutting property owners under such terms and conditions as are reasonable. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in Section 6.17.
Section 6.16. - Construction, Other Taxes.
This city shall be empowered to levy any other tax allowed now or hereafter by State law and the specific mention of any right, power or authority in this Article shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general powers of this city to govern its local affairs.
Section 6.17. - Collection of Delinquent Taxes and Fees.
The council, by ordinance, may provide generally for the collection of delinquent taxes, fees, or other revenue due the city under Sections 6.10 through 6.17 by whatever reasonable means as are not precluded by general State law. This shall include providing for the dates when the taxes or fees are due, late penalties or interest issuance and execution of fi. fas.; creations and priority of liens; making delinquent taxes and fees personal debts of the persons required to pay the taxes or fees; allowing exceptions for hardship; and providing for the assignment or transfer of tax executions.
Section 6.18. - General Obligation Bonds.
The council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized under this charter or the general laws of the State. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuances by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
Section 6.19. - Revenue Bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the council as State law now or hereafter provides. Such bonds are to be paid out of any revenue produced by the project, program or venture for which they were issued.
Section 6.20. - Short-term Notes.
The city must obtain and repay any short-term loans between January 1 and December 31 of each year or as is otherwise provided by present or future State law.
Section 6.21. - Contracting Procedures.
No contract with the city shall be binding on the city unless:
(1)
It is in writing;
(2)
It is drawn by or submitted and reviewed by the city attorney and, as a matter of course, is signed by him to indicate such drafting or review; and
(3)
It is made or authorized by the council and such approval is entered in the council journal of minutes required under Section 2.20.
Section 6.22. - Sale of City Property.
(a)
The council may sell and convey any real or personal property owned or held by the city for governmental or other purposes as provided by general State law as now or later amended in Section 69-318 of the 1933 Code of Georgia (Ga. Laws 1976, p. 350).
(b)
The council may quitclaim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon report by the mayor and adoption of a resolution, both finding that the property is not needed for public or other purposes and that the interest of the city has no readily ascertainable monetary value.
(c)
Whenever in opening, extending or widening any street avenue, alley or public place of the city, a small parcel or tract of land is cut off or separated by such work from a larger tract or boundary of land owned by the city, the council may authorize the mayor to execute and deliver to the name of the city of deed conveying said cutoff or separated parcel or tract of land to an abutting or adjoining property owner or owners in exchange for rights-of-way of said street, avenue, alley or public place, or in settlement of any alleged damages sustained by said abutting or adjoining property owner. All deeds and conveyances heretofore and hereafter so executed and delivered shall convey all title and interest the city has in such property, notwithstanding the fact that no public sale after advertisement was or is hereafter made.
ARTICLE VII. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 7.10. - Eminent Domain.
The council is hereby empowered to acquire, construct, operate, and maintain public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets, market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewage treatment, waterworks, electrical systems, gas systems, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities, and any other public improvements inside or outside the city, and to regulate the use thereof, and, for such purposes, property may be taken under Chapter 36-202 of the Georgia Code [O.C.G.A. § 22-1-4], subject to such amendments as shall be enacted, or any other Georgia law applicable now or provided in the future.
Editor's note— Chapter 36-202 of the Georgia Code has been renumbered to O.C.G.A. § 22-1-4 (How rights exercised).
Section 7.11. - Franchises.
The council shall have the power to grant franchises for the use of this city's streets and alleys, for the purposes of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, electric companies, cable television, gas companies, transporting companies and other similar organizations. The council shall determine the duration, provisions, terms, whether the same shall be exclusive or nonexclusive, and the consideration for such franchises; provided, however, no franchise shall be granted for a period in excess of five years and no franchise shall be granted unless the city receives just and adequate compensation therefor. The city council shall provide for the registration of all franchises with the city clerk in a registration book to be kept by him. The council may provide by ordinance for the registration within a reasonable time of all franchises.
Section 7.12. - Existing Personnel and Officers.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this charter, all personnel and officers of the city and their rights, privileges and powers shall continue beyond the time this charter takes effect.
Section 7.13. - Pending Matters.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this charter, all rights, claims, actions, orders, contracts and legal or administrative proceedings shall continue and any such ongoing work or cases shall be dealt with by such city agencies [agency's] personnel or office as may be provided by the council.
Section 7.14. - Construction.
(a)
Section captions in this charter are informative only and are not to be considered as a part thereof.
(b)
The word "shall" is intended to be mandatory and word "may" is not.
(c)
The word "council" shall mean the city council of this city.
(d)
The singular shall include the plural and the masculine the feminine and vice versa.
Section 7.15. - Severability.
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Act shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases of this Act, which shall remain in full force and effect, as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional were not originally a part hereof. The General Assembly hereby declares that it would have passed the remaining parts of this Act if it had known that such part or parts hereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
Section 7.16. - Special Repealer.
An Act incorporating the City of Dacula in the County of Gwinnett, approved March 17, 1959 (Ga. Laws 1959, p. 3161), is hereby repealed in its entirety and any other amendatory acts not aforementioned are likewise repealed in their entirety.
Section 7.17. - Continuance in Office.
The mayor and council members serving as such on the effective date of this charter shall continue to serve as such for the terms of office to which they were elected and until their successors shall be elected as herein provided. Such successors shall be elected in the municipal general election which is conducted immediately prior to the expiration of the respective term of office.
Section 7.18. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
