ARTICLE VII. - ARCHITECTURAL AND DESIGN STANDARDS

Sec. 10-192. - Objectives and findings.
(a)
In an effort to maintain high quality, long-lasting and sustainable development within the City, the City hereby adopts the following design guidelines and standards for all newly constructed buildings within R-TH, RSR, O-I, C-1, C-2, C-3, M-1 and M-2 zoning districts. These guidelines are intended to enhance the visual aspect and livability of the City. These guidelines will foster architectural diversity and interest, yet achieve and maintain a consistent, durable and pleasing aesthetic/visual quality.
(b)
Each building should be created as an enduring feature of the City's built and natural environment contributing to the productivity of our economy, social/civic network and ecological condition. The use of quality local materials is encouraged in order to minimize the operational and environmental cost over the life of each building. A typical building exterior shall require little maintenance and achieve a life span of at least 80 years.
(c)
The use of building materials should create a consistent and traditional architectural identity for each building/development. Traditional architecture may include the use of brick, pitched roofs, low-profile signage and subdued colors. For large commercial/retail buildings, variations in facade, roofline and depth shall be provided to lend the appearance of multi-tenant occupancy and reduce the perceived scale of such a building.
(Ord. of 8-6-2009, § 1)
Sec. 10-193. - Grandfathering and adoption.
(a)
The following design guidelines and standards apply to all newly constructed nonresidential or multifamily buildings within R-TH, RSR, O-I, C-1, C-2, C-3, M-1 and M-2 zoning districts. Properties with zoning conditions that do not address architectural and design standards of new construction of nonresidential or multifamily buildings are subject to this article in full.
(b)
Properties with existing zoning conditions pertaining to architectural or design criteria are exempt from further requirements of this article. Any project within the City that has received or applied for a building permit by the date of adoption of these requirements shall be allowed to proceed under the previous requirements. In addition to applicable provisions outlined in Article VIII of the 2000 Zoning Resolution of the City relating to nonconforming uses, any building addition or enlargement to a lawfully constructed building shall not be subject to these requirements.
(Ord. of 8-6-2009, § 2)
Sec. 10-194. - Building plans.
(a)
All building plans submitted as an application for a building permit should clearly indicate all of the proposed building materials and colors for each facade as described herein. The plans should clearly show the location, dimensions and calculate the amount/percentages of all building materials per facade.
(b)
The following design standards are primarily based upon the City's zoning categories. However if a use is permitted in a more intensive zoning district, building material allocations shall be used for the less intensive classification (e.g., a professional office in a M-1 or M-2 zoning district shall use the building material allocations in Table I for O-I categories. Said table can be found in section 10-197).
(Ord. of 8-6-2009, § 3)
Sec. 10-195. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Arcade means an arcade is a covered entry feature/structural canopy extending along the front facade of a commercial building.
Building means any structure having a roof supported by walls and intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of any individual, process, equipment, goods or materials of any kind.
Facade means a vertical exterior face or elevation of a building.
Front facade means any facade with a public entry which faces a public right-of-way.
Rear facade means any facade without a public entry that does not face a public right-of-way. A rear facade may be technically classified as a side facade.
Side facade means any facade without a public entry but facing a public right-of-way or any facade with a public entry but not facing a public right-of-way. A side facade typically connects a front facade with a rear facade.
(Ord. of 8-6-2009, § 4)
Sec. 10-196. - General architectural requirements.
(a)
If provided, dumpsters shall be screened to a height of eight feet with an opaque screen on all sides. Screening wall must be finished with brick and/or stone. All dumpster screens must be arranged for easy access, located behind the principal building they serve and enclosed with an opaque gate finished to complement the walls of the enclosure. Dumpsters may be located alongside the principal building they serve provided that the dumpster is 75 feet away from any neighboring building or use.
(b)
All ground-mounted mechanical, HVAC and like systems shall be screened from public street view on all sides by an opaque wall or fence made of brick, stone or appropriate landscaping.
(c)
For all commercial/retail buildings, roof-mounted mechanical, HVAC and like systems shall be screened on all sides from areas of lower elevation than the building's roofline.
(d)
Contrasting accent colors on any single facade shall be limited to no more than ten percent of the total wall area for any single facade.
(e)
Permanently mounted neon lights shall not be allowed.
(f)
Buildings located on out parcels shall be constructed using similar architectural themes as the principal building with which they are associated.
(g)
Back-lit awnings, roof-mounted lights, and/or roof mounted flag poles are not permitted. Satellite dishes shall be located and painted to blend with the background as much as practical.
(h)
Each project shall seamlessly relate in form, materials and scale to its neighborhood and site while remaining unique in overall character and style. Each building design shall be made up of a compatible combination of these traditional architectural elements or similar elements: low pitched gable roofs; exposed beams or bracing under gables; prominent lintels and sills; open front porticos; prominent columns, posts and/or pilasters; gabled dormers; exposed rafters; wide eaves; brick or stone masonry foundation walls.
(i)
Bright or vibrant colors of orange, purple, pink, bright green, violet or other similar hues which are considered to be visually obtrusive or otherwise inconsistent with the intent of the design guidelines are not permitted. The exterior color scheme shall be shown for all exterior elevations and included with the building plans.
(j)
All site utilities shall be located underground.
(k)
Roll-up type cargo bay doors shall be limited to the rear of buildings located in O-I and C-1 zoning districts. Roll-up type cargo bay doors shall be limited to the side or rear of buildings located in C-2, C-3, M-l, and M-2 zoning districts.
(Ord. of 8-6-2009, § 5)
Sec. 10-197. - Building materials.
The following building materials may be used and combined to create a consistent, attractive, interesting, and long-lasting building design within the general architectural requirements. The quantity and type of building materials are outlined in this section.
(1)
Allowed building materials.
a.
Brick. Painted brick and simulated brick veneers which are intended to imitate masonry exteriors are not permitted;
b.
Stone. Natural stone, such as, but not limited to, granite, limestone, and marble, is allowed building materials. Terra cotta, cast stone, cultured stone are also acceptable. Painted stone or mass produced sheets of simulated stone which are intended to imitate masonry exteriors are not permitted;
c.
Glass. Reflective or glass tinted more than 20 percent is not permitted;
d.
High grade siding. High grade fiber cement siding;
e.
Stucco. High grade stucco/E.I.F.S (exterior insulation and finish systems);
f.
Block. Split face block;
g.
Siding. Fiber cement siding.
(2)
Ratios and amounts of allowed building materials. The following tables outline the allowed building materials for uses within each zoning category within the City:
Table 1. Allowed Building Materials - Buildings Under 25,000 Square Feet Gross Floor Area (GFA)
EXPAND
Zoning Category Brick Stone (Cultured or Natural) Glass Tilt/Pre-Cast Stucco/EIFS Concrete Block/CMU Split-Face Block/CMU Fiber Cement Siding Metal Tile
Front Side/Rear Front/Side Rear Front/Side Rear Front Side/Rear
R-TH RSR Yes Yes No No Max. 20% per facade Max. 25% per facade No No No No Max. 20% per facade Max. 20% per facade No No
OI Yes Yes Yes No Max. 20% per facade Max. 25% per facade No No No No No No No No
C-1 Yes Yes Yes No Max. 20% per facade Max. 25% per facade No No No No No No No No
C-2 Yes Yes Yes No Max. 20% per facade Max. 25% per facade No No No Yes No No No No
C-3 Yes Yes Yes No Max. 20% per facade Max. 25% per facade No No No Yes No No No No
M-1 Yes Yes Yes No Max. 20% per facade Max. 25% per facade No No No Yes No No No No
M-2 Yes Yes Yes No Max. 20% per facade Max. 25% per facade No No No Yes No No No No
  Table II. Allowed Building Materials - Buildings With 25,000 - 150,000 Square Feet GFA
EXPAND
Zoning Category Brick Stone (Cultured or Natural) Glass Tilt/Pre-Cast Stucco/EIFS Concrete Block/CMU Split-Face Block/CMU Fiber Cement Siding Metal Tile
Front Side/Rear Front/Side Rear Front/Side Rear Front Side/Rear
C-3 Yes Yes Yes No 50% Yes No No Yes Yes No No No No
M-1 Yes Yes Yes No Yes Yes No No Yes Yes No No No No
M-2 Yes Yes Yes No Yes Yes No No Yes Yes No No No No
  Table III. Allowed Building Materials - Buildings or Common Developments With More Than 150,000 Square Feet GFA
EXPAND
Zoning Category Brick Stone (Cultured or Natural) Glass Tilt/Pre-Cast Stucco/EIFS Concrete Block/CMU Split-Face Block/CMU Fiber Cement Siding Metal Tile
Front/Side Rear Front/Side Rear Front/Side Rear Front Side/Rear
C-3 Yes Yes Yes Yes * Max. 30% per Facade No No Yes # Yes Yes No No No No
M-1 Yes Yes Yes Yes * Max. 30% per Facade No No Yes # Yes Yes No No No No
M-2 Yes Yes Yes Yes * Max. 30% per Facade No No Yes # Yes Yes No No No No
  NOTES:
# Allowed only on rear facades of single buildings or common developments larger than 150,000 square feet gross floor area and must be finished to match building's primary color. Rear building wall must be screened from adjacent right-of-way, residential uses, retail uses or service uses by an opaque landscape buffer to consist of multiple staggered rows of evergreen and semi-evergreen trees and shrubs native or adapted to the area. Trees shall be six feet tall at time of planting. Plantings shall be arranged to provide an effective visual screen of at least the height of the wall at maturity. Buffer must be shown on a landscape plan to be approved by planning and development prior to receiving any permits.
* Exterior walls must be constructed and finished in accordance with all other provisions of the architectural and design standards. Acceptable finish treatments shall include any of the allowed building materials from Table III adapted for use in a tilt/pre-cast wall application.
(3)
Accent/trim exterior building material. Small amounts of building materials, such as wood, tile, etc., may be used to enhance the elevation of the building or for decorative elements but should not exceed ten percent of total wall area per facade.
(4)
Facade calculations. With the exception of accent/trim materials, there shall be no more than two primary building materials used. When a material is restricted as a percentage in Table I or Table II in subsection (2) of this section, such as stucco or siding, the building material may not be considered a primary building material or be combined with another restricted building material. The allowed facade materials shall not apply to windows, glass-front windows, entry doors and/or roll-up doors. The amount of permitted material shall be calculated using the gross square footage of wall area per facade. A building material that is allowed (such as brick) may be used in any percentage throughout the structure. A material that is restricted (such as stucco and split face block) is allowed as a maximum percentage. For example, a building has a front facade with a gross facade area of 1,200 square feet with 400 square feet consisting of windows and doors. Begin with 1,200 square feet for required building material calculations. In this case, the front facade of a building in C-2 zoning district with a wall area of 1,200 square feet shall have no more than 300 square feet of stucco on the front facade (ex. (1,200 X 25% = 300)). The balance shall be brick or other allowed material.
a.
For buildings with less than 15,000 square feet GFA, multi-pane windows shall be used in individual window openings, rather than large glass sheets.
b.
Mirrored glass with a reflection greater than 20 percent and glass curtain walls shall be prohibited.
c.
For buildings with less than 15,000 square feet GFA, window areas shall not extend down to the floor line. A wall of not less than two feet in height shall separate the floor from the bottom of the window frame.
d.
Building facades shall be visually divided into segments through articulation of the facade achieved by methods such as, but not limited to, variation in building materials, roofline, building setback, the use of additional window bays, pilasters. The segments shall be determined based on the length of the facade as shown:
EXPAND
Facade Length Maximum Segment Length
50—150 feet 50 feet
151—300 feet 75 feet
301+ feet 150 feet
  (Ord. of 8-6-2009, § 6)
Sec. 10-198. - Roof requirements.
(a)
Pitched roofs. All one-story buildings less than 10,000 gross square feet must have a pitched roof (between 3:12 and 12:12). If a pitched roof is not possible, a combination of flat roof and pitched roof shall be required. Provide a pitched roof on front and side of the building to screen view of any flat roof. Cover arcades, canopies, porches, balconies and other similar features with a pitched roof. Materials for pitched roofs shall be limited to architectural dimensional grade asphalt shingles, natural slate, natural terra cotta, natural wood shake, or factory finished enamel metal roofing.
(b)
Mansard roofs. Mansard roofs shall have a maximum pitch of 12:12 with a minimum 12 foot vertical surface length.
(c)
Flat roofs. Flat roofs may be of any material that meets local codes. If factory finished metal flashing is used the color must be subdued to blend with other materials used in the construction of the roof. All buildings with flat roofs shall include parapet articulation on the front facade of such building. There shall be roof articulations/offsets at a minimum of one foot per each 120 linear feet of length by a change in the top line of the parapet. Additional articulation may occur at any lesser distance. If the front facade is less than 120 linear feet, then a minimum of one roof articulation must occur.
(d)
Other. Drive under canopies for gasoline pumps may have flat roof with vertical or factory formed facing of finished sheet metal.
(Ord. of 8-6-2009, § 7)
Sec. 10-199. - Arcade/structural canopy for retail commercial buildings.
For all commercial retail/service buildings, a covered entry shall be provided at the front of the building. The arcade or canopy shall provide covered areas for relief from the weather and extend from the building a minimum of five feet. They shall be designed in a manner which adds architectural variation and a sense of depth to the facade.
(Ord. of 8-6-2009, § 8)
Sec. 10-200. - Alternate review.
(a)
This article is intended to be followed as outlined in this section. In the event the intent of this article can be achieved with minor deviations which do not substantially impact the goals or intent of this article, the director of the City department of planning and development has the authority to modify the specific provisions. If substantial modifications or changes are necessary, any person, firm, group or organization may apply for relief from these requirements to the City council in accordance with Article VII, Section 706 of the City of Dacula Zoning Ordinance.
(b)
Any application for an alternate architectural arrangement shall be accompanied with proposed elevations, building materials, and/or renderings necessary for the City council to make a determination whether the alternate proposal meets the intent of these requirements. The City council, as part of an approval, may include conditions, modifications or requirements necessary to mitigate any part of their decision. The City may establish filing requirements, fees and deadlines as needed.
(Ord. of 8-6-2009, § 9)
Secs. 10-201—10-225. - Reserved.
