LOCUST GROVE, GEORGIA - MUNICIPAL CODE
modified
____________
A Codification of the General Ordinances
of the City of Locust Grove, Georgia
____________
Beginning with Supp. No. 7,
Supplemented by Municipal Code Corporation
____________
PREFACE
The Locust Grove, Georgia Municipal Code, originally published by Book Publishing Company in 1994, has been kept current by regular supplementation by Matthew Bender & Company, Inc., its successor in interest.
Beginning with Supplement No. 7, Municipal Code Corporation will be keeping this code current by regular supplementation.
During original codification, the ordinances were compiled, edited and indexed by the editorial staff of Book Publishing Company under the direction of Jerry Elkins, mayor, and Frances G. Ward, city clerk.
The code is organized by subject matter under an expandable three-factor decimal numbering system which is designed to facilitate supplementation without disturbing the numbering of existing provisions. Each section number designates, in sequence, the numbers of the title, chapter, and section. Thus, Section 2.12.040 is Section .040, located in Chapter 2.12 of Title 2. In most instances, sections are numbered by tens (.010, .020, .030, etc.), leaving nine vacant positions between original sections to accommodate future provisions. Similarly, chapters and titles are numbered to provide for internal expansion.
In parentheses following each section is a legislative history identifying the specific sources for the provisions of that section. This legislative history is complemented by an ordinance disposition table, following the text of the code, listing by number all ordinances, their subjects, and where they appear in the codification; and beginning with Supplement No. 7, legislation can be tracked using the "Code Comparative Table and Disposition List."
A subject-matter index, with complete cross-referencing, locates specific code provisions by individual section numbers.
This supplement brings the code up to date through Ordinance No. 20-12-063, passed December 21, 2020.
Municipal Code Corporation
1700 Capital Circle SW
Tallahassee, FL 32310
800-262-2633
HOW TO USE YOUR CODE
This code is organized to make the laws of the City of Locust Grove as accessible as possible to city officials, city employees and private citizens. Please take a moment to familiarize yourself with some of the important elements of this code.
Numbering System.
The numbering system is the backbone of a Code of Ordinances; Municipal Code Corporation uses a unique and versatile numbering structure that allows for easy expansion and amendment of this code. It is based on three tiers, beginning with title, then chapter, and ending with section. Each part is represented in the code section number. For example, Section 2.04.010 is Section .010, in Chapter 2.04 of Title 2.
Title.
A title is a broad category under which ordinances on a related subject are compiled. This code contains about 15 to 20 titles. For example, the first title is Title 1, General Provisions, which may contain ordinances about the general penalty, code adoption and definitions. The titles in this code are separated by tabbed divider pages for quick reference. Some titles are "Reserved" for later use.
Chapter.
Chapters deal with more specific subjects, and are often derived from one ordinance. All of the chapters on a related subject are grouped in one title. The chapters are numbered so that new chapters which should logically be placed near certain existing chapters can be added at a later time without renumbering existing material. For example, Chapter 2.06, City Manager, can be added between 2.04, City Council, and Chapter 2.08, City Attorney.
Section.
Each section of the code contains substantive ordinance material. The sections are numbered by "tens" to allow for expansion of the code without renumbering.
Tables of Contents.
There are many tables of contents in this code to assist in locating specific information. At the beginning of the code is the main table of contents listing each title. In addition, each title and chapter has its own table of contents listing the chapters and sections, respectively.
Ordinance History Note.
At the end of each code section, you will find an "ordinance history note," which lists the underlying ordinances for that section. The ordinances are listed by number, section (if applicable) and year. (Example: (Ord. 272 ยง 1, 1992).)
Beginning with Supplement No. 7, a secondary ordinance history note will be appended to affected sections. Ordinance history notes will be amended with the most recent ordinance added to the end. These history notes can be cross-referenced to the code comparative table and disposition list appearing at the back of the volume preceding the index.
Statutory References.
The statutory references direct the code user to those portions of the state statutes that are applicable to the laws of the municipality. As the statutes are revised, these references will be updated.
Cross-Reference Table.
When a code is based on an earlier codification, the cross-reference table will help users find older or "prior" code references in the new code. The cross-reference table is located near the end of the code, under the tabbed divider "Tables." This table lists the prior code section in the column labeled "Prior Code Section" and the new code section in the column labeled "Herein."
As of Supplement No. 7, this table will no longer be updated.
Ordinance List and Disposition Table.
To find a specific ordinance in the code, turn to the section called "Tables" for the Ordinance List and Disposition Table. This very useful table tells you the status of every ordinance reviewed for inclusion in the code. The table is organized by ordinance number and provides a brief description and the disposition of the ordinance. If the ordinance is codified, the chapter (or chapters) will be indicated. (Example: (2.04, 6.12, 9.04).) If the ordinance is of a temporary nature or deals with subjects not normally codified, such as budgets, taxes, annexations or rezones, the disposition will be "(Special)." If the ordinance is for some reason omitted from the code, usually at the direction of the municipality, the disposition will be "(Not codified)." Other dispositions sometimes used are "(Tabled)," "(Pending)," "(Number Not Used)" or "(Missing)."
Beginning with Supplement No. 7, this table will be replaced with the "Code Comparative Table and Disposition List."
Code Comparative Table and Disposition List.
Beginning with Supplement No. 7, a Code Comparative Table and Disposition List has been added for use in tracking legislative history. Located in the back of this volume, this table is a chronological listing of each ordinance considered for codification. The Code Comparative Table and Disposition List specifies the ordinance number, adoption date, description of the ordinance and the disposition within the code of each ordinance. By use of the Code Comparative Table and Disposition List, the reader can locate any section of the code as supplemented, and any subsequent ordinance included herein.
Index.
If you are not certain where to look for a particular subject in this code, start with the index. This is an alphabetical multi-tier subject index which uses section numbers as the reference, and cross-references where necessary. Look for the main heading of the subject you need, then the appropriate subheadings:
BUSINESS LICENSE
See also BUSINESS TAX
Fee 5.04.030
Required when 5.04.010
The index will be updated as necessary when the code text is amended.
Instruction Sheet.
Each supplement to the new code will be accompanied by an Instruction Sheet. The Instruction Sheet will tell the code user the date of the most recent supplement and the last ordinance contained in that supplement. It will then list the pages that must be pulled from the code and the new pages that must be inserted. Following these instructions carefully will assure that the code is kept accurate and current. Removed pages should be kept for future reference.
Page Numbers.
When originally published, the pages of this code were consecutively numbered. As of Supplement No. 7, when new pages are inserted with amendments, the pages will follow a "Point Numbering System". (Example: 32, 32.1, 32.2, 32.2.1, 32.2.2., 33). Backs of pages that are blank (in codes that are printed double-sided) will be left unnumbered but the number will be "reserved" for later use.
Electronic Submission.
In the interests of accuracy and speed, we encourage you to submit your ordinances electronically if at all possible. We can accept most any file format, including Word, WordPerfect or text files. If you have a choice, we prefer Word, any version. You can send files to us as an e-mail attachment, by FTP, on a diskette or CD-ROM. Electronic files enable us not only to get you your code more quickly but also ensure that it is error-free. Our e-mail address is: ords@municode.com.
For hard copy, send two copies of all ordinances passed to:
Municipal Code Corporation
P.O. Box 2235
Tallahassee, FL 32316
Customer Service.
If you have any questions about this code or our services, please contact Municipal Code Corporation at 1-800-262-2633 or:
Municipal Code Corporation
1700 Capital Circle SW
Tallahassee, FL 32310
