THE CHARTER
ARTICLE I - Creation, Incorporation, Powers

Sec. 1.10 - Incorporation.
The City of Locust Grove, Georgia, in the county of Henry, and the inhabitants thereof shall continue to be a body politic and corporate under the same name and style of the City of Locust Grove, Georgia. Under that name, said city shall continue to be vested with all of the property and rights of property which now belong to the corporation; shall have perpetual succession; may sue and be sued; may contract and be contracted with; may acquire and hold such property, real and personal, as may be devised, bequeathed, sold or in any manner conveyed or dedicated to or otherwise acquired by it, and from time to time may hold or invest, sell, or dispose of the same; may have a common seal and alter and renew the same at will; and may exercise in conformity with this charter all municipal powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of every name and nature whatsoever.
Sec. 1.11 - Corporate boundaries.
(a)
The boundaries of the City of Locust Grove shall be those existing on the effective date of the adoption of this charter with such alterations as may be made from time to time in the manner provided by law. The current boundaries of the City of Locust Grove, at all times, shall be shown on a map, a written description or any combination thereof, to be retained permanently in the office of the city clerk and to be designated, as the case may be: "Map (or Description) of the Corporate Limits of the City of Locust Grove, Georgia." Alterations in these boundaries shall be indicated by appropriate entries upon or additions to such map or description. Such entries or additions shall be made by and under the direction of the mayor. Photographic, typed, or other copies of such map or description certified by the city clerk shall be admitted in evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as with the original map or description.
(b)
The city council may provide for the redrawing of any such map. A redrawn map shall supersede for all purposes the earlier map or maps which it is designated to replace.
Sec. 1.12 - Specific powers.
The corporate powers of the government of the City of Locust Grove, to be exercised by the governing authority, may include the following:
(1)
To levy and to provide for the assessment, valuation, revaluation, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation;
(2)
To levy and to provide for the collection of license fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades and professions, and to license and regulate such privileges, occupations, trades and professions, and to provide for the manner and method of payment of such licenses and taxes;
(3)
To make appropriations for the support of the government of the city, to authorize the expenditure of money for any purposes authorized by this charter and for any purpose for which a municipality is authorized by the laws of the State of Georgia, and to provide for the payment of expenses of the city;
(4)
To appropriate and borrow money for the payment of debts of the city and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized by this charter or the laws of the State of Georgia;
(5)
To acquire, dispose of, and hold in trust or otherwise, any real, personal, or mixed property, in fee simple or lesser interest, inside or outside the property limits of the city;
(6)
To accept or refuse gifts, donations, bequests, or grants from any source for any purpose related to the powers and duties of the city and the general welfare of its citizens, on such terms and conditions as the donor or grantor may impose;
(7)
To condemn property, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city for present or future use, and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the governing authority, under section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia, 1933, or under other applicable public acts as are or may be enacted;
(8)
To acquire, lease, construct, operate, maintain, sell, and dispose of public utilities, including but not limited to a system of waterworks, sewers and drains, sewage disposal, gas works, electric light plants, transportation facilities, public airports, and any other public utility; to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, assessments, regulations and penalties; and to provide for withdrawal of service for refusal or failure to pay same and the manner in which such remedies shall be enforced;
(9)
To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services, not to exceed periods of 50 years; to prescribe the rates, fares, regulations and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with such regulations by the Public Service Commission;
(10)
To lay out, open, extend, widen, narrow, establish or change the grade of, abandon, or close, construct, pave, curb, gutter, adorn with shade trees, otherwise improve, maintain, repair, clean, prevent erosion of, and light roads, alleys, and walkways within the corporate limits of the city;
(11)
To grant franchises and rights-of-way throughout the streets and roads, and over the bridges and viaducts, for the use of public utilities and public services;
(12)
To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation and maintenance of public ways, parks and playgrounds, recreational facilities, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewerage treatment, airports, hospitals, and charitable, cultural, educational, recreational, conservation, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies, and facilities; and any other public improvements, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city; and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia, 1933, or other applicable public acts, as are or may be enacted;
(13)
To require real estate owners to repair and maintain in a safe condition the sidewalks adjoining their lots or lands; and to enact ordinances establishing the terms and conditions under which such repairs and maintenance shall be effected, including the penalties to be imposed for failure to do so;
(14)
To establish minimum standards for and to regulate the erection, construction and repair of buildings and all other structures, to adopt building, housing, plumbing, electrical, gas, and heating and air conditioning codes, to regulate all housing, building, and building trades, to license all building trades, and to license the construction and erection of buildings and all other structures for the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of inhabitants of the city;
(15)
To regulate or prohibit junk dealers; pawn shops; the manufacture, sale or transportation of intoxicating liquors; the use and sale of firearms; and to regulate the transportation, storage and use of combustible, explosive and inflammable materials, the use of lighting and heating equipment, and any other business or situation which may be dangerous to persons or property;
(16)
To regulate and control the conduct of peddlers, and itinerate trades, theatrical performances, exhibitions, shows of any kind whatever, by taxation or otherwise;
(17)
To license, tax, regulate, or prohibit professional fortune telling or palmistry;
(18)
To prohibit or regulate and control the erection, removal, and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings and any and all other structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the right-of-way of streets and roads or within view thereof, within or abutting the corporate limits of the city;
(19)
To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(20)
To regulate the emission of smoke or other exhaust which pollutes the air and to prevent the pollution of natural streams which flow within the corporate limits of the city;
(21)
To fix and establish fire limits and from time to time to extend, enlarge or restrict same; to prescribe fire safety regulations not inconsistent with general law, relating to both fire prevention and detection and to fire fighting;
(22)
To provide for the destruction and removal of any building or other structure which may or might become dangerous or detrimental to the public;
(23)
To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse and to regulate the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse by others; and to provide for the separate collection of glass, tin, aluminum, cardboard, paper, and other recyclable materials and to provide for the sale of such items;
(24)
To levy, fix, assess, and collect a garbage, refuse and trash collection and disposal and other sanitary service charge, tax, or fee, for such services as may be necessary in the operation of the city from all individuals, firms, and corporations residing in or doing business therein benefiting from such services; to enforce the payment of such charges, taxes or fees, and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges;
(25)
To levy, a fee, charge or sewer tax as necessary to assure the acquiring, constructing, equipping, operating, maintaining, and extending of a sewage disposal plant and sewerage system, and to levy on the users of sewers and the sewerage system a sewer service charge fee or sewer tax for the use of the sewers; and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges and for enforcing payment of same;
(26)
To charge, impose and collect a sewer connection fee or fees, and to charge the same from time to time; such fees to be levied on the users connecting with the sewerage system;
(27)
To define, regulate and prohibit any act, practice, conduct or use of property which is detrimental, or likely to be detrimental, to the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of the inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(28)
To define a nuisance and provide for its abatement whether on public or private property;
(29)
To provide for the preservation and protection of property and equipment of the city and the administration and use of same by the public;
(30)
To provide that persons given jail sentences in the recorder's court shall work out such sentence in any public works or on the streets, roads, drains and squares in the city; or to provide for commitment of such persons to any county work camp or jail by agreement with the appropriate county officials;
(31)
To adopt ordinances and regulations for the prevention of loitering, disorderly conduct, public drunkenness, the playing of lotteries and disturbing the peace in the corporate limits of the city and to prohibit or regulate by ordinance such other conduct and activities within said city which, while not constituting an offense against the laws of this state, is deemed by the governing authority to be detrimental and offensive to the peace and good order of the city or to the welfare of the citizens thereof;
(32)
To regulate and license, or prohibit the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same, if in violation of any ordinance or lawful order; also to provide for their disposition, by sale, gift, or humane destruction, when not redeemed as provided by ordinance;
(33)
To regulate the operation of motor vehicles and exercise control over all traffic, including parking, upon or across the streets, roads, alleys, and walkways of the city;
(34)
To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in the amounts to be prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate and rent parking spaces in public ways for the use of such vehicles;
(35)
To provide and maintain a system of pensions and retirement for officers and employees of the city;
(36)
To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the costs for any public improvements;
(37)
To enter into contracts and agreements with other governmental entities and with private persons, firms and corporations providing for services to be furnished and payments to be made therefor;
(38)
To create, alter, or abolish departments, boards, offices, commissions and agencies of the city, and to confer upon such agencies the necessary and appropriate authority for carrying out all the powers conferred upon or delegated to same;
(39)
To make, ordain and establish such bylaws, ordinances, rules and regulations as shall appear necessary for the security, welfare, convenience and interest of the city and the inhabitants thereof, and for preserving the health, peace, order and good government of the city;
(40)
To provide penalties for violations of any ordinance adopted pursuant to the authority of this charter and the laws of the State of Georgia;
(41)
To exercise the power of arrest through duly appointed policemen or in any other manner provided by the general laws of the State of Georgia;
(42)
To establish procedures for determining and proclaiming that an emergency situation exists within or without the city, and to make and carry out all reasonable provisions deemed necessary to deal with or meet such an emergency for the protection, safety, health or well-being of the citizens of the city;
(43)
To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, or general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; and to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully enumerated herein; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under other laws of the State of Georgia. No enumeration of particular powers in this charter shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers; but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to municipalities under the constitution or applicable laws of the State of Georgia.
Sec. 1.13 - General powers.
In addition to all other powers herein granted, the city shall be vested with any and all powers which municipal corporations are, or may hereafter be, authorized or required to exercise under the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, as fully and completely as though such powers were specifically enumerated herein, and any and all powers which the city was heretofore authorized to exercise upon the effective date of this charter.
Sec. 1.14 - Construction.
The powers of the city shall be construed liberally and in favor of the city. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers in this charter shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general power of the city as stated in this charter. It is the intention hereof to grant the city full power and right to exercise all governmental authority necessary for the effective operation and conduct of the city and all of its affairs.
Sec. 1.15 - Exercise of powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the city, its officers, agencies, or employees shall be carried into execution as provided by this charter. If this charter makes no provision such powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities shall be carried into execution as provided by ordinance of the governing authority and as provided by pertinent laws of the State of Georgia.
Sec. 1.16 - Ordinances.
All ordinances, bylaws, rules and regulations now in force in the city not inconsistent with this charter are hereby declared valid and of full effect and force until amended or repealed by the governing authority.
ARTICLE II - Governing Body
[Division 1] City Council

Sec. 2.10 - Creation; composition; number; election.
The legislative authority of the government of the City of Locust Grove, except as otherwise specifically provided in this charter, shall be vested in a city council to be composed of a mayor and six (6) councilmen. The mayor and councilmen shall be elected in the manner provided by Article V of this charter.
Sec. 2.11 - Terms of office.
The three members of the council who were elected to such offices in 1997, and any person selected to fill a vacancy in such offices, shall continue to serve out their respective terms in such offices, which shall expire December 31, 2001. The mayor and three members of the council who were elected to such offices in 1999, and any person selected to fill a vacancy in such offices, shall continue to serve out their respective terms in such offices, which shall expire December 31, 2003. Future successors to the offices of mayor or members of the council whose terms of office are to expire shall be elected at the regular municipal general election immediately preceding the expiration of such terms, shall take office the first day of January immediately following that election, and shall serve terms of office of four years each. The mayor and members of the council shall serve for the terms specified in this section and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
Sec. 2.12 - Qualification of office.
No person shall be eligible to any office under this act who is not eligible as a voter at the election aforesaid.
Sec. 2.13 - Mayor pro tempore.
At the first meeting of the city council in each year the council shall choose from its own number a mayor pro tempore, who, in the absence, sickness or disqualification of the mayor, shall be clothed with all rights, privileges and duties of the mayor. If the mayor elected by the people, and the mayor pro tempore shall be unable from any cause to attend to their duties, the council shall immediately elect another mayor pro tempore, who shall thereby be clothed with all the powers, rights and duties of the mayor of the city, upon taking the usual oath.
Sec. 2.14 - Vacancy; forfeiture of office; filling of vacancies.
(a)
Vacancies. The office of mayor or councilman shall become vacant upon the incumbent's death, resignation, forfeiture of office or removal from office in any manner authorized by this charter or the laws of the State of Georgia.
(b)
Forfeiture of office. The mayor or any councilman shall forfeit his office if he:
(1)
Lacks at any time during his term of office any qualifications of the office as prescribed by this charter or the laws of the State of Georgia;
(2)
Is convicted of a felony involving moral turpitude.
(c)
Filling of vacancies. A vacancy in the office of mayor or councilman shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, as provided for in Article V.
Note: Pursuant to OCGA ยง 21-3-63, all municipal terms of office are now four years.
Sec. 2.15 - Compensation and expenses.
(a)
The major and councilmen shall receive as compensation for services as governing body members an amount which may be determined from time to time by majority vote of the Council; provided, however, that the initial compensation of the mayor and councilmen as governing body members under this Act shall be Four Thousand Eight Hundred ($4,800.00) Dollars annually for the Office of mayor and Three Thousand ($3,000.00) Dollars annually for the Office of a member of the City Council; and provided, further, that there shall be no change, by either increase or decrease, of such governing body compensation during the term of any councilman or the mayor as a result of majority vote of the Council except as provided in Code Section 36-35-4 of the O.C.G.A.
(b)
In the event that the Council designates the mayor as an administrator of the City pursuant to Section 2.20 of this charter, the Council shall establish compensation for the mayor for the assumption of such administrative duties. The compensation for such administrative duties is initially established as Thirty Thousand ($30,000.00) Dollars annually if the designation is for full-time administrative support or Fifteen Thousand ($15,000.00) Dollars annually if the designation is for part-time administrative support. The mayor shall also be paid an additional sum if time is spent in excess of the minimum hours as defined in Section 2.20. The additional sum shall be determined by dividing the minimum number of hours per year into the base annual salary, with said amount being multiplied by the number of additional hours that services are performed by the mayor. Such sum shall be in addition to the mayor's salary designated for performance of governmental duties as official spokesperson for the City and chief advocate for policy as set out in subsection (a) of this section. So long as the mayor continues to serve in an administrative capacity pursuant to ordinance of the City Council, he or she shall draw such salary as provided under this subsection. Changes in such compensation shall be subject to modification by ordinance annually in December of each year for the next succeeding year. Such designation to serve in an administrative capacity with the City shall be made at the next regular meeting of the Council following the effective date of this section and on an annual basis in December of each year thereafter, it being the intent of this section that the mayor shall possess no vested right to designation as an administrator for his or her entire elected term in the event that the Council determines it would be in the best interest of the City to hire an outside administrator.
(c)
The mayor and councilmen shall be entitled to receive their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of office. (Ga. L. 1996, p. 3503)
Sec. 2.16 - Prohibitions.
(a)
An elected official of the city will not be disqualified from holding an appointment to any state, county or city board, commission, committee or authority. An elected official of the city will not be prohibited from receiving compensation for services and reimbursement for expenses while serving on any state, county or city board, commission, committee or authority.
(b)
Voting when personally interested. Neither the mayor nor any other member of the Council shall vote upon any question in which he or she is personally interested.
(c)
Dealing with City. No person holding office under this charter shall at any time during the term of which he or she was elected or appointed, or while in office, be capable of contracting with the City for the performance of any work or the sale of anything which is to be paid for out of the Treasury, nor shall any such person be capable of holding or having any interest in such contracts entered into by himself or herself or another, directly or indirectly. This section shall not apply to sales of personal property or services of less than Two Hundred ($200.00) Dollars per calendar quarter or sales of personal property and contracts of personal services made pursuant to sealed competitive bids made by any person holding office or employment of the City of Locust Grove, or any agency thereof either for himself or herself or on behalf of any other business entity. (Ga. L. 1996, p. 3503)
Sec. 2.17 - Inquiries and investigations.
The council may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the city and the conduct of any department, office, or agency thereof and for this purpose may administer oaths, take testimony, and require the production of evidence.
Sec. 2.18 - General power and authority of the council.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided by law or by this charter, the council shall be vested with all the powers of government of the City of Locust Grove as provided by Article I.
(b)
In addition to all other powers conferred upon it by law, the council shall have the authority to adopt and provide for the execution of such ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this charter, the constitution, and the laws of the State of Georgia, which it shall deem necessary, expedient, or helpful for the peace, good order, protection of life and property, health, welfare, sanitation, comfort, convenience, prosperity, or well-being of the inhabitants of the City of Locust Grove and may enforce such ordinance by imposing penalties for violation thereof.
(c)
By ordinance the council may create, change, alter, abolish, or consolidate offices, agencies, and departments of the city and may assign additional functions to any of the offices, agencies, and departments expressly provided for by this charter.
[Division 2] The Mayor

Sec. 2.20 - Powers and duties of mayor.
(a)
The mayor shall be the official spokesman for the City and the chief advocate of policy. The mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council, shall sign ordinances and resolutions on their final passage, and shall sign deeds, bonds, contracts, and other instruments or documents when authorized by the Council to do so. The mayor shall perform such other duties as may be imposed by this charter or by ordinance of the Council, including but not limited to performance of full-time or part-time administrative duties governing the day-to-day operation of City government. For the purpose of this section, "part-time" administrative duties shall mean directing the day-to-day operations of City government for no less than eighty (80) hours per month. For the purpose of this section, "full-time" administrative duties shall mean directing the day-to-day operations of City government for no less than one hundred sixty (160) hours per month. Upon the effective date of this section, and in each December thereafter, the Council shall evaluate the needs of the City to determine whether it is in the City's best interest to designate the mayor to serve as the administrative head of the City government. Should the mayor die or be removed from office prior to the expiration of his or her term the Council shall make a determination as to the duties which will be imposed upon the mayor's office. Such determination shall be made prior to the first date of qualification for the election to fill the remaining unexpired term of the mayor.
(b)
The mayor and mayor pro tempore, while acting as mayor, shall have the right to vote on all questions before the Council when said vote is a tie. (Ga. L. 1996, p. 3503)
[Division 3] Organization and Procedures

Sec. 2.30 - Organizational meeting.
The council shall meet for organization on the first Monday in January each year. The meeting shall be called to order by the city clerk and the oath of office shall be administered to the newly elected members as follows:
"I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will well and truly perform the duties of (mayor or councilmember as the case may be) of the city, and that I will support and defend the charter thereof as well as the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and of the United States of America."
Note: Pursuant to changes in statewide election dates for municipal office, the organizational meeting of council is held in January of each year.
Sec. 2.31 - Regular and special meetings.
(a)
The council shall hold regular meetings at such times and places as prescribed by ordinance. The council may recess any regular meeting and continue such meetings on any day or hour it may fix, and may transact any business at such continued meeting as may be transacted at any regular meeting.
(b)
Special meetings of the council may be held on call of the mayor or four (4) members of the council. Notice of such special meetings shall be served on all other members personally, or by telephone personally, or shall be left at their residence at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Such notice shall not be required if the mayor and all councilmen are present when the special meeting is called. Notice of any special meeting may be waived in writing before or after such a meeting, and attendance at the meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice of any special meeting. Only the business stated in the call may be transacted at the special meeting, except by unanimous consent of all members present. With such consent any business which may be transacted in a regular meeting may be conducted at the special meeting.
(c)
All meetings of the council may be public.
Sec. 2.32 - Rules of procedure.
The council shall adopt its rules of procedure and order of business consistent with the provisions of this charter and shall provide for keeping a journal of its proceedings, which shall be a public record.
Sec. 2.33 - Quorum; voting.
The mayor, or mayor pro tempore, and any four (4) councilmen shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact business of the council. Voting on the adoption of ordinances shall be taken by voice vote, and the ayes and nays shall be recorded in the journal, but any member of the council shall have the right to request a roll call vote. The mayor or mayor pro tempore shall have the casting vote, and the majority of votes may determine any and all questions and elections before the council.
Sec. 2.34 - Action requiring an ordinance.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this charter, every official action of the council which is to become law shall be by ordinance. Each proposed ordinance or resolution shall be introduced in writing and in the form required for final adoption. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not expressed in its title. The enacting clause shall be "The Council of the City of Locust Grove hereby ordains...."
(b)
An ordinance may be introduced by any member of the council and read at a regular or special meeting of the council. Ordinances shall be considered and adopted or rejected by the council in accordance with the rules which it shall establish. Upon introduction of any ordinance, the clerk shall distribute a copy to the mayor, and to each councilmember, and shall file a reasonable number of copies in the office of the clerk and at such other public places as the council may designate.
Sec. 2.35 - Computation of time; holiday.
(a)
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other provisions of this charter, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years, or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public or legal holiday as set forth in Code Section 1-4-1 of the O.C.G.A. or by city ordinance or resolution, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty.
(b)
Holidays. The city is authorized to declare the days when it shall observe official holidays, to the extent permitted by law.
Sec. 2.36 - Codes of technical regulations.
(a)
The council may adopt any standard code of technical regulations by reference thereto in an adopting ordinance. The procedure and requirements governing such adopting ordinance shall be as prescribed for ordinances generally except that:
(1)
The requirements for distribution and filing of copies of the ordinance shall be construed to include copies of any code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance; and
(2)
A copy of each adopted code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance, shall be authenticated and recorded by the clerk.
(b)
Copies of any adopted code of technical regulations shall be made available by the clerk for distribution or for purchase at a reasonable price.
Sec. 2.37 - Submission of ordinances to the mayor; authentication, recording, codification, printing.
(a)
(1)
Every ordinance adopted by the council shall be presented promptly by the clerk to the mayor.
(2)
The mayor, within 10 calendar days of receipt of an ordinance, shall return it to the clerk with or without his approval, or with his disapproval. If the ordinance has been approved by the mayor, it shall become law upon its return to the clerk, if the ordinance is neither approved nor disapproved, it shall become law at 12:00 noon on the 10th calendar day after its adoption; if the ordinance is disapproved, the mayor shall submit to the council, through the clerk, a written statement of his reasons for his veto. The clerk shall record upon the ordinance the date of its delivery to and receipt from the mayor.
(3)
Ordinances vetoed by the mayor shall be presented by the clerk to the council at its next regular meeting and should the council then or at its next regular meeting adopt the ordinance by an affirmative vote of five (5) members, it shall become law.
(4)
The mayor may disapprove or reduce any item or items of appropriation in any ordinance. The approved part or parts of any ordinance making appropriations shall become law, and the part or parts disapproved shall not become law unless subsequently passed by the city council over the mayor's veto as provided herein.
(b)
The council shall provide for the preparation of a general codification of all of the ordinances of the city having the force and effect of law. The general codification shall be adopted by the council by ordinance and shall be published promptly, together with all amendments thereto, with this charter and any amendment thereto, and such codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations as the city council may specify. This compilation shall be known and cited officially as "The Code of the City of Locust Grove, Georgia." Copies of the code shall be furnished to all officers, departments, and agencies of the city, and made available for purchase by the public at a reasonable price as fixed by the council.
(c)
The council shall cause each ordinance and each amendment to this charter to be printed or reproduced promptly following its adoption, and the printed or reproduced ordinances and charter amendments shall be made available for purchase by the public at reasonable prices to be fixed by the council. Following publication of the first Code of the City of Locust Grove and at all times thereafter, the ordinances and charter amendments shall be printed in substantially the same style as the code currently in effect and shall be suitable in form for incorporation therein. The council shall make such further arrangements as deemed desirable with respect to reproduction and distribution of any current changes in or addition to codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations included in the code.
ARTICLE III - Executive Branch
[Division 1] Organization & General Provisions

Sec. 3.10 - Administrative and service departments.
(a)
The council, by ordinance, may establish, abolish, merge, or consolidate offices, positions of employment, departments and agencies of the city, as they shall deem necessary for the proper administration of the affairs and government of the city. The council shall prescribe the functions and duties of existing departments, offices, and agencies or of any departments, offices, and agencies hereinafter created or established; may provide that the same person shall fill any number of offices and positions of employment; and may transfer or change the function or duties of offices, positions of employment, departments and agencies of the city.
(b)
The operations and responsibilities of each department now or hereafter established in the city shall be distributed among such divisions or bureaus as may be provided by ordinance of the council. Each department shall consist of such officers, employees, and positions as may be provided by this charter or by ordinance, and shall be subject to the general supervision and guidance of the mayor and council.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the directors of departments and other appointed officers of the city shall be appointed as provided by ordinance and shall serve at the pleasure of the appointing authority. Vacancies occurring in an appointive office shall be filled in the same manner as prescribed for an original appointment.
(d)
Except as otherwise provided by law, the directors of departments and other appointed officers of the city shall be appointed solely on the basis of their respective administrative and professional qualifications.
(e)
All appointive officers and directors of departments shall receive such compensation as prescribed by ordinance of the city council.
Sec. 3.11 - Board, commissions and authorities.
(a)
All members of boards, commissions and authorities of the city shall be appointed by the council for such terms of office and such manner of appointment as provided by ordinance, except where other appointing authority, term of office or manner of appointment is prescribed by this charter or by applicable state law.
(b)
No manner [member] of any board, commission or authority shall hold any elective office in the city.
(c)
Any vacancy in office of any member of a board, commission, or authority of the city shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner prescribed herein for original appointment, except as otherwise provided by this charter or any applicable state law.
(d)
No member of any board, commission or authority shall assume office until he shall have executed and filed with the clerk of the city an oath obligating himself to faithfully and impartially perform the duties of his office, such oath to be prescribed by ordinance of the council and administered by the mayor.
(e)
Any member of a board, commission or authority may be removed from office for cause by a vote of four (4) members of the council.
(f)
Members of boards, commissions and authorities may receive such compensation and expenses in the performance of their official duties as prescribed by ordinance.
(g)
The qualifications required of members of boards, commissions and authorities shall be as prescribed by ordinance.
(h)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter or by applicable state law, each board, commission or authority of the city government shall elect one of its members as chairman and one member as vice chairman for terms of one (1) year, and may elect as its secretary one of its own members or may appoint as secretary an employee of the city. Each board, commission or authority of the city government may establish such bylaws, rules and regulations not inconsistent with this charter, ordinances of the city, or applicable state law, as it deems appropriate and necessary for the conduct of its affairs, copies of which shall be filed with the clerk of the city.
Sec. 3.20 - City manager.
In the event that the Council determines that a full-time administrator is necessary for City operations and determines not to designate the mayor to serve in such capacity pursuant to Section 2.20 of this charter, the Council may appoint a City manager. The duties and authorities of the City manager shall be established by ordinance of the Council, and in so doing, the Council may specifically delegate to the City manager any of the administrative or budgetary duties of the mayor. (Ga. L. 1996, p. 3503)
Sec. 3.30 - City attorney.
The council shall appoint a city attorney, together with such assistant city attorneys as may be authorized by ordinance, and shall provide for the payment of such attorney or attorneys for services rendered to the city. The city attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a party; may be the prosecuting officer in the recorder's court; shall attend the meetings of the council as directed; shall advise the council, mayor, and other officers and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs; and shall perform such other duties as may be required of him by virtue of his position as city attorney.
[Division 2] Administrative Officers

Sec. 3.40 - City clerk.
The council may appoint a city clerk to keep a journal of the proceedings of the city council and to maintain in a safe place all records and documents pertaining to the affairs of the city, and to perform such other duties as may be required by law or as the council may direct.
Sec. 3.41 - Tax collector.
The council may appoint a tax collector to collect all taxes, licenses, fees and other monies belonging to the city subject to the provisions of this charter and the ordinances of the city, and the tax collector shall diligently comply with and enforce all general laws of Georgia relating to the collection, sale, or foreclosure of taxes by municipalities.
Sec. 3.42 - City accountant.
The council may appoint a city accountant to perform the duties of an accountant.
Sec. 3.43 - Consolidation of functions.
The council may consolidate any two or more of the positions of the city clerk, city tax collector, and city accountant, or any other positions or may assign the functions of any one or more of such positions to the holder or holders of any other positions. The city manager may, with the approval of the city council, perform all or any part of the functions of any of the positions or offices in lieu of appointing other persons to perform the same.
[Division 3] Personnel Administration

Sec. 3.50 - Position classification and pay plans.
The city manager may prepare a position classification and pay plan to be submitted to the council for approval. Said plans may apply to all employees of the City of Locust Grove, and of any of its agencies and offices. When a pay plan has been adopted, the council shall not increase or decrease the salaries of individual employees except by amendment of said pay plan.
Sec. 3.51 - Personnel policies.
The council shall adopt rules and regulations consistent with this charter concerning:
(1)
The method of employee selection and probationary periods of employment;
(2)
The administration of any position classification and pay plan, methods of promotion and application of service ratings thereto, and transfer of employees within the classification plan;
(3)
Hours of work, vacation, sick leave, and other leaves of absence, overtime pay, and the order and manner in which layoff shall be effected; and
(4)
Such other personnel policies as may be necessary to provide for adequate and systematic handling of the personnel affairs of the City of Locust Grove.
ARTICLE IV - Municipal Court

Sec. 4.10 - Municipal court.
There shall be a court to be known as the Municipal Court of the City of Locust Grove. (Ga. L. 1990, p. 4451)
Sec. 4.11 - Judges.
(a)
The municipal court shall be presided over by a chief judge and such part-time, full-time, or stand-by judges as shall be provided by ordinance. The method of selection and terms of such judges shall be provided by ordinance.
(b)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge on the municipal court unless he shall have attained the age of 21 years and shall be a member of the State Bar of Georgia. All judges shall be appointed by the city council.
(c)
Compensation of the judge or judges shall be fixed by ordinance.
(d)
Judges may be removed for cause by a majority vote of all the members of the city council.
(e)
Before assuming office, each judge shall take an oath, given by the mayor, that he will honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of his office to the best of his ability and without fear, favor, or partiality. The oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the city council journal. (Ga. L. 1990, p. 4451)
Sec. 4.12 - Convening of court.
The municipal court shall be convened at regular intervals as provided by ordinance. (Ga. L. 1990, p. 4451)
Sec. 4.13 - Powers.
(a)
The municipal court shall try and punish violations of this charter, all city ordinances, and such other violations as provided by law.
(b)
The municipal court shall have the authority to punish those in its presence for contempt, provided that such punishment shall not exceed a fine of $200.00 or ten days in jail.
(c)
The municipal court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction not exceeding a fine of $1,000.00 or imprisonment not exceeding 12 months or both such fine and imprisonment or may fix punishment by fine, imprisonment, or alternative sentencing as now or hereafter provided by law.
(d)
The municipal court shall have the authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the actual cost of meals, transportation, and caretaking of prisoners bound over to superior courts for violation of state law.
(e)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish bail and recognizances to ensure the presence of those charged with violations before said court and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash or personal or real property as surety bond for the appearance of persons charged with violations. Whenever any person shall give bail for his appearance and shall fail to appear at the time fixed for trial, his bond shall be forfeited by the judge presiding at such time and an execution shall be issued thereon by serving the defendant and his sureties with a rule nisi at least two days before a hearing on the rule nisi.
(f)
The municipal court shall have the same authority as superior courts to compel the production of evidence in the possession of any party; to enforce obedience to its orders, judgments, and sentences; and to administer such oaths as are necessary.
(g)
The municipal court shall have the authority to bind prisoners over to the appropriate court when it appears by probable cause that the state law has been violated.
(h)
Each judge of the municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summonses, subpoenas, and warrants which may be served as executed by any officer as authorized by this charter or by law.
(i)
Each judge of the municipal court shall be authorized to issue warrants for the arrest of persons charged with offenses against any ordinance of the city, and each judge of the municipal court shall have the same authority as a magistrate of the state to issue warrants for offenses against state laws committed within the city.
(j)
The municipal court if specifically vested with all the jurisdiction and powers throughout the geographic area of this city granted by law to municipal courts and particularly by such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances and prosecution of traffic violations. (Ga. L. 1990, p. 4451)
Sec. 4.14 - Certiorari.
The right of certiorari from the decision and judgment of the municipal court shall exist in all criminal cases and ordinance violation cases, and such certiorari shall be obtained under the sanction of a judge of the Superior Court of Henry County, under the laws of the State of Georgia regulating the granting and issuance of writs of certiorari. (Ga. L. 1990, p. 4451)
Sec. 4.15 - Rules.
With the approval of the city council, the judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court; provided, however, that the city council may adopt in part or in toto the rules and regulations applicable to superior courts. The rules and regulations made or adopted shall be filed with the city clerk, shall be available to superior courts. The rules and regulations made or adopted shall be filed with the city clerk, shall be available for public inspection, and, upon request, shall be furnished to all defendants in municipal court proceedings at least 48 hours prior to said proceedings. (Ga. L. 1990, p. 4451)
ARTICLE V - Elections
[Division 1] Representation; General Provisions

Sec. 5.10 - Regular elections.
The regular municipal general election shall be conducted on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November of each odd-numbered year. Such elections shall conform to Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the 'Georgia Election Code.'
Note: Pursuant to OCGA ยง 21-3-51, all municipal elections are now held on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November of odd-numbered years.
Sec. 5.11 - Qualifying; nomination of candidates; absentee ballots.
By ordinance the council may prescribe rules and regulations governing qualifying fees, nomination of candidates, absentee ballots, write-in votes, challenge of votes, and such other rules and regulations as may be necessary for the conduct of elections in the City of Locust Grove.
[Division 2] Conduct of Elections

Sec. 5.20 - Applicability of general laws.
The mayor shall be elected by a plurality vote, and the person receiving the highest number of votes cast for mayor shall be elected. Councilmen shall be elected by a plurality vote, and the person receiving the highest number of votes cast for each council position shall be elected. The procedures and requirements for election of all elected officials of the city of Locust Grove as to primary, special or general elections shall be in conformity with the provisions of the Georgia Municipal Election Code, approved April 4, 1968 (Ga. L. 1968, p. 885), as now or hereafter amended.
Sec. 5.21 - Special elections; vacancies.
In the event that the office of mayor or councilman shall become vacant for any cause whatsoever, the council or those remaining shall order a special election to fill the balance of the unexpired term of such office; provided, however, if such vacancy occurs within nine (9) months of the expiration of the term of office of the mayor or any councilman, said vacancy in office shall be filled by appointment by the remaining members of the council. Both special elections and qualifications of candidates therefor shall conform to the applicable provisions of this charter and the Georgia Municipal Election Code, Title 21, Chapter 3 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as now or hereafter amended.
[Division 3] Removal of Elective Officers

Sec. 5.30 - Grounds for removal.
The mayor or any councilman shall be subject to removal from office for any one or more of the following causes:
(a)
Incompetence, misfeasance or malfeasance in office;
(b)
Conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude;
(c)
Failure at any time to possess any of the qualifications of office, as provided by this charter or by law;
(d)
Willful violation of any express prohibition of this charter;
(e)
Abandonment of office or neglect to perform the duties thereof; or
(f)
Failure for any other cause to perform the duties of office as required by this charter or by law.
Sec. 5.31 - Procedure for removal.
Removal of an elected officer from office may be accomplished by one of the following methods:
(a)
By action of two-thirds (2/3) vote of the entire membership of the council. In the event an elected officer is sought to be removed by the action of the council, such officer shall be entitled to a written notice specifying the ground for removal and to a public hearing which shall be held not less than 10 days after the service of such written notice. Any elected officer sought to be removed from office as herein provided shall have the right to appeal from the decision of the council to the Superior Court of Henry County. Such appeal shall be governed by the same rules as govern appeals to the superior court from the probate court.
(b)
By information filed in the Superior Court of Henry County, as provided by law.
ARTICLE VI - Finance and Fiscal
[Division 1] Taxation

Sec. 6.10 - Property taxes.
All property subject to taxation for state or county purposes, assessed as of January 1 in each year, shall be subject to the property tax levied by the City of Locust Grove. The council by ordinance shall elect to use the county assessment for the year in which the city taxes are to be levied and shall request the county to furnish appropriate information for such purpose.
Sec. 6.11 - Tax levy.
The council shall be authorized to levy an ad valorem tax not exceeding 15 mills on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government, providing governmental services, and for any other public purpose as determined by the council in its discretion. The council is also authorized to provide for sufficient levy to pay principal and interest on general obligations.
Note: The last sentence of Section 6.11 was deleted pursuant to a letter from the city dated March 24, 1995. The sentence previously read: "The City of Locust Grove is hereby exempted from the provisions of Georgia Code section 92-4101 through 92-4104 inclusive."
Sec. 6.12 - Tax due dates and tax bills.
The council shall provide by ordinance when the taxes of the city shall fall due and in what length of time said taxes may be paid and shall provide by ordinance for the payment of taxes due to the city in installments, or in one lump sum, and when and how and upon what terms such taxes shall be due and payable, as well as to authorize the voluntary payment of taxes prior to the time when due.
Sec. 6.13 - Collection of delinquent taxes.
The council may provide by ordinance for the collection of delinquent taxes by fi. fa. issued by the city clerk and executed by any police officer of the city under the same procedure provided by the laws governing execution of such process from the superior court, or by the use of any other available legal processes and remedies. A lien shall exist against all property upon which city property taxes are levied for taxes and interest, as of the assessment date of each year, which lien shall be superior to all other liens, except that it shall have equal dignity with those of federal, state or county taxes. In cases of hardship, the council shall have discretionary authority to waive any and all penalties imposed by this charter for delinquent taxes, fees, assessments, interest, or on other amounts due to the city.
Sec. 6.14 - Licenses, occupational taxes, excise taxes.
The council, by ordinance, shall have full power to levy such license and specific or occupational taxes upon the residents of the City of Locust Grove, both individual and corporate, and on all those who transact or offer to transact business therein, or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein, as the council may deem expedient for the public health, safety, benefit, convenience or advantage to the city; to classify business, occupations, professions or callings for the purpose of such taxation in any way which may be lawful; to require such persons to procure licenses; to compel the payment of such licenses by execution or any other lawful manner; and to make laws and regulations necessary or proper to carry out the powers herein conferred, and to prescribe penalties for the violation thereof. The council shall have full power and authority to levy an excise tax not prohibited by general law.
Sec. 6.15 - Sewer service charges.
The council by ordinance shall have the right, power and authority to assess and collect fees, charges, and tolls for sewer services rendered both within and without the corporate limits of the City of Locust Grove to provide for the cost and expense of providing for the collection and disposal of sewage through the sewage facilities of said city. If unpaid, said sewer service charge shall constitute a lien against any property of persons served, which lien shall be second in priority only to liens for county and city property taxes and shall be enforceable in the same manner and under the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes.
Sec. 6.16 - Sanitary and health services charge.
The council shall have authority by ordinance to provide for, to enforce, and to collect the cost of sanitary and health services necessary in the operation of the city from all individuals, firms and corporations, residing in or doing business in said city benefiting from such service. Such authority shall include the power to assess, levy and collect annual or monthly sanitary taxes or fees in such amount or amounts, and based upon and in accordance with such classification of property and sanitary service or service provided, as may be fixed by ordinance. Said sanitary taxes and the assessment thereof shall be a charge and lien against the real estate in respect to which said taxes are so assessed, and the owner or owners thereof, superior to all other liens except liens for county and city property taxes, and shall be enforceable in the same manner and under the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes.
Sec. 6.17 - Special assessments.
The council shall have power and authority to assess all or part of the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening, or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, sewers, or other utility mains and appurtenances, against the abutting property owners, under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by ordinance. Such special assessments shall become delinquent 30 days after their due dates, shall thereupon be subject, in addition to fi. fa. charges, to a penalty of 10 percent and shall thereafter be subject to interest at the rate of nine percent (9%) per annum from date due until paid. A lien shall exist against the abutting property superior to all other liens, except that it shall be of equal dignity with liens for county and city property taxes, and said lien shall be enforceable by the same procedures and under the same remedies as provided for in this article for city property taxes.
Sec. 6.18 - Transfer of executions.
The city clerk shall be authorized to assign or transfer any fi. fa. or execution issued for any tax or for any street, sewer, or other assessment in the same manner and to the same extent as provided by Georgia law regarding sales and transfers of fi. fa.s. Such transfer or assignment, when made, shall vest the purchaser or transferee with all right, title and interest as provided by Georgia law governing sales and transfers of tax fi. fa.s provided that, upon levy of execution and sale of property pursuant to such tax fi. fa., whether assigned, transferred, or executed by the city, the owner of such property, in fee simple or lesser interest, shall not lose his right to redeem the property in accord with the requirements of redemption of property sold under state or county ad valorem tax fi. fa.s, as said requirements now exist or as may be hereinafter provided by law.
[Division 2] Borrowing

Sec. 6.20 - General obligation bonds.
The council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any projects, programs or venture authorized under this charter or the general laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuances by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
Sec. 6.21 - Revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the council as provided by an act of the General Assembly of Georgia, approved March 31, 1937, known as the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. L. 1937, p. 761), as now or hereafter amended, or by any other Georgia law as now or hereafter provided.
Sec. 6.22 - Short term notes.
Pursuant to applicable state law the city may obtain temporary loans between January 1 and December 31 of each year.
[Division 3] Accounting and Budgeting

Sec. 6.30 - Fiscal year.
The council shall set the fiscal year by ordinance. Said fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for financial accounting and reporting of each and every office, department or institution, agency and activity of the city government, unless otherwise provided by state or federal law.
Sec. 6.31 - Preparation of budgets.
The council shall provide by ordinance the procedures and requirements for the preparation and execution of an annual operating budget and a capital improvement program and a capital budget, including requirements as to the scope, content and form of such budgets and programs.
Sec. 6.32 - Submission of operating budget to city council.
On or before a date fixed by the council but not later than 90 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor shall submit to the council a proposed operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year. The budget shall be accompanied by a message from the mayor containing a statement of the general fiscal policies of the city, the important features of the budget, explanations of major changes recommended for the next fiscal year, a general summary of the budget and such other comments and information as he may deem pertinent. The operating budget and the capital improvements budget hereinafter provided for, the budget message, and all supporting documents shall be filed in the office of the city clerk and shall be open for public inspection.
Sec. 6.33 - Action by council on budget.
(a)
The council may amend the operating budget proposed by the mayor; except, that the budget as finally amended and adopted must provide for all expenditure required by law or by other provisions of this charter and for all debt service requirements for the ensuing fiscal year and the total appropriations from any fund shall not exceed the estimated fund balance, reserves and revenues, constituting the fund availability of such fund.
(b)
The council shall adopt the final operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than the first regular meeting in January of each year. If the council fails to adopt the budget by this date, the amounts appropriated for operation for the current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-month basis, with all items prorated accordingly until such time as the council adopts a budget for the ensuing fiscal year. Such adoption shall take the form of an appropriation ordinance setting out the estimated revenues in detail by sources and making appropriations according to fund and by organizational unit, purpose or activity as set out in the budget document.
(c)
The amount set out in the adopted operating budget for each organizational unit shall constitute the annual appropriation for such item, and no expenditure shall be made or encumbrance created in excess of the otherwise unencumbered balance of the appropriations, or allotment thereof, to which it is chargeable.
Sec. 6.34 - Property tax levies.
As the next order of business following adoption of the operating budget, the council shall levy, by ordinance, an annual tax on all real and personal property within the City of Locust Grove. The tax rate set by such ordinance shall be such that reasonable estimates of revenues from such levy shall at least be sufficient, together with other anticipated revenues, fund balances, and applicable reserves, to equal the total amount appropriated for each of the several funds set forth in the annual operating budget for defraying the expenses of the general government of the City of Locust Grove.
Sec. 6.35 - Additional appropriations.
The council may make appropriations in addition to those contained in the current operating budget, at any regular or special meeting called for such purpose, but any such additional appropriations may be made only from an existing unappropriated surplus in the fund to which it applies.
Sec. 6.36 - Capital improvements budget.
(a)
On or before the date fixed by the city council but not later than 90 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor shall submit to the council a proposed capital improvements budget with his recommendations as to the means of financing the improvements proposed for the ensuing fiscal year. The council shall have power to accept with or without amendments or reject the proposed program and proposed means of financing. The council shall not authorize an expenditure for the construction of any building, structure, work or improvement, unless the appropriations for such project are included in the capital improvements budget, except to meet a public emergency threatening the lives, health, or property of the inhabitants, when passed by two-thirds (2/3) vote of the membership of the council.
(b)
The council shall adopt the final capital improvements budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than the first regular meeting in January of each year. No appropriation provided for in the capital improvements budget shall lapse until the purpose for which the appropriation was made shall have been accomplished or abandoned; provided the mayor may submit amendments to the capital improvements budget at any time during the fiscal year, accompanied by his recommendations thereon. Any such amendments to the capital improvements budget shall become effective only upon adoption by a vote of the council.
Sec. 6.40 - Contracting procedures.
All contracts shall be made or authorized by the council, and no contracts shall bind the city unless reduced to writing and approved by the council. All contracts, and all ordinances or resolutions making contracts or authorizing the same, may be drawn by the city attorney or may be submitted to him before authorization by the council.
Sec. 6.41 - Centralized purchasing and disposition of city property.
(a)
The council shall by ordinance prescribe procedures for a system of centralized purchasing for the City of Locust Grove.
(b)
The council may sell and convey any real or personal property owned or held by the City of Locust Grove for governmental or other purposes, at a public or private sale, with or without advertisement, for such consideration as it shall deem equitable and just for the city.
(c)
The council may quitclaim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon report by the mayor and adoption of a resolution, both finding that the property is not needed for public or other purposes and that the interest of the city has no readily ascertainable monetary value.
(d)
Whenever in opening, extending or widening any street, avenue, alley or public place of the city, a small parcel or tract of land is cut off or separated by such work from a larger tract or boundary of land owned by the city, the council may authorize the mayor to execute and deliver in the name of the city a deed conveying said cut off or separated parcel or tract of land to an abutting or adjoining property owner or owners in exchange for rights-of-way of said street, avenue, alley or public place or in settlement of any alleged damages sustained by said abutting or adjoining property owner. All deeds and conveyances heretofore and hereafter so executed and delivered shall convey all title and interest the city has in such property, notwithstanding the fact that no public sale after advertisement was or is hereafter made.
ARTICLE VII - General Provisions

Sec. 7.10 - Official bonds.
The officers and employees of the City of Locust Grove, both elective and appointive, shall execute such official bonds in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the city council may from time to time require.
Sec. 7.11 - Existing ordinances and regulations.
Existing ordinances and resolutions of the City of Locust Grove not inconsistent with the provisions of this charter shall continue in effect until they have been repealed, modified, or amended by the council. Existing rules and regulations of departments or agencies of the City of Locust Grove not inconsistent with the provisions of this charter shall continue in effect until they have been repealed, modified, or amended.
Sec. 7.12 - Mayor and council continued.
The mayor and councilmen of the City of Locust Grove, serving as such on the effective date of this act, shall continue to serve out the terms of office to which they were elected. Their successors shall be elected as provided for in sections 2.11 and 5.10.
Sec. 7.13 - Section captions.
The captions to the several sections of this charter are informative only and are not to be considered as a part thereof.
Sec. 7.14 - Penalties.
The violation of any provisions of this charter for which a penalty is not specifically provided shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 or imprisonment not exceeding 12 months or both such fine and imprisonment. (Ga. L. 1990, p. 4451)
