Title 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapters:
Chapter 1.01 - CODE ADOPTION
(Reserved)
Chapter 1.04 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sections:

1.04.010 - How code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "Code of Ordinances, City of Locust Grove, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Prior code § 1-1-1)
1.04.020 - Rules of construction and definitions.
In the construction of this code and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the mayor and council:
City. The words the "city" or "this city" shall be construed as if the words "of Locust Grove" followed.
Computation of Time. When a number of days is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege, or the discharge of any duty, only the first or last day shall be counted; and if the last day shall fall on Saturday or Sunday, the party having that privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise that privilege or to discharge such duty.
"Council" means the council of the city of Locust Grove.
"The county" or "this county" means the county of Henry.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by this code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving that authority to a majority of those persons or officers.
"Keeper" and "proprietor" mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and copartnerships, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.
"Limits" or "corporation" shall mean the corporate limits (legal boundary) of the city.
"Mayor" means the mayor of the city of Locust Grove.
"Month" means a calendar month.
"Municipality," whenever it appears in this code, means the city of Locust Grove, Georgia.
Name of Officer. Whenever the name of an officer is given, it shall be construed as though the words "of the city of Locust Grove" were added.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and any others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to that meaning.
Number. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
"Oath" means and includes affirmation. When an oath is required or authorized by law, an affirmation in lieu thereof may be taken. An affirmation has the same force and effect as an oath.
Or, And. "Or" may be read "and" and "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
"Owner," applied to a building or land, means and includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership or joint tenant of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
"Personal property" means and includes every species of property except real property, as herein defined in this chapter.
"Preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
"Property" means and includes real, personal and mixed estates and interests.
"Public place" means any place including, but not limited to, buildings or conveyances to which the public has or is permitted to have access, including restaurants, soda fountains, hotel dining rooms, lobbies and corridors of hotels, and any highway, street, lane, park or place of public resort or amusement.
"Real property" means and includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
"Sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
"Signature" or "subscription" means and includes a mark when the person cannot write.
"The state" or "this state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, public alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public highways in the city.
"Tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, means and includes any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of, that building or land, either alone or with others.
Time. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
"Week" means seven days.
"Written" or "in writing" means and includes any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
"Year" means a calendar year.
(Prior code § 1-1-2)
1.04.030 - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of those sections nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(Prior code § 1-1-3)
1.04.040 - Severability of parts of code.
It is declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, that unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this code, since the same would have been enacted by the mayor and council without the incorporation in this code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Prior code § 1-1-4)
1.04.050 - Amendments to code—Effect of new ordinances—Amendatory language.
A.
All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, repealed by subsequent ordinances, may be excluded from the code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of these subsequent ordinances until such time that the code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code by the mayor and council.
B.
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
C.
When necessary, sections and subsections to the code may be renumbered by the official codifier for the city to fulfill the intent of the governing body but all such changes shall be approved in advance by the city attorney.
(Prior code § 1-1-6)
1.04.060 - Altering code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this code in any manner except by ordinance or other official act of the mayor and council which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in Chapter 1.08.
(Prior code § 1-1-7)
Chapter 1.06 - ANNEXATION PROCEDURE
Sections:

1.06.010 - In general.
The procedure set out in this chapter shall be observed concerning the annexation of property into the city.
(Ord. 2/14/94 § 1 (part))
1.06.020 - Application required.
Any person, corporation or legal entity desiring to annex a parcel of property into the city shall obtain an application from the city clerk. The application shall be completed in quadruplicate and executed by each owner.
(Ord. 2/14/94 § 1(a))
1.06.030 - Application—Plat of survey and legal description.
Each applicant shall attach to the application a plat of survey and legal description of the property to be annexed into the city.
(Ord. 2/14/94 § 1(b))
1.06.050 - City attorney review—Report to city when.
The clerk shall forward a copy of the application, plat and legal description to the city attorney for his review and examination. The city attorney shall determine whether or not the application meets the requirements of the laws of the state of Georgia and this chapter. If the city attorney finds that the application meets said requirements, he shall give all notices required by the laws of the state of Georgia and issue a written report to the city.
(Ord. 2/14/94 § 1(d))
1.06.060 - Consideration by mayor and council—City attorney notified when.
Upon receiving the report from the city attorney, the application will be read and considered by the mayor and council. If the mayor and council approve annexation of the property, the city attorney will be notified.
(Ord. 2/14/94 § 1(e))
1.06.070 - City attorney to provide notices required by law.
Upon receipt of notice from the city that the property has been annexed, the city attorney shall provide to the state of Georgia and to the United States Department of Justice the notices required by law.
(Ord. 2/14/94 § 1(f))
Chapter 1.08 - GENERAL PENALTY
Sections:

1.08.010 - General penalty—Continuing violations.
A.
Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in this code or in any ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of that provision of this code or that ordinance shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars or imprisonment for a term not exceeding twelve months, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day any violation of this code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
B.
The infliction of a penalty under the provisions of this section shall not prevent the revocation of any permit or license or the taking of other punitive or remedial action where called for or permitted under the provisions of the city's charter or code. (Amended during 1994 recodification; prior code § 1-1-5)
1.08.020 - Additional penalty.
A.
This section is enacted for the purpose of providing funding for local victim assistance programs as provided by law.
B.
Fine Imposed.
1.
According to OCGA Section 15-21-130, et seq., the judge of the municipal court for the city of Locust Grove is authorized to impose an additional penalty (which shall be construed to include costs) upon any person convicted of any criminal offense, traffic offense, or any criminal ordinance violation, which penalty shall be a sum equal to five percent of the original fine.
2.
Such sums shall be in addition to any amount required by OCGA Section 47-17-60 to be paid into the peace officers' annuity and benefit fund and in addition to any other amounts provided for in OCGA Section 15-21-130.
C.
Payment of Funds.
1.
These funds shall be collected by the court officer charged with the duty of collecting monies arising from fines and shall be paid over on a monthly basis to the Lamar County commissioners office who shall deposit such funds into an account as part of the Flint judicial circuit budget for the purpose of funding a victims' assistance program for the circuit.
2.
Monies collected shall be paid over by the last day of the month following the month in which they are collected.
(Ord. 97-10.13, 1997)
