CHAPTER 2.16 - McDONOUGH PLANNING COMMISSION

2.16.010 - Membership.
The McDonough Planning Commission shall consist of seven members and appointed by each of the Councilmembers and mayor. These appointees shall be apportioned by the four voting districts and the remaining three appointed at large. Appointees holding office as of January 1, 1998, shall complete the term for which they were appointed. For terms beginning January 1, 1999 and thereafter, all members shall serve for a term of one year. Any vacancy in membership shall be filled for the remainder of the calendar year by the mayor and Council, which shall also have the authority to remove an appointee for cause on written charges, after a public hearing. An appointee may also be removed if they fail to attend two consecutive meetings or a total of three meetings in one year if just cause is found. All members shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their official duties, and shall receive compensation for their services as determined by the mayor and Council.
(Ord. No. 98-03-02A, 3-2-1998)
2.16.020 - Organization, rules, staff and finances.
The planning commission shall elect its chairman from among its members. The term of the chairman shall be one year with eligibility for re-election. The commission shall appoint a secretary who may be an officer or employee of the municipality. The planning commission shall make its own rules of procedure and determine its time of meeting. All meetings of the planning commission at which official action is taken shall be open to the public and all records of the planning commission shall be public records. The planning commission may appoint such employees and staff as it may deem necessary for its work and may contract with the state planning commission and with city planners and other consultants for such services as it may require. The expenditures of the planning commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for the purpose by the governing authority of the municipality.
(Prior Code § 15-2)
2.16.030 - Powers and duties.
From and after the time the planning commission shall have organized and selected its officers, and shall have adopted its rules of procedure, it shall have the following powers and duties:
A.
The planning commission shall make careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of existing conditions and probable future developments. It shall prepare such plans for physical, social and economic growth as will best promote the public health, safety, morale, convenience, prosperity, or the general welfare as well as efficiency and economy in the development of the city. In particular, the planning commission shall:
1.
Prepare a master plan for the development of the city;
2.
Prepare and recommend for adoption to the mayor and council a zoning ordinance and map for the city;
3.
Prepare and recommend for adoption to the mayor and council, regulations for the subdivision of land within the city, and administer the regulations that may be adopted.
4.
Prepare and recommend for adoption to the mayor and council, a plat or plats of an official map showing the exact location of the boundary lines of existing, proposed, extended, widening or narrowed streets, public open spaces or public building sites, together with regulations to control the erection of buildings or other structures within such lines, within the city or a specified portion thereof.
B.
Unincorporated areas adjacent to the city may be added to the jurisdiction of the planning commission for general planning and for master plan preparation and administration of zoning ordinances, land subdivision regulations, and official maps, if the governing bodies of the county and municipality agree to the boundaries of such additional areas, procedures for joint action, procedures for the adoption and administration of ordinances and resolutions, regulations applying to the area, and the manner of obtaining equitable representation on the municipal planning commission. Such agreement shall be formally established by appropriate official action by the governing authorities involved.
C.
The planning commission may:
1.
Make, publish and distribute maps, plans and reports, and recommendations relating to the plan and development of the city to public officials and agencies, public utility companies, civic, education, professional and other organizations and citizens;
2.
Recommend to the mayor and/or councilmembers programs for public improvements and the financing thereof;
3.
Enter upon land, make examinations and surveys, and place and maintain necessary monuments and marks thereon; provided, however, that the planning commission shall be liable for any injury or damage to property resulting therefrom;
4.
In general, the planning commission shall have powers as may be necessary to enable it to perform its functions and promote the planning of the city.
(Prior Code 15-3)
Editor's note— An editorial note in the previous publication indicates that this section was amended during the 1997 codification.
The planning commission bylaws adopted February 27, 1996 are incorporated in this section as if fully set out. A copy of the bylaws can be found in the offices of the community development department.
Editor's note— An editorial note in the previous publication indicates that this section was added during the 1997 codification.
