CHAPTER 2.02 - CITY COUNCIL RULES OF PROCEDURE

2.02.010 - Presiding Officer.
The mayor, as chairperson of the Council, shall take the chair at the hour appointed for any city council meeting, and shall immediately call all members to order, and with the appearance of a quorum, shall proceed to conduct the meeting.
2.02.020 - Procedure of speaking by members.
No member, staff person, or observing participant, while the Council is in session, shall offer any motion or make any remarks, or speak on any subject under discussion, without addressing and being recognized by the mayor. When more than one party shall seek recognition by the mayor at or near the same time, the mayor shall decide in favor of the party who shall first attract the mayor's attention. Further, no individual shall interrupt another while speaking except to call for order.
2.02.030 - Questions of Order.
The mayor shall decide all questions of order, but any member dissatisfied with any decision by the mayor shall have the right of appeal to the Council. The decision of the Council shall be binding.
2.02.040 - Motion to reconsider.
A motion to reconsider any of the proceedings of the city council will not be entertained unless it is made by a member who previously voted in the majority; nor shall it be entertained at any meeting other than the one at which the proceedings were had or the meeting immediately succeeding.
2.02.050 - Nonmembers addressing the Council.
A.
No person other than a member shall be allowed to address the Council unless permitted by the mayor.
B.
All members of the public addressing the city council shall do so at the lectern provided.
C.
Anyone wishing to address the Council shall first be heard by the appropriate department head; appeal of a decision of a department head of the City is to the City Administrator; appeal of a decision of the City Administrator is to the corresponding department related Council Committee; and appeal of a decision of the Committee is to the full Council.
2.02.060 - Enforcement or suspension of rules.
A.
The mayor, when the city council is in session, shall enforce parliamentary rules for its government in accordance with Robert's Rules of Order, except as otherwise hereby amended.
B.
Any of the parliamentary rules may be suspended by the vote of four members of the city council for the meeting then in session.
2.02.070 - Voting.
All votes shall be cast by ayes (affirmative or negative) of the city council and the City Clerk shall record the vote of each member.
2.02.080 - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 09-01-12(B), adopted Jan. 12, 2009, deleted § 2.02.080 in its entirety. Former § 2.02.080 pertained to "Notice requirements of special and workshop meetings" and derived from Prior Code.
2.02.090 - Ex parte communications policy.
A.
The city council adopts a public disclosure process relating to elected and/or appointed public officials who hold positions on the city council or its standing boards or commissions charged with making recommendations and/or taking final action or any quasi-judicial proceeding.
B.
Any person not otherwise prohibited by statute, rule, charter, resolution or ordinance may communicate in person or by writing to any local public official regarding the merits or lack thereof of any matter on which quasi-judicial action may be taken by the city council or its standing boards or commissions on which the local public official is a member, so long as the process in this section is observed.
C.
The substance of any ex parte communication with a local appointed and/or elected public official which relates to any quasi-judicial action pending before the public official shall not be presumed to have been prejudicial to the action if the subject of the communication and the identity of the person, group or entity with whom the communication took place is disclosed and made a part of the record of the city council, or its standing boards or commissions, before final action is taken on the matter.
D.
A local public official may read a written communication from any person regarding a matter or issue which is pending before the public official sitting in his/her quasi-judicial capacity. However, a written communication that relates to quasi-judicial action pending before a local public official shall not be presumed prejudicial to the action provided such written communication shall be made a part of the record before final action is taken on the matter.
E.
Local public officials may conduct investigations and site visits and may receive expert opinions regarding legislative and quasi-judicial actions pending before them. Such activities shall not be presumed prejudicial to the action if the existence of the investigation, site visit or expert opinion is made a part of the record before final action is taken on the matter.
F.
Disclosure made pursuant to this Section must be made before or during the public meeting at which a vote is to be taken on such matters, so that persons who have opinions contrary to those expressed in the ex parte communication are given a reasonable opportunity to refute or respond to the ex parte communication.
G.
Violation of this section does not subject local public officials per se to O.C.G.A. § 50-14-6.
(Ord. No. 98-04-13B, 4-13-1998)
