ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Official bulletin board designated.
The board of commissioners designates the bulletin board on the second floor of the Cobb County Building, 100 Cherokee Street, as the official bulletin board of county government, as provided by law.
(Mo. of 7-19-82; Mo. of 12-19-91; Code 1977, § 3-2-7)
State Law reference— Posting of notices of meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d).
Sec. 2-2. - Retention of records; state act adopted.
The county does hereby adopt the Georgia Records Act (O.C.G.A. § 50-18-90 et seq.) and such rules and regulations established pursuant to such act as a basis for establishing a records management program.
(Res. of 4-13-82; Code 1977, § 3-2-1.1)
Sec. 2-3. - Sale or disposition of county-owned uneconomic remnants of real property authorized.
The Official Code of Georgia Annotated provides at § 36-9-3 that "notwithstanding any provisions of this Code section or of any other law, ordinance, or resolution to the contrary, a county governing authority is authorized to sell and convey parcels of small or narrow strips of land, so shaped or so small as to be incapable of being used independently as zoned or under applicable subdivision or other development ordinances or land use plans, or as streets, whether owned in fee or used by easement, to abutting property owners where such sales and conveyances facilitate the enjoyment of the highest and best use of the abutting owner's property without first submitting the sale or conveyance to the process of an auction or the solicitation of sealed bids; provided, however, that each abutting property owner shall be notified of the availability of the property and shall have the opportunity to purchase said property under such terms and conditions as set out by ordinance."
(Ord. of 7-8-08)
Sec. 2-4. - Terms and conditions of purchase.
(a)
If county-owned property is recommended for sale or conveyance pursuant to section 2-3, the county, by and through its county manager, shall determine:
(1)
If the county-owned real property sought to be sold or conveyed pursuant to section 2-3 is no longer serviceable to the county and is appropriate for surplus; and
(2)
If the county-owned real property sought to be sold or conveyed pursuant to section 2-3 meets the criteria set forth in section 2-3 and state law, as amended; and
(3)
The fair market value of such property.
(b)
Upon the satisfactory completion of the steps set forth in subsection (a) above, the county will notify each abutting property owner by certified mail sent to the abutting property owner's last known address and to the address of the abutting property if different from the last known address, of the availability of the property and his/her/its ability to purchase the property.
(c)
The notice shall contain the fair market value established by the county, and a statement that the owner will have 30 days from the date of the notice to express his/her/its desire in writing to purchase the property at the fair market value established by the county. The notice will also include the name of the county representative and his or her contact information to whom such response from each abutting property owner shall be sent.
(d)
If the county receives a response from one abutting property owner wishing to purchase the property, then a recommendation may be presented to the board of commissioners for its consideration and approval to deem such property unserviceable to the county and to sell such property to the abutting property owner for the county established fair market value.
(e)
If the county receives a response from more than one abutting property owner wishing to purchase the property, advice and approval as to how to sell or convey the property will be made by and through the Cobb County Property Advisory Commission. The goal of such recommendation from the commission shall be the disposition of the property that best facilitates the enjoyment of the highest and best use of an abutting property, and consideration shall be given as to whether an equitable division of the property amongst more than one, though not necessarily all, of the abutting owners is appropriate. However, nothing herein shall prohibit the county from selling the entire property to one abutting owner. Any such resulting sale shall be for county established fair market value.
(f)
Nothing contained in this section shall obligate the county in any manner to sell any property identified hereunder and all sales and conveyances shall be formally approved by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 7-8-08)
Secs. 2-5—2-25. - Reserved.
