CHAPTER 1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Courthouse and jail—Location.
The courthouse and jail of said County of Cobb shall be located within the City of Marietta, the county site, at such location as the governing authority of said county may determine.
(1834 Ga. Laws, page 252, § 1; 1957 Ga. Laws (Act No. 208), page 2586, § 1)
Sec. 1-2. - Same—Authority to construct.
The governing authority of the County of Cobb is hereby authorized to cause a new courthouse and jail to be built for said county within the City of Marietta at such location or locations as the said governing authority of said county may determine.
(1957 Ga. Laws (Act No. 199), page 2549, § 1)
Sec. 1-3. - Same—Authority to incur indebtedness.
The County of Cobb is hereby authorized to incur bonded indebtedness through the issuance of general obligation bonds, under the provisions of article VII, section VII, paragraphs I and II, of the constitution of Georgia and the laws of this state, pursuant to an election duly called and held as provided by law, in order to effect and procure the erection of such new courthouse and jail.
(1957 Ga. Laws (Act No. 199), page 2549, § 2)
Sec. 1-4. - Authority of general assembly to prescribe regulatory powers of board of commissioners and enforcement jurisdiction of courts.
The constitution of the State of Georgia is hereby amended by adding at the end of article XV, section II, a new paragraph to read as follows:
"The General Assembly of the State of Georgia is hereby authorized:
"1.
To empower the governing authority of Cobb County, the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenues of Cobb County, Georgia, to adopt ordinances or regulations for the governing and policing of said county, for the purpose of protecting and preserving the health, safety, welfare and morals of the citizens thereof as it may deem advisable; and for the implementation and enforcement of all duties and powers now or hereafter vested in said board as the governing authority of Cobb County, Georgia, and to provide penalties for violations of such ordinances.
"2.
To authorize the Superior Court of Cobb County and the Civil and Criminal Court of Cobb County, or other judiciary established by the General Assembly, with jurisdiction in Cobb County, and which shall be empowered to hear and determine cases involving violations of all county ordinances and regulations, including traffic ordinances and regulations, with authority to inflict punishment and/or penalty for violation thereof; and which shall have such other and further powers as may be prescribed by law, including civil actions to enforce such ordinances."
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 19), page 914, § 1)
Editor's note— The above local amendment to Ga. Const. (1945), art. XV, § II, was continued by 1986 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1044), page 4410. See Ga. Const. (1983), art. XI, § I, ¶ IV.
