ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Adequate parking means one parking space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area within the premises of an applicant dedicated to the sale or consumption of alcohol.
Adult concession area means an area designated and identified within an amusement park wherein adults (and minors within their care who will not be served alcohol beverages) may purchase and consume alcoholic beverages while the park is open to the general public.
Agent means a person designated and/or authorized by a licensee or their employee, whether compensated or not, to conduct business functions or marketing related to the selling or serving of alcoholic beverages.
Alcoholic beverage caterer means any retail dealer licensed pursuant to the alcoholic beverage ordinance of Cobb County who provides alcohol at special events or special events facilities.
Alcoholic beverage license means a license to sell any malt beverages, vinous beverages, and/or spirituous liquors.
Alcoholic beverages includes, but is not limited to, malt beverages, vinous beverages, and spirituous liquors as defined in this section.
Amusement park means a place owned and operated permanently and exclusively for the purpose of providing amusement, attractions, and entertainment to the general public through the means of rides, live entertainment and games either on a seasonal or year round basis, which park has at least 25 rides and 50 games or attractions and the area of the amusement park is comprised of at least 80 acres exclusive of parking.
Approved container means a tamper evident container that:
(1)
Does not contain openings or straw holes;
(2)
Is sealed in a manner that is visibly apparent if the container has been subsequently opened or tampered with; and
(3)
Has an affixed label or marking that identifies the licensee that prepared and sold the mixed drink.
Bar shall be an establishment that does not meet the definition of a restaurant, nightclub, lounge, farm winery, brewery, distillery, or hotel, and serves alcoholic beverages on premises. A full service food permit shall be valid and issued to the owner/licensee of the bar. Total annual food sales from the sale of prepared meals or food for the bar shall not be less than 30 percent of the total annual gross sales of food and alcoholic beverage sales of the bar.
Bar facility is a physical structure, permanent, where the establishment staff dispenses alcoholic beverages.
Barrel means 53 gallons.
Beer bomber means a glass bottle containing 22 U.S. ounces of craft or draft beer.
Bottle house means any place of business open to the public or any private club which allows guests, patrons or members to bring in and to consume the guest's, patron's or member's alcoholic beverages on the premises unless otherwise provided in this chapter. This definition includes restaurants with alcohol pouring licenses that allow alcohol to be brought on the premises and may charge a corkage fee. Restaurants that are bottle houses shall pay a license fee as provided in schedule F on file with the county clerk and the business license division.
Brewer means a manufacturer of malt beverages.
Brewery means a domestic manufacturer of malt beverages that is licensed by the state. Provided a license is issued as required by this chapter, a brewery is authorized to sell malt beverages by the package, by the drink and operate tasting events on the premises of the brewery pursuant to appropriate state law, without additional license requirements, except as is required in chapter 78. A licensed brewery may fill customer provided containers, such as growlers or howlers for consumption off-premises so long as the container is sealed in the same manner as an approved container as defined above upon its furnishing or return to the customer.
Business area means any street length between intersections where 50 percent or more of such street length is in use for business purposes.
Business license division manager or supervisor means the individual who is the business license division manager handling alcoholic beverage licenses, as such position presently exists, or by whatever name the position may be designated in the future.
Church means a permanent building where persons regularly assemble for religious worship and shall be publicly designated as a church, but shall not include a residence also used for religious purposes.
Closed function means an event sponsored by a nonprofit organization not open to the general public which must have a written, limited guest list prepared at least 48 hours in advance of the date on which the closed function is to occur, and which occurs at the Cobb Civic Center, Jim R. Miller Park, East Cobb Park, Mable House Complex, the Cobb County Safety Village, Cobb County International Airport, Sewell Mill Library and Cultural Center, Hyde Farm, Stout Park, county community centers, senior facilities, or county art centers/theatres which are managed by the parks, recreation and cultural affairs department. No pay-at-the-door guests or drop-ins are to be permitted. Alcoholic beverages may be served without charge and consumed at closed functions, but the offer and sale of alcoholic beverages at such functions is prohibited, unless authorized in sections 6-184 and 6-185; except that a general admission fee permitting attendance at the closed function may be collected in advance.
College means only such state, county, city, church or other colleges as teach the subjects commonly taught in the common colleges of this state, and shall not include private colleges where only specialized subjects such as law, stenography, business, music, art, medicine, dentistry, vocational occupations and other special subjects are taught. The definition of college shall include a university.
Convenience store means a retail establishment which offers for sale packaged or unprepared food and grocery items for consumption off of the premises which may sell fuel products, household items, or tobacco products and having 5,000 or less square feet of floor area as floor area is defined in section 134-1 of the Official Code of Cobb County, Georgia.
Conviction means adjudication of guilt, plea of guilty, plea of nolo contendere or the forfeiture of a bond when charged with a crime, but shall not include a discharge under provisions of what is commonly called the State of Georgia First Offender Act, being O.C.G.A. § 42-8-60 et seq.
Craft beer means a beer brewed by an independent brewer with annual production not exceeding six million barrels.
Crowler means a sealed aluminum can containing 32 U.S. ounces of craft or draft beer filled from a tap and sealed at a licensed brewery.
Curbside pick-up means when a licensee delivers purchased goods to a customer's vehicle within a clearly designated pick-up area located within a paved parking area adjacent to the licensed premises.
Distance means the measurement in lineal feet from the center of any door of customer entry of the proposed premises of a licensee to the nearest property line of any church, library, school, park, public housing, public hospital or private residence as defined in this section. A radius shall be measured from the center of any door of customer entry of the proposed premises of any licensee to the nearest property line of any church, library, school, park, public housing, public hospital or private residence as defined in this section.
Distiller means a manufacturer of spirituous liquors.
Distillery means a domestic manufacturer of spirituous liquors that is licensed by state. Provided a license is issued as required by this chapter, a distiller is authorized to sell spirituous liquors by the package, by the drink and operate tasting events on the premises of the distillery pursuant to appropriate state law, without additional license requirements, except as required in chapter 78.
Drink means any spirituous liquor not in its original package served for consumption on the premises, which may or may not be diluted by any other liquid.
Establishment means a business location that has received the applicable pouring license within certain mixed-use developments identified in section 6-133.
Event venue means the location of a temporary event or gathering using public property that has the capacity to draw 20,000 participants on the day of the event.
Family means any person related to the holder of an alcoholic beverage license within the first degree of consanguinity or affinity as determined according to civil law.
Farm winery means a domestic manufacturer of wine in quantities of less than 100,000 gallons of wine per year, that is licensed by the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 3-6-21.1. Provided a license is issued as required by this chapter, a farm winery is authorized to sell wine by the package, by the drink and operate a wine tasting facility on the premises of the farm winery without additional license requirements, except as is required in chapter 78.
Flight means the service of several small samples of a single type of alcoholic beverage served at one time to an individual for a fee and intended to allow the sampling of different flavors.
Food hall means an area containing multiple food hall cafes, as defined in this section that share a common area of seating and tables for their customers collectively, as provided in this section, within a building located in certain mixed-use developments identified in section 6-133.
Food hall café means a restaurant located within a food hall. Although seating for a food hall café may be shared with other food hall cafes, the applicant can satisfy the minimum seating requirements for a restaurant by establishing that there are a sufficient number of total seats within its own premises and/or the common area of seating within the food hall such that each licensed café could independently meet the 20-seat requirement. This provision does not require seating to be contiguous or separately designated, but does require a sufficient amount of total seating to cover all establishments licensed as food hall cafes within the food hall. A food hall café may utilize one or more other food hall cafes within the same food hall, by written agreement with any such other food hall café, to satisfy the requirements of meal service and the alcohol/food sales ratio identified in section 6-1. In order to qualify for this inclusion, the other food hall cafes must be (a) located in the same food hall as the food hall café seeking to utilize the other food hall café's meal service and alcohol/food sales ratio; and (b) be available, open and prepared to serve food every hour that alcoholic beverages are offered for sale from any portion of the food hall premises.
Free standing vendor means any person or entity that is permitted to sell alcoholic beverages from a cart, kiosk, or temporary structure for retail sales within certain mixed-use developments identified in section 6-133.
Grocery store means a retail establishment whose primary function is the sale of packaged or unprepared food and grocery items for consumption off the premises and whose annual gross sales of alcoholic beverages do not exceed ten percent of its total gross sales.
Growler means a reusable glass, ceramic, or stainless-steel bottle or jug intended for the transport of craft or draft beer filled from a tap and sealed at a licensed brewery which shall not exceed 128 U.S. ounces.
Hotel means a building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which 50 or more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and having one or more public dining rooms, with adequate and sanitary kitchen and a seating capacity of at least 40, where meals are regularly served to such guests, such sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same building or in separate buildings or structures used in connection therewith that are on the same premises and are a part of the hotel operation. Motels meeting the qualifications set out in this definition for hotels shall be classified in the same category as hotels. Hotels shall have the privilege of granting franchises for the operation of a lounge, restaurant or nightclub on their premises; and the holder of such franchise shall be included in the definition of hotel hereunder.
Howler means a reusable glass, ceramic, or stainless-steel bottle or jug intended for the transport of craft or draft beer filled from a tap and sealed at a licensed brewery which shall not exceed 32 U.S. ounces.
Legal alien means a person who possesses a valid United States government-issued I-551 card; an application for I-551 status does not meet the legal alien definition. Any other status, which allows a person to enter the United States, does not comply with this definition.
License means the authorization by the board of commissioners to engage in the sale or consumption on the premises of alcoholic beverages.
License review board means the board created under section 6-90.
Licensee means a person holding any class of license issued under the terms of this chapter who is a full-time employee responsible for the management of the establishment. A licensee must be a resident of the State of Georgia and must be working on site a minimum of one day per week.
Live entertainment means music, comedy, readings, dancing, acting or other entertainment performed on the site. This classification includes dancing by patrons to live or recorded music, but excludes live conduct characterized by nudity or semi-nudity.
Lounge means a separate room in which alcoholic beverages are sold, connected with a part of and adjacent to a restaurant or located in a hotel as defined in this section with all booths, stools and tables being unobstructed and open to view. All lounges shall be air condition and have a seating capacity of at least 50. A lounge, as defined in this section, which is operated on a different floor in the premises, or in a separate building, or has a separate customer entrance, or is not connected with a part of and adjacent to a restaurant, shall be considered a separate establishment and shall pay an additional license fee therefore. A lounge operated by a different entity from the hotel or restaurant must have a separate license as a bar or restaurant and meet the food requirements of a bar or restaurant.
Major shareholder means an individual or entity that owns or controls a 20 percent or more interest in a business establishment.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing alcohol by volume in accordance with state law and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer, and strong beer. The term does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Manager shall mean a person or that person's designee who has responsibility for management of the operations, including sale of alcoholic beverages at the location to be licensed, who is a full-time or part-time employee of the corporation, partnership, proprietor or other ownership entity. A manager or manager's designee must be on the premises at all times the business is in operation.
Managing capacity shall mean the responsibility for management of the operation and for designating management of the operation including responsibility for the sale of alcoholic beverages.
Manufacturer means any maker, producer, or bottler of an alcoholic beverage. The term also means:
(1)
In the case of distilled spirits, any person engaged in distilling, rectifying, or blending any distilled spirits;
(2)
In the case of malt beverages, any brewer; and
(3)
In the case of wine, any vintner.
Minor means a person less than 18 years of age.
Mixed drink means a beverage prepared by combining distilled spirits with nonalcoholic liquid or liquids and that:
(1)
Is prepared on the day of sale by an employee of the licensee;
(2)
Contains no more than three ounces of distilled spirits; and
(3)
If sold for off-premises consumption, is sealed in an approved container.
Nightclub means an establishment which operates with its primary income generation from the sales of alcoholic beverages, and which may offer live entertainment. All nightclubs shall be equipped with air conditioning and shall maintain an adequate kitchen with a valid full service health department permit and with a sufficient number of servers and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for their patrons, provided that nightclubs located in hotels having dining room and kitchen facilities may be excluded from the requirement of maintaining a kitchen in connection with such nightclub; and further provided that a nightclub located in certain mixed-use developments identified in section 6-133 is excluded from the requirement of maintaining a kitchen.
Nonprofit civic organization means an organization which is an exempt organization under Section 501(c) or (d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Nonprofit private club means a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the state or veterans' organization associated with and a part of a recognized national veterans' organization which is organized and operated exclusively for pleasure, recreation and other nonprofit purposes and which immediately prior to the application for a license hereunder:
(1)
Has at least 100 members regularly paying dues; and
(2)
Has tax exempt status under the provisions of section 501(c)(19) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code; and
(3)
Owns or leases a building or space for the reasonable use of its members; and
(4)
Has no members or officers, agent or employees of the club receiving compensation directly or indirectly in the form of commissions or other compensation based on the amount of profits from the sale of malt beverages and wines beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed by its members at an annual meeting or by its governing body out of the general revenue of the club; and
(5)
Has no part of the net earnings inuring to the benefit of any shareholder or member; and
(6)
Has been in continuous operation for at least one year prior to the application for a license hereunder.
Where an application for a license is submitted for a nonprofit private club the application shall be made in the name of the highest elected officer and/or the manager of the club or organization.
Package means an alcoholic beverage bottled, canned, or otherwise assembled for retail sale by the bottle, box, can or case by a licensed manufacturer or wholesaler. As used in this section, the term "package" shall include crowlers, howlers, and growlers.
Package store means a business establishment whose primary business activity is the retail sale of alcoholic beverages by the package.
Park means any public lands owned or controlled and operated by this county, any county of the state, any municipality of the state, the state, the United States of America or any property owned or managed by a nonprofit organization, in and upon which play facilities are provided for the recreation and enjoyment of the general public.
Pouring license means a license that authorizes on-premises consumption of alcoholic beverages.
Principal shareholder means a person who owns any shares of a corporation with less than 35 shareholders or more than five percent of the shares of a corporation which has more than 35 shareholders, except that a person who owns shares which are publicly traded shall not be deemed to be a principal shareholder or to have a beneficial interest in the corporation based solely on the fact of stock ownership.
Private club means a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the state, actively in operation within the county, having at least 200 members regularly paying monthly, quarterly, or semiannual dues, organized and operated exclusively for pleasure, recreation and other nonprofitable purposes, no part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any shareholder or member, and owning, hiring or leasing a building or space therein for the reasonable use of its members with suitable kitchen and dining room space and equipment and maintaining and using a sufficient number of servants and employees for cooking, preparing and serving meals for its members and guests; provided, that no member or officer, agent or employee of the club is paid, or directly or indirectly receives, in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the sale of spirituous liquors to the club or its members or guests beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed by its members at any annual meeting or by its governing board out of the general revenue of the club.
Private party function means an event held by an amusement park where alcoholic beverages are provided. The owner/licensee must submit to and have the private party function approved by the supervisor of the county's business license office provided such function does not threaten the health, safety and welfare of the participants or public. In the event the private party function is not approved by the business license supervisor the owner/licensee may appeal said decision to the license review board. The license review board shall have the authority to approve the private party function provided the function does not threaten the health, safety and welfare of the participants or public. Any decision of the license review board may be appealed to the board of commissioners in the same manner as set forth in section 6-90.
Private residence means a house or dwelling wherein not less than one or more than two families customarily reside and shall not include a mobile home, an apartment house having facilities for housing more than two families, a boardinghouse or roominghouse where there are five or more boarders or roomers, any residence which has been unoccupied for a period of six consecutive months immediately prior to the filing of any application for license, or any residence that shall be a nonconforming use in a commercial zone.
Purchase price means the consideration received for the sale of spirituous liquors by the drink valued in money, whether received in cash or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property, or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the licensee or his agent to the purchases, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
Purchaser means any person who orders and gives present or future consideration for any spirituous liquor by the drink.
Restaurant means any public place, including establishments referred to as a "sports bar," kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are actually and regularly prepared and served, without sleeping accommodations, such place seating a minimum of 20 or more people, and holding a certificate of approval from the county health department. At least one meal per day shall be served at least six days per week, with the exception of holidays, vacations, and periods of redecorating; and the serving of such meals shall be the principal business conducted; with the serving of distilled spirits to be consumed on the premises as only incidental thereto. A restaurant shall have 50 percent or more of its total annual gross sales of food and alcoholic beverage from the sale of prepared meals or food.
Retail sale means selling or offering for sale alcoholic beverages to any member of the public. Such term shall also include, without limitation, the sale to any member of the public of any ticket or license, or the charging of any cover charge or fee, for admission to any event or premises where alcoholic beverages are available without further charge, as well as the sale of any ticket, stamp, token or similar item which may be redeemed or exchanged for alcoholic beverages.
Sample means a small amount of any malt beverage, wine, or distilled spirits served as a single serving.
School means only such state, county, city, church, private, or other schools, including day care facilities as teach Georgia State accredited curriculum taught in the common public schools of this state. This definition shall not include private post secondary schools where only specialized subjects such as law, stenography, business, music, art, medicine, dentistry, vocational occupations and other special subjects are taught.
Special event pouring license means a temporary license issued for a limited amount of time pursuant to section 6-181 of this chapter.
Spirituous or alcoholic liquors means all beverages containing alcohol, obtained by distillation or containing more than 21 percent of alcohol by volume, including fortified wines.
Tailgating means a social gathering of people in a designated area, for a specified, limited time period, when and where food and alcoholic beverages may be consumed immediately preceding or following an event at an event venue. Alcohol may not be sold, but attendees 21 and older can bring and consume alcoholic beverages in compliance with approvals required in section 6-134.
Tasting event means a scheduled event hosted by a licensee at which free samples may be provided and that may be open to the general public or limited by invitation.
Tax means tax imposed for each calendar month of the year.
Underage person means a person who is less than 21 years of age.
Variety store means a retail store that sells general merchandise, such as apparel, automotive parts, dry goods, hardware, home furnishings, and a selection of groceries and whose annual gross sales of alcoholic beverages do not exceed ten percent of its total gross sales.
Vinous beverages or wine means any alcoholic beverages containing not more than 21 percent of alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines, and like products. The term does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at that point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to the definition of wine contained in this section.
Wholesaler means any person engaged in distribution or selling to retailers for the purpose of resale of any alcoholic beverages as defined in this section.
(Ord. of 8-14-73, art. I, § 1; Ord. and Res. of 2-12-74; Ord. and Res. of 3-26-74; Ord. of 3-24-87; Ord. of 4-14-87; Ord. of 10-24-89, § I; Ord. of 9-25-90; Ord. of 4-25-91; Ord. of 5-26-92; Ord. of 7-14-92; Ord. of 5-11-93; Ord. of 10-11-94; Code 1977, § 3-4-1; Ord. of 7-23-96; Ord. of 8-10-99; Ord. of 7-10-01 (eff. 1-1-02); Ord. of 1-22-02; Ord. of 7-8-03; Ord. of 7-27-04; Ord. of 1-25-05; Amd. of 2-23-10; Amd. of 2-22-11; Ord. of 3-13-12; Ord. of 7-24-12; Amd. of 2-26-13; Amd. of 2-25-14; Amd. of 2-24-15; Amd. of 7-28-15; Amd. of 2-23-16; Amd. of 2-28-17; Amd. of 7-25-17; Amd. of 2-27-18; Amd. of 2-26-19; Amd. of 6-25-19; Amd. of 9-8-20; Amd. of 2-9-21; Amd. of 2-8-22)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 6-2. - Penalty for violation of chapter.
The violation of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in section 1-10.
(Ord. of 8-14-73, art. III, § 29, art. V, §§ 60, 71, 80; Ord. of 8-13-85, § B; Ord. of 10-24-89, § I; Ord. of 9-25-90; Ord. of 5-11-93; Code 1977, § 3-4-12(b))
Sec. 6-3. - Purposes of chapter.
This chapter has been enacted for the purposes, among others, of promoting the health and general welfare of the community; to establish reasonable and ascertainable standards for the regulation and control of the licensing and sales of alcoholic beverages; to protect and preserve schools and churches; to give effect to existing land use and preserve certain residential areas, with reasonable consideration being given, among others, to the character of the areas and their peculiar suitability for particular uses, the congestion in the roads and streets, and with a general view of promoting desirable living conditions and sustaining stability of neighborhoods and property values; and to protect against concentration of the retail outlets for alcohol in one-family residential areas or to prevent undesirable persons from engaging in or having any interest in alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. of 8-14-73, art. I, § 2; Ord. of 10-24-89, § I; Ord. of 5-11-93; Ord. of 10-11-94, § 1; Code 1977, § 3-4-2)
Sec. 6-4. - Use of proceeds.
Except as provided in 1974 Ga. Laws (Act No. 156), page 156, subpt. I, § 34-2, all proceeds generated under this chapter shall be used and spent only for those purposes which benefit the citizens of the unincorporated areas of the county. In no event shall any of the proceeds generated under this chapter be used or spent in any fashion which would benefit both the citizens within and without the unincorporated limits of the county.
(Ord. of 8-14-73, art. II, § 17; Ord. of 9-23-75; Res. of 11-22-77; Code 1977, § 3-4-50(b); Ord. of 10-24-89, § I; Ord. of 5-11-93)
Sec. 6-5. - Penalty for late fee payment.
Any licensee, person or entity who fails to pay any fee, tax or other payment due to the county of any kind when due shall pay, in addition to such fee, tax or other charge, a separate penalty equal to ten percent of the required fee, tax or other charge for each period of 30 days, or portion thereof, following the due date, until paid in full, including penalties.
(Code 1977, § 3-4-51; Ord. of 3-24-87; Ord. of 10-24-89, § I; Ord. of 5-11-93)
Sec. 6-6. - Prohibited activities.
(a)
On school grounds; in parks. No alcoholic beverage shall be sold, possessed or consumed by any person in any school building or on any school grounds. No alcoholic beverages shall be sold, possessed or consumed by any person in any county park except:
(1)
At a closed function as defined in this chapter and only at the locations specified in the definition; or
(2)
At any golf course facility owned, leased, or operated by the county or a board of commission of the county; or
(3)
As authorized in section 6-184 of this chapter.
Section 90-53 shall permit the sale of alcoholic beverages consistent with this section.
(b)
In vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person to consume while driving or operating any vehicle on any public road or street any alcoholic beverage in any open or unsealed original container or cup, can, bottle or other open or unsealed container.
(Ord. of 8-14-73, art. I, § 1(p), (v); Ord. of 2-12-74; Ord. of 3-24-87; Ord. of 10-24-89, § I; Ord. of 9-25-90; Ord. of 5-11-93; Code 1977, § 3-4-4; Ord. of 7-27-04; Amd. of 2-24-09; Amd. of 2-26-19)
State Law reference— Possession of open container of alcoholic beverage while operating vehicle, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-253.
Sec. 6-7. - Sunday permits.
A separate permit is required for the Sunday sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises and by the package for off-premises consumption (to the extent allowed by state law). Farm wineries, distillers, and brewers are not required to obtain a Sunday permit as long as they are operating in compliance with state law regarding the sale of alcoholic beverages at farm wineries, distilleries, and breweries.
(Code 1977, § 3-4-15; Ord. of 10-24-89, § I; Ord. of 5-11-93; Ord. of 4-24-12; Amd. of 7-25-17)
Secs. 6-8—6-30. - Reserved.
