Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority of municipality to adopt ordinances, resolutions or regulations, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3.

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as the "The Code of Reynolds, Georgia," and may be so cited. Such Code may also be cited as the "Reynolds Code" or the "City Code."
(Code 1973, § 1-1)
State Law reference— Codification requirements, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Rules of construction; definitions.
In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council.
Generally. All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the city council may be fully carried out. In the interpretation and application of any provisions of this Code, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than another more general provision imposed by the Code or other law, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
City. The term "the city" or "this city" means the City of Reynolds, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" or "this Code" means The Code of Reynolds, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted, but the last day shall be counted; and if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
Conjunctions. In a provision involving two or more items, conditions, provisions or events, which items, conditions, provisions or events are connected by the conjunction "and," "or" or "either…or," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows, except that in appropriate cases the terms "or" and "and" are interchangeable:
(1)
And indicates that all the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply.
(2)
Or indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply singly or in any combination.
(3)
Either…or indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply singly but not in combination.
Council, city council. The term "the council" or "city council" means the City Council of Reynolds, Georgia.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" means the County of Taylor, Georgia.
Day. The term "day" means a calendar day of 24 hours.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department or other officer of the city to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize such department head or officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be implied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Governing body or local governing authority. The terms "governing body" or "local governing authority" mean the City Council of the City of Reynolds, Georgia.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provisions imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
Joint authority. Whenever a joint authority is given to three or more persons or officers, it shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of them.
May. The term "may" shall be construed as being permissive.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Must. The term "must" shall be construed as being mandatory.
Names of officers, and departments. The name or title of any officer or department shall be read as though the words "of the City of Reynolds" were added thereto.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. The singular number includes the plural and the plural number shall include the singular.
Oath, swear, sworn, affirm, affirmed. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed".
O.C.G.A., state acts. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended. A reference to a state act, whether by year and act number; year, act number and page; year and page; or short title, is a reference to such act, as amended.
Officials or officers. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments or other municipal agents by title only, such reference shall be read as though followed by the words "of the City of Reynolds, Georgia".
Owner. The term "owner," applied to real estate, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint interest or other fee interest in the whole or a part of such real estate.
Person. The term "person" includes firms, partnerships, associations, organizations and bodies politic and corporate, as well as natural persons.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Seal. The term "seal" means the city seal.
Signature or subscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" includes a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The term "the state" or "this state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" shall be construed to include streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public ways in the city and shall include all parts thereof constituting the designated right-of-way.
Tense. Terms used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Week. The term "week" means seven days.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1973, § 1-2)
State Law reference— Statutory definitions and rules of construction, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; computation of time, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1; construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3; time, O.C.G.A. § 9-11-6.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes and references.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
(Code 1973, § 1-3)
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal or expiration of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued or any offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding commenced before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
(b)
When an ordinance which repealed another shall itself be repealed, the previous ordinance shall not be revived without express words to that effect.
(Code 1973, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional, invalid or unenforceable by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality, invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, and sections of this Code.
(Code 1973, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-6. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code of Ordinances may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion therein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, such repealed portions may be excluded from said Code by omission from reprinted pages. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code by the mayor and council.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code shall be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of The Code of Reynolds, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…. The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language shall be used: "That The Code of Reynolds, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered _____, which said section reads as follows:…. The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, with reference to the subject matter, as the case may be.
(Code 1973, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-7. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby.
(Code 1973, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-8. - Interpretation of Code.
In all interpretations of this Code, and ordinances, the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the mayor and council, keeping in view, at all times, the old law, the evil, and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
Sec. 1-9. - Substantive compliance with Code.
A substantial compliance with any requirement of the Code, or ordinances, especially on the part of public officers, shall be deemed and held sufficient, and no proceeding shall be declared void for want of such compliance, unless expressly so provided by the enactment.
Sec. 1-10. - Prior offenses, penalties and rights not affected by adoption of Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty of forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city repealed in this chapter, and all general ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing and not a new enactment of the same ordinance. This chapter shall not be deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue or as affecting the liability of any person or as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or section thereof in force at the time of the adoption of this Code.
Sec. 1-11. - Rates, charges, and fees established.
(a)
Unless otherwise provided for, all rates, charges, or fees necessary for the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this Code shall be as currently established or as hereafter adopted by motion, resolution or ordinance of the mayor and council, from time to time. Any rates, charges, or fees established by the city pursuant to the regulations or requirements established herein may be changed from time to time by the mayor and council, and such changes shall both be considered an amendment to this Code.
(b)
Whenever any provision of this Code provides that a rate, charge, or fee shall be established by the mayor and council, from time to time, and the amount of such rate, charge, or fee is not expressed in this Code in any dollar amount, then the amount of such rate, charge, or fee shall be the most recent and latest amount established, set or fixed by the mayor and council by ordinance, resolution or motion.
Sec. 1-12. - Provisions considered continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances adopted prior to this Code and included in such Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-13. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared at least on an annual basis. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the mayor and council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code).
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-14. - General penalty; continuing violations, violation as public nuisance.
(a)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" means:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance; or
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a misdemeanor or an offense or unlawful by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a city officer or city employee to perform an official duty, unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section or it is clear from the context that it is the intent to impose the penalty provided for in this section upon the officer or employee.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided:
(1)
A person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 60 days, or any combination thereof.
(2)
With respect to violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
(3)
With respect to violations of this Code that are not continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
(4)
The court shall have the power and authority to place any person found guilty of a violation of Code on probation and to suspend or modify any fine or sentence.
(d)
The imposition of a penalty does not prevent revocation or suspension of a license, permit or franchise or other administrative sanctions. In addition to the penalties hereinabove provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any such ordinance, resolution, rules, regulation or order shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated by the city through injunctive or other equitable relief and by such other means as provided by law. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent equitable relief. Each day that such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(Code 1973, § 1-8)
State Law reference— Imposition of additional penalty for certain drug offenses, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-100; imposition of additional penalty for offense of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-112; additional penalty to be imposed in criminal and traffic cases to provide training to law enforcement officers and prosecuting officials, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; additional penalty assessments for jail construction and staffing, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-91; punishment for misdemeanors generally, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; deposit of driver's license for violations of laws pertaining to traffic and motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-11; payments to peace officers annuity and benefit fund from revenues collected from fines and fees, O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 et seq.; alternative punishments for violations involving a traffic offense, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3(e).
Sec. 1-15. - Ordinances not affected by adoption of the Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness.
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the city.
(4)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing or fixing the salaries, retirement and pension plans, benefits, personnel policy, civil service rules and regulations, and/or administrative procedures for city officers or employees not otherwise enumerated in this Code.
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the city.
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the city.
(7)
Any appropriation or budget ordinance.
(8)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor.
(9)
Any ordinance establishing or changing zoning regulations, rezoning specific property or amending the zoning map.
(10)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat or providing for subdivision regulations.
(11)
Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the city.
(12)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(13)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code.
(14)
Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the city.
(15)
Any ordinance or regulation prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations concerning through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic, limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones, not in conflict or inconsistent with this Code.
(16)
Any ordinance or resolution of agreement with another political subdivision.
(17)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing or imposing any municipal rates, charges or fees for the city, that are not otherwise enumerated in this Code.
(18)
Any other ordinance or resolution, or part thereof, which is not of a general and permanent nature; or which is referred to elsewhere in this Code as continuing in effect.
(19)
Any ordinance or resolution that is temporary, although general in effect.
(20)
Any ordinance or resolution that is special, although permanent in effect.
(21)
Any ordinance or resolution the purpose of which has been accomplished.
(b)
No such ordinance shall be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this chapter. All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
