Chapter 22 - OFFENSES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Limitation on home rule powers of municipal corporations with respect to duplication of state criminal offenses, Ga. Const. art. III, § VI, ¶ IV, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2); Criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 22-1. - Aiding in jailbreak; helping resist arrest; smuggling items into jail.
It shall be unlawful for any person to, in any manner, aid or assist any person in avoiding arrest by the officers of the city, or furnish to any prisoner, whether in the city jail or at work on the public works, any article or thing of any sort without the consent of the police.
(Code 1973, § 10-1)
Sec. 22-2. - Contemptuous or disorderly conduct toward mayor and council.
Any person guilty of contemptuous or disorderly conduct towards the mayor and council, or in their presence, shall be punished by a fine of not exceeding $50.00, or confinement in the city jail not to exceed 20 days.
(Code 1973, § 10-4)
State Law reference— Use of "fighting words," obscene and vulgar or profane language, etc., O.C.G.A. § 16-11-39.
Sec. 22-3. - Damaging, defacing park property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to leave the walks laid out in any public park and trespass upon the grass, or to deface any of the seats, fountains or other property therein, or to cut or whittle thereon with a knife or other instrument, or to write or mark thereon with a pen, pencil or other instrument, or to cut or injure any of the shade trees in said park.
(Code 1973, § 10-5)
Sec. 22-4. - Damaging, defacing public property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, deface, break or destroy any of the property of the city.
(Code 1973, § 10-6)
Sec. 22-5. - Damaging, interfacing with poles, wires, other fixtures.
It shall be unlawful to cut, break, or in any other manner molest or interfere with any telegraph, telephone, electric light or other pole used for the support of electric wires, or to throw at, break, injure or in any other manner molest or interfere with any fixture, wire, lamp or other thing placed thereon, or to tie any horse, mule or other animal of any sort to any such pole.
(Code 1973, § 10-7)
Sec. 22-6. - Dead animals.
No person shall deposit any carcass of any dead animal upon any ground, public or private, within the city.
(Code 1973, § 10-8)
Sec. 22-7. - Discharging or possessing firearms, other weapons.
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm or gun, including an air rifle, outside of their home and off their premises, on the sidewalks or streets of the city.
(Code 1973, § 10-9)
Sec. 22-8. - Disorderly conduct; acts constituting.
(a)
It shall be disorderly conduct to be found drunk or making any unnecessary or unusual noise to the disturbance of any citizen.
(b)
It shall be disorderly conduct for any person to act indecent in any car or vehicle parked or not parked within the city.
(c)
It shall be disorderly conduct for any person to be asleep from the effects of intoxicating liquors in any car or vehicle parked or otherwise within the city.
(d)
It shall be disorderly conduct for any person to lie in a reclining unnatural position in a car or vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating liquors, drugs, or to in any way appear in an indecent manner while under the influence of intoxicating liquors or drugs.
(e)
It shall be disorderly conduct to use violent, boisterous, profane, or obscene language in public places, use opprobrious words to another or in his presence, without provocation.
(f)
The making of unnecessary loud noises by the loud and unnecessary blowing of automobile horns, the discharge of firearms, or otherwise disturbing the peace and good order shall be disorderly conduct.
(Code 1973, § 10-10)
Sec. 22-9. - Disorderly conduct, quarreling.
It shall be unlawful for any person to be guilty of quarreling or otherwise acting in a disorderly manner within the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 1973, § 10-11)
Sec. 22-10. - Disorderly houses, etc.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain and keep a lewd house or place for the practice of fornication or adultery, either by himself or others within the city.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the city, either by himself or others, a common, ill-governed and disorderly house, to the encouragement of idleness, gambling, drinking or other misbehavior, or to the common disturbance of the neighborhood or orderly citizens.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person, within the limits of the city, to keep and maintain a house of ill-fame, or assignation house, or knowingly permit any house owned or controlled by him to be used or occupied for lewd purposes, or as an assignation house, or to knowingly rent, lease or let any house for such purposes.
(d)
It shall be the duty of the police force to arrest any person who may be found at any lewd house or house of ill-fame within the city, and bring such person before the mayor's court, which shall, on conviction, punish such person as prescribed in this Code provided that the provisions of this subsection shall not apply to any person who may visit such houses on necessary and legitimate business.
(Code 1973, § 10-12)
Sec. 22-11. - Drive-in restaurants; lighting required.
All proprietors or operators of drive-in restaurants shall be required to provide and maintain sufficient illumination on all parts of drive-in parking lots to render all positions of all persons upon such parking areas of such drive-in parking lots clearly visible to other patrons and proprietors, from the time of darkness until the time of closing.
(Code 1973, § 10-13)
Sec. 22-12. - Drunk and disorderly deportment.
It shall be unlawful for any person to be found drunk and disorderly in the city, and such persons may be confined to the jail of said city until he becomes sober.
(Code 1973, § 10-14)
Sec. 22-13. - Fireworks prohibited.
No person or persons shall explode or burst any firecrackers, skyrockets, Roman candles or any other fireworks of like character within the city.
(Code 1973, § 10-15)
Sec. 22-14. - Gambling.
No gambling or gambling scheme or device of any kind shall be allowed within the city. Any person caught gambling or operating a gambling scheme or device shall be charged with disorderly conduct and punished as for a misdemeanor.
(Code 1973, § 10-16)
Sec. 22-15. - Indecent exposure.
Any person found in a state of nudity, or making any indecent exposure of his body or part or portion of his body shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Code 1973, § 10-17)
Sec. 22-16. - Accumulation of junk.
(a)
It is unlawful for the owner, lessee, tenant, or other person having possession and/or control of private property to deposit, collect, store, maintain, or permit to be deposited, collected, stored, or to remain upon said private property any junk as hereinafter defined.
(b)
A violation of this section shall be punished as provided in the Charter of the city.
(1)
For the purposes of this section, the following terms, phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meaning herein set forth:
Appliance means any type of machine or device used in and about the home or premises, and shall include, but not be limited to, refrigerators, iceboxes, freezers, stoves, washing machines, television and radio sets, lawn mowers and other devices of like nature.
Junk means any abandoned or discarded machinery, appliance, vehicle parts, equipment, or material of any kind whatsoever.
(2)
For the purpose of this section, an article of machinery, an appliance, a vehicle part, an article of equipment and other material shall be deemed to have been "abandoned or discarded" when it has remained upon the property in an inoperable condition for more than 60 days, or when it has become inoperable and the owner does not intend to repair it and place it back into operation.
(3)
Before any person shall be convicted of violating this section, he shall be given notice in writing that he is required within 30 days from the receipt of said notice either:
a.
To repair such junk and put it into operation;
b.
To remove the same from his property; or
c.
To furnish satisfactory proof that said property has not in fact been abandoned, and is being held for some useful purpose.
(4)
Each day any junk shall remain upon the property in violation of this section after the expiration of the notice period provided for by subsection (b)(3) of this section, shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent offense and violation of this section.
(5)
The city may also, after the expiration of 30 days from the giving of the notice required by subsection (b)(3) of this section, abate such condition as a nuisance by filing with the mayor's court a complaint signed by the chief of police directed against the person responsible.
(6)
This section shall not be applicable to the operation of any junk yard, salvage yard, car lot or other similar businesses licensed by the city, where the storage and accumulation of such items are an incident to the operation of such regularly licensed businesses.
(Code 1973, § 10-18)
State Law reference— Municipal ordinances to abate nuisances is not abrogated or impaired by state law regarding the same, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-16.
Sec. 22-17. - Muffler required; noise producing devices on vehicles.
It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle in the city without said vehicle being equipped with a muffler which emits no offensive noise, or to operate a motor vehicle equipped with mufflers commonly known as smitties, clear or gutted mufflers or exhaust systems equipped with cutouts, or with noise-making devices attached to the tailpipe, such as spark plugs, or inner tubes or any other noise-making device.
(Code 1973, § 10-19)
Sec. 22-18. - Nuisances.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to create, carry on, or maintain any nuisances which cause hurt or inconvenience to any person within the city limits.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to create, carry on, or maintain any nuisance which tends to injure or does injure or jeopardize the health of any people of the city.
(c)
No person, which shall mean any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or organization of any kind, shall permit to accumulate on property owned by him any discarded, wrecked, or inoperable motor vehicles, tractors, wagons, farm machinery or any parts or pieces thereof, for a period longer than 48 hours. The accumulation of such is hereby determined to jeopardize the health and welfare of the citizens of the city and constitute a nuisance within the meaning of this section.
(d)
Unused iceboxes, refrigerators, and similar articles which have locks or latches for keeping the doors thereof tightly closed and which are large enough to permit the entrance of small children are hereby declared to be nuisances and subject as such to abolishment unless the custodian thereof shall remove the locks, latches or other similar devices in such a manner as to permit such locks or latches from operating, unless such boxes and refrigerators are stored in a secure place in such a manner as to prevent their being accessible to children. The removal of doors of such boxes, etc., shall be the equivalent of the removal of locks or latches.
(e)
The owner of any lot, building or premises, occupied or vacant, within the city limits, shall not permit any grass, weeds, or wild bushes to grow to a height in excess of ten inches upon such property or premises.
(f)
The owner of any property, lot, building or premises, occupied or vacant, shall be deemed the party responsibility provided further, that if on said property, lot, building, or premises there exist a building containing four, or less than four living or business units or establishments, then the occupant(s) of such living or business units or establishments shall be deemed the responsible party. If the lease or rental agreement or contract between the owner and the occupant specifically states or names the party responsible for the clearing or cutting of such grass, weeds, or bushes, whether he is the owner or the occupant and regardless of the number of living or business units or establishments which the building or premises may contain, then such specified party shall be held responsible under this regulation. A living or business unit or establishment is hereby defined as that portion of all of a building which houses a separate and undivided family or business concern.
(g)
Upon giving not less than five days' notice in writing to a person, or his agent, if the person creating or maintaining the nuisance is a nonresident of the city or of the state, if they have agents within the city or state, to abate the same; and if said nuisance is not abated within ten days after giving said notice, then the city, through any officer designated by the mayor shall abate said nuisance. The city, through such officer designated by the mayor, is authorized to employ labor and purchase material to make repairs, changes of eliminations, including the employment of labor and purchase of material, and do many other things that may be necessary to abate said nuisance. In the event the costs of abating said nuisance are not paid, then an execution shall issue against the property owner or property for the cost of same, provided that notice herein described affords the property owner an opportunity to be heard before the mayor and council, or a designated committee thereof, as to the necessity of any such repairs, charges or elimination. The execution issuing hereunder shall be issued, enforced, and collected in the same manner as that provided by law for execution for ad valorem tax which is due the city.
(h)
Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined and imprisoned. Each day such violations are committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(Code 1973, § 10-20)
Sec. 22-19. - Obscene, indecent, disorderly conduct or language.
It shall be unlawful for any person to act in a violent, turbulent, quarrelsome, boisterous indecent, or disorderly manner, or to use profane, vulgar, or obscene language or to do anything tending to disturb the good order, morals, peace or dignity of the city.
(Code 1973, § 10-21)
Sec. 22-20. - Obscene, lewd, indecent behavior.
It shall be unlawful for any person to be guilty of open lewdness or any notorious act of public indecency, tending to debauch the morals of the public, within the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 1973, § 10-22)
Sec. 22-21. - Obscene literature.
It shall be unlawful for any person, within the city, to publish, circulate, give or sell, or cause to be publicly given or sold, any book, writing, print, picture, newspaper, pamphlet or other work of an obscene, licentious, lewd or libelous nature, or to publicly exhibit any lewd, obscene or indecent picture.
(Code 1973, § 10-23)
Sec. 22-22. - Open, dangerous wells.
The owners of all open and dangerous wells in the city must close in, cover, or otherwise abate said nuisances. Upon failure to do so, such nuisance shall be abated by authority of the mayor and council and the cost of abating same collected from the owner.
(Code 1973, § 10-24)
Sec. 22-23. - Parades; permission required.
It shall be unlawful to organize and parade through the city, whether on foot, animal or motor vehicle, without the written permission of the mayor and council.
(Code 1973, § 10-25)
Sec. 22-24. - Posting signs on posts, trees, poles.
It shall be unlawful to tack, nail or otherwise place any signs on posts, trees or poles in the city.
(Code 1973, § 10-26)
Sec. 22-25. - Prisoners to be worked by city departments; reports required.
(a)
The street department is assigned all prisoners serving sentences from the city recorder's court, to be worked under the supervision of said department. In the event the city engineer has other departments in need of men for extra work, he shall direct the use of prisoners as he sees fit. Each department shall reimburse the city general fund per hour for the time prisoners are worked for the departments.
(b)
The city recorder shall furnish each month a report on city prison labor, showing the hours worked in each different department. The reimbursement to the general fund shall be in an amount as established by the mayor and council from time to time.
(Code 1973, § 10-27)
Sec. 22-26. - Public address systems; permission required.
It shall be unlawful to operate or use a public address system upon the streets of the city, or within the corporate limits of the city, upon either public or private property, without the written permission of the mayor and council.
(Code 1973, § 10-31)
Sec. 22-27. - Resisting arrest.
It shall be unlawful for any person to resist any police officer of the city who, at the time of encountering resistance, shall be in the act of making, or attempting to make, a lawful arrest of such person. The term "resist" used in this section is defined as any act or acts of whatever kind and nature designed to prevent the effecting of a lawful arrest.
(Code 1973, § 10-32)
Sec. 22-28. - Sewers, drains; littering, obstructing.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to throw paper, trash or any other article in any ditch, sewer or drain within the city.
(Code 1973, § 10-33)
Sec. 22-29. - Slot machines.
It shall be unlawful to own, operate, possess or play any slot machine, or to own or operate any place of business in which is located a slot machine. As used in the section, the term "slot machine" shall mean any machine or device adopted for use in such a way that, as a result of the insertion of a coin or other thing of value, is caused to operate or may be operated, and by reason of any elements of chance or of other outcome unpredictable to him, the user may receive or become entitled to receive any piece of money, credit, allowance or other thing of value.
(Code 1973, § 10-34)
Sec. 22-30. - Throwing stones, other missiles.
No person or persons shall pitch, throw, or cast any stone or missile at or upon any house, window, lamp, electric light or telephone poles or fixtures, or shade trees in said city.
(Code 1973, § 10-35)
Sec. 22-31. - Tickets for standing room in places of amusement prohibited; blocking aisles.
No proprietor, employer or employee of any moving picture show or other place of amusement in the city shall sell tickets for standing room in the theaters, picture shows and such places of amusement, or permit patrons of such places of amusement to stand or sit in the aisles and passageways of such places of amusement.
(Code 1973, § 10-36)
Sec. 22-32. - Damaging, defacing, etc., trees.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, by themselves or by their servant, to cut down trees on any public lot or square in the city. Each repetition of such act shall be taken and construed as a separate offense.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to tack or nail any paper, cardboard, tin or any other thing upon any shade tree within the city.
(Code 1973, § 10-40)
Sec. 22-33. - Watching exhibitions, games without paying admission.
It shall be unlawful to climb on the fences of any fairground or baseball park, or other like place of amusement while any exhibition is in progress therein, or to enter any roped-off enclosure wherein any game or exhibition is in progress except at the regular entrance, or to stop any wagon, dray, automobile or other vehicle in the immediate vicinity thereof, for the purpose of standing or sitting thereon, and thereby obtaining a view of said game or exhibition without paying the usual entrance fee charged.
(Code 1973, § 10-42)
Sec. 22-34. - Engine retarding brake use prohibited.
(a)
The use of engine retarding braking systems shall be prohibited within the city.
(b)
The city shall post signs on all incoming traffic arteries stating that the city has in effect an ordinance prohibiting the use of engine retarding braking systems, more commonly known as Jake Brakes, within the cooperate limits of the city.
(c)
The minimum fine to be imposed upon violators of this section will be $150.00, to be taken as cash, certified check, or money order, and received prior to the release of the violator.
(Code 1973, § 10-43; Ord. of 5-17-2004)
Secs. 22-35—22-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SEX OFFENSES

Sec. 22-61. - Prostitution, etc.—Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Assignation means and includes the making of any appointment or engagement for prostitution or lewdness or any act in furtherance of such appointment or engagement.
Lewdness means and includes any indecent or obscene act.
Prostitution means and includes the giving or receiving of the body for sexual intercourse for hire, and shall also be construed to include the giving or receiving of the body for licentious sexual intercourse without hire. The term "prostitution" is construed so as to exclude sexual intercourse between husband and wife.
(Code 1973, § 10-28)
Sec. 22-62. - Prostitution, etc.—Maintain house for, securing another for, receiving for, transporting for.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city:
(1)
To keep, set up, maintain or operate any place, structure, building or conveyance for the purpose of lewdness, assignation or prostitution.
(2)
To offer, or to offer or agree to secure, another for the purpose of prostitution, or for any other lewd or indecent act.
(3)
To receive, or to offer or agree to receive, any person into any place, structure, building or conveyance for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness, or assignation, or to permit any person to remain there for such purpose.
(4)
To direct, take or transport, or to offer or agree to direct, take or transport, any person to any place, structure or building, or to any other person, with knowledge or reasonable cause to believe that the purpose of such directing, taking or transporting is prostitution, lewdness or assignation.
(Code 1973, § 10-29)
Sec. 22-63. - Prostitution, etc.—Committing; soliciting; remaining during; aiding or abetting.
It shall be unlawful in the city for any person:
(1)
To offer to commit, or to commit, or to engage in, prostitution, lewdness of assignation.
(2)
To solicit, induce, entice or procure another to commit prostitution, lewdness or assignation with himself.
(3)
To reside in, enter or remain in, any place, structure or building, or to enter or remain in any conveyance, for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness or assignation.
(4)
To aid, abet or participate in the doing of any of the acts or things enumerated in section 22-62 and in this section.
(Code 1973, § 10-30)
Secs. 22-64—22-79. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - CURFEW

Sec. 22-80. - Curfew for minors authorized; exceptions.
It is unlawful for any minor 16 years of age or younger to loiter, wander, stroll or play in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, public places, public buildings, places of amusement, eating places, vacant lots or any place unsupervised by an adult having the lawful authority to be at such places, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. on any day and 5:00 a.m. of the following day; and provided that the provisions of this section shall not apply in the following instances:
(1)
When a minor is accompanied by his parent, guardian or other adult person having the lawful care and custody of the minor;
(2)
When the minor is upon an emergency errand directed by his parent or guardian or other adult person having the lawful care and custody of such minor;
(3)
When the minor is returning directly home from a school activity, entertainment, recreational activity or dance;
(4)
When the minor is returning directly home from lawful employment that makes it necessary to be in the above referenced places during the prescribed period of time;
(5)
When the minor is attending or traveling directly to or from an activity involving the exercise of first amendment rights of free speech, freedom of assembly, or free exercise of religion; or
(6)
When the minor is in a motor vehicle with parental consent for normal travel on all nonstop highways through the city.
(Code 1973, § 19-1; Ord. of 9-25-1997, § 19-1)
Sec. 22-81. - Responsibility of parents.
It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other person having custody or control of any child 16 years of age or younger to permit or by insufficient control to allow such child to be in or upon the public streets or any other places listed in this section within the city between the hours of 11:00 p.m. on any day and 5:00 a.m. of the following day, except in circumstances set out in section 23-80. Upon conviction or violation of this section for the first time, a person shall be given a warning citation. Upon further convictions, a person shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500.00 or imprisonment for 30 days, or both, or labor for the city on the streets, sidewalks, squares, or other public places for a period not exceeding 60 days. Each violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1973, § 19-2; Ord. of 9-25-1997, § 19-2)
