Chapter 6 - AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority of cities and counties to restrict adult bookstores, explicit media outlets, and adult movie houses to certain areas, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-3; state regulation of coin-operated amusement machines, O.C.G.A. § 48-17-1 et seq.; state regulation of billiard rooms, O.C.G.A. § 43-8-1 et seq.; authority of county to regulate billiard rooms, O.C.G.A. § 43-8-2; state regulation of carnivals, circuses and itinerant entertainers, O.C.G.A. § 43-1-15.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 6-1—6-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ADULT ENTERTAINMENT

Sec. 6-19. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to regulate certain types of businesses, including, but not limited to, adult entertainment establishments, to the end that the many types of criminal activities frequently engendered by such businesses will be curtailed. However, it is recognized that such regulation cannot de facto approach prohibition. Otherwise, a protected form of expression would vanish. As to adult dance establishments, this article represents a balancing of competing interests: reduced criminal activity and protection of the neighborhoods through the regulation of adult entertainment establishments versus the protected rights of adult entertainment establishments and patrons.
(Ord. of 5-22-2007, § 10-1)
Sec. 6-20. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Adult bookstore means an establishment having a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade, books, magazines or other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or section, comprising five percent of its total floor space, devoted to the sale or display of such materials or five percent of its net sales consisting of printed materials which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Adult dancing establishment means a business that features dancers displaying or exposing specified anatomical areas.
Adult mini-motion picture theater means an enclosed building with a capacity of less than 50 persons used for commercially presenting materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
Adult motion picture arcade means any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein coin- or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time and where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Adult motion picture theater means an enclosed building with a capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
Adult video store means an establishment having a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade videotapes or movies or other reproductions, whether for sale or rent, which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or section, comprising five percent of its total floor space, devoted to the sale or display of such material or which derives more than five percent of its net sales from videos which are characterized or distinguished by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Erotic dance establishment means a nightclub, theater or other establishment which features live performances by topless and/or bottomless dancers, go-go dancers, strippers or similar entertainers, where such performances are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Escort bureau or introduction services means any business, agency or person who, for a fee, commission, hire, reward or profit, furnishes or offers to furnish names of persons, or who introduces, furnishes or arranges for persons who may accompany other persons to or about social affairs, entertainments or places of amusement, or who may consort with others about any place of public resort or within any private quarters.
Good moral character means a person has not been convicted of a felony, or any crime not a felony if it involves moral turpitude, in the past five years. The county may also take into account such other factors as are necessary to determine the good moral character of the applicant or employee. Conviction shall include pleas of nolo contendere or bond forfeiture when charged with such crime.
Minor means any person who has not attained the age of 18 years.
Specified anatomical areas means any of the following:
(1)
Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals or pubic region; buttock; or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola; or
(2)
Human male genitalia in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
Specified sexual activities means and shall include any of the following:
(1)
Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual relationship and any of the following sexually oriented acts or conduct: analingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio, necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty;
(2)
Clearly depicted human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or tumescence;
(3)
Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus or masturbation;
(4)
Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks or female breast;
(5)
Masochism, erotic or sexually oriented torture, beating or the infliction of pain;
(6)
Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexual contact with an animal by a human being; or
(7)
Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal irrigation.
(Ord. of 5-22-2007, § 10-2)
Sec. 6-21. - Erotic adult/dance or entertainment establishment regulations.
The following regulations shall apply to erotic adult/dance or entertainment establishments:
(1)
No person shall advertise or cause to be advertised an erotic adult/dance or entertainment establishment without a valid adult entertainment establishment certificate/license issued pursuant to this section. Application for license shall be made to the county clerk and accompanied by the certificate/license fee in an amount provided in the county fee schedule.
(2)
No later than March 1 of each year, an erotic adult/dance or entertainment establishment licensee shall file a verified report with the county clerk showing the licensee's gross receipts and amounts paid to dancers for the preceding calendar year.
(3)
An erotic adult/dance or entertainment establishment licensee shall maintain and retain for a period of two years the names, addresses and ages of all persons employed as dancers.
(4)
No erotic adult/dance or entertainment establishment licensee shall employ or contract with as a dancer a person under the age of 18 years or a person not licensed pursuant to this article.
(5)
No person under the age of 18 years shall be admitted to any erotic adult/dance or entertainment establishment.
(6)
An erotic adult/dance or entertainment establishment may be open only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight. Monday through Saturday. No licensee shall permit his place of business to be open on Sunday or Christmas Day.
(7)
No erotic adult/dance or entertainment establishment licensee shall serve, sell, distribute or suffer the consumption or possession of any intoxicating liquor, any alcoholic beverage or controlled substance upon the premises of the licensee.
(8)
Any erotic adult/dance or entertainment establishment licensee shall conspicuously display all certificates required by this article.
(9)
All dancing shall occur on a platform intended for that purpose which is raised at least 18 inches from the level of the floor.
(10)
No dancing shall occur closer than four feet to any patron.
(11)
No dancer shall fondle or caress any patron, and no patron shall fondle or caress any dancer.
(12)
No patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any dancer.
(13)
No dancer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron.
(14)
All areas of an establishment licensed under this article shall be fully lighted at all times patrons are present. Full lighting shall mean illumination equal to 3.5 footcandles per square foot.
(Ord. of 5-22-2007, § 10-3)
Sec. 6-22. - Certain activities prohibited.
No person shall publicly display or expose or suffer the public display or exposure, with less than a full opaque covering, of any portion of a person's genitals, pubic area or buttocks in a lewd and obscene fashion.
(Ord. of 5-22-2007, § 10-4)
Sec. 6-23. - Admission of minors unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for a licensee to admit or permit the admission of minors within a licensed premises.
(Ord. of 5-22-2007, § 10-5)
Sec. 6-24. - Sales to minors unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, barter or give or to offer to sell, barter or give to any minor any service, material, device or thing sold or offered for sale by an adult bookstore, adult motion picture theater, adult massage parlor or adult dancing establishment or other adult entertainment facility.
(Ord. of 5-22-2007, § 10-6)
Sec. 6-25. - Location.
(a)
No adult business or use restricted under the provisions of this article shall be located:
(1)
Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land which is either named or used for residential uses or purposes;
(2)
Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land upon which a church, school, governmental building, library, civic center, public park or playground is located;
(3)
Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land upon which another establishment regulated or defined under this article is located;
(4)
Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land upon which any other establishment selling alcoholic beverages is located;
(5)
On less than three acres of land containing at least 100 feet of road frontage on a county- or state-owned road, street or highway.
(b)
For the purposes of this section, distance shall be by airline measurement from property line, using the closest property lines of the parcels of land involved. The term "parcel of land" means any quantity of land capable of being described by location and boundary, designated and used or to be used as a unit.
(Ord. of 5-22-2007, § 10-7)
Sec. 6-26. - Adult entertainment establishment employees.
(a)
Qualifications. Employees of an adult entertainment establishment shall be not less than 18 years of age. Every employee must be of good moral character. Any employee who is convicted of a crime constituting a felony or a crime not a felony involving moral turpitude, while employed as an adult entertainment establishment employee, shall not thereafter work on any licensed premises for a period of five years from the date of such conviction, unless a longer time is ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction. The term "convicted" shall include an adjudication of guilt on a plea of guilty or nolo contendere or the forfeiture of a bond when charged with a crime, and the terms "employed on the licensed premises" and "work on any licensed premises" shall include work done or services performed while in the scope of employment elsewhere than on the licensed premises.
(b)
Approval for employment. Before any person may work on a licensed premises, such person shall file a notice with the county clerk of his intended employment on forms supplied by the county clerk and shall supply receive approval of such employment from the county clerk within 15 days. The prospective employee shall supply such information as the licensing officer requires, including a set of fingerprints, on regular county or United States Department of Justice forms. Upon approval, the employee may begin working on the licensed premises. If approval is denied, the prospective employee may, within ten days of the denial, apply to the county clerk for a hearing. The decision of the county clerk after the hearing may be appealed to the county commission which may issue such order as is proper under the circumstances. Administrative, investigative, and criminal history fees as may be required by the county fee schedule shall accompany the notice of intended employment or a receipt of the county clerk evidencing the payment of such fee at the time the notice is filed.
(c)
Suspension; revocation of certificate. Violation of the provisions of this Code, the ordinances of the county, laws and regulations of the state, or the rules and regulations of the county shall subject an employee to suspension or revocation of his certificate.
(d)
Independent contractors. For the purpose of this article, independent contractors shall be considered as employees and shall be licensed as employees, regardless of the business relationship with the owner or licensee of any adult entertainment establishment.
(Ord. of 5-22-2007, § 10-8)
Sec. 6-27. - Change of location or name.
(a)
No adult entertainment establishment shall move from the location specified on its permit until a change of location fee, established by resolution of the county commission, has been deposited with the county and approval has been obtained from the county administrator. Such approval shall not be given unless all requirements and regulations as contained in the applicable provisions of this Code have been met.
(b)
No permittee shall operate, conduct, manage, engage in or carry on an adult entertainment establishment under any name other than his name and the name of the business as specified on his permit.
(c)
Any application for an extension or expansion of a building or other place of business where an adult entertainment establishment is located shall require inspection and shall comply with the provisions and regulations of this article.
(Ord. of 5-22-2007, § 10-9)
Sec. 6-28. - Appeal—Procedure.
(a)
The permittee shall, within ten days after he has been notified of an adverse determination, submit a notice of appeal to the county clerk.
(b)
The notice of appeal shall be addressed to the commission and shall specify the subject matter of the appeal, the date of any original and amended application or requests, the date of the adverse decision (or receipt of notice thereof), the basis of the appeal, the action requested of the commission and the name and address of the applicant.
(c)
The clerk shall place the appeal on the agenda of the next regular commission meeting occurring not less than five nor more than 30 days after receipt of the application for commission action.
(Ord. of 5-22-2007, § 10-10)
Sec. 6-29. - Same—Commission determines procedure.
When an appeal is placed on the commission agenda, the commission may take either of the following actions:
(1)
Set a hearing date before the county commission and instruct the county clerk to give such notice of hearing as may be required by law; or
(2)
Appoint a hearing officer and fix the time and place for the hearing. The hearing officer may or may not be a county employee and may be appointed for an extended period of time. The clerk shall assume responsibility for such publication of notice of the hearing as may be required by law. If a hearing officer is appointed, the hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures set out in this article.
(Ord. of 5-22-2007, § 10-11)
Sec. 6-30. - County commission hearing.
Whenever the county clerk has scheduled an appeal before the county commission, at the time and date set therefor, the commission shall receive all relevant testimony and evidence from the permittee, from interested parties and from county staff. The county commission may sustain, overrule or modify the action complained of. The action of the county commission shall be final.
(Ord. of 5-22-2007, § 10-12)
Sec. 6-31. - Powers of hearing officer.
The hearing officer appointed pursuant to the procedure set out in this article may receive and rule on admissibility of evidence, hear testimony under oath and call witnesses as he may deem advisable with respect to the conduct of the hearing.
(Ord. of 5-22-2007, § 10-13)
Sec. 6-32. - Traditional rules of evidence inapplicable.
The county commission and the hearing officer shall not be bound by the traditional rules of evidence in hearings conducted under this article. Rules of evidence as applied in an administrative hearing shall apply.
(Ord. of 5-22-2007, § 10-14)
Sec. 6-33. - Hearing officer—Report.
(a)
The hearing officer shall, within a reasonable time not to exceed 30 days from the date such hearing is terminated, submit a written report to the commission. Such report shall contain a brief summary of the evidence considered and state the findings, conclusions and recommendations. All such reports shall be filed with the county clerk and shall be considered public records. A copy of such report shall be forwarded by certified mail to the permittee/appellant the same day it is filed with the county clerk, with additional copies furnished to the county administrator and sheriff.
(b)
The county clerk shall place the hearing officer's report on the agenda of the next regular commission meeting occurring not less than ten days after the report is filed meeting not less than ten days after the report is filed and shall notify the permittee/appellant of the date of such meeting at least ten days prior to the meeting unless the permittee/appellant stipulates to a shorter notice period.
(Ord. of 5-22-2007, § 10-15)
Sec. 6-34. - Same—Action by county commission.
The county commission may adopt or reject the hearing officer's decision in its entirety or may modify the proposed recommendation. If the commission does not adopt the hearing officer's recommendation, it may:
(1)
Refer the matter to the same or another hearing officer for a completely new hearing or for the taking of additional evidence on specific points; in either of such cases, the hearing officer shall proceed as provided in this article;
(2)
Decide the case upon a review of the entire record before the hearing officer with or without taking additional evidence.
(Ord. of 5-22-2007, § 10-16)
Sec. 6-35. - Unlawful operation declared nuisance.
Any adult entertainment establishment operated, conducted or maintained contrary to the provisions of this article shall be and is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance. The county may, in addition to or in lieu of prosecuting a criminal action under the provisions of this article, commence an action, proceeding for abatement, removal or enjoinment thereof in the manner provided by law. It shall take such other steps and shall apply to such court as may have jurisdiction to grant such relief as will abate or remove such adult entertainment establishment and restrain and enjoin any person from operating, conducting or maintaining an adult entertainment establishment contrary to the provisions of this article. In addition, violation of the provisions of this article shall be per se grounds for suspension or revocation of a certificate granted under this article.
(Ord. of 5-22-2007, § 10-17)
Sec. 6-36. - Cleaning of licensed premises.
Each licensed premises shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be cleaned at least once daily and more frequently when necessary. This activity shall be supervised by the person in charge of the licensed premises. There shall be provided adequate facilities, equipment and supplies on the licensed premises to meet this requirement, and adequate ventilation and illumination shall be provided to permit thorough, complete cleaning of the entire licensed premises. Trash and garbage shall not be permitted to accumulate or to become a nuisance on or in the immediate vicinity of the licensed premises but shall be disposed of daily or as often as collections permit.
(Ord. of 5-22-2007, § 10-18)
Sec. 6-37. - Self-inspection of licensed premises.
The licensee of a licensed premises or his designated representative shall make sanitary inspections of the licensed premises at least once a month and shall record his findings on a form supplied by the county clerk. Each licensed premises shall post and maintain in a readily accessible place a schedule for maintaining the sanitation of the premises.
(Ord. of 5-22-2007, § 10-19)
Sec. 6-38. - Sealing for unsanitary or unsafe conditions.
A licensed premises or any part thereof may be sealed by order of the county marshal on his finding of a violation of this article resulting in an unsanitary or unsafe condition. Prior to sealing, the county marshal shall serve on the licensee, by personal service on him or by posting in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises, a notice of the violation and an order to correct it within 24 hours after service. If the violation is not so corrected, the county marshal may physically seal that portion of the licensed premises causing the violation and order the discontinuance of use thereof until the violation has been corrected and the seal removed by the licensing officer. The county marshal shall affix to the sealed premises a conspicuous sign labeled "Unclean" or "Unsafe," as the case may be.
(Ord. of 5-22-2007, § 10-20)
Sec. 6-39. - Abatement as sanitary nuisance.
A licensed premises or any part thereof may be abated as a sanitary nuisance.
(Ord. of 5-22-2007, § 10-21)
Sec. 6-40. - Penalty for violation.
Any person violating the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine, as approved by the county commission and kept on file in the office of the county clerk, or by imprisonment, or both. In addition to such fine or imprisonment, violation of this article shall also be grounds for immediate suspension or revocation of the certificate issued under the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 5-22-2007, § 10-22)
