CHAPTER 12. - NON-CONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES
Any lawful use of the land or buildings existing at the date of passage of these Regulations and located in a District in which it would not be permitted as a new use under these Regulations is hereby declared to be a non-conforming use and not in violation of these Regulations at the date of effectiveness; provided, however, that a non-conforming use shall be subject to, and the owner shall comply with, the following standards:

Section 12.0 - Non-Conforming Residences.
A residence, which is determined to be non-conforming, that has become vacant or remains unoccupied owing to the abandonment of discontinuance for a period of twelve (12) months shall thereafter conform to the provisions of these Regulations.
Section 12.1 - Non-Conforming Use of Land, Continuation of Use.
A non-conforming use of land, that exists when these Regulations become effective, may be continued provided that:
1.
No such non-conforming use of land shall in any way be expanded or extended, unless otherwise stated within these Regulations.
2.
If such non-conforming use of land or any portion thereof is discontinued or changed, any future use of such land shall be in conformity with the provisions of these Regulations.
Section 12.2 - Restorations.
A building that houses a non-conforming use that has been destroyed or damaged by fire, explosion, or Act of God may be restored to that same non-conforming use as existed before such damage provided that the damage is confined to less than fifty percent (50%) of the structure. This restoration must be completed within twelve (12) months of the date of such damage.
Section 12.3 - Discontinuation or Abandonment.
Any non-conforming use of land or building that has become vacant or remains unoccupied owing to abandonment or discontinuance for a period of twelve (12) months shall thereafter conform to the provisions of these Regulations.
Section 12.4 - Change of Tenancy or Ownership.
There may be a change in tenancy, ownership, or management of an existing non-conforming use. If at any time the use of the non-conforming structure or parcel(s) of land is changed, the new use must conform to the provisions of these Regulations.
