CHAPTER 9. - VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES, AND AMENDMENTS

Section 9.0 - Violations.
In case of any violation or attempted violation of the provisions of these regulations, the Sole County Commissioner may institute any appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such violation or attempted violation.
Section 9.1 - Penalty.
Any owner or proprietor of any tract of land who subdivided that tract of land and who violates the provisions of these regulations shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided by the law.
Any subdivision hereafter established shall be designed, developed, and recorded in accordance with the provisions of these regulations. Failure to comply with the regulations herein shall result in the following:
1.
The County shall not accept the subdivision, nor shall it improve, maintain, grade, or pave any street within such subdivision unless such street shall have met the specifications described herein.
2.
No public agency shall authorize the extension of water service, sewer service, or other publicly operated services into such subdivisions.
Section 9.2 - Amendments.
The County may amend these regulations from time to time, but no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been proposed by or shall have been submitted by County Staff to the Enforcement Officer for review and recommendations. The Enforcement Officer shall have thirty (30) days from submittal of the proposed amendment within which to submit his/her report recommending either approval, approval with conditions, or disapproval. If the Enforcement Officer fails to submit a report within the thirty (30) days, it shall be deemed that a recommendation of approval has been submitted to the Sole County Commissioner.
Before enacting an amendment to this Ordinance, the Sole County Commissioner shall hold a public hearing thereon, at least fifteen (15) days notice of the time and place of which shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in Pulaski County. At this public hearing the Sole County Commissioner shall hear the recommendations of the Enforcement Officer, and along with any public input, use these findings to approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove the amendment.
