CHAPTER 4. - PROCEDURES FOR SUBMISSION AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR FINAL PLANS AND PLATS

Section 4.0 - Final Plat.
The final plat shall conform to the preliminary plat, as approved by the Enforcement Officer, except where special conditions make compliance to the preliminary plat impractical, and if desired by the subdivider, it may constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary plat which he proposes to record and develop at that time, provided, however, that such portion conforms to all requirements of these regulations and to approved phasing lines shown on the preliminary plat.
If the proposed water or sewerage system for a subdivision requires the approval of the Georgia Department of Public Health and/or the Georgia Water Quality Control Board, Georgia Environmental Protection Division or other government agency, this approval shall be obtained prior to making application to the Enforcement Officer for approval of the final plat. This approval shall be in writing and shall accompany the application for approval to the Enforcement Officer.
Unless a final plat is filed with the Enforcement Officer within twelve (12) months after approval of the preliminary plat or within an approved extension of time not to exceed twelve (12) additional months, the preliminary plat shall thereupon become void and the subdivider shall be notified in writing. Not less than six (6) copies of the final plat shall be submitted to the Enforcement Officer.
The final plat, if found to be in conformity with the requirements of law and of these regulations, shall be approved by the Enforcement Officer and other appropriate government entities within a reasonable period of time, not to exceed thirty (30) days, following the submission of such plat. If the subdivider desires to submit a final plat that does not conform to the preliminary plat, the Enforcement Officer shall have the Sole Pulaski County Commissioner review the final plat request.
An approved final plat shall be filed for recording with the office of the Clerk of Superior Court within sixty (60) days after final approval thereof. Otherwise, such approval shall be withdrawn and the plat marked void and returned to the owner. No Clerk of the Superior Court shall file or record a plat of a subdivision until such plat has been approved by the Enforcement Officer or Sole Commissioner of Pulaski County in accordance with these regulations.
The recording of plats of subdivision of land may operate to transfer, in fee simple, to Pulaski County those portions of such plat set apart for streets, alleys, wells, well lots, rights-of-way, or other public uses or for future street widening. This recording may also operate to transfer to Pulaski County, any easement indicated on such plat to create a public right of passage over the same. The approval of a plat by Pulaski County shall not be deemed to constitute or affect acceptance by Pulaski County of any street or other ground shown on the plan.
If subdivision construction plans are required, the subdivider shall provide one of the following relative to the installation of required improvements (streets, utilities, drainage, etc.):
1.
A report prepared by an engineer or land surveyor registered in the State of Georgia, certifying that all improvements meet the requirements of these regulations shall include the following:
a.
A copy of any inspection/observation reports performed by the design professional of record or designated representative.
b.
A copy of any material testing/inspection reports performed by the design professional of record or designated representative.
c.
A summary of all design and field changes made to the approved construction plans.
d.
Two (2) sets of plans reflecting the "as-built" condition of all improvements and easements.
e.
A copy of all approvals required in Chapter 3 of this Ordinance or statement of "not applicable".
f.
As-built or planned location of water, gas, electric, telephone, and cable utilities including appurtenances (transformers, pedestals, poles, etc.).
g.
Summary of actual (or estimated if security bonded) construction costs by item utilized as the basis for the computation of maintenance and other bonds.
h.
Certification by a surveyor registered in the State of Georgia that all lot corner pins have been set, marked, and verified.
i.
Certification that the storm water management and drainage systems are in substantial conformance with the approved construction plans.
j.
Signed and sealed "Design and Construction" certification by the design professional of record as contained in Chapter 5 of this Ordinance.
k.
The Pulaski County Health Department status of each lot as defined by the Health Department in regards to on-site sewage disposal usage when public sewer is not available, with County Health Department approved legend and footnotes as needed to explain applicability and usage of on-site sewage disposal systems.
2.
A security bond from a surety bonding company authorized to do business in the State of Georgia. The bond shall be payable to Pulaski County and shall be equal to one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the cost of providing the specified improvements as estimated by the subdivider and approved by the Sole Commissioner or authorized representative, of installing all required improvements. The duration of the bond shall be for at least one (1) year.
3.
A deposit of cash, or other instrument readily convertible into cash at a face value, either with Pulaski County or in escrow with a bank. The amount of the deposit shall be equal to one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the cost of providing the specified improvements as estimated by the subdivider and approved by the Sole Commissioner or authorized representative, of installing all required improvements.
That in the case of failure on the part of the subdivider to complete the specified improvements within the required time period, the bank or lending institution shall pay to Pulaski County immediately, and without further action, such funds as necessary to finance the completion of those improvements, up to the limit of the deposit of cash.
If bonds or cash deposits are provided, then the engineer's report required in subsection 1. above shall be provided prior to the release of the bonds or cash deposits.
Section 4.1 - Review of Final Plat.
The Enforcement Officer shall check the final plat for conformance with the approved preliminary plat, and with these regulations. The Enforcement Officer shall forward the plat to the Sole County Commissioner, County Roads Superintendent, County Health Department, and any other appropriate agency for review. If found to be in conformance with the approved preliminary plat and applicable regulations, the Enforcement Officer shall take one of the following actions:
1.
Recommend Approval of the final plat;
2.
Recommend Approval of the final plat with conditions; or
3.
Recommend Disapproval of the final plat.
If the Enforcement Officer recommends final approval and all conditions specified by the Enforcement Officer have been met, the final plat will be forwarded to the Sole County Commissioner for final approval. Upon final approval by the Sole County Commissioner, he or she shall sign a Certificate of Approval on five (5) copies of the final plat with one (1) copy being returned to the subdivider, one (1) copy to the County Health Officer, one (1) copy to the County Roads Superintendent, one (1) copy to be added to the records of the Enforcement Officer, and one (1) copy sent to the Clerk of Superior Court for filing. If review and approval was required by the GDOT, the Certificate of Preliminary Approval shall be noted on one (1) additional copy of the preliminary plant and shall be returned to the GDOT.
If the Enforcement Officer finds the Final Plat in conflict with the tentatively approved preliminary plat or with this Ordinance, he or she shall recommend disapproval of the final plat. A statement of the reasons for disapproval shall be placed on five (5) copies of the Final Plat with one (1) copy being returned to the subdivider, one (1) copy to the County Health Department, one (1) copy to the County Roads Superintendent, one copy sent to the County Commissioner, and one (1) copy being added to the Enforcement Officer's files. If review and approval was required by the GDOT, the Certificate of Preliminary Approval shall be noted on one (1) additional copy of the preliminary plant and shall be returned to the GDOT.
In the case of disapproval the original plat and the additional copies shall be returned to the subdivider. The final plat may be resubmitted as a new application for final plat approval after the corrections noted by the Enforcement Officer are made.
If no action is taken by the Enforcement Officer or Sole Commissioner within sixty (60) days after submission of the final plat complete in all details required under this Ordinance, the final plat shall be considered approved and a Certificate of Approval shall be issued on demand subject to other certifications that may be required by this Ordinance. However, the subdivider may waive this requirement and consent to an extension of time.
Section 4.2 - Recording of Final Plat.
No subdivider shall sell any lot in a proposed subdivision by reference to or exhibition of or by any other use of a plat of such subdivision, until such plat has been given final approval by the County Commissioner, as certified thereon, and recorded in the Office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Pulaski County. If any subdivision plat is filed without approval of the Enforcement Officer or the Sole Commissioner, it will not be considered a legal subdivision plat until all the requirements of this Ordinance have been fulfilled.
Section 4.3 - Distribution of Final Plat.
Seven (7) prints shall be submitted to the Enforcement Officer with any additional materials that may be required to complete the final plat. After approval, two (2) prints shall be returned to the owner or proprietor of the subdivision for recordation in the precise form as approved. Five (5) prints with recording information included thereon, shall be retained and distributed as follows:
1.
Tax Assessor, one (1) print.
2.
Clerk of Superior Court, one (1) print.
3.
Enforcement Officer, one (1) print.
4.
Roads Superintendent, one (1) print.
5.
County Health Department, one (1) print.
Section 4.4 - Contents of Final Plat.
The final plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn on suitable permanent reproducible material. The scale shall be two hundred feet (200') to one inch (1") on sheets not larger than eleven inches (11") by seventeen inches (17"). If the complete plat cannot be shown on one sheet of this size, it may be shown in sections on more than one (1) sheet with an index map at a reduced scale. The final plat shall conform to and meet the specifications of the preliminary plat with the following additions:
1.
Bearings and distances to the nearest existing street lines or benchmarks or other permanent monuments.
2.
Municipal, County, and land lot lines accurately tied to the lines of the subdivision by distances and angles when such lines traverse or are reasonably close to the subdivision.
3.
Exact boundary lines of the tract, determined by a field survey.
4.
Name of subdivision, exact locations, widths, and names of all streets and alleys within and immediately adjoining the plat.
5.
Lot lines with dimensions to the nearest one-hundredth foot (0.01') and bearings to the nearest second.
6.
Lots numbered in numerical order and blocks lettered alphabetically.
7.
Location, dimensions, and purpose of any easements and any areas to be reserved or dedicated for public use, along with any building setback lines.
8.
Location, description, and material of monuments and markers.
9.
A statement placed either directly on the final plat or attached in a separate document, of any protective covenants or deed restrictions.
10.
Purpose of which sites, other than residential lots are dedicated or reserved.
11.
Recorded names of adjacent property owners.
12.
Reference to recorded subdivision plats of adjoining platted land by record, name, date, and number.
13.
A complete listing of the deviations from the conditionally approved preliminary plat.
14.
Notation of the necessary certifications as specified in Section 4.5 of this Ordinance.
Section 4.5 - Certifications Required for Final Plat.
All required professional certifications should be placed directly on the final plat as follows:
Surveyor's Certification
I hereby certify that this plat is true and correct and was prepared from an actual survey of the property by myself or an individual under my supervision, that all monuments shown hereon actually exist or are marked as "future," and their location, size, type, and material are correctly shown.
By ___________
Registered Georgia Land Surveyor No. _______
Date ___________
Design and Construction Certificate
I hereby certify that all improvements have been designed and constructed in strict accordance with the approved construction plans, prepared by myself or an individual under my supervision, in full compliance with the Subdivision Ordinance of Pulaski County, Georgia, latest edition, and any amendments thereto and/or usual and customary professional practice.
By ___________
Professional Registration No. ___________
P.E. ___ R.L.S. ___ (Check One)
Owner's Certification
Owner's Certification: State of Georgia, County of Pulaski
The owner of the land shown on this plat and whose name is subscribed hereto, in person or through a duly authorized agent, certifies that this plat was made from an actual survey, that all State and County taxes or other assessments now due on this land have been paid.
Agent _______   Date _______
Owner _______   Date _______
A certification by the owner setting forth the description of the areas and improvements he or she dedicates to the public and the extent of the title, which he is dedicating.
Certificate of Ownership and Dedication
I (we) hereby certify that I (we) adopt this plan of subdivision, establish the minimum building setback lines, and dedicate all streets, alley, walkways, well and well lots, and other open spaces to public use as noted.
Owner _______   Date _______
Health Department Certification
The lots shown here have been reviewed by the Pulaski County Health Department and the status in regards to on-site sewage disposal is noted on each lot. Lots that do not have an "approved conventional system" must not be sold as a residential or facility lot unless a determination is made by the Health Department that an alternative system may be used and be advised that there is no claim from the Health Department that such a solution is possible. Each lot must be reviewed and approved for on-site sewage management system placement prior to the issuance of a construction permit.
Name _______   Title _______
Date _______
Certification of Approval, Streets and Utilities
I hereby certify, based on the design professional's report, that the streets, utilities, and other required improvements in this subdivision have been installed in an acceptable manner in substantial compliance with the requirements of the Subdivision Regulations of Pulaski County, Georgia.
Sole County Commissioner _______   Date _______
Certification of Security Bond
I hereby certify that acceptable security in the amount of $ _______ has been received to ensure completion of streets, utilities, and other required improvements in this subdivision in the event of default by the developer, in accordance with the requirements of the Subdivision Regulations of Pulaski County, Georgia.
Sole County Commissioner _______   Date _______
Certification of Final Approval for Recording
I hereby certify that the subdivision shown hereon has been found to comply with the Subdivision Ordinance of Pulaski County, Georgia and that it has been approved by the Sole County Commissioner for recording in the office of the Clerk of Superior Court of Pulaski County, Georgia.
Sole County Commissioner _______   Date _______
Section 4.5.1 - Notifications.
The following notifications shall be placed on the final plat as required:
Private Driveways and Streets
Any driveway, street, or common use easement platted or constructed shall be clearly marked or noted as such on a survey plat filed for recording and used in the description of said property. When more than two parcels are involved, a sign shall be posted at the public road where said driveway intersects stating clearly that said road is private and not maintained by Pulaski County. Said sign shall be of the quality and design approved by the County Roads Superintendent and shall have lettering of no less size than signs identifying County-maintained roads.
Notice of Private Driveway Status
The private access drive (private road) shown on this plat shall be maintained by the lot owners, having ingress/egress rights over the same, and not by Pulaski County. Said private drive is platted and shall be maintained in accordance with those Subdivision Regulations of Pulaski County that are applicable to private access drives.
Notice of Private Street
The streets designated as "private streets" on this plat are owned and maintained by the homeowners' association, or other agency designated for maintenance, of this development and are not owned or maintained by Pulaski County. No public funds of Pulaski County are to be used to build, repair, or maintain these private streets. The owner, purchaser, lender, heirs, assigns, or other parties taking title to or otherwise procuring an interest in any portion of this property are hereby notified of this fact.
Section 4.6 - Dedication of Rights-of-Way and Easements.
The subdivider shall provide clear title option satisfactory to the Sole Pulaski County Commissioner from the subdivider's attorney for all dedicated rights-of-way and easements associated with the development.
Section 4.7 - Revisions.
No change, erasure, or revision shall be made on any preliminary or final plat, nor on accompanying data sheets after approval of the Enforcement Officer or the Sole County Commissioner has been endorsed in writing on the plat or sheets, unless the Sole County Commissioner has granted authorization for such changes in writing. In no case shall the Sole County Commissioner approve a revision thereof unless a statement of such revisions is clearly placed on the amended plat.
Section 4.8 - Resubdividing.
Parcels, which are combined or returned to acreage as shown on the official tax appraisal maps, shall not be resubdivided except in conformance with all provisions of these regulations.
