Chapter 6 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 22.
State Law reference— Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Sales on election days.
Pursuant to the authority granted by O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20(B) the county authorizes the sale of alcoholic beverages on election day, either statewide or local, by such outlets as are required to be licensed by the county.
(Res. of 9-2-1986)
Sec. 6-2. - Reserved.
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted March 4, 2002 repealed § 6-2, which pertained to Brown bagging of alcoholic beverages and derived from Ord. of 5-7-2001(1); Ord. of 6-4-2001(1).
Secs. 6-3—6-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - RETAIL PACKAGE SALES OF DISTILLED SPIRITS

Sec. 6-31. - Requirements for obtaining license.
(a)
No license for retail package sales of distilled spirits shall be granted to any person unless such person is of legal age, and (i) has been a resident of the county for a minimum of one year prior to filing an application for such license; or (ii) the application for such license is accompanied by a certificate of the Judge of the Probate Court of the county of the applicant's residence certifying that the applicant has been a bona fide resident of the county or municipality for at least 12 months immediately preceding the application and is a resident of a county or municipality where distilled spirits may be legally sold under this chapter. In either case, the applicant shall state on oath that he/she shall own for his/her own benefit, not less than 51 percent in the business which engages in such distilled spirits sales within Pulaski County, Georgia.
(b)
Person as used in this article shall include the licensee, his father, mother, brother, sister, son, daughter or the spouse of any such person or relation.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(1), § 1; Res. of 9-2-1980, § 2; Ord. of 4-2-2007(1))
Sec. 6-32. - County officials, employees prohibited from receiving license.
No person holding political office nor any employee of the county shall be eligible to receive a license for retail package sales of distilled spirits.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(1), § 3)
Sec. 6-33. - Location of premises.
No license for retail package sales of distilled spirits shall be granted to any person unless the entire business premises of the proposed location is situated beyond 100 yards from the property line of any church and beyond 200 yards from the property line of any school ground or college campus as measured in a straight line between the business premises and the property line of any church, school or college. Each application for license shall include a scale drawing of the location of the proposed premises, showing the straight line distance to the nearest church or school or, in lieu of such drawing, a registered surveyor's plat of survey showing such distance or a certificate of a registered surveyor that such location complies with this article with reference to this section.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(1), § 4)
Sec. 6-34. - Building requirements.
No license for retail package sales of distilled spirits shall be issued to any person unless the building in which the business will be located is complete, and every applicant for a retail license shall attach to his application evidence of ownership or a copy of his lease if the applicant is leasing the building.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(1), § 5)
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18.
Sec. 6-35. - Types of sales.
(a)
All holders of a license for retail package sales of distilled spirits shall sell or offer to sell in the original unbroken package only and shall sell no package containing less than one-half pint or its nearest metric equivalent.
(b)
No licensee holding a license for retail package sales of distilled spirits shall allow any alcoholic beverages to be consumed on his premises, nor shall he provide, on or adjacent to his premises, any place of any kind where distilled spirits may be consumed (including wine and any other alcoholic products); and the licensee shall be responsible for such consumption on the part of his customers.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(1), § 6)
Sec. 6-36. - Other sales authorized.
No retailer shall sell or offer for sale or display or keep in stock at his place of business where distilled spirits are offered for sale any other product or commodity except the following:
(1)
Wine and malt beverages, when properly licensed;
(2)
Beverages containing no alcohol commonly used to dilute distilled spirits;
(3)
Tobacco products; and
(4)
Packaged ice.
No beverages or packages of ice may be opened or consumed in the place of business or adjacent to such premises.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(1), § 7)
Sec. 6-37. - Location of sales.
No retailer shall sell or deliver any distilled spirits to any person except in the retailer's place of business.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(1), § 8)
Sec. 6-38. - Limitations on number of licenses.
Only two licenses for retail package sales of distilled spirits will be issued to any one person in the county without the limits of any incorporated municipality of the county.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(1), § 9)
Sec. 6-39. - Separate license required.
A separate license for retail package sales of distilled spirits shall be required for each place of business.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(1), § 10)
Sec. 6-40. - Gambling on premises prohibited.
There shall be no gambling, betting, games of chance, punchboards, vending machines (except for soft drinks and tobacco products), slot machines, pinball machines, lotteries or tickets or chances or the operation of any schemes for hazarding money or any other thing of value in any licensed retailer's place of business or in any room adjoining the same, owned, leased or controlled by a licensee for retail package sales of distilled spirits, or adjacent to his premises. Any violation of this section shall be cause for suspension or revocation of the license.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(1), § 11)
Cross reference— Offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 46.
Sec. 6-41. - Clear view required.
No screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall be permitted in the window or upon the doors of such licensed premises for retail package sales of distilled spirits which shall prevent a clear view into the interior of such premises from the street or road at all times; and no booth, screen, partition or other obstruction shall be permitted within the interior of such licensed premises; and the premises shall be so lighted that the interior of the store is plainly visible from the street or road, day and night.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(1), § 12)
Sec. 6-42. - Sales prohibited.
(a)
No retailer shall be in his place of business, or open his place of business or furnish, sell or offer for sale any distilled spirits at any of the following times:
(1)
At any time on Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day;
(2)
At any time in violation of a county ordinance or regulation, or of a special order of the commissioner;
(3)
At any time on any day during which any county primary, general or special election is being held anywhere in the county in which said retailer's place of business is located; or
(4)
On Monday—Thursday before 8:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m. and on Friday and Saturday before 8:00 a.m. or after 11:00 p.m. On Sunday, package sales are permitted from 12:30 p.m. to 12:00 midnight, and sales for consumption on the premises are permitted from 11:00 a.m. to 12:00 midnight.
(b)
No retailer shall give, sell or offer to sell any distilled spirits to any person who is under the age of 21 years, or who is noticeably intoxicated or who is of unsound mind, or who is an habitual drunkard whose intemperate habits are known to the retailer. At any time, a state driver's license shall be considered the only legal proof of age which would relieve a person making a sale from responsibility.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(1), §§ 13, 14; Res. of 2-7-1978; Ord. No. 2020-2, §§ 1, 2, 12-7-2020)
Sec. 6-43. - Sign required.
The holder of a license to sell distilled spirits shall post in the most conspicuous place in his establishment a sign printed in letters at least four inches high reading as follows:
"SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES TO PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE STRICTLY PROHIBITED."
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(1), § 15)
Sec. 6-44. - Storage of distilled spirits.
No licensed retailer shall keep any distilled spirits stored in any bonded or other type warehouse in the county, nor shall he enter into any type of arrangement whereby distilled spirits ordered by him are stored for him by any licensed wholesaler. A retailer shall keep no inventory or stock of distilled spirits at any place except his licensed place of business, and within his licensed place of business his storage space for distilled spirits shall be immediately adjacent to the room in which he is licensed to do business. There shall be but one entrance to the storage space, and this shall be through the retail store area.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(1), § 16)
Sec. 6-45. - Applications for license.
(a)
Applications for licenses for retail package sales of distilled spirits shall be made on forms prescribed for such purpose by the commissioner, but any application made after the regular monthly meeting of the commissioner shall not be considered until the next regular commissioner's meeting held the following month. An application received by the time of the regular monthly commissioner's meeting or prior to such meeting will be considered during the ensuing month and approved or disapproved at the next regular commissioner's meeting so as to provide for a period of approximately 30 days for the investigation of such application and the applicant to ensure that the granting of such license will be in the best interest of the citizens of the county.
(b)
In addition to the completion and submission of an application form as required by the county, each applicant shall attach to the form a completed application form with all attachments and requirements for a state license.
(c)
Licenses shall be granted to natural persons only.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(1), § 17)
Sec. 6-46. - License fee; duration.
(a)
The annual fee for the license for retail package sales of distilled spirits within the limits of the county and outside any incorporated municipality shall be $5,000.00 and shall be paid prior to the issuance of any license.
(b)
Such license shall extend for one year from the date of issuance unless the anniversary date should fall on a Sunday or legal holiday, in which event the license shall extend until the next business day.
(c)
Applications for a renewal of a license for retail package sales of distilled spirits so issued under the terms of this article shall be made 45 days prior to the expiration of such existing license.
(d)
No license which has not been issued or which may hereafter be issued by the county shall be suspended or revoked except for due cause and after a hearing and upon the prior three days' written notice to the holder of such license of the time, place and purpose of such hearing, and a statement of the charges upon which such hearing shall be held. "Due cause" for the suspension or revocation of such license shall consist of the violation of any laws or ordinances, or violation of any state or federal law, or for the violation of any city ordinance, other than the traffic ordinances.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(1), § 18)
Sec. 6-47. - Applicants for license.
(a)
All applicants for licenses for retail package sales of distilled spirits must be of good character, and all managers, clerks or other employees shall be of like character, or the application will not be considered.
(b)
No applicant for a license who has a criminal record (except minor traffic offenses) shall be granted a license.
(c)
The commissioner may, in his discretion, consider any extenuating circumstances which may reflect favorably or unfavorably upon the applicant, the application or the proposed location of the business. If in his judgment circumstances are such that the granting of the license would not be in the best interest of the general public, such circumstances may be grounds for denying the application.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(1), § 19)
Sec. 6-48. - Applications required to be in person.
All applications for licenses for retail package sales of distilled spirits shall be made in person.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(1), § 20)
Sec. 6-49. - Transferability, assignability of license.
No license for retail package sales of distilled spirits shall be transferable or assignable; and if a licensed business is sold or closed, it shall be the duty of the licensee to immediately surrender his license to the commissioner; and all licenses must be held in the name of the true owner of the business.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(1), § 21)
Sec. 6-50. - Outside advertising limited.
No outside advertising for premises holding a license for retail package sales of distilled spirits shall be permitted unless affixed to the flat surface of the building and shall protrude no more than one foot.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(1), § 22)
Sec. 6-51. - Familiarity with terms of article required.
All holders of a license for the sale of distilled spirits shall keep a copy of this article on the premises and shall instruct any person working there with respect to the terms of this article, and each licensee or his agents selling distilled spirits shall at all times be familiar with the terms of this article.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(1), § 23)
Sec. 6-52. - Inspections of premises authorized.
The business premises of the holder of a license for retail package sales of distilled spirits shall be open to inspection at any and all times by officers or officials authorized to conduct such inspections.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(1), § 24)
Sec. 6-53. - Grounds for revocation of license.
The making of any statement on an application for a license to sell distilled spirits which shall later be found to be false shall constitute grounds for revocation of the license.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(1), § 25)
Sec. 6-54. - Compliance with state, federal laws required.
In addition to the rules and regulations set out in this article, each application for a retail package sales of distilled spirits license and each licensee doing business in the county shall comply with all state and federal laws. The violation of any of such laws and this article shall subject each licensee to the immediate revocation of his license and criminal prosecution.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(1), § 26)
Secs. 6-55—6-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - RETAIL PACKAGE SALES OF WINE AND MALT BEVERAGES

Sec. 6-91. - Requirements for obtaining license.
(a)
No license for retail package sales of wine and malt beverages shall be granted to any person unless such person is of legal age and is either a resident of Pulaski County or designates a county resident of legal age to be responsible for any matter relating to the license.
(b)
Person as used in this article shall include the licensee, his father, mother, brother, sister, son, daughter or the spouse of any such person or relation.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(2), § 1; Ord. of 5-5-2003(1))
Sec. 6-92. - County officials, employees prohibited from receiving license.
No person holding political office or any employee of the county shall be eligible to receive a license for retail package sales of wine and malt beverages.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(2), § 2)
Sec. 6-93. - Location of premises.
No license for retail package sales of wine and malt beverages shall be granted to any person unless the location of the business in which malt beverages and wine shall be sold complies with the requirements of the state as to permitted locations for sale of malt beverages and wine.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(2), § 3; Res. of 9-2-1980, § 3)
Sec. 6-94. - Separate license for each place of business required.
A separate license for retail package sales of wine and malt beverages shall be required for each place of business, and no one person shall be issued more than two licenses within the limits of the county and without the limits of any incorporated municipality of the county.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(2), § 4)
Sec. 6-95. - Building requirements.
No license for retail package sales of wine and malt beverages shall be issued to any person unless the building in which the business will be located is complete.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(2), § 5)
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18.
Sec. 6-96. - Prohibited sales.
(a)
No retailer shall be in his place of business or open his place of business or furnish, sell or offer for sale any malt beverages at any of the following times:
(1)
At any time on Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day;
(2)
At any time in violation of a county ordinance or regulation, or of a special order of the commissioner;
(3)
Reserved;
(4)
On Monday—Thursday before 8:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m. and on Friday and Saturday before 8:00 a.m. or after 11:00 p.m. On Sunday, package sales are permitted from 12:30 p.m. to 12:00 midnight, and sales for consumption on the premises are permitted from 11:00 a.m. to 12:00 midnight.
(b)
No retailer shall give, sell, or offer for sale any wine or malt beverages to any person who is under the age of 21 years, who is noticeably intoxicated, who is of unsound mind, or who is an habitual drunkard whose intemperate habits are known to the retailer. At any time, a state driver's license shall be considered the legal proof of age which would relieve a person making a sale from the responsibility.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(2), §§ 6, 8; Res. of 2-7-1978; Ord. of 5-5-2003(1); Ord. No. 2020-2, §§ 3, 4, 12-7-2020)
Sec. 6-97. - Purpose of license.
A license under this article is for the purpose of package wine and malt beverages only and not to be consumed upon the premises.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(2), § 7)
Sec. 6-98. - Storage of wine and malt beverages.
No licensed retailer shall keep any wine and malt beverages stored in any bonded or other type warehouses in the county, nor shall he enter into any type of arrangement whereby wine and malt beverages ordered by him are stored for him by any licensed wholesaler. A retailer shall keep no inventory or stock of wine and malt beverages at any place except his licensed place of business, and within his licensed place of business a storage place for wine and malt beverages shall be immediately adjacent to the room in which he is licensed to do business. There shall be but one entrance to the storage space, and this shall be through the retail store area.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(2), § 10)
Sec. 6-99. - Outside advertising limited.
No outside advertising for the sale of wine and malt beverages shall be permitted unless affixed to the flat surface of the building and which shall protrude no more than one foot.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(2), § 11)
Sec. 6-100. - Applications for license; fee; duration.
(a)
Applications for license for retail package sales of wine and malt beverages shall be made on forms prescribed for such purpose to the commissioner. The annual fee for licenses within the limits of the county and outside the incorporated municipalities of the county shall be $500.00 and shall be paid prior to the issuance of any license.
(b)
Such license shall extend for one year from the date of issuance unless the anniversary date shall fall on a Sunday or legal holiday in which event, the license shall extend until the next business day.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(2), § 12; Ord. of 5-5-2003(1))
Sec. 6-101. - Consideration of license.
(a)
Any application for a license for retail package sales of wine and malt beverages made after the regular monthly meeting of the commissioner shall not be considered until the next regular commissioner's meeting held the following month. An application received by the time of the regular monthly commissioner's meeting or prior to such meeting will be considered during the ensuing month and approved or disapproved at the next regular commissioner's meeting so as to provide for a period of approximately 30 days for the investigation of such application and the applicant to ensure that the granting of such license will be in the best interests of the citizens of the county.
(b)
In addition to the completion and submission of an application form as required by the county, each applicant shall attach to the form a completed application form with all attachments and requirements for a state license.
(c)
Licenses shall be granted to natural persons only.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(2), § 13)
Sec. 6-102. - Applications for renewal of license.
Applications for a renewal of a license for retail package sales of wine and malt beverages so issued under the terms of this article shall be made 45 days prior to the expiration of such existing license.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(2), § 14)
Sec. 6-103. - Excise tax levied.
In addition to the annual retail license fee required, an excise tax on each bottle, container or case of wine and malt beverages shall be paid to the county at the maximum rate, depending upon the size of the beverage containers, as is set by the revenue commissioner or appropriate agency or laws of the state; and all forms, reports or other information required for the collection of such tax shall be properly furnished by such retailer or his wholesaler as may be required and remittance promptly made.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(2), § 15)
Cross reference— Taxation, ch. 62.
Sec. 6-104. - Applicants for license.
(a)
All applicants for licenses for retail package sales of wine and malt beverages must be of good character; and all managers, clerks or other employees shall be of like character or the application will not be considered.
(b)
No applicant for a license who has a criminal record (except minor traffic offenses) shall be granted a license.
(c)
The commissioner may, in his discretion, consider any extenuating circumstances which may reflect favorably or unfavorably on the applicant, the application or the proposed location of the business. If, in his judgment, circumstances are such that the granting of the license would not be in the best interest of the general public, such circumstances may be grounds for denying the application.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(2), § 16)
Sec. 6-105. - Transferability, assignability of license.
No license for retail package sales of wine and malt beverages shall be transferable or assignable; and if a licensed business is sold or closed, it shall be the duty of the licensee to immediately surrender his license to the commissioner.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(2), § 17)
Sec. 6-106. - On-premises consumption prohibited; sign.
A holder of a license for retail package sales of wine and malt beverages must post a sign in the most conspicuous place in his establishment printed in letters at least four inches high and reading as follows: "CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON PREMISES IS STRICTLY PROHIBITED."
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(2), § 18)
Sec. 6-107. - Familiarity with terms of article required.
All holders of a license for retail sales of wine and malt beverages shall keep a copy of this article on his premises and shall instruct each person working there with respect to the terms of this article. Each licensee or his agents selling wine and malt beverages shall at all times be familiar with the terms of this article.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(2), § 19)
Sec. 6-108. - Inspection of premises authorized.
The business premises of the holder of a license for retail package sales of wine and malt beverages shall be open to inspection at any and all times by officers or officials authorized to conduct such inspections.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(2), § 20)
Sec. 6-109. - Temporary revocation procedures.
If any license for retail package sales of wine and malt beverages is temporarily revoked by any officer of the county, including the sheriff, the license shall be turned over to the commissioner's office immediately; and the licensee shall appear before the commissioner at the next regular meeting of the commissioners for consideration of permanent revocation or reinstatement.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(2), § 21)
Sec. 6-110. - Orderliness.
A licensee for retail package sales of wine and malt beverages will keep an orderly house in regard to both sanitary conditions and conduct, and violation of either could result in license revocation.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(2), § 22)
Sec. 6-111. - Grounds for revocation of license.
The making of any statement on an application for a license to sell wine and malt beverages which shall later be found to be false shall constitute grounds for revocation of the license.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(2), § 23)
Sec. 6-112. - Compliance with state and federal laws required.
In addition to the rules and regulations above set out in this article, each application for wine and malt beverages license and each licensee doing business in the county shall comply with all state and federal laws. The violation of any of such laws and this article shall subject the licensee to the immediate revocation of his license and for criminal prosecution otherwise.
(Ord. of 1-3-1978(2), § 24)
