CHAPTER 4. - ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS

Section 4.0 - Districts.
The unincorporated portions of Pulaski County are hereby divided into six (6) classes of districts known as the following:
GA - General Agricultural
IA - Intensive Agricultural
R - Residential
MU - Mixed Use
PI - Public and Institutional
PRC - Park, Recreational, and Conservation
Section 4.1 - District Boundaries.
The boundaries of the above districts are shown on the map designated as the "Official Zoning Map, Pulaski County, Georgia". The Pulaski County Tax Parcel Maps are the base maps for the County's zoning districts and these entire tax parcel maps are hereby designated GA, General Agricultural District unless otherwise designated on said map.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the aforesaid districts as shown on the Zoning Maps, the following rules shall apply:
1.
Where zoning district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerlines of roads or highways or lines extended, such centerlines or such lines extended, shall be construed to be such boundaries.
2.
Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the County line, or the corporate limits line of any incorporated place or the land lot line of land lot; such County line, corporate limits line, or land lot line shall be construed to be such boundaries.
3.
Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately parallel to the center lines of streets or highways, such district boundaries unless otherwise specifically indicated, shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at a distance of two hundred feet (200') from the right-of-way line of such streets and highways, each above district boundary being shown at scale on the official Zoning Map of Pulaski County, Georgia.
4.
Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerline of streambeds or riverbeds, such centerlines or such lines extended shall be construed to be such boundaries.
Section 4.1.1 - District Boundary Lines Dividing a Lot of Single Ownership.
Where a district boundary line, as appearing on the Zoning Map, divides a lot in single ownership at the time of the enactment of these Regulations, the requirements for the district in which the greater portion of the lot lines shall be extended to the balance of the lot provided that such extension will not include any part of such lot more than one hundred feet (100') beyond the district boundary line without approval of the Planning and Zoning Board and provided further that this provision shall not apply to a through lot. In the case of a through lot, the restriction of the district applying to the adjoining lots which front on the same street as the proposed use of the lot shall apply. A through lot being a lot that runs from street to street.
