ARTICLE IV. - COUNTY-WIDE STRUCTURE NUMBERING

Sec. 58-111. - Short title.
This article shall be further referred to as "Structure Numbering Ordinance".
(Res. of 2-3-2003(1), § 1)
Sec. 58-112. - Designation of street and road names and numbering.
All streets, roads, or accesses to structures within Pulaski County, incorporated as well as unincorporated areas, whether maintained by Pulaski County or not, shall at the sole discretion of the Pulaski County Commissioner, be named and numbered as they now or in the future may be designated on the official map and index of the commissioner. Any street, road, or access not designated on the official index shall hereafter be referred to as designated on a said index for structure numbering purposes.
(Res. of 2-3-2003(1), § 2)
Sec. 58-113. - Designation of structure numbers.
(a)
Structure numbers for dwelling units, places of business, industrial locations all other structures and uses requiring same shall be assigned by the mapping department during and following the implementation stage of the system in each area of the county.
(b)
The mapping department shall keep a record of all address numbers and road names assigned under this article. Such records may be maintained in data storage systems if so desired.
(Res. of 2-3-2003(1), § 3)
Sec. 58-114. - Posting of designated structure numbers.
(a)
The owner or occupant or person in charge of any dwelling unit, structure or use to which has been assigned, shall be notified in writing by the mapping department of the number assigned to same at any time after adoption of this article.
(b)
Within 60 days after receipt of such written notification; the owner or occupant or person in charge of any dwelling unit, structure or use to which a number has been assigned shall cause the same to be posted and subsequently maintained in either one or two locations depending on the conditions:
(1)
If the mailbox is located on the same side of the street and adjacent to the driveway or curb cut, the number shall be affixed to the mailbox in letters four inches in height or larger and of color contrasting with the color of the mailbox. This does not preclude an individual from also numbering the front enhance of the structure if so desired.
(2)
If the mailbox is not on the same side of the street and adjacent to the driveway or curb cut, the number shall be posted at two locations:
a.
On the mailbox as prescribed by U.S. Postal Regulations; and
b.
Either on the side of the structure that is visible from the street access, or on an above ground attached to a post or other object at the driveway or curb cut. If attached to a post or other object at the driveway or curb cut said post or object shall measure three to five feet in height. The numbers shall be four inches in height or higher and of a color contrasting with the color of the background. This section does not preclude an individual from also numbering the front entrance if so desired.
(3)
In case that a building is served by two or more driveways or curb cuts, the number shall be assigned and posted at the location determined to be most favorable by the mapping department for emergency response purposes.
(4)
It shall be the duty of the owner, or occupant, or person in charge of the dwelling unit, structure or use, upon affixing the new number, to remove any different number which might be mistaken for or be confused with the number assigned to the structure by the mapping department.
(5)
In such cases where the assigned member can not be posted as required above, the number shall be posted as prescribed by the mapping department after consultation with the owner, occupant or person in charge of the dwelling unit, structure or use.
(Res. of 2-3-2003(1), § 4)
Sec. 58-115. - Types of numbers.
(a)
Two types of numbers are used in this article:
(1)
A primary address number to be assigned to frontage of each parcel of land, whether or not the parcel is occupied. The primary member is required to be posted only if the parcel is occupied by a dwelling unit, structure or use and the owner, occupant or person in charge is notified under section 58-114(a) of this article. Other primary numbers are reserved for future development of the numbered parcels and will be assigned at the time of the development.
(2)
Secondary numbers may be used when the number of units, structures, or uses co-exists on the same parcel of land. Examples of parcels requiring secondary numbers include apartment projects, condominium projects, mobile home parks, office parks, planned unit developments and other uses where the use of secondary numbers is necessary to clarify the location of a unit or use for public safety purposes. To provide secondary numbers, the mapping department shall work with the owner, manager, or person in charge of the project to determine a logical numbering system under the following guidelines:
a.
Existing numbered units and uses shall retain the present set of addresses with only the primary numbers complying with this article.
b.
Buildings on a single parcel with more than one and less than five units shall be given either letters (preferred) or number designations as requested by owner.
c.
A single building on a single parcel of land and with five or more units shall be given numerical designations such as Suite 5, Apartment 5, etc. if so desired.
d.
Multiple structures on the same parcel of land may be given secondary consisting of number designations if the buildings are accessed from the main entrance to the project. Generally the member designations should increase in a clockwise direction from the main entrance.
(Res. of 2-3-2003(1), § 5)
Sec. 58-116. - Implementation in stages.
Because of the large and complex nature of Pulaski County and the existing numbering system now in place on some portions of Pulaski County, this article shall be implemented in stages covering small sections of the entire area without the need for the adoption of supplementary Implementation Resolutions for each section of the county.
(Res. of 2-3-2003(1), § 6)
Sec. 58-117. - Exempt and excluded structures.
(a)
The intent of this article is to exclude from this article those structures that do not present a significant danger to human life if destroyed by fire or other events.
(b)
The following structures shall be excluded from the provisions:
(1)
Agriculture buildings not requiring a separate mailing address such as a barn, poultry house, outbuilding or equipment storage building. Buildings used as a dwelling unit, office or the nominal work station of an employee shall be exempt.
(2)
Storage and accessory building for the use of the occupant of another building on the property. Building used as dwelling units, offices, or the nominal work station of an employee, or requiring a separate mailing address, shall be exempt.
(Res. of 2-3-2003(1), § 7)
Sec. 58-118. - New structures and lots.
(a)
Structure numbers will be assigned to each new lot, tract or building site on the original drawings of a final subdivision plat, mobile home park plan, planned unit development or other plan requiring the approval of the planning department.
(b)
No building, electrical, plumbing, mechanical, or septic permit for any new or remodeled or repaired structure will be issued by the responsible Official of Pulaski County, Georgia following the implementation of this article in the affected area of Pulaski County until the owner, developer, or builder has procured from the mapping department the official structure number or numbers and presents proof of the same to the responsible Official Pulaski County for issuance of said permit. Final approval for a certificate of occupancy of any principal building erected or repaired, or use requiring said number, shall be withheld until permanent and proper numbers have been displayed in accordance with the standards of this article.
(Res. of 2-3-2003(1), § 8)
Sec. 58-119. - Utility company compliance.
(a)
Following the implementation of this article in any area of Pulaski County, all utility services regulated by the Georgia Public Service Commission or any utility cooperation service organization, shall withhold service from any building until the owner or requesting party has furnished the utility with a valid structure number.
(b)
It shall be the responsibility of the Pulaski County Mapping Department to notify each affected utility service of implementation in each area by issuing maps and lists of official numbers assigned to each affected structure or use.
(c)
All utility services are required to cooperate with the Pulaski County Mapping Department by providing a complete list of all customer information requested by the mapping department to facilitate implementation of this article. This shall include all pertinent information such as, but not limited to, customer names, phone number, mailing address, physical address, utility meter number or other identifying number of information. Said information shall be provided in an electronic format compatible with software used by the mapping department.
(Res. of 2-3-2003(1), § 9)
Sec. 58-120. - Implementation by Pulaski County departments.
Every department and official under the jurisdiction of the Pulaski County Commissioner shall not render any non-emergency service until the occupant, owner, or requesting individual has provided the department with a valid structure number. Non-emergency service includes any service with a valid structure number. Non-emergency service includes any service provided by the board of commissioner except fire, rescue, law enforcement or emergency medical service.
(Res. of 2-3-2003(1), § 10)
Sec. 58-121. - Penalties.
Any firm or person or corporation who shall do anything prohibited by this same ordinance, as same exists or as it may hereafter be amended, or who shall fail to do anything required by this article, as the same exists or as it may hereafter be amended, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, amendable to process of the Magistrate Court of Pulaski County and, conviction, shall be punished by a fine of not less the $1,000.00 or by confinement in the county jail not to exceed 60 days or by community service of not less than 200 hours, either fine, confinement, service, or a combination thereof, in the discretion of the court. Each and every day that such violation exists shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Res. of 2-3-2003(1), § 11)
Sec. 58-122. - Effective date and repealer.
This article shall take effect and be in full force in each area of Pulaski County as the mapping department notices the owner, occupant, or person in charge of each dwelling unit, structure or use covered under this article.
(Res. of 2-3-2003(1), § 12)
