Chapter 30 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 30-1. - National Incident Management System (NIMS) adoption.
Pulaski County hereby adopts the National Incident Management System (NIMS) as established under HSPD 5 and the Unified Command System as established under O.C.G.A. § 38-3-57 as its system of preparing for and responding to disaster incidents and directs all incident managers and response organizations in Pulaski County train and exercise and use these systems in their response operations.
(Ord. of 9-6-2005(1))
Secs. 30-2—30-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2012-1, §§ 1—7, adopted July 2, 2012, amended Article II in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former article II, §§ 30-31—30-36, pertained to similar subject matter, and derived from Ord. of 3-3-2008(1).

Sec. 30-31. - Regulations continued in effect.
All ordinances, resolutions, motions and orders pertaining to civil defense, emergency management and disaster relief, which are not in conflict with this chapter, are continued in full force and effect. Such ordinances, etc., are on file in the office of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 2012-1, § 1, 7-2-2012)
Sec. 30-32. - Emergency management and response powers.
(a)
Declaration of local emergency.
(1)
Grant of authority. In the event of an actual or threatened occurrence of a disaster or emergency, which may result in the large-scale loss of life, injury, property damage or destruction or in the major disruption of routine community affairs, business or governmental operations in the county and which is of sufficient severity and magnitude to warrant extraordinary assistance by federal, state and local departments and agencies to supplement the efforts of available public and private resources, the chair of the board of commissioners may declare a local emergency for Pulaski County. The form of the declaration shall be similar to that provided in subsection (b) of this Code section.
(2)
Request for state assistance. Consistent with a declaration of local emergency, the chair may request the governor to provide assistance, provided that the disaster or emergency is beyond the capacity of the county to meet adequately and state assistance is necessary to supplement local efforts to save lives and protect property, public health and safety, or to avert or lessen the threat of a disaster.
(3)
Continuance. The declaration of local emergency shall continue until the chair finds that emergency conditions no longer exist, at which time, the chair shall execute and file with the clerk of the board of commissioners a document marking the end of the state of emergency. No state of local emergency shall continue for longer than 30 days, unless renewed by the chair. The board of commissioners may, by resolution, end a state of local emergency at any time.
(4)
Effect of declaration of emergency.
a.
Activation of emergency operations plan. A declaration of emergency by the Governor or a declaration of local emergency by the chair shall automatically activate the county emergency operations plan and shall be the authority for deployment of personnel and use of any forces to which the plan applies and for use or distribution of any supplies, equipment, materials, and facilities assembled, stockpiled or arranged to be made available pursuant to the Georgia Emergency Management Act or any other laws applicable to emergencies or disasters.
1.
The Pulaski County Emergency Management Agency ("EMA") Director shall have the legal authority to exercise the powers and discharge the duties conferred upon the emergency management agency, including the implementation of the emergency operations plan, coordination of the emergency responses of public and private agencies and organizations, coordination of recovery efforts with state and federal officials, and inspection of emergency or disaster sites.
2.
In responding and conducting necessary and appropriate investigations, the director or his/her designee is authorized to enter at a reasonable time upon any property, public or private, for the purpose of investigating and inspecting sites involved with emergency management functions. The director is authorized to execute a right of entry and/or agreement to use property for these purposes on behalf of the county; however, any such document shall be later presented for ratification at a meeting of the board of commissioners.
3.
No person shall refuse entry or access to any authorized representative or agent of the county who requests entry for purposes of inspection, and who presents appropriate credentials. Nor shall any person obstruct, hamper or interfere with any such representative while that individual is in the process of carrying out his or her official duties.
b.
Emergency powers. Following a declaration of emergency and during the continuance of such state of emergency, the chair is authorized to implement local emergency measures to protect life and property or to bring the emergency situation under control. In exercising this authority, the chair may cause to become effective any of the following sections of this chapter as appropriate: Section 30-35 (registration of building and repair services) to become effective if the Governor declares a state of emergency; and section 30-36 (closed or restricted areas and curfews). If any of these sections are included in a declaration of local emergency, the same shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners and shall be in effect until the declaration of local emergency has terminated.
c.
Authority to waive procedures and fees. Pursuant to a declaration of emergency, the Pulaski County Board of Commissioners is authorized to cause to be effective any of the subsections of section 30-34 of this chapter as appropriate. The implementation of such subsections shall be filed in the office of the Clerk of the Pulaski County Board of Commissioners.
d.
Additional emergency powers. The Chair of the Pulaski County Board of Commissioners shall have, and may exercise for such period as the declared emergency exists or continues, the following additional emergency powers:
1.
To direct and compel the evacuation of all or part of the population from any stricken or threatened area, for the preservation of life or other disaster mitigation, response or recovery;
2.
To prescribe routes, modes of transportation and destinations in connection with evacuation;
3.
To suspend or limit the sale, dispensing or transportation of alcoholic beverages, firearms, explosives and flammable liquids and substances;
4.
To make provision for the availability and use of temporary emergency housing, emergency shelters and/or emergency medical shelters.
5.
To transfer the direction, personnel or functions of any county departments and agencies or units thereof for the purpose of performing or facilitating emergency services;
6.
To utilize all available resources of the county and subordinate agencies over which the county has budgetary control as reasonably necessary to cope with the emergency or disaster;
7.
To utilize public property when necessary to cope with the emergency or disaster or when there is compelling necessity for the protection of lives, health and welfare; and/or the property of citizens;
8.
To suspend any law, code provision or regulation prescribing the procedures for conduct of county business, or the orders, rules or regulations of any county agency, if strict compliance with any ordinance, resolution, order, rule or regulation would in any way prevent, hinder or delay necessary action in coping with the emergency or disaster, provided that such suspension shall provide for the minimum deviation from the requirements under the circumstances and further provided that, when practicable, specialists shall be assigned to avoid adverse effects resulting from such suspension;
9.
To provide benefits to citizens upon execution of an intergovernmental agreement for grants to meet disaster-related necessary expenses or serious needs of individuals or families adversely affected by an emergency or disaster in cases where the individuals or families are unable to meet the expenses or needs from other means, provided that such grants are authorized only when matching state or federal funds are available for such purposes;
10.
To perform and exercise such other functions, powers and duties as may be deemed necessary to promote and secure the safety and protection of the civilian population, including individuals with household pets and service animals prior to, during and following a major disaster or emergency.
(b)
Form of declaration of local emergency. Upon the declaration of local emergency, an official "Declaration of Local Emergency," in substantially the same form set forth below, shall be signed and filed in the office of the county clerk and shall be communicated to the citizens of the affected area using the most effective and efficient means available. The declaration shall state the nature of the emergency or disaster, the conditions that require the declaration and any sections of this chapter which shall be in effect.
(1)
That the following measures also be implemented: [If deemed appropriate, select items from section 30-32(a)(4)c. or d. or such other measures as appropriate.]
Time: ________ Date:________.
Chairperson, Pulaski County Board of Commissioners"
Signature of Chairperson _______
(c)
Contracts with municipalities. In addition to the normal agreements embodied in the county's emergency operations plan for mutual emergency assistance, the board of commissioners may contract with any municipality for the administration of an emergency response program.
(Ord. No. 2012-1, § 2, 7-2-2012)
Sec. 30-33. - Enforcement and remedies.
(a)
Law Enforcement. In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 38-3-4, the Pulaski County Sheriff's Office shall be authorized to enforce the orders, rules and regulations contained in this chapter and/or implemented by the chair or local governing authority during a declared emergency.
(b)
Penalties. Failure to comply with any of the requirements or provisions of the regulations contained in this chapter, or with any code section, order, rule or regulation made effective by the chair or local governing authority upon or after the declaration of an emergency shall constitute a violation of the provisions of this chapter. Any person who violates any provision in this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, imprisonment for a term not exceeding 60 days, or both such fine and imprisonment, for each violation. Each person assisting in the commission of a violation shall be guilty of separate offenses. Each day during which a violation or failure to comply continues shall constitute a separate violation.
(c)
Injunctive relief. In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 38-3-5, in addition to the remedies prescribed in this section, the EMA director is authorized to obtain an injunction to restrain violation of laws, code sections, orders, rules and regulations which are contained in the Georgia Emergency Management Act and/or this Code, and/or which are implemented by the local governing authority during a declared emergency.
(d)
Enforcement. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, this article may be enforced by the Pulaski County Sheriff's Office, the Pulaski County EMA Director and the Chairman of Pulaski County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. No. 2012-1, § 3, 7-2-2012)
Sec. 30-34. - Authority to waive procedures and fee structures.
(a)
County business. Upon declaration of an emergency or disaster by the Governor or chair of the board of commissioners, the affairs and business of the county may be conducted at places other than the regular or usual location, within or outside of the county, when it is not prudent, expedient or possible to conduct business at the regular location. When such meetings occur outside of the county, all actions taken by the board of commissioners shall be as valid and binding as if performed within the county. Such meetings may be called by the presiding officer or any two members of the governing body without regard to or compliance with time-consuming procedures and formalities otherwise required by law.
[Note: Local legislation should be reviewed to determine whether there are restrictions upon moving the meeting location if it is only a locally declared emergency and not a state of emergency declared by the Governor.]
(b)
Public works contracts. Upon declaration of an emergency or disaster by the Governor or Chair of the Pulaski County Board of Commissioners, the board of commissioners may contract for public works without letting such contract out to the lowest, responsible bidder and without advertising and posting notification of such contract for four weeks; provided, however, that the emergency must be of such nature that immediate action is required and that the action is necessary for the protection of the public health, safety and welfare. Any public works contract entered into pursuant to this subsection shall be entered on the minutes of the county as soon as practical and the nature of the emergency described therein in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 36-91-22(e).
(c)
Purchasing. Upon declaration of an emergency or disaster by the Governor or Chair of the Pulaski County Board of Commissioners, the purchasing ordinances, regulations or policies may be suspended. County officials shall continue to seek to obtain the best prices during the state of local emergency.
(d)
Code enforcement. Upon declaration of a state of emergency or disaster by the Governor or the Chair of the Pulaski County Board of Commissioners, the board of commissioners may temporarily suspend the enforcement of the ordinances of the county, or any portion thereof, where the emergency is of such nature that immediate action outside the code is required, such suspension is consistent with the protection of the public health, safety and welfare, and such suspension is not inconsistent with any federal or state statutes or regulations.
(e)
Fees. Upon declaration of a state of emergency or disaster by the Governor or the Chair of the Pulaski County Board of Commissioners, the board of commissioners may temporarily reduce or suspend any permit fees, application fees or other rate structures as necessary to encourage the rebuilding of the areas impacted by the disaster or emergency. The term "fees" include fees or rates charged by the county for building permits, land disturbance permits, zoning applications, special land use permits, temporary land use permits and other fees relating to the reconstruction, repair and clean up of areas impacted by the disaster or emergency. The term "fees" does not include fees collected by the county on behalf of the state or federal government or fees charged by the county pursuant to a state or federal statute or regulation.
(f)
Temporary dwellings. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency or disaster by the Governor or Chair of the Pulaski County Board of Commissioners, the board of commissioners or its designees may issue temporary mobile home, trailer, recreational vehicle or other temporary dwelling structures or parks in any zoning district, even though not otherwise permitted by development code, while the primary dwelling is being repaired, provided that such temporary dwellings or parks are designed by an engineer and the plans are approved by the county health department and development services. The temporary permit shall not exceed six months in duration. In the case of a continuing hardship, and in the discretion of the board of commissioners or its designee, the permit may be extended for a period of up to an additional six months. Upon expiration of the temporary permit and/or extension, the temporary dwelling must be removed.
(Ord. No. 2012-1, § 4, 7-2-2012)
Sec. 30-35. - Registration of building and repair services.
(a)
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 38-3-56, before building, constructing, repairing, renovating or making improvements to any real property, including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures or fixtures within an area in the unincorporated area of the county designated in a declared emergency or disaster, any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity must register with the Pulaski County Development Services Department and secure a building permit that is posted at the work site. Each day any such entity does business in the unincorporated areas of the county without complying with this ordinance constitutes a separate offense.
(b)
The cost of registration fees in a declared emergency or disaster is fixed at $_______ per annum. Registration is nontransferable. The cost of the emergency building permit shall be equal to the cost for a building permit under existing regulations.
(3)
Applicant's Social Security number or federal Employer Identification number;
(4)
If applicant is a corporation, the state and date of incorporation;
(5)
Tag registration information for each vehicle to be used in the business;
(6)
List of cities and/or counties where the applicant has conducted business within the past 12 months;
(7)
Georgia sales tax number or authorization;
(8)
Georgia business license number, if required;
(9)
Copy of license from the Secretary of State, if required.
(d)
Effective date. This section shall become effective only upon a declaration of emergency by the Governor and a local declaration stating this section is in effect. Unless otherwise specified in the declaration of emergency or otherwise extended by the board of commissioners, the provisions of this Code section shall remain in effect during the state of emergency and for a subsequent recovery period of three months.
(Ord. No. 2012-1, § 5, 7-2-2012)
Sec. 30-36. - Closed or restricted areas and curfews during emergency.
(a)
To preserve, protect or sustain the life, health, welfare or safety of persons, or their property, within a designated area under a declaration of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person to travel, loiter, wander or stroll in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, lanes, parks or other public grounds, public places, public buildings, places of amusement, eating places, vacant lots or any other place during a declared emergency between hours specified by the chair until the curfew is lifted.
(b)
To promote order, protect lives, minimize the potential for looting and other crimes, and facilitate recovery operations during an emergency, the chair shall have discretion to impose reentry restrictions on certain areas. The chair shall exercise such discretion in accordance with the county emergency operations plan, which shall be followed during emergencies.
(c)
The provisions of this section shall not apply to persons acting in the following capacities:
(1)
Authorized and essential law enforcement personnel;
(2)
Authorized and essential health care providers;
(3)
Authorized and essential personnel of the county;
(4)
Authorized National Guard or federal military personnel;
(5)
Authorized and essential firefighters;
(6)
Authorized and essential emergency response personnel;
(7)
Authorized and essential personnel or volunteers working with or through the county emergency management agency (EMA);
(8)
Authorized and essential utility repair crews;
(9)
Citizens seeking to restore order to their homes or businesses while on their own property or place of business;
(10)
Other authorized and essential persons as designated on a list compiled by EMA, the director of public safety and/or the sheriff of the county.
(d)
Enforceability. This section shall be enforced by officers of the law enforcement personnel approved to provide aid and assistance during the emergency. Nothing contained in this section shall prohibit a law enforcement officer from bringing other charges under state law.
(e)
Effective Date. This section shall become effective only upon the signing of a declaration of emergency, stating this section is in effect.
(Ord. No. 2012-1, § 6, 7-2-2012)
Sec. 30-37. - Regulations continued in effect.
All ordinances, resolutions, motions and orders pertaining to civil defense, emergency management and disaster relief that are not in conflict with this chapter are continued in full force and effect. Such ordinances, etc., are on file in the office of the county clerk.
(Ord. No. 2012-1, § 7, 7-2-2012)
Secs. 30-38—30-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - EMERGENCY SERVICES REIMBURSEMENT

Sec. 30-51. - Purpose.
The Pulaski County Commissioner desires to maintain an excellent quality of emergency services provided by the Pulaski County Fire and Sheriff's Departments;
The Pulaski County Commissioner desires to increase revenues in order to offset the ever-increasing costs of providing emergency services;
The Pulaski County Commissioner desires to set out fair and comprehensive rules and regulations governing the recovery of costs for the deployment of Pulaski County emergency services;
The Pulaski County Commissioner desires to establish a fair and equitable cost recovery billing procedure; and
The Pulaski County Commissioner desires to segregate the fees received.
(Ord. No. 2007-01, 4-2-2007)
Sec. 30-52. - User fees.
Pulaski County shall initiate a program of user fees for the delivery of emergency services by the Pulaski County Fire Department and the Pulaski County Sheriff's Department for the delivery of services, personnel, and equipment in responding to structure fires and motor vehicle and aircraft accidents;
The fees shall be in an amount which represents the usual, customary, and reasonable cost of service.
(Ord. No. 2007-01, 4-2-2007)
Sec. 30-53. - Insurance company reimbursements.
Pulaski County shall establish a procedure for collection of user fees from insurance companies, including but not limited to motor vehicle insurance, aircraft insurance, homeowners' insurance, and commercial insurance.
Pulaski County may contract with a reimbursement service company or other similar collection service for the collection of user fees.
Pulaski County shall file or cause to be filed a claim for insurance reimbursement with the insurance company of the motor vehicle owner, property owner, aircraft owner or operator, or other responsible party.
Motor vehicles shall include all licensed motor vehicles, including motorcycles.
(Ord. No. 2007-01, 4-2-2007)
Sec. 30-54. - Rules governing reimbursements.
Pulaski County shall seek reimbursement for all non-resident motor vehicle accidents occurring in Pulaski County where emergency services are provided where the non-resident driver or owner is found to be at fault;
Pulaski County shall seek reimbursement for all structure and vehicle fires occurring in Pulaski County where emergency services are provided, whether resident or non-resident;
Pulaski County may from time to time determine to seek insurance reimbursement from all incidents occurring in Pulaski County where emergency services are provided, whether resident or non-resident.
(Ord. No. 2007-01, 4-2-2007)
Sec. 30-55. - Special account.
The Pulaski County Commissioner shall establish a special account wherein all insurance reimbursements received as a result of this section are to be collected and to be used exclusively for personnel, supplies equipment, and unanticipated expenses for the Pulaski County Fire and Sheriff Departments;
The Pulaski County Commissioner may make rules or regulations and from time-to-time may amend, revoke or add rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this section, as deemed necessary or expedient in respect to billing or collection of these fees.
(Ord. No. 2007-01, 4-2-2007)
Sec. 30-56. - General provisions.
If any of the provision of this article, or the application of this article to any person or circumstance, shall be held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or application of such other provisions of this article. To this end the provisions of this article are hereby declared to be severable.
All laws and ordinances, or parts thereof, which conflict with this article, are repealed.
Nothing in this article shall be interpreted or applied so as to create any power or duty in conflict with the preemptive effect of any federal or state law.
This article shall take effect and shall be enforced from and after the date of its adoption.
(Ord. No. 2007-01, 4-2-2007)
Secs. 30-57—30-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - 911 CHARGE ON PREPAID WIRELESS SERVICE

Sec. 30-71. - 911 charge on prepaid wireless transactions.
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2, there is hereby imposed a prepaid wireless 911 charge as defined by O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2(a)(4) upon every prepaid wireless retail transaction occurring within the jurisdiction of the public service answering point in the amount of $0.75.
(Ord. of 7-5-2011(1), § 1)
Sec. 30-72. - Collection of 911 charge on prepaid wireless transactions.
Prepaid wireless 911 charges collected by sellers shall be remitted to the commissioner of the department of revenue at the times and in the manner provided by O.C.G.A. Title 48, Chapter 8 with respect to the sales and use tax imposed on prepaid wireless calling service.
(Ord. of 7-5-2011(1), § 2)
Sec. 30-73. - Administrative provisions.
The clerk of the county is hereby directed to file with the state revenue commissioner a certified copy of this article and amendments thereto, in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2(j)(1), within ten days of enactment of this article.
(Ord. of 7-5-2011(1), § 3)
Sec. 30-74. - Depositing of funds; use of funds.
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2(j)(5), funds received by this county from charges imposed by this article shall be deposited in the Emergency Telephone System Fund maintained by this county pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134 and kept separate from general revenue of the jurisdiction; all such funds shall be used exclusively for the purposes authorized by O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134(e).
(Ord. of 7-5-2011(1), § 4)
Sec. 30-75. - Repealer.
All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with this article are hereby repealed.
(Ord. of 7-5-2011(1), § 5)
Sec. 30-76. - Effective date.
The article shall become effective January 1, 2012.
(Ord. of 7-5-2011(1), § 6)
