CHAPTER 9. - MU - MIXED USE

Section 9.0 - Purpose.
The Mixed Use District is established as a district in which the principal use of the land is for compact, mixed-use development where residential and small, low-density retail and professional offices are located together. This District will be initially located adjacent to the current Hawkinsville City Limits where a mix of residential and commercial is currently located and where public water is available. The intent of this category is to deter sprawl and concentrate more intensive development in areas where annexation is likely to occur in the future.
Section 9.1 - Permitted Uses.
Residential:
1.
Primary Structure - Single family, manufactured, and modular homes on lot sizes of two (2) acres or greater.
• Subdivisions for stick-built, manufactured, or modular housing.
• Land lease communities.
• Duplex developments with no more than four (4) bedrooms per two (2) acres.
2.
Accessory Uses - Including, but not limited to, a private garage, detached home workshop, swimming pool, greenhouse, all of which shall be incidental to the use of the property as a residence.
Other Uses:
1.
Home Occupations.
2.
Barber/beauty shops.
3.
Custom dressmaking and tailoring.
4.
Laundry or dry cleaning and laundry operated by customers such as launderette, laundromat and the like.
5.
Offices, business, professional, or governmental.
6.
Retail businesses selling convenience goods and serving the adjacent residential neighborhoods such as apparel, drug, and food.
Section 9.2 - Conditional Use Permit.
The following shall be allowed as in the Mixed Use District after a conditional use permit has been issued:
1.
One (1) manufactured home, per lot, for the care of another.
2.
Home Businesses.
3.
Churches.
4.
Care Homes.
5.
Day Care Facilities.
6.
Commercial Recreational Areas.
7.
Large scale poultry and swine production facilities.
8.
Feedlots.
Section 9.3 - Setbacks.
All primary and accessory structures/uses shall be placed a minimum of twenty-five feet (25') away from all property lines.
