CHAPTER 10. - APPEALS
This Chapter is established to identify the procedure whereby any aggrieved party may appeal the decision of the Enforcement Officer, Sole County Commissioner, or any other party.

Section 10.0 - Appeal to the Sole County Commissioner.
Any party aggrieved because of the alleged error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Enforcement Officer may appeal in writing to the Clerk of the Sole County Commissioners for and receive a hearing by the Sole County Commissioner for an interpretation of pertinent Ordinance provision. In exercising this power of interpretation, the Sole County Commissioner may, in conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance, reverse or affirm any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Enforcement Officer.
Section 10.1 - Appeal from the Sole County Commissioner.
Any party aggrieved by any decision of the Sole County Commissioner may seek review of such decision by a Court of Record, as provided by law.
Section 10.2 - Hardship Variances.
1.
General
a.
Relief from the application of the provisions of this Ordinance may be granted by the Sole Commissioner upon a finding that compliance with such provisions will result in a hardship to the property or owner that is substantially unwarranted by the protection of the public health, safety, or general welfare, and the need for consistency among all properties similarly developed.
b.
Such relief shall be granted only to the extent necessary to alleviate such unnecessary hardship and not as a convenience to the applicant nor to gain any advantage or interest over similarly developed properties.
2.
Standards for Approval. A hardship variance may be granted in whole or in part, or with conditions, in such individual case of unnecessary hardship upon a finding by the Sole Commissioner that:
a.
There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of its shape or topography; or
b.
The application of the Ordinance to this particular piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship; or
c.
There are conditions that are peculiar to the property which adversely affect its reasonable use or usability.
3.
If denied, as appeal for a hardship variance affecting the same property shall not be reconsidered for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of denial; provided, however, that the Sole County Commissioner may reduce the waiting period under extenuating circumstances or on his or her own motion.
4.
In no case shall a hardship variance be granted for any of the following:
a.
A condition created by the applicant, including the result of an unwise investment decision or real estate transaction.
b.
A change in the conditions of preliminary or final plat approval.
c.
An increase or a reduction in minimum lot size.
APPENDIX A
