Chapter 38 - FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority to provide police and fire protection, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(1); regulation of fire and other hazards to persons and property generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 38-1. - Fire codes—Enforcement.
The fire codes adopted in this Code, shall be enforced by the chief of the fire department and the code enforcement officer.
(Code 1969, § 7-2; Code 1981, § 10-2)
Sec. 38-2. - Same—Modifications.
The chief of the fire department or the code enforcement officer shall have the power to modify any of the provisions of the fire codes adopted by this Code upon application in writing by the owner or lessee, or such person's duly authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the codes, provided the spirit of the codes shall be observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice done. The particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the officer thereon shall be entered upon the records of the departments and a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
(Code 1969, § 7-4; Code 1981, § 10-3)
Sec. 38-3. - Same—Appeals.
Whenever the chief of the fire department or the code enforcement officer shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the fire codes do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the codes have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision to city council within 30 days from the date of the decision appealed.
(Code 1969, § 7-5; Code 1981, § 10-4)
Sec. 38-4. - Outside aboveground flammable liquid tanks and liquefied petroleum gas bulk storage prohibited.
The limits referred to in the fire codes adopted by this Code in which storage of flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks is prohibited, and the limits referred to in said codes in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted, are the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 1969, § 7-6; Code 1981, § 10-5)
Sec. 38-5. - Arrest of offenders.
It shall be the duty of all officers of the fire department and all police officers of the city to see that the provisions of this chapter are enforced and to arrest on view any person who shall be found violating any of the provisions of this chapter or who shall hinder, resist or refuse to obey any such officer of the fire department in the discharge of such officer's duty, and to that end all such officers are hereby vested with the power and authority of police officers.
(Code 1981, § 10-6; Ord. of 10-7-1974, § h)
Secs. 38-6—38-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SELF-SERVICE FUEL DISPENSERS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Self-service motor fuel dispensing pumps, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-1.

Sec. 38-31. - Applicability of article.
This article does not apply to motor fuel dispensing units which are not open to the public.
(Code 1981, § 10-20; Ord. of 1-5-1976, § 5)
Sec. 38-32. - Enforcement; reporting violations.
It shall be the duty of the fire department and code enforcement department to enforce this article. Charges of violations shall be reported to the city council in writing.
(Code 1981, § 10-21; Ord. of 1-5-1976, § 6)
Sec. 38-33. - Violations.
(a)
Any person found in violation of any provision or section of this article by the fire department or code enforcement department shall be cause for suspension or revocation of self-service permit.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit the dispensing of Class 1 liquids by an individual other than the owner, operator or employee without a self-service permit.
(c)
Any person violating any provision of this article shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in section 1-8.
(Code 1981, § 10-22; Ord. of 1-5-1976, § 7)
Sec. 38-34. - Issuance of license.
Any applicant for a license for the operation of self-service motor fuel dispensing pumps, not otherwise disqualified by law, shall be granted such license by the business license clerk upon payment of the license fee prescribed by the business license schedule, after making application on a form prescribed by the business license clerk, and subject to the approval of the fire department and code enforcement department.
(Code 1981, § 10-23; Ord. of 1-5-1976, § 1)
Sec. 38-35. - Permit—Nontransferable; revocation authorized.
A permit for self-service operation is not transferable and it may be revoked for cause.
(Code 1981, § 10-24; Ord. of 1-5-1976, § 4)
Sec. 38-36. - Same—Procedures for obtaining; period.
(a)
Any person desiring to operate a self-service service station shall make application to the code enforcement department and fire department. Application shall be accompanied with plans of the proposed station, whether a new station or an existing station being modified. Plans shall be submitted as follows:
(1)
Plans for a new service station or modified existing service station to provide for self-service shall be of scale and shall include a general arrangement layout, storage tank location and installation details, control devices or arrangements for self-service operations, piping and vent piping details, dispenser arrangements and details, emergency control arrangements, location of fire extinguishers or other firefighting arrangements and such other details and specifications as may be necessary to ensure the safe installation and safe operation when completed.
(2)
Plans shall be submitted in triplicate, one set to be retained by the fire department, one set to be retained by the code enforcement department and the other returned to the applicant with approval or disapproval indicated thereon.
(3)
Construction of new stations or modifications to existing stations shall not commence until plans have been approved and returned to the applicant.
(b)
Upon receipt by the code enforcement department and fire department of an application for self-service at a station the physical installation of which has been previously approved for self-service operation, the code enforcement department and the fire department will reinspect the station, and if all requirements are satisfactorily met will issue a permit for self-service operation.
(c)
All permits issued hereunder shall be for a period of one year, from January 1 to December 31.
(Code 1981, § 10-25; Ord. of 1-5-1976, § 2)
Sec. 38-37. - Operational rules and regulations.
The rules and regulations for the operation of self-service motor fuel dispensing pumps are as follows:
(1)
No person shall operate a self-service motor fuel dispensing pump unless an attendant is present at the dispensing location. A cashier housed inside a building will be classified as an attendant, provided said attendant has an unobstructed view of the full dispensing area at all times. The attendant shall be at least 18 years of age, experienced with and physically capable of performing the required duties, careful, capable and able to read and write the English language, and familiar with the provisions of these rules and regulations.
(2)
While Class 1 liquids are being dispensed, the attendant shall not be assigned to perform any duties which might distract or prevent such attendant from properly carrying out such attendant's duties.
(3)
The attendant shall supervise, observe and control the dispensing of Class 1 liquids while said liquids are being dispensed. It shall be the responsibility of the attendant to prevent the dispensing of Class 1 liquids into portable containers unless they are metal and properly labeled in accordance with state law; and to immediately handle accidental spills and fire extinguishers if needed.
(4)
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 16 years old to operate any self-service motor fuel dispensing pump.
(5)
Each motor fuel dispensing pump shall have step by step operation directions attached to either the nozzle side or top of the pump.
(6)
Each motor fuel dispensing pump island shall have the following sign posted in letters not less than four inches high: "Self-Service," "No Smoking," "Cut-Off Engine Before Dispensing Product."
(7)
At least one extinguisher (type and size to be designated by the fire department) shall be installed on each motor fuel dispensing pump island.
(8)
Persons under the influence of intoxicants, narcotics or drugs shall not be permitted to dispense flammable or combustible liquids.
(9)
Emergency power cutoff. A clearly identified and easily accessible switch shall be installed not more than 100 feet from dispensers that will shut off the power to all dispensing devices in the event of an emergency. It must cut off power to lighting and any other low voltage circuits.
(10)
Automatic type nozzles without a hold-open latch are not permitted. Automatic closing nozzles without a hold-open latch are permitted.
(11)
All self-service service stations must have either automatic remote control or key lock pumping dispensers.
a.
Automatic remote control systems must have a two-way intercom from office or island house to each pump dispensing island.
b.
Keylock pumping dispensers must not be cleared for dispensing until a customer is ready to use them.
(12)
The automatic console operator must have full view of the fuel dispensing area.
(Code 1981, § 10-26; Ord. of 1-5-1976, § 3)
