ARTICLE VII. - TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Peddlers and itinerant traders, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-1 et seq.; transient merchants, O.C.G.A. § 43-46-1 et seq.

Sec. 54-241. - Short title.
This article shall be known and may be recited as the "Transient Merchant, Peddler and Solicitor Ordinance of 2009."
(Code 1981, § 14-101; Ord. No. 2009-04, 5-4-2009)
Sec. 54-242. - Definitions.
The following words and phrases shall have the meanings set forth in this section unless the use of any such word or phrase in context clearly indicates otherwise:
Booth, stand means any table, shelf, counter, cart or other facility, whether mobile or fixed, which is placed on a street or other public place within the city for the purpose of selling or offering to sell any goods or service to the public, or for soliciting for any purpose.
City means the mayor and councilmembers of the city, a municipal corporation, and the jurisdictional authority of that municipal corporation.
License means the right or privilege granted by the city to engage in business as a transient merchant or peddler within the corporate limits of the city. Evidence that such right or privilege has been granted shall be in the form of a license document issued by the city treasurer, which document shall be kept at the merchant's place of business within the city or on the peddler's person or within the peddler's vehicle.
Peddler means a person who is selling new or pre-packaged products within the city limits of the City of Alma at a location other than a permanent building or structure licensed by the city.
Permit means the authorization granted by the city to solicit for charitable or religious purposes, or to solicit subscriptions as defined by this chapter there being no fee nor charge for such permit. Evidence that such authorization has been granted shall be in the form of a permit document issued by the city treasurer.
Solicitor for charitable or religious purposes means any person who solicits contributions from the public, either on the streets of the city or from door to door, for any charitable or religious organization, and who does not sell or offer to sell any single item with a cost to the purchaser in excess of $10.00, shall be defined as a "solicitor for charitable or religious purposes." No qualification as a charitable or religious organization shall exist unless the applicant:
(1)
Is able to demonstrate a current exemption certificate from the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954; or
(2)
Has maintained in the county a continuous existence as a charitable or religious organization for a period of three years prior to the date of its application pursuant to this chapter.
Solicitor for subscriptions means any person who solicits subscriptions by going from place to place within the city, and who offers for sale subscriptions to magazines or other materials protected by the provisions of the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States of America, shall be defined as a "solicitor for subscriptions."
Street means and includes any street, alley, lane, avenue, court, sidewalk, public right-of-way, or any other public place within the city.
Transient merchant means any person, firm, or corporation, whether resident or nonresident of the city, who has no permanent, regular place of business within the city and who engages in the business of selling or offering to sell goods or services from a temporary fixed place of business located within the city, such temporary places of business to include any room or space in a hotel or motel, boardinghouse, public or private building, or any other fixed place of business within the city; however, no merchant shall be considered a transient merchant under this article if such merchant:
(1)
Is a bona fide commercial traveler selling goods at wholesale by samples;
(2)
Has already paid a license to the city for the privilege of conducting permanent business;
(3)
Is a peddler otherwise licensed by the city to sell goods from place to place; or
(4)
Is a civic club, service club or school who, from time to time, engages in the selling of merchandise to the public as a club or school project.
Transient peddler means any person who is a nonresident of the city, who has no permanent, regular place of business within the city, and who engages in the business of selling or offering to sell goods or services by going from place to place within the city, except a person selling agricultural products and holding a letter from a county agent certifying that the products were produced by that person.
(Code 1981, § 14-102; Ord. No. 2009-04, 5-4-2009; Ord. of 11-6-2017(1), § 1)
Sec. 54-243. - License or permit required.
(a)
No person shall operate a business as a transient merchant or peddler within the city unless a license for such business has first been granted by the city through the business license clerk; and no solicitor for charitable or religious purposes or solicitor for subscriptions as defined by this chapter shall solicit within the city unless a permit has been granted by the city in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Such license or permit shall be effective only for the period stated in the document unless suspended or revoked prior to expiration. Application for a license or permit shall be made on forms provided by the administrative secretary and shall provide such information as is required by this article and such additional information as may be necessary to define completely the activities to be conducted within the city.
(b)
At the time of filing any application for a permit or license under this chapter, the applicant shall present with the application to the city a current valid driver's license showing a picture identification reasonably acceptable to the administrative secretary containing the picture of the applicant thereon.
(Code 1981, § 14-103; Ord. No. 2009-04, 5-4-2009)
Sec. 54-244. - Application for transient merchant's license, transient peddler's license.
An application containing the following information shall be completed and filed with the administrative secretary by each applicant for a license to do business within the city as a transient merchant or transient peddler:
(1)
Name of the applicant;
(2)
Permanent address and telephone number of the applicant;
(3)
Local address and telephone number of the applicant;
(4)
The applicant's date of birth and age, if an individual;
(5)
The applicant's social security number, or federal employer identification number;
(6)
If the applicant is a partnership or corporation, the name and home address of each partner, principal, or corporate officer;
(7)
If the applicant is a corporation, the state and date of incorporation;
(8)
If the applicant is a partnership or corporation, the name, home address, date of birth, age and social security number of the principal representative in the city;
(9)
Name and home address of all employees to work in the city;
(10)
Name of the business represented by the applicant, if different from the applicant;
(11)
Permanent address of the business represented by the applicant;
(12)
Name of agent conducting sale, if any;
(13)
Local address and telephone number of sales agent, if any;
(14)
Type of merchandise or service to be offered for sale;
(15)
Place where business is to be conducted;
(16)
Date to be in business, and total number of days to be in business;
(17)
Hours during which business will be conducted;
(18)
Manner in which business is to be conducted;
(19)
State sales tax number of authorization;
(20)
State business license number, if required;
(21)
State and license tag number of each vehicle to be used in the business;
(22)
List of all cities where business has been conducted by the applicant within the 12-month period immediately preceding the application. The application and license shall be signed under oath by the applicant;
(23)
List of any and all felony criminal convictions and convictions of any crime involving moral turpitude of the applicant within five years prior to the date of the application;
(24)
A signed letter of approval from property owner (with dates of the sale and the address) where the peddler to conduct business.
(Code 1981, § 14-104; Ord. No. 2009-04, 5-4-2009)
Sec. 54-245. - Registered agent required; transient merchant.
(a)
Any transient merchant shall submit evidence with his/her license application showing that such transient merchant has filed with the city clerk the name and permanent address of the transient merchant's registered agent. Such agent shall be a local property owner and a resident of the county for the previous 12 months. It shall be the responsibility of this individual to act as agent of such transient merchant upon whom any process, notice, or demand required or permitted by law to be served upon the transient merchant may be served in the same manner provided by law for the service of a summons or complaint. The registered agent shall agree in writing to act as such agent, and a copy of the agreement shall be filed with the license application.
(b)
Any such registered agent shall act in the same capacity and have the same duties and responsibilities, and be subject to the same actions of the superior court, as would any agent registered as required by O.C.G.A. § 43-46-5 (H.B. 1568) of the general assembly of the state adopted in 1980 and known as the "Transient Merchant Act of Georgia."
(c)
In addition, all registered agents shall also complete an application containing the following information and file such with the administrative secretary before any license shall be issued to a transient merchant:
(1)
Name of the registered agent;
(2)
Permanent address and phone number of the registered agent;
(3)
The registered agent's social security number;
(4)
Length of time that the registered agent has been a resident of the county;
(5)
Location of property owned by this individual which would qualify one to act as a registered agent.
(d)
Such application shall be signed under oath by the registered agent.
(Code 1981, § 14-105; Ord. No. 2009-04, 5-4-2009)
Sec. 54-246. - Basis for disapproval or revocation of license.
No license shall be approved and any license previously issued may be revoked if an investigation determines that:
(1)
Any false statement, material omission, or untrue or misleading information is contained in or left out of the application;
(2)
The applicant or any principal participant in the business has been convicted within the past five years of a felony, or of any crime involving moral turpitude, whether in connection with operation of the business or not; or
(3)
Said business is operated, or is proposed to be operated, in violation of any law of the United States or the state, or in violation of any ordinance of the city.
(Code 1981, § 14-106; Ord. No. 2009-04, 5-4-2009)
Sec. 54-247. - Building official approval required.
No transient merchant, transient peddler, local peddler or solicitor shall set up a booth or stand, to conduct business or operation within the city until the building official of the city has reviewed the application to ensure compliance with zoning, building and safety code requirements of the city before issuing the license.
(Code 1981, § 14-107; Ord. No. 2009-04, 5-4-2009)
Sec. 54-248. - Permit and fee for transient merchant.
A transient merchant, as defined in section 54-242, shall pay a base regulatory fee that shall not be prorated. Said regulatory fee shall expire at 12:00 midnight on the 14th consecutive day after the effective day of the transient merchant permit, or at 12:00 midnight on December 31 of the year issued. The amount of the base regulatory fee shall be as established by the city council from time to time. After the 14th consecutive day from the effective date of the transient merchant permit for the calendar year in which the regulatory fee or any portion thereof during which the transient merchant conducts business within the city, the transient merchant shall pay an additional fee, for each day the transient merchant conducts business in the city. The amount of the additional fee shall be as established by the city council from time to time, and are available for public examination in the office of the city business license clerk. In the event that a higher regulatory fee is required of a transient merchant pursuant to another ordinance, statute or regulation, such higher regulatory fee shall apply. The maximum amount of regulatory fees to be paid by any transient merchant to the city in any calendar year pursuant to this section shall not exceed the sum of $600.00.
(Code 1981, § 14-108; Ord. No. 2009-04, 5-4-2009)
Sec. 54-249. - Bond requirement for transient merchant.
Before any license or permit shall be issued to a transient merchant pursuant to this chapter, the transient merchant shall file with the administrative secretary a bond binding the applicant to the city in the full sum of $1,000.00, executed by the applicant as principal and by a surety approved by the city clerk, conditioned that the applicant shall fully comply with the ordinances of the city and the statutes of the state governing the conduct of such business and will pay all judgments rendered against the applicant for any violation of such ordinances or statutes and all judgments that may be recovered against the applicant and by any person or persons for damages growing out of any misrepresentation, deception, or breach of warranty in the conduct of such business. It is further required that this bond be held, maintained, and in force for a period of not less than 12 months immediately following the last day of business in the city of the transient merchant.
(Code 1981, § 14-109; Ord. No. 2009-04, 5-4-2009)
Sec. 54-250. - License fee for transient peddler.
Before conducting any business regulated by this chapter, the applicant for a permit for a transient peddler as defined in this chapter shall pay the city a regulatory fee, that shall not to be prorated. The amount of the regulatory fee shall be as established by the city council from time to time. Said regulatory fee shall expire on the earlier of midnight on the 14th consecutive day after the effective day thereof, or at midnight on December 31 of the year issued. After the 14th consecutive day from the effective date of the transient peddler permit, the transient peddler shall pay to the city an additional regulatory fee for each day the transient peddler conducts business in the city. The amount of the additional fee shall be as established by the city council from time to time. In the event that a higher regulatory fee is required of a transient peddler pursuant to another ordinance, statute or regulation, such higher regulatory fee shall apply. The maximum amount of regulatory fees to be paid by any transient peddler in any one calendar year pursuant to this section to the city shall not exceed the sum of $600.00.
(Code 1981, § 14-110; Ord. No. 2009-04, 5-4-2009)
Sec. 54-251. - License fee for peddlers.
Peddlers may sell merchandise and products only if in compliance with the following provisions:
(a)
Peddler must obtain an annual peddler business license from the City of Alma. The cost of such license shall be $1,500.00.
(b)
No peddler may engage in the sale of any product on roadways, sidewalks, parks, or any other public property; provided, however, that authorized and appropriate products may be sold at the city farmers market located on 16th Street upon proper approval and licensing.
(c)
Peddlers may sell products and merchandise upon private property, but only with written consent of the land owner. The written consent shall be given on a form available from the city clerk. The written consent of the owner of the premises shall be posted or displayed by the peddler.
(d)
A peddler must obtain an appropriate state sales tax number and post or display proof of state sales tax number.
(Code 1981, § 14-111; Ord. No. 2009-04, 5-4-2009; Ord. of 11-6-2017(1), § 2)
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted Nov. 6, 2017, § 1, changed the definition of local peddler to peddler. At the editor's discretion, the title of § 54-251 has been changed from license fee for local peddler to license fee for peddlers.
Sec. 54-252. - Application for a permit; solicitor.
Any application for a permit to solicit funds for a charitable or religious organization, and any applicant for a permit to solicit for subscriptions, shall make application to the city treasurer. Such applicant shall provide the name and address of the applicant, the name and address of the business or organization represented, the dates during which activities will be conducted within the city, the identity of all persons to solicit within the city, and such other information that the administrative secretary may find necessary to identify the solicitors and define the activities to be conducted. Any such applicant who has not resided in the county for the preceding six months shall register at the city police department and shall be subject to police investigation of any and all solicitors listed in the application. Any solicitor's permit may be denied or revoked under any circumstances as shown in section 54-246.
(Code 1981, § 14-112; Ord. No. 2009-04, 5-4-2009)
Sec. 54-253. - Issuance of license or permit.
After all provisions of this chapter have been met by an applicant for a transient merchant's license, peddler's license or a solicitor's permit, the occupational license clerk shall be authorized to issue a license or permit.
(Code 1981, § 14-113; Ord. No. 2009-04, 5-4-2009)
Sec. 54-254. - Transient merchant, peddler and solicitor regulations.
The following regulations shall apply to any transient merchant, local peddler, or transient peddler doing business within the city, and to any solicitor for a charitable or religious organization or for subscriptions who is required to obtain a license or permit:
(1)
No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall be permitted to set up and operate a booth or stand on any public street or sidewalk, or in any other public area within the city, except with the written permission of the city manager.
(2)
No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall stand or sit in or near the entrance to any house or place of business, and no peddler or solicitor shall stand or sit in any place which may disrupt or impede pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
(3)
No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall offer to sell goods or services or solicit in vehicular traffic lanes of the city, and no such peddler or solicitor shall operate a road block directed towards vehicular traffic.
(4)
If any officer of the city police department or the revenue department should determine that pedestrian or vehicular traffic congestion is such that a public hazard or inconvenience would result from peddling, soliciting or selling in a congested area, such officer shall have authority to require any peddler or solicitor to move from the area.
(5)
No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall enter a private residence, place of business, public building, or other premises within the city under false pretenses for the purpose of peddling goods or services, soliciting orders for the sale of goods or services, soliciting subscriptions, or soliciting contributions; no peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant shall remain in or on such premises after the owner, occupant, or other person in charge has requested the peddler, solicitor or transient merchant to leave; and no peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant shall go in or on such premises when the owner, occupant, or other person in charge has displayed a "No Soliciting" sign or other similar sign on the premises.
(6)
Any stand or booth operated by or used by a transient merchant, transient peddler, local peddler or solicitor which is located on private property shall be located thereon with the expressed written permission of the property owner, and shall satisfy all zoning regulations of the city (as set forth in chapter 94), health, safety and building code requirements and regulations of the city, and of applicable state law. Upon request by the building official, the designee of the building official, or any law enforcement officer, the transient merchant, and transient, local peddler or solicitor shall present said written permission from the landowner. In addition to all other requirements of this chapter, and of applicable law the transient merchant, transient peddler, local peddler or solicitor shall notify the police department of the city of the location of the stand or booth wherein such business is to be conducted.
(7)
No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall harass or intimidate the public in any manner.
(8)
Each transient merchant, peddler or solicitor for subscriptions, and each solicitor for a charitable or religious organization shall be required to display a valid license or permit issued by the city, or a copy thereof, in a manner which can be clearly observed by any person being solicited for a sale, subscriptions, or contribution; however, each member or representative of a charitable or religious organization which has been issued a permit to solicit contributions within the city may, in lieu of displaying a copy of the permit, display an identification badge or insignia of the organization if such insignia has been established a statutory service or trademark, in a manner which can be clearly observed by any person being solicited.
(9)
When any officer of the city police department or any other authorized city officer, deems that a peddler, solicitor or transient merchant is in violation of any provision of this chapter, such officer shall have authority to direct the peddler, solicitor or transient merchant to correct the violation immediately, and such peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall comply with the directive or be subject to the penalties prescribed by this article.
(10)
No transient merchant, transient peddler, or local peddler or solicitor shall operate or conduct business within the city at any time in violation of state law, rules or regulations, or at any time in violation of any other ordinance or regulation or special order of the city commission, or on any day prior to 8:00 a.m. or later than one-half hour before sunset, or at any time on Sunday, except by specific appointment with or by invitation of the prospective customer.
(11)
No transient merchant, transient peddler, local peddler or solicitor shall conduct business or set up a sales booth or stand with the city except with the expressed written permission of the owner of the property where business is being conducted.
(Code 1981, § 14-114; Ord. No. 2009-04, 5-4-2009)
Sec. 54-255. - Compliance required; penalty for violation.
Any person doing business within the city as a transient merchant, transient peddler, local peddler, solicitor or in any other manner covered by this article who violates any provision of this article, or any merchant, peddler, or solicitor who makes any false statement in any application for a business license or permit shall be subject to revocation of any license or permit according to the procedures established by ordinance and shall, upon conviction before the recorder of the city, be fined in an amount not to exceed $200.00, or imprisoned not exceeding 90 days, either or both, in the discretion of the recorder. Any such person, firm or corporation shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or a portion thereof during which such violation of any of the provisions of this article is committed or continued.
(Code 1981, § 14-115; Ord. No. 2009-04, 5-4-2009)
Sec. 54-256. - Exceptions.
The provisions of this article shall not apply to the following:
(1)
Sales made to dealers or permanent merchants by commercial travelers selling in the ordinary course of business;
(2)
Sheriffs, constables, bona fide assignees, receivers or trustees in bankruptcy or other public officers selling goods, wares, and merchandise according to law;
(3)
Bona fide residents of the state selling fruits, vegetables, dressed meats, fowl or farm products which were produced on land within the state, owned or controlled by such vendor.
(Code 1981, § 14-116; Ord. No. 2009-04, 5-4-2009)
Secs. 54-257—54-275. - Reserved.
