ARTICLE IX. - FIRE DEPARTMENT
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-335. - Created; composition; appointments.
There is created a fire department, consisting of a chief, and such other members as may from time to time be provided for the city council. Members shall be appointed in the manner provided by law.
(Code 1981, § 2-160; Ord. of 10-7-1974, § a)
Sec. 2-336. - Function.
It shall be the function and duty of the fire department and every member thereof to extinguish accidental or destructive fires and to prevent the occurrence or spread of such fires.
(Code 1981, § 2-161; Ord. of 10-7-1974, § f)
Sec. 2-337. - Supervision by fire chief.
The fire chief shall have the control, subject to the order and direction of the city manager or council, of the fire department and all fire apparatus belonging to the city. The fire chief shall see to maintenance and repair of all fire equipment and apparatus and shall cause the same to be done without delay.
(Code 1981, § 2-162; Ord. of 10-7-1974, § b)
Sec. 2-338. - Command at fires.
In case of fire, the fire chief and the chief's assistants shall rank in the order named and the officer of the highest rank at the fire shall take command of the fire department, and direct the management thereof for the suppression of the fire in the best manner possible; and when it may be necessary for the protection of other property and to prevent the spread of the conflagration, the officer in command may cause buildings to be removed, torn down or destroyed in the best manner possible.
(Code 1981, § 2-163; Ord. of 10-7-1974, § c)
Sec. 2-339. - Keeping records; annual report.
The fire chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings of the company and the attendance of the members, a record of all fires and, annually, file with the city clerk a full report of such records and attendance and fires, which report shall be under oath.
(Code 1981, § 2-164; Ord. of 10-7-1974, § d)
Sec. 2-340. - Service outside corporate limits.
Members of the fire department are authorized to go outside the corporate limits of the city for the purpose of rendering aid in the case of accidents; provided, the fire department shall not render such service outside the corporate limits except upon orders of the mayor, city manager, chief of the fire department or assistant chief. However, where the city has undertaken by contract to render service to property outside the corporate limits the fire department may leave the corporate limits in the fulfillment of such contract.
(Code 1981, § 2-166; Ord. of 10-7-1974, § j)
Secs. 2-341—2-368. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MUTUAL AID

Sec. 2-369. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Aiding municipality means a municipality furnishing fire equipment to a stricken municipality, or to another aiding municipality.
Municipality means a city, town, village or incorporated fire protection district.
Mutual fire aid program means a plan or program as provided for herein whereby the municipalities participating in the program agree to come to one another's assistance in case of fire or other disaster too large for local equipment and personnel to handle.
Participating municipality means a municipality that participates in the mutual fire aid program by adopting an ordinance authorizing or approving the program and entering into an appropriate agreement (substantially as provided herein) with other participating municipalities for rendering and receiving aid in case of fire or other disaster.
Stricken municipality means a participating municipality in which a fire or other disaster occurs that is of such magnitude that it cannot be adequately coped with by local firefighting equipment and personnel.
(Code 1981, § 2-167; Ord. of 10-7-1974, § 1)
Sec. 2-370. - Agreement to effectuate program.
The chief of the fire department of this city, or the city manager, with the approval of the city council, is authorized on behalf of the city to enter into (and from time to time alter and amend) an agreement with any or all of the municipalities in the mutual aid area defining and putting into effect a mutual aid program providing generally, as follows:
(1)
In the event that, in the judgment of the officer in charge of the fire department of a stricken municipality, the available firefighting equipment of that municipality is inadequate to effectively cope with a fire or other disaster therein, said officer may call on a neighboring participating municipality to furnish firefighting equipment and personnel (to the extent specified in the agreement) to the stricken municipality, for use, either:
a.
In combating the fire or other casualty; or
b.
As a standby reserve to meet other calls that may occur before the local firefighting equipment is free to take care of them.
(2)
Each aiding municipality furnishing firefighting equipment to a stricken municipality shall have the right to call on another participating municipality for firefighting equipment and personnel (to the extent specified in the agreement) as a standby reserve to take the place, in part, of the equipment furnished to the stricken municipality until such equipment shall be returned.
(3)
On receipt of a call under subsection (1) or (2) of this section, the aiding municipality called upon shall (to the extent provided in the agreement) furnish the equipment and personnel called for by the stricken municipality, or by the first aiding municipality except that each aiding municipality may always be permitted to retain sufficient firefighting equipment and personnel to fight any fire or to meet any emergency within its own boundaries that may reasonably be anticipated.
(Code 1981, § 2-168; Ord. of 10-7-1974, § 2)
Sec. 2-371. - Preparation.
The chiefs of the fire departments of the municipalities participating in such mutual aid shall prepare a mutual aid program which shall incorporate the necessary provisions. Such mutual aid program shall, after approval by the corporate authorities of the municipalities participating, be in full force and effect and binding on such participating communities.
(Code 1981, § 2-169; Ord. of 10-7-1974, § 3)
Sec. 2-372. - Obligation of the city.
The city shall furnish firefighting equipment and personnel for use outside its boundaries, as provided in the mutual fire aid program as provided for herein, to any municipality that has agreed to conform to said program and has assumed the obligations imposed upon it thereby.
(Code 1981, § 2-170; Ord. of 10-7-1974, § 4)
Secs. 2-373—2-402. - Reserved.
