ARTICLE III. - MAYOR AND COUNCIL
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 33. - Elections.
(a)
The mayor and those members of the city council who are serving as such on the effective date of this Act, and any person selected to fill a vacancy in any such office, shall continue to serve as such mayor or members until the regular expiration of their respective terms of office and upon the election and qualification of their respective successors. On and after January 1, 2003, the governing authority of the City of Alma shall consist of five councilmembers all of whom shall be elected from council districts described in subsection (b) of this section and the mayor who is elected at large as provided in this Act.
(b)
For purposes of electing members of the city council, the City of Alma is divided into five council districts. One member of the city council shall be elected from each such district. The five council districts shall be and correspond to those five numbered districts described in and attached to and made a part of this Act and further identified as Plan Name: almap3 Plan Type: Local User: Blake Administrator: Alma.
(c)
When used in such attachment, the terms 'Tract' and 'BG' (Block Group) shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. The separate numeric designations in a Tract description which are underneath a 'BG' heading shall mean and describe individual Blocks within a Block Group as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of the City of Alma which is not included in any such district described in that attachment shall be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of the City of Alma which is described in that attachment as being in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia.
(d)
The mayor and members of the city council shall be elected at the general election on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November, 2003. The mayor and members of the city council shall serve for the terms of office of four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
(e)
Council Districts 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, as they exist on the effective date of this Act, shall continue to be designated as Council Districts 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, respectively, for purposes of present representation only. For purposes of qualification and election in the November, 2003, general election, such districts shall be as newly described under this Act. On and after the effective date of this Act and through December 31, 2005, there shall be a sixth council district which shall be all of the territory within the city limits. The councilmember representing Council District 6 on the effective date of this Act shall continue to represent Council District 6, as newly described until December 31, 2005, without an election. Such Council District 6 shall be abolished on December 31, 2005.
(f)
No person shall be a member of the council if that person is ineligible for such office pursuant to Code Section 45-2-1 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 45-2-1] or any other general law.
(g)
In order to be elected as a member of the council from a council district, a person must have resided in that district for at least six months prior to election thereto and must receive a majority of the votes cast for that office in that district only and not at large. Only electors who are residents of that council district may vote for a member of the council for that district. At the time of qualifying for election as a member of the council from a council district, each candidate for such office shall specify the council district for which that person is a candidate. A person elected as a member of the council from a council district must continue to reside in that district during that person's term of office or that office shall thereupon become vacant.
(h)
The mayor may reside anywhere within the City of Alma and must receive a majority of the votes cast for such office in the entire city. The mayor must continue to reside within the City of Alma during that person's term of office or that office shall thereupon become vacant. A person must have resided in the city at least six months prior to election thereto.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 6.01; 1976 Ga. Laws (Act No. 352), p. 4514, § 6.01; 2003 Ga. Laws (Act No. 161), p. 3940, § 1(6.01); Ord. of 9-8-1985; Ord. No. 1986-5, 6-16-1986; Ord. No. 2008-10, § 1(6.01), 4-7-2003)
Editor's note— The descriptions of the council districts contained in the attachment referred to as "Plan Name: almap3 Plan Type: LOCAL User: Buck Administrator: Alma," in the Ordinance No. 2008-10, § 1, adopted April 7, 2003 [2003 Ga. Laws (Act No. 161), p. 3940, § 1(6.01)], were not included in this printing of the Charter at the discretion of the editor.
Sec. 34. - Filling vacancies.
(a)
In the event the office of mayor shall become vacant for any cause whatsoever, the mayor pro tem shall assume all the duties of mayor until the next regular city general election which occurs at least sixty (60) days after the creation of said vacancy, at which time the office of mayor shall be filled for the unexpired term of office. Provided, however, in the event the mayor pro tem shall resign as mayor pro tem and elect not to assume the duties of mayor, then the council shall appoint one of its members as mayor pro tem to fill the vacancy as set forth above.
(b)
In the event that the office of council member shall become vacant for any cause whatsoever, the vacancy created shall be filled, as soon as practicable, by the mayor and council by appointment of some qualified citizen who shall hold office until the next general city election which occurs at least sixty (60) days after the creation of said vacancy, at which time the office of council member shall be filled for the unexpired term.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 6.02)
Sec. 35. - Reserved.
Sec. 36. - Oath of office.
On January first or within ten (10) days thereafter, after the election of said mayor and councilmen, and before they enter upon the discharge of their official duties, the mayor shall, before some officer authorized to administer oaths, take and subscribe the following oath: "I do solemnly swear that I will, to the best of my ability, discharge the duties of the Mayor of the City of Alma during my continuance of office, so help me God," and the mayor, after being so qualified, shall have full power and authority to administer a like oath to each member of the council.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 6.04)
Sec. 37. - Mayor's duties and powers.
[The] mayor shall be the chief executive of said city; he shall see that all laws, ordinances, resolutions and rules of the city are faithfully executed; he shall have general jurisdiction of the affairs of the city. He shall have control of the police of the city, and may appoint special policemen, when, in his judgment, it is necessary. He shall have the same power as the justice of the peace, to witness and attest papers, to administer oaths, to issue criminal warrants and to hold courts of inquiry; he may commit offenders tried before him as a court of inquiry, or may admit them to bail in cases where a justice of the peace has power to bail. He shall have authority to temporarily suspend any city officer, reporting his actions and his reasons therefor to the next regular or called meeting of the mayor and council, who shall hear all of the facts of the case and by a majority vote may either discharge, suspend for a definite term or reinstate said officer.
The mayor shall be clothed with the power of veto; it shall be his right to veto all ordinances, resolutions, permits, and privileges passed on or granted by said council if he sees fit to do so, and said veto shall in no wise be affected except by a three-fifths ( 3/5 ) vote of council.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 7.01)
Sec. 38. - Mayor pro tempore; temporary chairman.
At the first regular meeting after election and organization, the council shall elect some one of their number as mayor pro tempore who shall preside over their body in the absence of the mayor and shall be clothed with all the rights and powers of the mayor during the absence of the mayor. Before entering upon any of the duties as such mayor pro tempore, he shall take such oath as the council shall prescribe for the faithful discharge of his duties. In the event of the absence of both the mayor and mayor pro tempore, the council shall elect a chairman from their body who shall be clothed with all the rights and powers of the mayor and shall serve during the absence of both the mayor and mayor pro tempore upon his taking the same oath as mayor. In case of the death, resignation, removal, or disqualification of the mayor, the mayor pro tempore upon taking the oath as mayor shall serve as mayor with all the rights, powers, and duties, of the latter officer.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 7.03)
Sec. 39. - Salaries.
The governing authority of the City of Alma is authorized to fix the salary, compensation and expenses of the municipal employees and members of the governing authority, provided that no action to increase compensation shall be taken until notice of intent to do so shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in such municipality at least once a week for three consecutive weeks immediately preceding the week in which such action is taken.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 7.02; 1974 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1329), p. 3751, § 1(7.02))
Sec. 40. - Committees may be provided for.
The mayor and city council may provide by ordinance for such committees as they may deem fit for the administration of the municipal affairs of said city, prescribing the duties of such committees and defining their authority.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 12.05)
Sec. 41. - Council affirmation of committees and authorities.
All special, and standing committees and authorized authorities to be appointed by the city government shall be submitted to council by the mayor for affirmation together with the terms of office of such member of the committee or authority.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 12.06)
Sec. 42. - Meetings; time and place; presiding officers; quorum.
The mayor and council shall meet for the transaction of business at such times and places as they may prescribe. At all the meetings of the mayor and council the mayor, if present, shall preside, and he may vote in all cases of a tie; he may also vote in all elections for officers who are elected by the board, whether there be a tie or not. The mayor and three (3) members of the council shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. A less number, in the absence of a quorum, may adjourn a regular meeting to a future time.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 12.01)
Sec. 43. - Impeachment—Causes.
If the mayor or any member of the city council shall be guilty of malpractice, wilful [willful] neglect of their duties, abuse of their powers, or any other unbecoming conduct, they shall be subject to impeachment by the city council, and upon conviction, shall be removed from office.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 13.01)
Sec. 44. - Same—Trial.
In impeachment trials before the city council, the affirmative vote of at least four (4) members shall be required to convict, and the mayor shall be entitled to vote except in case he is on trial. The city recorder shall preside in all impeachment trials unless he is disqualified, in which case the presiding judge of the Superior Court of Bacon County shall designate some qualified lawyer to preside over such trial, but such officer presiding over said impeachment trial shall not vote, even in case of a tie. The city recorder shall not be qualified to preside over such impeachment trial unless he shall have been engaged actively in the practice of law for at least five (5) years next preceding such trial. On an impeachment trial, a tie vote shall acquit the accused. An impeachment resolution against the mayor shall not be subject to his veto. A judgment of conviction in an impeachment proceeding shall vacate the office of the convicted mayor or councilman.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 13.02)
DIVISION 2. - LEGISLATIVE

Sec. 45. - General purposes; appropriations to effect.
The [ ] mayor and council shall have the authority to make and pass such ordinances, bylaws, rules and regulations for the government of said city as may be necessary and proper to carry into effect the powers herein enumerated and to provide for the good order, peace, health and general welfare of said citizens of said city as the mayor and council may deem proper and necessary, being also authorized to appoint such committees of council as may be necessary, and such boards, bureaus and officials as may be necessary to carry into effect the powers herein granted. The mayor and council shall also have the power and authority to appropriate and pay out such funds as may be necessary for carrying into effect the powers above granted.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 12.04)
Sec. 46. - Power; maximum penalty.
The mayor and council shall have full power to pass all ordinances, bylaws and regulations which they may deem necessary to the good government of said city, the protection of property, peace, good order, health, comfort and convenience of the citizens thereof and to fix suitable penalties for the violation of the same. They may provide for punishing violators of the ordinances, bylaws, and resolutions by fine, imprisonment in the city prison, or working on public works; the fines in no case to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and the imprisonment in the city jail or work camp not to exceed one year, and either one or all of said penalties may be imposed at the discretion of the recorder's court, (or mayor's court, as it may be).
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 12.02)
Sec. 47. - Failure or refusal to vote on measure.
The failure or refusal of a member of the city council or of any commission, committee, board, bureau or agency of the city to vote when the proper time comes to vote, on a question pending before such city council, commission, committee, board, bureau, or agency, at a meeting legally held and at which such member is in attendance, shall be construed as a vote in favor of the pending proposal. The failure or refusal of a majority of the members of any body duly convened shall be counted as votes in favor of the measure under consideration and amounts to its adoption.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 12.03)
Sec. 48. - Ordinance form; procedure; emergencies.
(a)
Every proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing and in the form required for final adoption. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not expressed in its title. The enacting clause shall be "The Council of the City of Alma hereby ordains…." and every ordinance shall so begin.
(b)
An ordinance may be introduced by any council member and read at a regular or special meeting of the city council. Ordinances shall be considered and adopted or rejected by the city council in accordance with the rules which it shall establish; provided, however, an ordinance shall not be adopted the same day it is introduced, except for emergency ordinances provided below. Upon introduction of any ordinance, the clerk shall as soon as possible distribute a copy to the mayor and to each council member and shall file a reasonable number of copies in the office of the clerk and at such other public places as the city council may designate.
(c)
To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property or public peace, the city council may convene on call of the mayor or two (2) council members and promptly adopt an emergency ordinance, but such ordinance may not levy taxes, grant, renew or extend a franchise, regulate the rate charged by any public utility for its services, or authorize the borrowing of money except for loans to be repaid within thirty (30) days. An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form prescribed for ordinances generally except that it shall be plainly designated as an emergency ordinance and shall contain, after the enacting clause, a declaration stating that an emergency exists and describing it in clear and specific terms. An emergency ordinance may be adopted with or without amendment or rejected at the meeting at which it is introduced, but the affirmative vote of at least three (3) council members shall be required for adoption. It shall become effective upon adoption or at such later time as it may specify. Every emergency ordinance shall automatically stand repealed thirty (30) days following the date upon which it was adopted, but this shall not prevent reenactment of the ordinance in the manner specified in this section if the emergency still exists. An emergency ordinance may also be repealed by adoption of a repealing ordinance in the same manner specified in this section for adoption of emergency ordinances.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 1.04)
Sec. 49. - Authority to adopt and enforce codes.
The city council is hereby authorized to adopt, or incorporate by reference in an adopting ordinance, any code relating to a subject in regard to which the city council has authority to legislate. "Code" as used in this section means a printed or otherwise reproduced compilation of rules and regulations which have been prepared by a technical trade association or group, and shall include, but without being limited to, the following: Building codes, plumbing codes, electrical codes, health or sanitation codes, fire prevention codes, together with any other codes embracing rules or regulations pertaining to subjects which are proper municipal legislative matters; provided, however, no such electrical codes shall be applicable to work done by or for public utilities. Prior to the adoption or incorporation by reference of any such code, at least three (3) copies of same shall be filed in the office of the city clerk and shall remain there on file subject to public inspection so long as such code remains in effect. Any penalty clauses contained in such codes may not be adopted by reference, but shall be set forth in full in the adopting ordinance. Amendments to or revisions of such codes may be adopted or incorporated by reference in the same manner as authorized for their original adoption. The city council is hereby authorized to appoint officers, boards and commissions to administer and enforce codes adopted under the authority of this section.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 20.01)
Sec. 50. - Existing ordinances preserved.
This Act shall not abolish any of the ordinances now in effect in the city except where they are in conflict with the provisions of this Act, but the same shall be preserved and continued.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 23.01)
