ARTICLE II. - POWERS

Sec. 8. - General law.
The council in its discretion may elect to use the provisions of any general laws of the state in addition to or instead of the provisions of this Act.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 25.02)
Sec. 9. - General subjects enumerated.
The city shall have power and authority to:
(1)
Buy and sell water, gas, electricity, and other public utilities at cost or for a profit, both within and without the territorial boundaries of the city; erect, establish, and operate all facilities including lines, mains, pipes, machinery, plants, and structures, necessary for the maintenance and operation of such utilities, including the repair and replacement of the same.
(2)
Adopt ordinances binding on everyone within the city to protect the health, peace, safety, good order, dignity, and general welfare of the city and the inhabitants thereof.
(3)
Exercise complete control over all the public streets, roads, ways, drives, lands, alleys, sidewalks, crossings, and parks of the city. It shall have full and complete power and authority to open, curb, locate, relocate, replace, work, close, straighten, abandon, drain, pave, and repave the same, or cause the same to be done.
(4)
Establish a system of numbering houses in the city, and to assign appropriate street numbers to the various houses on the various streets, alleys, roads, lanes, drives, and ways of the city, and compel said houses to be properly numbered.
(5)
Control by ordinance the time, manner, terms, conditions, and places, of all sewer connections and how much surface or drainage water may flow into such sewers, and the terms and conditions on which it will be permitted, and at what points, and generally all matters relating to the construction, use, control, maintenance, repair, replacement, improvement, and removal of sewers, and sewer connections, and the cutting and replacing of pavement and other adjacent structures. These matters shall at all times be under the control and regulation of the city council in its fair and legal discretion.
(6)
Control by ordinance the construction, maintenance, and removal and replacement of all city culverts, pipes, sewers, drains, private drains, water closets, urinals, privies, toilets, and the like, and provide for their location, structure, size, and use, and pass such ordinances concerning them and their use, in all particulars, as may be deemed best for the health, comfort and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city. The city council shall have power and authority to prescribe by ordinance the kind of water closets, urinals, privies, and plumbing which shall be used in the corporate limits, and to condemn and compel the disuse of same when they do not conform to such requirements or when they shall become and are declared a nuisance by a court having jurisdiction. The city council shall also have power and authority to compel the owner or owners of property within the city to connect water closets, sinks, commodes, and urinals, on their property with the sewers and sanitary system of said city when such property is located within a reasonable distance of such sewer, and under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by ordinance. If any property owner shall fail or refuse to make connections as required by city ordinance or resolution, such owner shall be punished as provided by ordinance.
(7)
Contract with other municipalities and political subdivisions, and cooperate with the other municipalities, and political subdivisions, in acquiring, establishing, constructing, building, maintaining, and/or operating such garbage disposal, water, sewerage, electric and/or gas plants, lines and/or facilities and streets, sidewalks, and parks within and without the limits of the city, as well as, library and other institutions, utilities, and/or services, in addition to existing plants, systems, building facilities, lines and services as the city council may at any time deem for the best interest of said city.
(8)
Levy, assess and collect taxes to raise sufficient revenue to pay for the improvements, services, equipment, and/or facilities provided for in any contract or agreement to which the city is or may become a party.
(9)
Issue and sell bonds for the purpose of paying obligations of the city and interest thereon, and for any public or other purpose allowed by the constitution and laws of this State, and to issue and sell revenue anticipation certificates as now or hereafter allowed by law.
(10)
Provide by ordinance for reporting all property in the city subject to taxation by the city, whether such property be realty or personalty, tangible or intangible, and to require all persons owning such property to file a written statement and description of such property with the fair market value thereof under oath.
(11)
Prescribe by ordinance a penalty for failure to make such return or report within the time prescribed by ordinance; provided such penalty shall not exceed the sum of double the amount of tax levied against such person or taxpayer failing to make or file such return. Such penalty shall be a lien upon property of the defaulter, and shall be collected in the same manner as the taxes of the city. Such penalty shall be established at the discretion of the mayor and council at the time taxes are levied.
(12)
Assess the costs of sewers against abutting lots of real estate and the owners thereof on each side of a street in which such sewer is laid or constructed, and the owners of such abutting real estate shall have the right to have the drains from their abutting lots connected with such sewer at their cost under such rules and regulations as the city council may prescribe by ordinance.
(13)
Control and/or prohibit the manufacture and/or sale of all alcoholic beverages; and tax, license, regulate and control hotels, motels, boarding-houses, trailer parks, apartments, restaurants, theaters, dance halls, athletic and sporting events and places and all other entertainment activities, and places, including private clubs; regulate the operation of all vehicles used for pleasure or business, and garages, mills, factories, ginneries, and gas and water companies; regulate the use of its streets for all purposes, and prevent their use for business, or regulate business use by taxation and otherwise, including the right to impose a reasonable license tax for use of streets for business purposes; prevent stock and poultry from running at large, and seize and impound any domestic or wild animal or fowl found at large within the city limits, and provide by proper ordinance for the redemption or sale of the same, and adopt such ordinances as may be considered necessary to carry out the provisions of this Act.
(14)
Grant franchises, easements and rights-of-way over, in, under, and on public streets, lanes, alleys, sidewalks, parks and other property of said city on such terms and conditions and for such lengths of time as it may fix; provided, franchises shall not be granted without fair and adequate compensation provided for in the franchise ordinance; and provided further, no such franchise shall be granted until notice has been published at least one time one week preceding the week in which the city council meets to consider such application, stating the nature of the franchise, the terms of such grant and the time at which the city council will act upon such application.
(15)
Employ or cause to be employed a certified public accountant to examine and audit all books of account, and pertinent records of all officers, employees, and agencies of said city relative to the financial affairs of the city whenever and as often as the city council shall consider proper, and shall fix his compensation. The compensation of such accountant may be fixed on an hourly or other basis before, after, or at the time of his employment. It shall require at least one examination and report every year, a financial statement shall be published immediately following each audit.
(16)
Pave or otherwise improve the whole or any part of any street, sidewalk or alley of said city, without giving any railroad company, or other property holder or occupant on the street the option to pave or otherwise improve the same or any part thereof by themselves or by contract.
(17)
Define a nuisance in the city and provide for its abatement. The recorder's court of the city shall have jurisdiction of all nuisance abatement proceedings in the city.
(18)
Remove any building, stall, booth, tent, awning, steps, gate, fence, post, wire, stump, tree, pole, or other obstruction or nuisance in a public street, sidewalk or way or so near thereto as to constitute a defect or render the city liable in damage for not removing it, or cause the aforesaid obstruction or nuisance to be removed at the owner's expense if the owner shall fail or refuse to remove the same within such reasonable time as may be fixed by order of the city recorder, or mayor when acting as recorder, and execution shall issue against said owner for the expense thereof as in case of executions for unpaid taxes, and said owner shall also be subject to punishment for maintaining a nuisance.
(19)
Regulate, lay out, open, relocate, straighten, improve, grade, and control old and new streets, lanes, alleys, street curbing, street crossings, and sidewalks, and no person or corporation shall at any time hereafter lay out, locate, relocate, open, extend, or close any street, lane, road, alley, way, sidewalk, park or square contrary to the plan of the city nor without the consent of the city council, and any application for this purpose shall, with an appropriate plat, first be filed with the city engineer or such officer as the city council may designate by ordinance, and notice thereof shall be given the public or parties in interest by publication of notice as required by law and the ordinances of the city. If such application is granted, the owner shall relinquish all rights and titles to the area involved and the same shall pass to and become vested in the city, and all management and control over the same shall pass unequivocally to the city.
(20)
Impose, and collect a license fee, and a property tax on dogs kept within the city, in such manner as may be deemed best by the mayor and council, but not to exceed the tax placed on other property of similar monetary value.
(21)
License electricians, plumbers, air conditioning, heating, and refrigeration contractors, and installers of gas appliances, and to require examinations as a condition precedent to the granting of such license, create examining boards, and prescribe by ordinance the minimum requirements required to pass such examinations, and to appoint the members of the examining boards. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to apply to work done by or for public utilities.
(22)
Condemn or cause worn out sewers, street pavement, street curbing, or sidewalks within the city to be condemned, reconstructed, replaced or repaired, as the case may require, at the expense of owners of lots of real estate abutting thereon (or against the real estate and owner or owners thereof for whose sole benefit such improvement exists in case of sewers laid solely for the benefit of persons other than owners of real estate abutting thereon), and assess the cost thereof for the sole benefit of which such sewer exists, as in case of original construction of the same kind of improvements.
(23)
Provide, by ordinance, a civil service system for city officers and employees, and/or provide by ordinance for a system of retirement for city officers and employees, which retirement system may be that of old age and survivor's insurance. A civil service board for this purpose shall be appointed consisting of five (5) men for the terms of one (1) year, two (2) years, three (3) years, four (4) years, and five (5) years, respectively, the mayor appointing with the approval of the council, a member to such board at the beginning of each city fiscal year to succeed the member whose term expires.
(24)
Regulate the subdivision of land in the city by requiring and regulating the preparation and presentation of preliminary plats, by establishing minimum improvements to be made or to be guaranteed to be made by the subdivider, by setting forth the procedure to be followed by the planning commission in applying rules, regulations, and standards, and by providing for penalties for violation of aforesaid rules, regulations, and standards.
(25)
The mayor and council shall have authority by ordinance to provide, for, to enforce, to levy and to collect the cost of sanitary and health services necessary in the operation of the city from all individuals, firms and corporations, residing in or doing business in said city benefiting from such services. Such authority shall include power to assess, levy and collect annual or monthly sanitary taxes or fees in such amount or amounts, and based upon and in accordance with such classifications of property and sanitary service or services provided, as may be fixed by ordinance. Said sanitary taxes and the assessment thereof shall be a charge and lien against the real property in respect to which said taxes are so assessed, and the owner or owners thereof, superior to all liens except liens for city and county property taxes, and shall be enforceable in the same manner and under the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 2.00; 1976 Ga. Laws (Act No. 354), p. 4517; Ord. of 12-16-1974)
Sec. 10. - Property—Authority to acquire, hold and convey.
The city shall have power and authority to rent, lease, buy, sell, or otherwise hold or to dispose of any or all of its buildings, and parks or other real estate for a fair and adequate consideration, in or outside the city limits.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 1.06)
Sec. 11. - Same—Power of eminent domain; generally.
The city, as a body politic, shall have the full power and authority to acquire, by the exercise of the power of eminent domain, any real property or any interest therein, within or without the corporate limits of the said city, which it may deem necessary for any corporate purpose.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 16.01)
Sec. 12. - Same—Specific uses.
The city shall have the power and authority to condemn under the rules and methods and regulations provided by law, land and property for any public use, to-wit: For streets, alleys, sidewalks, ditches, drainage, public plants, cemeteries, jails and for any and all public uses, when needed.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 16.02)
Sec. 13. - Streets, sidewalks, etc.—Generally; assessing improvement costs.
The city shall have the power and authority to open, lay out, grade, widen, construct, pave, repave, curb, and otherwise permanently improve any and all streets, sidewalks, and ways, and to maintain, relocate, repair, repave, extend, abandon or close them, and to construct, maintain, repair, replace, and remove street curbing, sidewalks, alleys or ways. To provide funds for these purposes, all sidewalks, curbing, and service sewer construction costs, except costs of service sewers which cannot serve the abutting real estate nor the owners thereof, shall be assessed against the abutting real estate and the owners thereof, as provided in section 50 [14 herein], but only on the side of the street on which such improvements are made, if on one side only. One-third ( 1/3 ) of the cost of street construction may be assessed against abutting real estate and owners thereof on one side of such street, and one-third ( 1/3 ) against abutting real estate and the owners thereof on the other side, the city paying the remaining one-third ( 1/3 ). In real estate subdivisions, all street construction costs shall be assessed against the abutting real estate and owners thereof. Cost of maintenance and repair of all city streets shall be paid out of the city treasury, except in special cases provided for by the city ordinances.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 16.05)
Sec. 14. - Same—Mayor and council powers generally; assessing sidewalk costs.
The mayor and council shall have the superintendence and control of the streets, sidewalks, bridges, and alleys, and of the public squares, parks and cemeteries of the city, and may prohibit or remove all obstructions of or encroachments thereon or interference therewith. They are vested with the power to lay out new streets or alleys; to widen or straighten any of the streets or sidewalks or alleys of the city. The mayor and council shall have the power and authority to pave or otherwise permanently improve the sidewalks of said city with whatever material and in whatever manner they deem proper and best and to assess one-half (½) the cost of so paving or otherwise improving the sidewalks, including all necessary curbings, against the real estate abutting on the sidewalk so paved or otherwise improved; and to enforce the collection thereof they shall have power to issue executions against the owner or owners of said abutting property, as city tax executions are issued, and to order, levy on and sell the abutting property.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 16.03)
Sec. 15. - Same—Mayor and council control; enacting traffic ordinances.
The mayor and council shall have exclusive control of the streets, sidewalks, and bridges of the city; they may enact such ordinances as they may deem best for the regulation of traffic upon said streets, sidewalks and bridges, and provide suitable punishment for the violation of these ordinances.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 16.04)
Sec. 16. - Same—Regulating vehicular use generally.
The city council shall have power and authority by ordinance, to tax, license and regulate the operation of automobiles, railroad trains, steam engines, locomotives, streetcars, buses, trolley cars, taxis, bicycles, motorcycles and other vehicles within the city limits and fix maximum and minimum speed limits for them, and to prescribe both minimum qualifications of operators of such vehicles and the manner in which the same may be operated, and to require such machines and their owners to be registered, and said council may make such other provisions as may seem prudent for the safety of the driver, passengers and the public of any vehicle.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 13.03)
Sec. 17. - Same—Providing for parking facilities and meters.
The city shall have power and authority to regulate vehicular traffic and relieve congestion of the same by use of devices known as parking meters, by means of which the time a vehicle occupies a designated area for parking in a street is measured by a timing device which is operated by depositing a coin therein, and to use the proceeds from the operation of parking meters to pay for off-street parking facilities or to contract with one or more other persons, firms or corporations to provide such off-street parking facilities, and to rent such facilities and use the rents therefrom to further provide off-street parking for all kinds of vehicles. Any such surplus funds may be used as other reserve funds.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 3.00)
Sec. 18. - Same—Off-street parking facilities specifically.
The city council shall have the power and authority to construct, maintain and operate off-street parking facilities and to acquire land and other necessary property for such purposes and to charge, contract for and receive rentals and parking fees for the use of such facilities and parking spaces therein.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 13.06)
Sec. 19. - Park, tree, playground and recreation center.
The city, by resolution or ordinance may establish and/or maintain a park, tree, playground, and recreation center and in so doing may act jointly with Bacon County, in the establishing and maintaining said center or centers in accordance with the laws of the state as codified in sections 69-601 through 69-612 of the 1933 Code of Georgia, as amended.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 24.01)
Sec. 20. - Nuisances—Authority; abatement notice generally.
The city shall provide by ordinance for any building, structure, or condition maintained in violation of any valid law of this state or any valid ordinance of the city to be adjudged a nuisance and for its abatement at the owner's expense upon his failure or refusal to abate same within ten (10) days after written notice from the city to do so.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 3.01)
Sec. 21. - Same—Nonresidents; procedure.
In nuisance abatement proceedings by said city in the recorder's court of said city, where the nuisance consists of a condition or conditions of property of an individual residing without the limits of the city or of a corporation having its office without the limits of the city, notice shall be served upon such owner or his agent within Bacon County, if either can be found within the county, but if said owner cannot be served in such manner, a warrant for the arrest of such individual owner shall issue against such owner and shall be executed by any sheriff, deputy sheriff, constable, marshal, policeman or coroner of any city, town, or county, in this state, and the city recorder of Alma, shall cause such nuisance to be abated at the expense of such owner, and an execution for such expense shall be issued by the city clerk, which execution shall be levied on any real estate or personal property of the accused which may be located within the city or wherever it may be found, and such expense and execution shall constitute a lien against all property of such accused owner, which lien shall have priority to and be superior to all other liens except liens for taxes. Property levied upon under such action shall be advertised and sold as property is sold for taxes in the city, unless such levy is arrested by affidavit of illegality or other appropriate proceedings, and all further proceedings in relation to such execution shall be the same as in case of executions of the city for street paving costs and similar assessments.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 3.02)
Sec. 22. - Appropriations for donating to public causes or institutions.
The mayor and city council shall have authority to make donations out of the funds in the city treasury, not otherwise appropriated, for the support of the poor, for public libraries, and for public hospitals, public rest rooms, and other institutions of like character, upon two-thirds ( 2/3 ) vote of the council.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 20.02)
Sec. 23. - Building regulations—Authority to prescribe.
The mayor and council may prescribe by ordinance such rules and regulations as they see fit for the regulation of all buildings erected within the corporate limits of said city, or for the repair of such buildings. They may prescribe the materials to be used and the manner of erecting or repairing the same.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 21.01)
Sec. 24. - Same—Fire limits.
The city council may by ordinance establish fire limits, and enlarge or reduce the same as the safety of the city requires. When fire limits are established it shall be lawful to prohibit the erection of any structure therein of any substance except incombustible material, or such as may be allowed by ordinance.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 1.05)
Sec. 25. - Charity or relief solicitations may be regulated.
Soliciting charity or relief campaigns within the city shall be subject to ordinance regulation by the city council.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 13.04)
Sec. 26. - Public entertainments may be regulated.
The mayor and city council may prescribe by ordinance for the regulation of all public entertainment, shows, carnivals, circuses, parades, and may prescribe when such entertainments may be held, as well as the manner in which the same may be conducted.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 21.02)
Sec. 27. - Inflammable and explosive materials to be regulated.
The mayor and council shall regulate by ordinances the sale, storage and keeping of gasoline, kerosene, gunpower [gunpowder], dynamite, nitroglycerine and other inflammable or explosive materials within the city limits.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 13.05)
Sec. 28. - Pursuits which may be regulated, licensed and prohibited.
The mayor and council shall have full power and authority to license, regulate, control or prohibit theatrical exhibitions, merry-go-rounds, circuses, dance halls, skating rinks, shows and exhibitions of all kinds; drays, automobiles, jitneys, taxis, and public or private vehicles of all kinds; traveling vendors of patent medicines, soaps, notions and all other articles; hotels, motels, boardinghouses, restaurants, lunch stands, fish stands or markets, meat markets, mercantile establishments, chain stores, and laundries; billiard, pool and other kinds of tables; tenpins, shooting galleries, and bowling alleys; slot machines or any games operated by "coin-in-slot" devices for carrying on games, as well as vending machines, generally; bakeries, dairies, barbershops, livery stables, sale stables, slaughterhouses, tanyards, garage or motor vehicle repair shops, blacksmith shops, gins, sawmills, planing mills, auctioneers, peddlers, and pawnbrokers; agents of fire, health, accident, indemnity, casualty, and life insurance companies; the sale of all kinds of beverages, cigars, cigarettes, and tobacco products of all kinds; retailers of malt, vinous, and spirituous liquors, dealers in or dispensers of gasoline, either at wholesale or retail, from tanks or otherwise; and all businesses, occupations, professions, callings, trades, or avocations which, under the laws of the state, are subject to license. The city shall have the power to require registration of, to assess and to collect a license tax on, all such businesses, etc., and all other businesses, trades, professions, occupations, or callings conducted or engaged in within the corporate limits of the city, and such occupation tax or license tax shall constitute a lien upon all the property of the taxpayer or person liable and shall take rank and be enforceable in the same manner as ad valorem taxes due the city; and the city may require the registration of, and payment of license tax on, all such businesses, etc., as a prerequisite to the right to operate or engage in said business in the city. The city shall have power to punish anyone conducting or engaging in any such business, etc., without first registering and paying said license taxes. The city shall have full and complete power to provide by ordinance for classification of all classes and businesses, and all other rules and regulations necessary and proper in the premises.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 19.08)
Sec. 29. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Former § 29 of this compilation, the same being § 15.01 of the Charter Act, pertaining to voter registration and qualifications, is deleted. The city's authority is conferred by Ga. Code § 34A-501, which section prescribes voter qualifications.
Sec. 30. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Former § 30 of this compilation, the same being § 15.02 of the charter act, pertaining to certifying, examining and preserving ballots, is deleted. The matters are controlled by Ga. Code chs. 34A-12, 34A-14.
Sec. 31. - Group insurance.
[For law on this subject, see Georgia Code, section 69-1019.]
Editor's note— Sections 31 and 32, derived from Ga. Laws 1967, p. 2643, §§ 20.03 and 20.04, dealing with group insurance, were deleted and the bracketed sentence inserted, on instruction to the editor.
Sec. 32. - Reserved.
