ARTICLE VII. - FINANCE

Sec. 76. - Fiscal year.
The mayor and council shall set the fiscal year by ordinance. Said fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for financial accounting and reporting of each and every office, department or institution, agency and activity of the city government, unless otherwise provided by state or federal law.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 18.04; 1976 Ga. Laws (Act No. 353), p. 4516, § 1; Ord. of 12-16-1974, § 1)
Sec. 77. - Budget.
No money shall be expended by the city during any year until a budget has been prepared and adopted, as herein provided. The budget shall include in its anticipations for the year a sum not to exceed the normal revenue collections by the city from all sources during the preceding year. The council shall appropriate a sum sufficient to cover the debt service, including the sinking fund and interest on bonded indebtedness, which sum shall not be diverted to any other department or departments by the mayor and council during the year. Should the income of the city be decreased by law or otherwise, it shall be the duty of the mayor and council to immediately adjust its budget so as to comply with such decreased revenue. In the event of an increase in revenue, which increase has become definite and reasonably certain by an increase in tax rate or the schedule of charges for city services, the mayor and council may revise the budget accordingly and take such anticipated receipts into consideration in the budget.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 19.01)
Sec. 78. - Transfer of funds.
After the budget has been adopted, the mayor and council may transfer or reallocate funds, with the exception of appropriations for debt services.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 19.02)
Sec. 79. - Deficit.
Should at any time during any year the expenditures exceed the revenues collected, and a deficit be created, it shall be the duty of the mayor and council, before appropriating any other sum for any other purpose, to appropriate a sufficient sum to immediately discharge any such deficit which has accrued during the preceding year.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 19.03)
Sec. 80. - Audit of finances.
The mayor and council are hereby required, at the end of each fiscal year, to have an annual audit made by a certified public accountant covering all of the financial transactions made and entered into by said mayor and council for that year.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 19.04)
Sec. 81. - Taxes—Powers generally.
The [ ] mayor and council shall also have power to levy and collect out of the property aforesaid such additional tax as may be necessary to provide for the payment of the principal and interest of any bonded debt of the city now existing or hereafter to be created by said city.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 19.05)
Sec. 82. - Same—For industrial purposes.
The city may continue to levy up to one mill tax for industrial purposes and to proceed under an Act which was a constitutional amendment in 1953 Georgia Laws, p. 566.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 28.01)
Sec. 83. - Same—Assessors; hearing on objections; assessing property not returned; punishing for failure to furnish books, etc.
The mayor and council shall annually appoint three (3) disinterested freeholders, who shall be discreet, upright persons, citizens and qualified voters of said city, and owners of real estate therein, as city tax assessors, whose term of office shall be one year, and who shall be sworn to assess the real and personal property, including notes, bonds, accounts, and every other species of property of the city at a fair market value, according to the best of their skill and knowledge. The mayor and council shall have authority to prescribe rules for the government of said assessors. Said assessors shall make returns of the assessments made by them to the mayor and council each year, one hundred eighty (180) days before the time for collecting taxes. When said return has been made, said mayor and council shall appoint a place and time for hearing objections to the assessments, said objections to be heard by said mayor and council, of which public notice shall be given as may be prescribed by ordinances. The recorder shall give each owner of property whose tax returns have been increased at least five (5) days' notice of such hearing, stating therein the amount of such increase. If the property has been given in by an agent, executor, administrator or guardian notice to such agent, executor, administrator or guardian shall be sufficient. If the owner is not a resident of said city and has no agent residing therein, the mayor and council shall prescribe by ordinance what notice, if any, shall be given. Said mayor and council shall have the power to provide by ordinance for assessing all property, both real and personal, not returned for taxation, and for double taxing defaulters. Such city tax assessors shall take such oath and receive such compensation as the mayor and council shall prescribe. Such city tax assessors shall have the power to require all taxpayers in said city to furnish them with a list of all notes, accounts, mortgages, stocks, bonds and other securities and investments, when in their opinion their production is necessary for a correct and true assessment. All assessments made by said assessors shall become final if no objection is made on or before the time set for a hearing of objections by the mayor and council, notice—such as the mayor and council may by ordinance, prescribe—having been given of such hearing; and if no objection is made at the said hearing to any assessment, the decision of the mayor and council, on the hearing of subjects, may increase or decrease the assessment as made by the city tax assessors, and in all cases the decision of the mayor and council is final. The said board of assessors, as well as the mayor and council, shall have authority to punish for a contempt any person failing or refusing to furnish any of the evidences of investment such as notes, accounts, stocks, bonds and mortgages, heretofore set out.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 19.06)
Sec. 84. - Same—Back taxes.
[ ] In case any property which is subject to taxation was not assessed, or for any reason has not been assessed in any past year, the city tax assessors may, at any time, assess said property for said year or years, and double tax it if there has been a failure to return it for taxation as required by law, and if the mayor and council have provided for double taxing of defaulters, execution shall then issue therefor as in other cases, at the rate obtaining the several years in which no taxes were paid. This section shall apply to the assessment of property which before the passage of this Act in any year was not assessed for taxation, or was not returned for taxation and taxes collected thereon, as well as to property which in the future may be omitted for any cause from return or assessment, and the collection of taxes omitted in any year. The mayor and council may provide by ordinance for notice to parties whose property has been or may be assessed for back taxes, and the hearing of any complaint. All assessments referred to in this section shall be made by the city tax assessors.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 19.07)
