Chapter 50 - NUISANCES AND CODE ENFORCEMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Abatement of nuisances generally, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 50-1. - Definitions.
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Abandoned means an article of machinery, appliance, vehicle, article of equipment and other material shall be deemed to have abandoned or discarded when it has remained upon the property in an inoperable condition for more than ten days, or when it has become inoperable and the owner does not intend to repair it and place it back into operation.
Abandoned vehicle means one that is in a state of disrepair and incapable of being moved under its own power. It shall be prima facie evidence that a vehicle has been abandoned if the owner or person in possession of such vehicle cannot furnish satisfactory evidence that the motor vehicle license fee required by O.C.G.A. § 48-10-2 has been paid and that the Georgia Motor Vehicle Accident Reparations Act (O.C.G.A. § 33-34-1) has been complied with as respects such motor vehicle.
Appliance means any type of machine or device used in and about the home or premises, and shall include, but shall not be limited to, refrigerators, iceboxes, freezers, stoves, washing machines, clothes dryers, television sets, radio sets, lawn mowers and other devices of like nature.
Automobile graveyard means any establishment which is maintained or used for storing, buying or selling wrecked, scrapped, ruined, dismantled, abandoned or discarded motor vehicles, or making motor vehicle repairs.
Dealers in junk or metals means any person, partnership, firm or corporation who owns, leases, operates or otherwise maintains facilities for processing junk or metals or who buys, sells, or in any way deals in any used or discarded metal material or articles.
Dismantler means any person, partnership, firm, or corporation engaged in the business of acquiring wrecked, abandoned, or repairable motor vehicles and selling either the usable parts, the motor vehicle as a unit, or the hulk of the motor vehicle after the usable parts have been removed. For the purposes of this chapter, a person shall be presumed to be engaged in the business of auto dismantling if he/she or it possesses three or more inoperative motor vehicles for more than ten days.
Garbage.
(1)
The term "garbage" means organic waste matter, both animal and vegetable, including but not limited to waste matter, from houses, kitchens, restaurants, hotels, hospitals and other such places, and it comprises chiefly waste food.
(2)
The term "garbage" does not include moisture that may be drained in the sewer or human body wastes.
Junk means any:
(1)
Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, battery, paper, trash, rubber, radiator, debris or waste;
(2)
Junk, dismantled or wrecked automobiles, or parts thereof;
(3)
Iron, steel, and any other scrap ferrous or nonferrous material; or
(4)
Abandoned or discarded machinery, appliance, vehicle, equipment or material of any description or kind whatsoever.
Major component part means one of the following subassemblies of a motor vehicle:
(1)
Front clip assembly (fenders, grille, and hood);
(2)
Rear clip assembly (quarter panels and floor panel assembly);
(3)
Engine and transmission;
(4)
Top assembly, with the exception of soft tops;
(5)
Frame or frame sections; or
(6)
Complete side (fenders, door, and quarter panel).
Motor vehicle means any vehicle which is self-propelled except trackless trolleys (which are classified as streetcars), motorcycles, motor-driven cycles or go-carts.
Nuisance means a nuisance is anything that causes hurt, inconvenience, or damage to another and the fact that the act done may otherwise be lawful and shall not keep it from being a nuisance. The inconvenience complained of shall not be fanciful, or such as would affect only one of fastidious taste, but shall be such as would affect an ordinary, reasonable man.
Part means any used motor vehicle part that has been installed as standard or optional equipment on a motor vehicle, has been removed from the motor vehicle on which it was originally attached or affixed, and is the subject of sale or resale as a part and not as scrap.
Rebuilder means any person engaged in the business of buying more than three used, salvage, or wrecked motor vehicles per year for the purpose of restoring or rebuilding them with used or new motor vehicle parts, or both, to be sold as motor vehicles.
Salvage dealer means any person who purchases a salvage vehicle or parts of a salvage vehicle for purposes of resale as parts only or as salvage.
Salvage vehicle means any vehicle which either:
(1)
Has been damaged, crushed, or otherwise reduced to such a state that its restoration would require the replacement of two or more major component parts;
(2)
Has been acquired by an insurance company as a result of the vehicle's being damaged to the extent that its restoration to an operable condition would require the replacement of two or more major component parts or for which the insurance company has paid a total loss claim, excluding recovered total theft vehicles which do not require the replacement of two or more major component parts for restoration; or
(3)
Is an imported vehicle which has been damaged in shipment and disclaimed by the manufacturer as a result of the damage, has never been the subject of a retail sale to a consumer, and has never been issued a certificate of title.
Scrap processor means any person engaged in the business of buying or otherwise acquiring iron and metals including but not limited to old automobiles, aluminum, glass and parts thereof, for the purpose of processing into raw materials for remelting or recycling purposes.
Scrap vehicle means any vehicle which has been wrecked, destroyed or damaged to the extent that it cannot be economically repaired, rebuilt or made operable or road worthy.
Solid waste means trash and or garbage as defined herein.
Trash means rubbish such as feathers, paper, cans, bottles, boxes, wood, glass, shrubs, yard clippings, tree trimmings and all similar matter.
Unsafe building means any building or structure that has any of the following conditions, such that the life, health, property or safety of the general public or its occupant are endangered:
(1)
Whenever any means of egress or portion thereof is not of adequate size or is not arranged to provide a safe path of travel in case of fire or panic.
(2)
Whenever any means of egress of portion thereof, such as but not limited to, fire doors, closing devices, fire resistive ratings, are in disrepair or in a dilapidated or nonworking condition such that the means of egress could be rendered unsafe in case of fire or panic.
(3)
Whenever the stress in any material, member or portion thereof, due to all imposed loads including dead load exceeds the working stresses allowed in the International Building Code (IBC) for new buildings.
(4)
Whenever a building, structure or portion thereof has been damaged by fire, flood, earthquake, wind or other cause to the extent that the structural integrity of the buildings or structures is less than it was prior to the damage and is less than the minimum requirement established by the International Building Code (IBC) for new buildings.
(5)
Whenever any exterior appendages or portion of a building or structure is not securely fastened, attached or anchored such that it is capable of resisting wind, seismic or similar loads as required by the International Building Code (IBC) for new buildings.
(6)
Whenever for any reason a building, structure or portion thereof is manifestly unsafe or unsanitary for the purpose for which it is being used.
(7)
Whenever any building, structure or portion thereof as a result of decay, deterioration or dilapidation is likely to fully or partially collapse.
(8)
Whenever any building, structure or portion thereof has been constructed or maintained in violation of a specific requirement of the standard codes or of a city, county or state law.
(9)
Whenever any building, structure or portion thereof is in such a condition as to constitute a public nuisance.
(10)
Whenever any building, structure or portion thereof is unsafe, unsanitary or not provided with adequate egress, or which constitutes a fire hazard, or is otherwise dangerous to human life, or, which in relation to existing use, constitutes a hazard to safety or health by reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence or abandonment.
Weed means a plant considered undesirable, unattractive or troublesome, especially one growing where it is not wanted.
(Code 1981, § 11-1; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987; Ord. of 6-29-2009)
Sec. 50-2. - Penalty for violation.
Any person who shall create, or continue after notice to abate, a nuisance which tends to annoy the community, to injure the health of the citizens in general, or to corrupt the public morals, shall be punished as provided in section 1-8.
(Code 1969, § 9-27; Code 1981, § 12-27)
Sec. 50-3. - Abatement procedure.
The method of abating nuisances within the city shall be the method prescribed in O.C.G.A. § 41-2-1 et seq. In all cases reasonable notice shall be given to the parties interested of the time and place of the meeting held for the purpose of determining whether a nuisance exists and the ordering the abatement of same.
(Code 1969, § 9-26; Code 1981, § 12-26)
Sec. 50-4. - Noises—Purpose of prohibitions.
The purpose of section 46-5 is to control noises and the nuisance thereby created in such a manner as to cause the least hardship or offense to the greatest number of people.
(Code 1969, § 9-22; Code 1981, § 12-22)
Sec. 50-5. - Same—Prohibited.
The following noises and other noises of the same characteristics, intensity or annoyance are prohibited at all times and at all places within the city:
(1)
Horns, signaling devices, etc. The sounding of any horn or signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle on any street or public place of the city except as a danger warning; the creation by means of any such signaling device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; the sounding of any such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time; the use of any signaling device except one operated by hand or electricity; the use of any horn, whistle or other device operated by engine exhaust; and the use of any such signaling device when traffic is for any reason held up.
(2)
Radios, phonographs, etc. The use or operation of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants or at any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for the person of normal hearing who is in the room, vehicle or chamber in which such machine or device is operated and who is a voluntary listener thereto or allowing such use or operation. The operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine or device between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from the building, structure or vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
(3)
Loudspeakers, amplifiers, etc. The use or operation of any radio, receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public streets for the purpose of attracting the attention of the public to any building, product, service, merchandise or political candidate, or allowing such use or operation, except as authorized by the city council.
(4)
Yelling, shouting, etc. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing on the public streets, particularly, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office, or in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence, or of any persons in the vicinity.
(5)
Animals, birds, etc. The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing frequent or long continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose of any persons in the vicinity.
(6)
Steam whistles. The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of fire or danger, or upon request of proper city authorities.
(7)
Exhausts. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine or motor vehicle except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.
(8)
Defect in vehicle or load. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such manner as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noises.
(9)
Loading, unloading and opening boxes, etc. The creation of a loud and excessive noise in connection with the loading or unloading of any vehicle, or the opening and destruction of bales, boxes, creates and containers on Sundays, Christmas, New Year's or Thanksgiving or before 7:00 a.m. or after 11:00 p.m.; provided, however, that under emergency conditions the city manager may, in such officer's discretion, grant exceptions thereto.
(10)
Adjacent to schools, courts, churches, hospitals, etc. The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church or court while the same is in use, or adjacent to any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the workings of such institutions, or which disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the hospital; provided conspicuous signs are displayed in such street indicating that the same is a school, hospital, church or court street.
(11)
Hawkers, peddlers, etc. The shouting and crying of peddlers, hawkers and vendors which disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood.
(12)
Drums, etc. The use of any drum or other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise.
(13)
Firearms and fireworks. The explosion of firecrackers, skyrockets, Roman candles, pinwheels or any other form of fireworks or the unnecessary shooting of any firearms, except as specifically authorized by law or the proper official.
(14)
Transportation of metal rails, pillars and columns. The transportation of rails, pillars or columns of iron, steel or other material, over and along the streets and other public places upon carts, drays, cars, trucks or in any other manner so loaded as to cause loud noises or as to disturb the peace and quiet on such streets or other public places.
(15)
Operation of public transportation buses. The causing, permitting or continuing any excessive, unnecessary and avoidable noise in the operation of a public transportation bus.
(16)
Pile drivers, hammers, etc. The operation of any pile driver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist or other appliance, the use of which is attended by loud or unusual noise, except on written permission of the city manager prescribing the locality where and the hours during which such operation is permissible.
(17)
Blowers. The operation of any noise-creating blower or power fan, or any internal combustion engine, the operation of which causes noise due to the explosion of operating gases or fluids, unless the noise from such blower or fan is muffled and such engine is equipped with a muffler device sufficient to deaden such noise.
(18)
Air conditioning units. Self-contained, one-room air conditioning units, up to one-ton capacity attached to the outside walls or windows of buildings, and operated for the comfort of the occupants of such buildings, shall not be deemed in violation of this article where proof is established that such units are maintained in good mechanical condition. Air conditioning units of more than one-ton capacity may not be operated except where remote compressors are housed in soundproof rooms, or where attached or immediately adjoining compressors are sound treated or baffled, and cooling coil and condensation water is disposed of, as prescribed by the city manager.
(19)
Refrigerated trucks or motor vehicles. The operation of refrigeration units on trucks or motor vehicles which creates or causes noise that disturbs the peace and quiet of the neighborhood shall not be allowed within the city limits.
(Code 1969, § 9-23; Code 1981, § 12-23; Ord. No. 1987-2, 8-3-1987)
Sec. 50-6. - Same—Not to prevent operation of automobiles, etc.
The requirements of section 50-5 shall not be construed to prevent the operation of automobiles or light delivery vehicles at any time; provided, however, that such motor vehicles shall at all times be properly muffled and shall be so operated as to create the least possible noise or nuisance.
(Code 1969, § 9-24; Code 1981, § 12-24)
Sec. 50-7. - Same—City manager may waive requirements.
The city manager shall have the right to waive any or all of the requirements of section 50-5, in cases of emergency where the welfare of persons or property may be jeopardized by strict enforcement.
(Code 1969, § 9-25; Code 1981, § 12-25)
Secs. 50-8—50-58. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LITTER[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Littering prohibited on public and private property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-42 et seq.

Sec. 50-59. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this article the following terms, phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meaning given in this section:
Aircraft means any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used or designed for navigation or for flight in the air. The word aircraft shall include helicopters and lighter-than-air dirigibles and balloons.
Authorized private receptacle means a container of watertight construction with a tightfitting lid or cover capable of preventing the escape of contents within. Such receptacles shall have handles or other means for safe and convenient handling and be of such size or sufficient capacity to hold all litter generated between collected periods.
Construction site means any private or public property upon which repairs or additions to existing buildings, construction of new buildings, or demolition of existing structures is taking place.
Handbill means any printed or written matter, any sample or device, leaflet, pamphlet or any other printed matter of literature which is not delivered by United States mail, including but not limited to material which:
(1)
Advertises for sale or distribution any merchandise, product, food item or thing;
(2)
Directs attention to any business, church, recreational activity or commercial establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or indirectly promoting the interest thereof; or
(3)
Directs attention to or advertises any meeting, festival, auction, athletic contest, performance, exhibition or event of any kind.
Litter means garbage, refuse, and rubbish and all other waste, trash, dead animals, sand, gravel, slag, brick bats or discarded material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited is unsightly or tends to create a danger to public health, safety and welfare.
Loading and unloading docks means any dock space or area used by any moving vehicle for the purpose of receiving, shipping and transporting goods, wares, commodities and persons located on or adjacent to any roadway, airport, waterway or land.
Private premises means all property including, but not limited to, vacant land or any land, building or other structure designed or used for residential, commercial, business, industrial, institutional or religious purposes, together with any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, fence, porch, steps, vestibule, mailbox and other structure appurtenant thereto.
Public place means any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other public ways, lakes, rivers, watercourses or fountains and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds, athletic fields, buildings and structures.
Public receptacles means any receptacles provided by or authorized by the city.
Vehicle means every device in, upon or by, which any person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon land or water, including devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Code 1981, § 11-18; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 50-60. - Penalty.
Any person, business, organization, club, or corporation violating any provision of this article shall be punished in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 16-7-43 or as provided in article IV of this chapter.
(Code 1981, § 11-33; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 50-61. - Littering prohibited.
No person shall deposit any litter within the city except in public receptacles, in authorized private receptacles for collection or in any duly licensed disposal facility.
(Code 1981, § 11-19; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 50-62. - Prevention of scattering.
Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent litter from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises.
(Code 1981, § 11-20; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 50-63. - Upsetting or tampering with receptacles.
No person shall upset or tamper with a public or private receptacle designed or used for the deposit of litter or cause or permit its contents to be deposited or strewn in or upon any public place or private premises.
(Code 1981, § 11-21; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 50-64. - Sidewalks and alleys, to be kept free from litter.
Persons owning, occupying or in control of any public place or private premises shall keep the sidewalks and alleys adjacent thereto free of litter, and shall maintain such receptacles as may be required by the regulations approved by the city manager.
(Code 1981, § 11-22; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 50-65. - Owner to maintain private premises.
(a)
The owner or person in control of any private premises shall at all times maintain the premises free of litter.
(b)
The owner or person in control of private premises, shall, if public receptacles are unavailable, maintain authorized private receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises.
(Code 1981, § 11-23; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 50-66. - Littering from vehicles.
(a)
No person, while the operator of or passenger in a vehicle, shall deposit or throw out litter upon any public place or private premises except into a proper receptacle.
(b)
No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the city unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load, contents or litter from being blown out or deposited upon any public place or private premises. Nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any public place or private premises, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any kind.
(Code 1981, § 11-24; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 50-67. - Littering from aircraft.
No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit within the city any litter.
(Code 1981, § 11-25; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 50-68. - Handbills.
(a)
Public places. No person shall deposit or unlawfully sell any handbill in or upon any public place; provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful on any public place for any person to hand out or distribute without charge, directly to the receiver, any handbill to any person willing to accept it.
(b)
Private premises. No person shall deposit or unlawfully distribute any handbill in or upon private premises, except by handing or transmitting any such handbill directly to the occupant of such private business. However, a handbill may be securely placed on a private premises, which is not posted against the receiving of handbills or similar material, and such handbill is placed in such a manner as to prevent such handbill from being redeposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises, unless requested by anyone upon such premises not do so.
(c)
Mailboxes. Mailboxes may not be used when prohibited by federal post office law or regulations.
(d)
Exemption for newspaper. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the distribution upon private premises only, of newspapers; except that newspapers shall be placed in such a manner as to prevent their being carried or deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises.
(e)
Placing handbills on vehicles. No person shall deposit any handbill in or upon any vehicle unless the occupant of a vehicle is present and willing to accept it.
(f)
Cleanup. It shall be the responsibility of any person distributing handbills to maintain the area which they are utilizing free of any litter caused by or related to such handbill distribution.
(Code 1981, § 11-27; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 50-69. - Posting notices prohibited.
No person shall post, place or affix any notice, sign, poster, or other paper or device, on public property or in public places, except as may be authorized or required by law. Posting of notices, signs or posters on private premises, is allowed only with prior permission of owner and tenant and in compliance with all other ordinances regulating signs or notices.
(Code 1981, § 11-28; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 50-70. - Construction sites.
(a)
Each contractor shall be responsible for the job site in such a manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises.
(b)
Litter or other debris, including dirt and mud, deposited as the result of normal construction process upon any public place or private premises, shall be removed by the contractor. It shall be unlawful for such contractor to allow littering to occur and refuse to remove or cleanup.
(Code 1981, § 11-29; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 50-71. - Loading and unloading docks.
The person owning, operating or in control of a loading or unloading dock shall maintain authorized private receptacles for collection of litter, and shall at all times maintain the dock area free of litter in such a manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises.
(Code 1981, § 11-30; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 50-72. - Parking lots.
(a)
Litter receptacles required. Any public place or private premises containing any provision for parking vehicles shall be equipped with litter receptacles in compliance with this section and the regulations promulgated by the city manager. Such premises shall include but not be limited to such places as grocery stores, shopping centers, outdoor theaters, drive-in restaurants, gasoline service stations, apartment developments, parking lots, and any other place where provisions are made for vehicles to stop or park in a designated area for any purpose. In lieu of compliance with the receptacle requirements, the city manager may approve a plan for litter control through an authorized sweeping program or other means.
(b)
Number of receptacles. All premises having parking lots shall provide in an easily accessible location, a minimum of two refuse containers for up to 25 spaces and at least one additional refuse container for every 50 additional parking spaces.
(c)
Specifications. Litter receptacles shall have tightfitting lids or tops and shall be weighted or attached to the ground or other fixed structures as necessary to prevent spillage. A minimum size litter container of 20 gallons shall be used with all containers being an easily identifiable color with proper markings indicating them as litter receptacles.
(d)
Cleanliness. Premises used for the purposes designated herein shall be kept in a litter-free condition, and all litter shall be removed periodically from the receptacles.
(e)
Obligation to use receptacles. It shall be the duty and obligation of all persons using the parking areas described in subsection (a) of this section to use such litter receptacles as herein provided for the deposit of any litter upon any such parking lot.
(Code 1981, § 11-31; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 50-73. - Litter, declaration of nuisance.
To deposit other than in proper receptacles, to scatter, to throw out, to accumulate or to permit to accumulate or scatter litter in other than proper receptacles or waste disposal sites is declared to be a nuisance subject to action by the city for removal and abatement.
(Code 1981, § 11-32; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Secs. 50-74—50-91. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - JUNK; TRASH; MOTOR VEHICLES; CARCASSES; UNSAFE BUILDINGS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Abatement of nuisances generally, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-1 et seq.

Sec. 50-92. - Declaration of nuisance.
It shall be unlawful for any person or business, owner or lessee, tenant, or other, having possession, ownership or control of private property:
(1)
To deposit, collect, store, maintain, scatter upon, or permit to be deposited, collected, stored, or to remain upon private property any junk, trash, refuse, abandoned property, or vehicle, which is unsightly, unhealthy or hazardous;
(2)
To permit a condition or use of premises or of a building exterior which is detrimental to the property or health of others or which causes or tends to cause more than slight diminution in the value of other property in the neighborhood in which such premises is located or which will be considered unsightly, unhealthy and/or hazardous. This includes, but is not limited to, the depositing on, scattering over, or keeping up on the premises any of the following:
a.
Unsheltered storage of lumber, pipes, junk, windows, wire, tires, refuse, trash, unstacked bricks or blocks;
b.
Unsheltered storage of abandoned, discarded or unused appliances, machinery, equipment, furniture, motor vehicles, cans or containers;
c.
Any compost pile which is of such nature as to spread or harbor disease, emit unpleasant odors or harmful gases, or attract rodents, or other obnoxious animals or insects, provided, that the presence of earthworms in a compost pile shall not constitute a nuisance;
d.
Unsanitary items, deleterious septic or disease producing materials, gases, or fluids, unless such material is contained in containers or vessels which prevent leakage and escape, and which deny access to humans, flies, insects, rodents, and animals, and such material is kept in compliance with all federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning it;
e.
Toxic or poisonous materials, gases, or fluids, unless such material is contained in containers or vessels which prevent leakage and escape, and which deny access to humans, flies, insects, rodents, and animals, and such material is kept in compliance with all federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning it;
f.
Piles of dirt, gravel, sand, brick, concrete, concrete block, roofing, metal or other similar items, substances or byproducts.
(Code 1981, § 11-34; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 50-93. - Duty of maintenance on private property; declaration of nuisance.
No person or business owning, leasing, occupying, or having charge of any premises, vacant lots, buildings, structures, or other private property shall maintain an unsafe building or keep such property in an unhealthful or hazardous manner or an unsightly manner causing more than slight diminution in the value of other property, both private and public, in the neighborhood in which such private property is located. The keeping or maintaining of private property in an unsightly, unhealthful or hazardous condition is declared to be a nuisance and is subject to abatement as provided in article IV of this chapter.
(Code 1981, § 11-35; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 50-94. - Recycling not a defense.
The fact that any junk, or trash or abandoned property is being held for recycling or for further processing of the component parts shall not be a defense to any criminal prosecution or action of abatement under this chapter. It shall not be unlawful for any person or business to possess and store paper products, glass and aluminum cans and containers, if such paper, glass, and aluminum products are to be held for recycling or reprocessing; provided further, that all such storage and possession and any other activity associated with recycling or reprocessing shall be located and carried on solely within a building, except for purposes for loading or unloading such paper, glass or aluminum cans.
(Code 1981, § 11-36; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 50-95. - Unsheltered storage of nonoperating vehicles, machinery, and equipment.
It shall be unlawful for any person or business, owner, lessee, tenant, or other person having possession or control of private property, to deposit, collect, store, maintain or permit to be deposited, collected, stored, or allowed to remain upon such private property any abandoned vehicle, salvage vehicle, scrap vehicle, other motor vehicles not in good and safe operating condition, and any other vehicles, machinery, implements, or equipment, or any personal property of any kind which is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was manufactured. No person or business shall engage in the business of being a dealer in junk or metals, and dismantler, a rebuilder or salvage dealer, as those terms are defined in section 50-1, except that a place of business may be maintained for the purposes of a business office only, provided that all activities associated with the physical dismantling, rebuilding, or salvaging, shall be carried on outside the city limits. Any licensed car dealer or licensed auto repair shop operator shall be allowed to collect and store on the premises wherein such business is carried on, abandoned vehicles, salvage vehicles, and scrap vehicles; provided that such vehicles are properly screened from the view of the general public traveling on any street or thoroughfare within the city. Such screening shall consist of what is commonly referred to as a chainlink fence which is a minimum of six feet in height and constructed of at least 12-gauge galvanized fabric with the mesh on said fabric not exceeding 2¼-inch mesh. Metal filler strips shall be inserted in the mesh on said chainlink fence. All abandoned, salvage or scrap vehicles maintained and stored by such dealer or operator shall be stored within the enclosed screened area and shall be maintained in a way that none of such vehicles are stacked one on top of the other. Any licensed automobile dealer or other repair shop operator shall have 45 days from the effective date of the ordinance from which this section is derived, in which to comply with the screen requirements described in this section.
(Code 1981, § 11-37; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 50-96. - Storage of nonoperating motor vehicles, declaration of nuisance.
No person or business owning, leasing, occupying, or having charge of any private property shall allow the unsheltered storage of nonoperating motor vehicles, machinery and equipment, and any condition hereinabove described which is maintained or allowed to be maintained for a period of 30 days or more, by any person or business (except in licensed junkyards, car dealers or auto repair shops in compliance with the screening requirements) within the corporate limits of the city will be declared a nuisance and dangerous to the public safety and health and will be subject to abatement as provided in article IV of this chapter.
(Code 1981, § 11-38; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 50-97. - Animal carcasses—Prohibitions on placing.
It shall be unlawful for any person or business to place or bury the carcass of any animal in any stream, road, alley or other public place, or to place or bury any such carcass upon the premises of another, or place or keep a carcass on one's own premises, without burying such carcass so deep as to prevent all stench therefrom.
(Code 1981, § 11-39; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 50-98. - Same—Burial or processing required.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of a domestic animal or domestic fowl which has died within the city limits of the city to refuse or fail to bury such carcass deep enough to prevent stench therefrom, within three hours after the death of animal or fowl; provided any qualified plant or processor shall be allowed to process or dispose of such carcass in accordance with law. The keeping or maintaining of any carcass beyond three hours after death without burying such carcass or providing for disposal by a qualified plant or processor will be deemed an unhealthful and hazardous condition and is declared a nuisance and is subject to abatement as provided in article IV of this chapter.
(Code 1981, § 11-40; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Secs. 50-99—50-124. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - NOTICE, ABATEMENT AND PENALTIES[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Nuisance abatement and lien procedures described under O.C.G.A. § 41-2-9 do not impair or limit in the power of the municipality to define and declare nuisances and cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-9(f).

Sec. 50-125. - Appointment of official.
The city council may appoint, or designate that the city manager appoint a city official to exercise the powers prescribed by this article.
Sec. 50-126. - Notice to remedy condition; emergency situations.
(a)
Prior to an action for abatement, whenever the existence of any nuisance defined in this chapter, except those sections dealing with animal carcasses or emergency situations, on any lots or parcels of real estate, buildings or structures situated within this city, shall come to the knowledge of a code enforcement officer or chief of police, it shall be the code enforcement officer's duty to make an investigation or inspection of the specific dwelling, building, structure or property. If the officer's investigation or inspection identifies the existence of any nuisance defined in this chapter, except those sections dealing with animal carcasses or emergency situations, upon that specific dwelling, building, structure or property, then the city official may issue a complaint in rem against the lot, tract or parcel of real property on which such dwelling, building, or structure is situated or where such public health hazard or general nuisance exists and shall cause summons and a copy of the complaint to be served on the interested parties for such dwelling, building or structure. The summons shall notify the interested parties that a hearing will be held before the municipal court, at a date and time not less than 15 days nor more than 45 days after the filing of said complaint.
(b)
The notice requirement and time period for correction do not apply when dealing with animal carcasses or other emergency situations where the public health, welfare or property are placed in immediate danger by an existing or potentially hazardous, toxic, disease producing or fire producing substance or dilemma. In such situations the city, by and through its elected officials and employees, shall act to protect the citizenry of large from harm.
(Code 1981, § 11-41; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 50-127. - Abatement by the city.
(a)
If, after such notice and hearing, the court determines that a nuisance condition, as provided in articles I through IV of this chapter, exists on the dwelling, building, structure, or property, then the court shall state in writing findings of fact in support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the interested parties that have answered the complaint or appeared at the hearing an order:
(1)
If the repair, alteration or improvement of the said dwelling, building or structure can be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner, within the time specified in the order, to repair, alter or improve such dwelling, building or structure, so as to bring it into full compliance with the applicable codes relevant to the cited violation and, if applicable, to secure the structure so that it cannot be used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or
(2)
If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the said dwelling, building or structure in order to bring it into full compliance with applicable codes relevant to the cited violations cannot be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building or structure, requiring the owner, within the time specified in the order, to demolish and remove such dwelling, building or structure, and all debris from the property.
(b)
If the owner fails to comply with the court's order to repair or demolish the dwelling, building, or structure, the city official may cause such dwelling, building, or structure to be repaired, altered, or improved or to be vacated and closed or demolished. Such abatement action shall commence within 270 days after the expiration of time specified in the order for abatement by the owner. The city official shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of the building, dwelling, or structure a placard with the following words:
"This building is unfit for human habitation or commercial, industrial or business use and does not comply with the applicable codes or has been ordered secured to prevent its use in connection with drug crimes or constitutes an endangerment to public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions. The use or occupation of this building is prohibited and unlawful."
(c)
If the city official has the structure demolished, reasonable effort shall be made to salvage reusable materials for credit against the cost of demolition. The proceeds of any moneys received from the sale of salvaged materials shall be used or applied against the cost of the demolition and removal of the structure, and proper records shall be kept showing application of sales proceeds. Any such sale of salvaged materials may be made without the necessity of public advertisement and bid. The city official and governing authority are relieved of any and all liability resulting from or occasioned by the sale of any such salvaged materials, including, without limitation, defects in such salvaged materials.
(Code 1981, § 11-42; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 50-128. - Lien.
(a)
The amount of the cost of demolition, including all court costs, appraisal fees, administrative costs incurred by the county tax commissioner or municipal tax collector or city revenue officer, and all other costs necessarily associated with the abatement action, including restoration to grade of the real property after demolition, shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred.
(b)
Lien to attach to real property; procedure for collection.
(1)
The lien shall attach to the real property upon the filing of a certified copy of the order requiring repair, closure or demolition in the office of the clerk of superior court in the county where the real property is located and shall relate back to the date of the filing of the lis pendens notice required under O.C.G.A. § 41-2-12(c). The clerk of superior court shall record and index such certified copy of the order in the deed records of the county and enter the lien on the general execution docket. The lien shall be superior to all other liens on the property, except liens for taxes, to which the lien shall be inferior, and shall continue in force until paid.
(2)
Upon final determination of costs, fees and expenses incurred in accordance with this chapter, the city official responsible for enforcement actions in accordance with this chapter shall transmit to the appropriate county tax commissioner or municipal tax collector or city revenue officer a statement of the total amount due and secured by said lien, together with copies of all notices provided to interested parties. The statement of the city official shall be transmitted within 90 days of completion of the repairs, demolition, or closure. It shall be the duty of the appropriate county tax commissioner or municipal tax collector or city revenue officer, who is responsible or whose duties include the collection of municipal taxes, to collect the amount of the lien using all methods available for collecting real property ad valorem taxes; provided, however, that the limitation of O.C.G.A. § 48-4-78 which requires 12 months of delinquency before commencing a tax foreclosure shall not apply. A county tax commissioner shall collect and enforce municipal liens imposed pursuant to this chapter in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-5-359.1. The county tax commissioner or municipal tax collector or city revenue officer shall remit the amount collected to the governing authority of the county or municipality whose lien is being collected.
(Code 1981, § 11-43; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 50-129. - Foreclosure of lien.
(a)
Enforcement of liens pursuant to this section may be initiated at any time following receipt by the county tax commissioner or municipal tax collector or city revenue officer of the final determination of costs in accordance with this chapter. The unpaid lien amount shall bear interest and penalties from and after the date of final determination of costs in the same amount as applicable to interest and penalties on unpaid real property ad valorem taxes. An enforcement proceeding pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-4-78 for delinquent ad valorem taxes may include all amounts due under this chapter.
(b)
The redemption amount in any enforcement proceeding pursuant to this article shall be the full amount of the costs as finally determined in accordance with this article together with interest, penalties, and costs incurred by the city council, county tax commissioner, municipal tax collector, or city revenue officer in the enforcement of such lien. Redemption of property from the lien may be made in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-4-80 and 48-4-81.
(c)
The city council may waive and release any such lien imposed on property upon the owner of such property entering into a contract with the city agreeing to a timetable for rehabilitation of the real property or the dwelling, building or structure on the property and demonstrating the financial means to accomplish such rehabilitation.
(Code 1981, § 11-44; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 50-130. - Enforcement of chapter.
Enforcement of this chapter may be accomplished by the city in any manner authorized by law or combination thereof, and in addition, any person who by reason of another's violation of any provision of this chapter, who suffers special damage to himself/herself, his/her property or livelihood may bring an action for abatement as allowed in O.C.G.A. § 41-2-1 et seq.
(Code 1981, § 11-45; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 50-131. - Penalties and fines.
Violations of this chapter, or any provision herein shall be punished in accordance with the penalties allowed under state law and the general penalties described in section 1-8. Conviction of ordinance violations shall be admissible in the trial or hearing of any abatement proceeding involving the same material facts, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-48.
(Code 1981, § 11-46; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
Sec. 50-132. - No notice required prior to citation.
(a)
The notice and time period for correction required in section 50-126 prior to an abatement proceeding do not apply to the issuance of citations or criminal prosecution. Citations for criminal violations under this chapter may be issued without prior notice. Prior warnings, if any, shall be admissible in the prosecution of any criminal violation under this chapter.
(b)
In addition to the procedures and remedies in this article, the city official may issue citations for violations of state minimum standard codes, optional building, fire, life safety and other technical codes adopted by this Code, and conditions creating a public health hazard or general nuisance, and seek to enforce such citations in a court of competent jurisdiction prior to issuing a complaint in rem as provided in this article.
(Code 1981, § 11-47; Ord. No. 1987-3, 11-16-1987)
