ARTICLE XV. - PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING AN AMENDMENT TO THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
The city council may, from time to time, review and, after examination and the holding of a public hearing by the mayor and city council of Gray, amend, supplement, or change the regulations contained herein. Proposals for amendment, whether initiated by the city council or a person, firm or corporation, shall not be acted upon until a public hearing has been held pursuant to the following procedures:

Section 151. - Initiating the hearing.
A public hearing on a proposed amendment to the text of the comprehensive land development ordinance or the official zoning maps may be initiated by the city council or any other party, according to the following provisions:
151.1. Application by parties other than the city council. A party other than a member of the city council acting in his official capacity may request an amendment in the text of the comprehensive land development ordinance or in the official zoning maps for the City of Gray.
151.11. An amendment to the text of the comprehensive land development ordinance or the official zoning maps may be initiated by any party other than the city council through written application submitted to the zoning enforcement officer.
151.11.1. Application for amendments to the text of the comprehensive land development ordinance shall fully describe the proposed amendment, supplement, or change.
151.11.2. Application for amendments to the official zoning maps shall be made on forms supplied by the zoning enforcement officer and must be accompanied by a dimensional sketch or to-scale plan of the proposed use included in any application for amendments to the official zoning maps. Such plan shall include, at a minimum, the following:
(1)
Lot dimensions with property line monuments located thereon.
(2)
The shape, size, height, uses, and location of the buildings proposed to be erected, demolished, altered, or moved, and of any buildings already on the lot, yard dimensions, and the use of structures, including the number of dwelling units within each structure, when appropriate.
(3)
Public and private easements, watercourses, and fences existing on the lot.
(4)
Street names and street right-of-way lines.
(5)
Such other information regarding abutting property as directly affects the application, including a list of the names and mailing addresses of all owners of property within 200 feet of the property for which the application is submitted, as shown on the county property tax record or as is known to the applicant.
151.11.3. No application for amendment of the official zoning maps may be considered if, within six months prior to such application, a proposed amendment for the rezoning of property proposed for rezoning such application has been considered and rejected by the city council.
151.12. Upon receipt of an application for amendment of the text of the comprehensive land development ordinance or the official zoning maps, the zoning enforcement officer shall notify the clerk of the mayor and city council of Gray, or of the historic preservation commission if a HD overlay district is involved, and the city council of such application. Said application shall be placed upon the agenda of the next regular meeting of the city council or historic preservation commission for which notification requirements of section 152 can be met for a public hearing. The city council shall render final decision upon said application following the public hearing and within 45 days receipt of the recommendation of the zoning enforcement officer or historic preservation commission relative to the application, should there be any recommendation.
151.13. Any application for amendment to the text of the comprehensive land development ordinance or the official zoning map may be withdrawn by the applicant upon written notice to the zoning enforcement officer at any time prior to final action thereon by the city council.
151.2. Amendments proposed by the city council. An amendment to the text of the comprehensive land development ordinance or to the official zoning maps that is proposed in the form of a motion by a member of the city council shall be referred to the mayor and city council of Gray, or to the historic preservation commission if a HD overlay district is involved, for review. A public hearing shall be scheduled by the city council or historic preservation commission at the next scheduled meeting for which the notification requirements of section 152 can be met. City council shall render final decision upon said proposal following the public hearing and within 30 days of receipt of the recommendation of the zoning enforcement officer or historic preservation commission relative to the application, should there be any.
Section 152. - Notice of hearings.
The following requirements for notice shall apply to all applications and proposals for amendment to the text of the comprehensive land development ordinance or to the official zoning maps initiated in the form of a motion by a member of city council.
152.1. Amendments proposed by the city council. The following requirements for notice shall apply to proposals for amendment of the text of the comprehensive land development ordinance or of the official zoning maps initiated in the form of a motion by a member of city council.
152.11. At least 15 but not more than 45 days prior to the date of a hearing held by the city council or historic preservation commission upon any proposal or application for amendment of the text of the comprehensive land development ordinance or the official zoning maps, the zoning enforcement officer shall cause to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in Jones County a notice stating the time, place, and purpose of said hearing.
152.2. Amendments proposed by parties other than the city council. The following requirements for notice shall apply for applications for amendments of the text of the official zoning ordinance or the official zoning map initiated by parties other than members of city council acting in their official capacity:
152.21. An application for amendment to the text of the comprehensive land development ordinance shall be governed by the notice requirements contained in section 152.11 of this ordinance.
152.22. The following requirements for notice shall apply to applications for amendment to the official zoning maps:
152.22.1. The zoning enforcement officer shall cause to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in Jones County public notices, as required by section 152.11 of this ordinance, but also including the location of the property, the present zoning classification of the property, and the proposed zoning classification of the property.
152.22.2. The zoning enforcement officer shall notify by mail each property owner within 200 feet of any property for which an amendment of the official zoning maps is sought of the application for amendment. Such notification shall include all elements contained in public notices of hearings held by the city council or historic preservation commission published pursuant to section 152.22.1 of this ordinance. Such notification shall be mailed not less than 15 nor more than 45 days prior to any hearing held upon said application by the mayor and city council of Gray. Failure to receive such notification shall not constitute administrative error.
152.22.3. The zoning enforcement officer shall cause to be posted in a conspicuous location on the property for which an amendment to the official zoning maps is sought one or more signs containing date, time and place of the hearing, and the address and telephone number of the zoning enforcement officer for further information. Such sign or signs shall be posted not less than 15 days prior to any hearing held upon said application by the mayor and city council of Gray.
(Ord. of 11-10-1997(2))
Section 153. - Conducting the hearing.
The mayor and city council of Gray and historic preservation commission shall conduct public hearings upon proposals or applications for amendment of the official zoning maps or the text of the comprehensive land development ordinance. The historic preservation commission shall conduct hearings held relative to the HD historic overlay district and the mayor and city council of Gray shall conduct all other hearings upon proposals or applications for amendments of the official zoning maps or the text of the comprehensive land development ordinance.
153.1. Hearings held by the city council or historic preservation commission. The following procedures shall be adhered to in hearings conducted by the city council or historic preservation commission upon any proposal or application for amendment of the official zoning maps or the text of the comprehensive land development ordinance:
153.11. Opening the hearing. The mayor or chairman of the historic preservation commission shall open the hearing at the time and place specified in the hearing notice. The mayor/chairman shall announce the rules of the hearing before proceeding to address the proposed amendments listed on the agenda.
153.12. Review of the proposed amendments. For each proposed amendment, the mayor/chairman shall call upon the clerk/secretary to briefly review the pertinent facts related to the proposed amendment, as well as any report or recommendations upon the proposal submitted by the zoning enforcement officer.
153.13. Public comment. The mayor shall then call for a show of hands of those present wishing to speak in support of the proposed amendment. The mayor shall recognize each person in turn and ask him or her to rise, state his or her name and address, and present his or her statement. The mayor/chairman shall then call for a show of hands of those present wishing to speak in opposition to the proposed amendment. The mayor/chairman shall recognize each person in turn and ask him or her to rise, state his or her name and address, and present his or her statement. No statement, either in support of or in opposition to the proposed amendment, shall be allowed to exceed ten minutes in duration.
153.14. Discussion and recommendation. After all persons have been given an opportunity to speak upon the proposed amendment, the city council or historic preservation commission shall discuss it and prepare a recommendation upon the proposed amendment for transmittal to city council. Such recommendation shall include the council's findings and conclusions, as well as supporting reasons and facts as necessary.
153.15. Closing the hearing. After all of the proposed amendments listed on the agenda have been fully addressed pursuant to the foregoing procedure, the mayor/chairman shall declare the hearing to be closed.
Section 154. - Standards for decision.
In the formulation of any decision by the city council upon any application or proposal for amendment of the official zoning maps, the historic preservation commission and the city council shall balance the interest of the community in promoting the public health, safety,
morals, and general welfare against the right of property owners to the unrestricted use of their property. In making these recommendations and decisions, the historic preservation commission and the city council shall use the following standards:
154.1. Whether the proposed amendment would permit a use that is suitable in view of the use and development of adjacent and nearby property.
154.2. Whether the proposed amendment would adversely affect the existing use or usability of adjacent or nearby property.
154.3. Whether the property to be affected by the proposed amendment has a reasonable economic use as currently zoned.
154.4. Whether the proposed amendment would result in a use which would or could cause an excessive or burdensome use of existing streets, transportation facilities, utilities, schools, or other public facilities.
154.5. Whether the proposed amendment is in conformity with the policy or intent of any duly adopted land use or other physical development plan.
154.6. Whether there are other existing or changing conditions affecting the use and development of the property which give supporting grounds for either approval or disapproval of the proposed amendment.
154.7. The following additional standards shall apply to decisions upon applications or proposals for amendment of the official zoning maps involving a HD historic overlay district:
154.71. Whether the area has a special character or special historic or aesthetic value or interest.
154.72. Whether the area represents one or more periods or styles of architecture typical of one or more eras in the history of the county, state, or region.
154.73. Whether the foregoing factors cause such area to constitute a visibly perceptible section of the county.
Section 155. - Request for rehearing.
Any person, firm, corporation, or organization whose application has been previously and finally disapproved may, within 30 days from the date of final disapproval, move that city council authorize a rehearing of and reconsider the application. All motions for the rehearing of an application shall be written and submitted to the zoning enforcement officer, and no hearing shall be held upon such motion. No motion for rehearing shall be considered unless new or additional information not available at the time of the original hearing or not presented due to excusable neglect is available. A denial of such motion is a final action. The granting of such motion shall require a new hearing and a new process of notification as if the application were considered for the first time.
Section 156. - Printing and distributing this article.
The zoning enforcement officer shall cause to be reproduced and shall keep available copies of this article for distribution to the general public. This article contains provisions required under "The Zoning Procedure Law" (O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 66). Distribution of this article shall conform to the requirements set forth in said law.
Section 157. - Reserved.
