ARTICLE VI. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 61. - Nonconforming buildings and uses.
Within the districts established by this ordinance or amendments that may later be adopted, there may exist lots, structures, uses of land and structures, and characteristics of use which were lawful before this ordinance was passed or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of this ordinance or future amendments. It is the intent of this ordinance to permit these nonconformities to continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. It is further the intent of this ordinance that nonconformities shall not be enlarged, expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district.
61.1. Incompatibility of nonconforming uses. Nonconforming uses are declared by this ordinance to be incompatible with permitted uses in the districts in which such uses are located. A nonconforming use of structure, a nonconforming use of land, or a nonconforming use of a structure and land in combination shall not be extended or enlarged after passage of this ordinance by attachment on a building or premises of additional signs intended to be seen from off the premises, or by the addition of other uses of a nature which would be generally prohibited in the district in which such use is located. Nonconforming uses shall not be changed to another nonconforming use without approval of the planning commission, and then only to a use which, in the opinion of the planning commission, is of the same or a more conforming nature.
61.2. Avoidance of undue hardship. To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this ordinance shall be deemed to require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of adoption or amendment of this ordinance.
61.3. Single nonconforming lots of record. A single lot of record which does not meet the requirements for area or width, or both that are applicable in the district existing at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this ordinance may be used or sold for the erection of those buildings and accessory buildings necessary to carry out the permitted uses in that district, provided:
61.31. Yard dimensions and lot coverage requirements other than those applying to area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform to the regulations for the district in which such lot is located unless a variance has been granted.
61.32. Variance for yard dimensions and lot coverage requirements shall be obtained only through action of the board of zoning appeals as provided for in section 114.
61.33. Locational requirements of accessory buildings and uses are met as provided for in section 93.1.
61.34. Parking space requirements for all districts as provided for in section 62.2.
61.35. In residential districts, buildings shall be limited to single-family detached dwellings.
61.36. Said lot cannot be combined with an adjoining undeveloped lot to create a single conforming lot for purposes of development.
61.4. Nonconforming lots of record in combination. If two or more undeveloped lots or a combination of undeveloped lots and portions of undeveloped lots with contiguous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of passage or amendment of this ordinance and if all or part of the lots do not meet the requirements established for lot width and area, the lands involved shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this ordinance and no portion of said parcel shall be used or sold in a manner which diminishes compliance with lot width and area requirements established by this ordinance nor shall any division of any parcel be made which creates a lot with a width or area below the requirements stated in this ordinance. A lot is considered undeveloped if it has no substantial structures upon it.
61.5. Nonconforming uses of land. Where, at the time of adoption of this ordinance, lawful uses of land exist which would not be permitted by the regulations imposed by this ordinance the uses may be continued so long as they remain otherwise lawful, provided:
61.51. No such nonconforming uses shall be enlarged or increased, nor extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this ordinance;
61.52. No such nonconforming uses shall be moved in whole or in part to any portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such uses at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this ordinance;
61.53. If any such nonconforming uses of land are voluntarily discontinued for a period of more than 60 days, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to the regulations specified by this ordinance for the district in which such land is located; and
61.54. No additional structure not conforming to the requirements of this ordinance shall be erected in connection with such nonconforming use of land.
61.6. Nonconforming structures. Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this ordinance that could not be built under the terms of this ordinance by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yards, its location on the lot, bulk, or other requirements concerning the structure, such structure may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
61.61. No such nonconforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which increases its nonconformity, but any structure or portion thereof may be altered to decrease its nonconformity. No such alterations or enlargement shall be, in and of itself, nonconforming.
61.62. Should such nonconforming structure or nonconforming portion of structure be destroyed by any means to the extent of more than 50 percent of its current replacement value, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance.
61.63. Should such structure be voluntarily moved for any reason for any distance whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in which located after it is removed.
61.64. This section shall not be construed to prohibit the replacement, addition to or improvement of a nonconforming manufactured or mobile home, provided that any replacement home meets all applicable federal, state, and local requirements, or said addition or improvement shall cause the house to more closely resemble a site-built structure, thus decreasing the appearance of nonconformity. Any replacement of a nonconforming manufactured or mobile home must be completed within 60 days of the removal of the nonconforming manufactured or mobile home.
61.7. Nonconforming uses of structures or of structures and premises in combination. If a lawful use involving individual structures, or of a structure and premises in combination, exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this ordinance that would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this ordinance, the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful; subject to the following provisions:
61.71. No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this ordinance in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended, constructed, reconstructed, voluntarily moved, or structurally altered except in changing the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is located;
61.72. Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district, and the nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed;
61.73. Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of adoption or amendment of this ordinance, but no such use shall be extended to occupy any land outside such building;
61.74. When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises in combination is voluntarily discontinued or abandoned for more than 60 days (except when government action impedes access to the premises), the structure or structure and premises in combination, shall not thereafter be used except in conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located;
61.75. Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises in combination, removal or destruction of the structure to the extent of more than 50 percent of its current replacement value, shall eliminate the nonconforming status of the land.
61.8. Repairs and maintenance. On any nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing a nonconforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs including remodeling, or repair or replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring, or plumbing, provided that the cubic content existing when it became nonconforming shall not be increased. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of such official.
Section 62. - Off-street automobile parking.
Off-street automobile storage or parking space shall be provided on every lot on which any permitted or conditional use is established in accordance with this ordinance.
62.1. General requirements. For the purpose of this ordinance the following general requirements are specified:
62.11. The term "off-street parking space" shall mean a space at least nine feet wide and 20 feet in length with a minimum net area of 180 square feet, excluding area for egress and ingress and maneuverability of vehicles. In parking areas containing ten or more total parking spaces, no more than 20 percent of the parking spaces may be at least 7½ feet wide and 15 feet in length. These smaller spaces shall be prominently designated as reserved for small or compact cars.
62.12. If an off-street parking space cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot on which the principal use is conducted, the board of zoning appeals may permit such space to be provided on other off-street property, provided such space lies within 600 feet of the property line of such principal use. Such vehicle parking space shall be associated with the permitted use and shall not thereafter be reduced or encroached upon in any manner.
62.13. The required number of parking spaces for any number of separate uses may be combined in one lot, but the required space assigned to another use at the same time, except that portion of the parking space required for existing church whose peak attendance will be at night or on Sundays may be assigned to a use which will be closed at nights or on Sundays.
62.14. Area reserved for off-street parking in accordance with the requirements of this ordinance shall not be reduced in area or changed to any other use unless the permitted use which it serves is discontinued or modified, except where equivalent parking space is provided to the satisfaction of the board of zoning appeals.
62.15. Off-street parking existing at the effective date of this ordinance in connection with the operation of an existing building or use shall not be reduced to an amount less than hereinafter required for a similar new building or use.
62.2. Parking space requirements for all districts. Off-street automobile storage or parking space shall be provided with vehicular access to a street or alley, and shall be equal in or to at least the minimum requirements for the specific land use set forth.
EXPAND
Land Use Parking Requirements
Dwellings:
1. One and two families Two spaces for each dwelling unit
2. Multiple 1½ space per dwelling unit except for efficiency apartments for which one space per dwelling unit shall be provided
3. Hotels One space for each bedroom plus one additional space for each five employees
4. Motels, tourist courts and homes, mobile home and travel trailer parks One space for each guest bedroom, mobile home or travel trailer space, plus one additional space for a resident manager or owner
5. Boarding[houses] and roominghouses, dormitories One space for each guest bedroom
Public Assembly:
1. Churches and other places of worship One space for each four seats in the main auditorium or sanctuary
2. Private clubs, lodges, and fraternal buildings not providing overnight accommodations One space for each five active members or each 300 square feet of gross floor area, whichever is greater
3. Theaters, auditoriums, coliseums, stadiums and similar places of assembly One space for each four seats
4. Libraries, museums One space for each 500 square feet of gross floor area
5. Schools, including kindergartens, playschools and day care centers One space for each four seats in assembly hall, or one space for each employee, including teachers and administrators, whichever is greater, plus five spaces per classroom for high school and colleges
6. Skating rinks, dance halls, exhibition halls, pool rooms and other places of amusement or assembly without fixed seating arrangements One space for each 200 square feet of floor area
7. Bowling alleys Four spaces for each alley
8. Athletic fields, golf courses, tennis courts, swimming pools, and similar recreational facilities and accessory uses One space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area within enclosed buildings, plus one space for every three persons that the outdoor facilities are designed to accommodate when used to the maximum capacity
Health Facilities:
1. Hospitals, clinics, and other similar medical (including mental health) treatment facilities in excess of 10,000 square feet of gross floor area Two spaces for each bed or one space for each 150 square feet of gross floor area, whichever is greater
2. Nursing homes, homes for the aged, and similar institutional uses Three spaces for every five beds
3. Penal and correctional facilities and institutions within which mentally ill persons are housed One space for every two employees on maximum shift
4. Kennels and animal hospitals A parking area equal to 30 percent of the total enclosed or covered area
5. Medical, dental and health offices and clinics (10,000 square feet of gross floor area or less) One space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area
6. Mortuaries and funeral parlors Five spaces per parlor chapel unit, or one space per four seats, whichever is greater
Businesses:
1. Automobile repair establishments not including automobile service stations One space for each regular employee plus one space for each 250 square feet of floor area
2. Food stores and convenience stores One space for each 100 square feet of floor area designated for retail sales only
3. Restaurants, including bars, diners, cafes, taverns, nightclubs, lunch counters, and all similar dining and/or drinking establishments One space for each four seats provided for patron use, plus one space for each 74 square feet of floor area provided for patron use but not containing seats
4. Office buildings, including banks, business, commercial and professional offices and buildings, but excluding medical, dental and health offices, and clinics One space for each 300 square feet of ground floor area, plus one space for each 500 square feet of upper floor area
5. General business, commercial or personal service establishments catering to the retail trade, only but excluding food stores One space for each 200 square feet of floor area designated for retail sales
6. Governmental offices One space for each 300 square feet of ground floor area plus one space for each 500 square feet of upper floor area and one space for each governmental vehicle
7. Shopping centers 5½ spaces for each 1,000 square feet of gross floor area
8. Furniture stores One space for each 1,000 square feet of gross floor area
9. Public utilities, such as telephone exchanges and substations, radio and TV stations, and electric power and gas substations A parking area equal to 25 percent of the gross floor area
10. Automobile service stations Two spaces plus one additional space for each lubrication, service, or wash bay
Industries:
1. Commercial, manufacturing, and industrial establishments, not catering to the retail trade One space for each three employees on the maximum working shift, plus one vehicle operating from the premises
2. Wholesale establishments One space for every 50 square feet of customer service area, plus two spaces for each three employees on the maximum working shift, plus one space for each company vehicle operating from the premises
  62.3. Site requirements. All off-street parking, except that for one-family and two-family dwellings, shall be laid out, constructed, and maintained in accordance with the following requirements:
62.31. All such parking areas shall be hard surfaces with concrete or plant bituminous material and shall be maintained in a dustproof condition and that a good stand of grass be maintained on the remainder of the lot.
62.32. Lighting facilities shall be so arranged that light is reflected away from adjacent properties.
62.33. The parking lot shall be adequately drained.
62.34. Along those lot lines of the parking area which abut residential districts, a dense planting of trees and shrubs shall be established on a strip of land not less than eight feet in width adjacent to the districts and provided that such planting be not less than six feet in height and a substantial bumper rail of wood, metal or concrete shall be installed on the inside of the planting strip.
62.35. A raised curb of at least six inches shall be erected along all of the property lines, except for driveway openings, and those lot lines abutting residential districts where the requirements in section 62.34 shall prevail.
62.36. No sign, whether permanent or temporary, shall be placed within the public right-of-way. Signs and planting strips shall be arranged so that they do not obstruct visibility for drivers or pedestrians.
62.37. No off-street parking space or driveway shall be constructed so as to require exiting vehicles to back into the right-of-way of a public street.
62.38. For parking areas with 100 or more parking spaces, at least ten percent of the parking area shall be permanently landscaped, excluding buffers as required in [section] 62.34. Landscaping may consist of trees, shrubs, flowers, or other ornamental plants, provided that all landscaped areas are regularly maintained by the lot owner and that any dead or dying trees or plants are replaced within one month of death or noticeable decay. Furthermore, all landscaped areas shall be integrated into the parking lot design and not relegated exclusively to one concentrated location or to the edges of the parking area.
Section 63. - Off-street loading and unloading space.
Off-street loading and unloading spaces shall be provided as hereinafter required by this ordinance.
63.1. Size of off-street loading spaces. Each off-street loading space shall have minimum dimensions of 14 feet in height, 12 feet in width, and 55 feet in length. However, upon sufficient demonstration that a particular loading space will be used exclusively by shorter trucks, the board of zoning appeals may reduce the minimum length accordingly to as little as 35 feet.
63.2. Connection to street or alley. Each required off-street loading space shall have direct access to a street or alley or have a driveway which offers satisfactory ingress and egress for trucks.
63.3. Floor area over 10,000 square feet. There shall be provided for each hospital, institution, hotel, commercial, or industrial building or similar use requiring the receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise, and having a floor area of more than 10,000 square feet, at least one off-street loading space for each 10,000 square feet of floor space or fraction thereof. Such space shall be so located as not to hinder the free movement of pedestrians and vehicles over a sidewalk, street or alley.
63.4. Floor area less than 10,000 square feet. There shall be provided for each commercial or industrial building requiring the receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise and having a floor area of less than 10,000 square feet, sufficient off-street loading space (not necessarily a full space if shared by an adjacent establishment) so located as not to hinder the free movement of pedestrians and vehicles over a sidewalk, street or alley.
63.5. Bus and trucking terminals. There shall be provided sufficient space to accommodate the maximum number of buses or trucks to be stored or to be loaded at the terminal at any one time.
63.6. Location of off-street loading spaces. All required off-street loading spaces shall be located on the same lot as the building which they are intended to serve, or on an adjacent lot when shared with the use occupying said adjacent lot.
63.7. Emergency vehicle access areas. The planning commission or board of zoning appeals may require such separate designated service areas in appropriate locations as deemed necessary to provide access for emergency vehicles. Where required, emergency service
areas shall be located as close as practicable to the main entrances of the principal structures on the property, shall satisfy the off-street loading space dimensional requirements in [section] 63.1, and shall be visibly designated for exclusive emergency use, either by painting, appropriate signage or both.
63.8. Permanent reservation. Area reserved for off-street loading and emergency vehicle access in accordance with the requirements of this ordinance shall not be reduced in area or changed to any other use unless the permitted use which is served is discontinued or modified, except where equivalent loading space is provided and approved by the board of zoning appeals.
Section 64. - Control of curb cuts and vision clearance.
The requirements for controlling curb cuts and maintaining vision clearance shall be as follows:
64.1. Curb cuts. No curb cut shall exceed 50 feet in length, nor shall curb cuts be closer than 20 feet to other curb cuts or closer than 20 feet to an intersection of two streets measured along the curbline.
64.2. Vision clearance. In all use districts no fence, wall, shrubbery, sign, marquee or other obstruction to vision between the heights of 2½ and ten feet from the street level shall be permitted within 20 feet of the intersection of the right-of-way lines of two streets or railroad lines, or of a street intersection with a railroad line.
Section 65. - Classification of streets.
All streets in the City of Gray, Georgia are hereby divided into seven [eight] classes as shown on the official street map (major thoroughfare plan) adopted by the council and on record in the office of the city clerk.
65.1. Freeways are those streets which are used primarily for fast or heavy through traffic; and which are divided with full control of access and with no crossings at grade.
65.2. Expressways are those highways or streets which are used primarily for fast or heavy through traffic; and which are divided with full or partial control of access and generally with grade separations at intersections.
65.3. Arterial streets and highways are those which are used primarily for fast or heavy through traffic.
65.4. Collector streets are those which carry traffic from minor streets to the major system of freeways, expressways, and arterial streets and highways.
65.5. Minor or local residential streets, including cul-de-sacs, are those which are used primarily for access to the abutting properties.
65.6. Minor or local commercial and industrial streets are those which are primarily for access to the abutting commercial and industrial properties.
65.7. Alleys are those which are used primarily for vehicular service access to the rear or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
65.8. Marginal access streets or frontage roads are minor streets which are parallel and adjacent to freeways, expressways, or arterial streets and highways; and which provide access to abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
Section 66. - Storage and parking of trailers and vehicles.
Commercial vehicles and trailers of all types, including travel, boat, camping and hauling, shall not be parked or stored on any lot occupied by a dwelling or any lot in any residential district except in accordance with the following requirements:
66.1. No more than one commercial vehicle per dwelling shall be permitted; and in no case shall a commercial vehicle used for hauling explosives, gasoline, hazardous materials, or liquefied petroleum products, or of a size in excess of 10,000 pounds gross vehicle weight, be permitted.
66.2. Travel trailers, hauling trailers, or boat trailers shall be permitted if parked or stored behind the front yard building line.
66.3. A travel trailer shall not be occupied either temporarily or permanently while it is parked or stored in any area except in a trailer park authorized under this ordinance.
66.4. A junked vehicle, one that is not in use and could not pass the safety inspection under the regulations set forth by the Motor Vehicle Inspection Division of the Georgia Department of Public Safety, shall not be permitted to be located on or near to lots with dwelling units. These junked autos shall be confined to junkyards.
Section 67. - Screening and lighting.
67.1. In any commercial or industrial district, any operation not conducted within a building, such as drive-in businesses, outdoor recreation, outdoor storage of materials, and outdoor servicing activities, shall be enclosed by a wall or fence or solid appearance or tight evergreen hedge not less than six feet in height where necessary to conceal such areas or facilities from a residential district adjoining or facing across a street in the rear or on the side of the principal building or use.
67.2. In any district where reference is made requiring adequate screening if a specified operation, such screening shall be a wall or fence of solid appearance of tight evergreen hedge not less than six feet in height.
67.3. Outdoor lighting of all types shall be directed so as to reflect away from all residential dwellings, and shall be so situated as not to reflect directly into any public right-of-way. Where the position of outdoor lighting will not adequately shield nearby residential dwellings, the planning commission or board of zoning appeals may require shielding to be installed over the proposed lights to minimize glare.
Section 68. - Minimum distance between buildings.
The following minimum distances between buildings shall be required unless otherwise specified within this ordinance:
68.1. The minimum distance between main buildings located on the same lot or parcel shall be:
68.11. Front to front arrangement—40 ft.
68.12. Front to rear arrangement—50 ft.
68.13. Rear to rear arrangement—30 ft.
68.14. Side to side arrangement—20 ft.
68.15. All other combinations—20 ft.
68.2. There shall be a distance of not less than 20 feet between a main and accessory building located on the same lot or parcel.
