ARTICLE X. - EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS

Section 101. - Height limits.
Chimneys, water, fire, radio, and television towers, church spires, domes, cupolas, stage towers and scenery lofts, cooling towers, roof signs, elevator bulkheads, smokestacks, flagpoles, parapet wall[s], silos, granaries, windmills, and similar structures and their necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected above the height limits herein established.
Section 102. - Planned unit developments.
A proposed plan for a large scale development of a tract of land, which has a proposed design making it desirable to apply regulations more flexible than those contained in this ordinance, may be submitted to the commission for consideration. Such proposed development may contain residential uses of various types and allied uses such as a shopping center to service the development. Upon finding that the following conditions exist, the council may, after a public hearing, initiate such zoning amendments as may be necessary for the establishment of the plan.
102.1. General conditions. Any area may be rezoned as a planned unit development district if the following conditions are met:
102.1.1. More than one principal land use or separate land uses, which would not otherwise be permitted to locate within the same zoning district are proposed for development on a parcel under single or multiple ownership or management.
102.1.2. The area is not located within C-3 entertainment commercial or R-1 residential districts. Furthermore, the proposed development must not be allowable under any other single zoning district, due to lot area requirements, dimensional standards, or land use requirements.
102.1.3. Exceptions or variations to the site, dimensional changes in standards required, or changes in other requirements of this ordinance are being sought.
102.1.4. The property adjacent to the area included in the development must not be adversely affected.
102.2. Specific requirements. In order to qualify for a planned unit development district zoning classification, a proposed development must first meet each of the following specific requirements:
102.2.1. The site utilized for the proposed development must contain an area of not less than 20 acres.
102.2.2. The site must have a minimum width between any two opposite boundary lines of 450 linear feet and must adjoin or have direct access to at least one arterial or collector street.
102.2.3. The area proposed shall be in one ownership or management, or if in several ownerships, the application for amendment to this ordinance shall be filed jointly by all of the owners of the properties included in the plan.
102.3. Procedure for approval of a planned unit development district. The filing of a plan for a planned unit development shall constitute a request for an amendment to this ordinance and shall meet the requirements for amendments specified in this ordinance. In addition, the following regulations shall apply:
102.3.1. Two copies of a preliminary site plan shall be submitted to the planning commission.
102.3.2. The planning commission shall review the proposals prior to submitting a recommendation to the council. The planning commission may make reasonable additional requirements including, but not limited to, utilities, drainage, landscaping, and maintenance thereof, lighting, signs and advertising devices, screening, accessways, curb cuts, traffic control, height of buildings and setback of buildings, to protect adjoining residential lots or uses, or to protect the PUD from adjacent uses.
102.3.3. Approval by the council subsequent to a public hearing constitutes creation of the planned unit development district.
102.3.4. Following approval by the council, a final site plan in the form of a final plat shall be recorded in accordance with the provisions of this section prior to issuance of a building permit for construction of any improvements within the PUD.
102.4. Preliminary site plan required. In addition to information required for a preliminary plat by the subdivision regulations contained in this ordinance, the preliminary site plan which accompanies an application for rezoning to a PUD classification shall include the following items. The mayor and city council of Gray may establish additional requirements for the preliminary site plan and may, in extraordinary cases, waive a particular requirement if, in its opinion, the fulfillment of the requirement is not necessary for a proper decision on the project.
102.4.1. The proposed title of the project and the name of the engineer, architect, designer, or landscape architect, and the development.
102.4.2. The northpoint, scale, and date; the scale of the site plan shall be as follows:
(a)
For projects containing 50 acres or more, not more than 100 feet to one inch.
(b)
For projects containing less than 50 acres, not more than 50 feet to one inch.
102.4.3. Existing zoning and zoning district boundaries and proposed changes in zoning.
102.4.4. The boundaries of the property involved, the location of all existing easements, section lines, and property lines, existing streets, buildings, and other existing physical features in or adjoining the project.
102.4.5. The location and sizes of existing and proposed sanitary and storm sewers, water mains, culverts, and other underground facilities in or near the project.
102.4.6. The location and character of construction of proposed streets, alleys, driveways, curb cuts, entrances and exits, loading areas (including numbers of parking and loading spaces), and outdoor lighting systems.
102.4.7. The location of proposed lots, setback lines, and easements, and proposed reservations for parks, parkways, playgrounds, school sites, and open spaces.
102.4.8. The location and height of all proposed main and accessory building and structures.
102.4.9. Location, height, and material of all fences, walls, screens, planting, and landscaping.
102.4.10. Proposed location, intended use, and character of all buildings.
102.4.11. Location, character, size, and height and orientation of proposed signs.
102.4.12. A location map showing the position of the proposed development in relationship to the surrounding area.
102.4.13. A tabulation of total number of acres in the project, gross and net, and the percentage thereof proposed to be devoted to different dwelling types, commercial uses, other nonresidential uses, off-street parking, streets, parks, schools, and other public and private reservations.
102.4.14. A tabulation of the total number of dwelling units of various types in the project and the overall project density in dwelling units per acre, gross and net, as required by district regulations.
102.4.15. A general description of the proposal, stating the purpose and goals of the development, and the design features incorporated for meeting these goals.
102.4.16. A detailed legal description of the location of the site.
102.4.17. A discussion of the proposed standards for development, including restrictions on the use of the property, density standards and yard requirements and restrictive covenants. The planning commission may establish additional requirements for the preliminary site plan, and in special cases, may waive a particular requirement if, in its opinion, the inclusion of that requirement is not essential to a proper decision on the project.
102.5. Final plat required. A final plat shall be recorded prior to submission of an application for a building permit. The plat shall comply with all laws, regulations, and resolutions governing the approval of subdivisions and, in addition, shall show all the features required on the preliminary site plan. A plat of development shall be recorded regardless of whether a subdivision is proposed. At least one of the final site plan maps shall include topographical contour lines of intervals no less than five feet.
102.6. Review standards. The planning commission shall review plans for proposed planned unit developments for conformity with the comprehensive plan. Specifically, the proposed plan shall meet the following conditions:
102.6.1. The plan shall provide for appropriate relationships between uses around the boundaries and uses within the PUD and shall indicate in written form those measures which would be taken to insure that adjacent property will not be adversely affected, and the PUD will be similarly protected.
102.6.2. The plan shall conform to the purpose of this ordinance as stated in article I.
102.6.3. Access to all developed property shall be sufficient to provide for an acceptable level of fire protection.
102.7. Miscellaneous provisions.
102.7.1. Amendments and additions. Amendments or additions to an approved plan or to the boundaries of a PUD shall be accomplished subject to the same regulations and procedures applicable to a new application.
102.7.2. Deed restrictions. The planning commission may require filing of deed restrictions to help carry out the intent of this resolution and specifically the intent of the PUD district.
102.7.3. Violations. The violation of any provision of the plan as submitted under the provisions provided herein, shall constitute a violation of this resolution subject to the same penalties as established in article XVII.
102.8. Site design requirements:
102.8.1. Site design, general. The proposed development must be designed so as to produce an environment of stable and desirable character not out of harmony with its surrounding neighborhood. The review by the planning commission shall consider the following design elements:
102.8.1.1. Privacy. Personal and individual privacy shall be maintained and balanced with the provision of public and common areas.
102.8.1.2. Variety. Interest and variety shall be sought, by means of street design and changes in and mixtures of building types, heights, facades, setbacks, planting, or size of open space, the design should be harmonious as a whole and not simply from street-to-street.
102.8.1.3. Traffic and parking. No through or commercial traffic should be permitted; streets should not be straight for long distances, but should curve so as to discourage fast movement of traffic; group parking areas should be screened as defined in section 67, so that the vehicles are substantially hidden from the street.
102.8.1.4. Lot area and lot width, general. Minimum average lot area for each category of dwelling unit (eg: single-family, two-family, multifamily) shall be equal to the minimum requirements applicable in an R-3 district. Minimum lot area and lot width requirements may be increased by the county health department when the said department determines that an increased area or width is necessary for health reasons.
102.8.2. Site design, detail. The following standards shall be met:
102.8.2.1. Open space. A minimum of at least 20 percent of the gross area of the site should be retained in open space.
102.8.2.2. Building coverage. The total ground area occupied by buildings and structures shall not exceed 30 percent of the total ground area of the planned unit development. Building coverage is defined as the land area covered by dwelling balconies, porches, and other architectural projections, but not including roof overhangs, open balconies, and uncovered porches.
102.8.2.3. Building heights. Height of particular buildings shall not be a basis for denial or approval of a plan; provided any structures in excess of 35 feet shall be designed and platted to be consistent with the reasonable enjoyment of neighboring property and the efficiency of existing public services and facilities.
102.8.2.4. Density and housing types. A maximum of 30 percent of the dwelling units located in a PUD district may be two-family dwellings, townhouses, and multifamily dwelling units.
102.8.2.5. Density of retail and service uses. No more than five percent the total floor space in the PUD development shall be used for retail or service establishment.
102.8.2.6. Street standards. All streets located in PUD districts shall be class I streets.
102.8.2.7. Off-street parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading requirements shall be as required in sections 62 and 63.
Section 103. - Yard requirements.
Yard requirements shall be modified subject to the following conditions:
103.1. On double frontage lots, the required front yard shall be provided on each street.
103.2. Whenever a rear property line of a lot abuts upon an alley, one-half of the alley width shall be considered as a portion of the required rear yard.
103.3. An unroofed porch shall project into a required front yard for a distance not exceeding ten feet.
103.4. The front and side yard requirements may be waived where dwellings occupy space above commercial uses upon approval of the board of zoning appeals.
Section 104. - Access to public streets.
Access to public streets shall be maintained in accordance to the following requirements:
104.1. Each principal use shall be located on a lot or parcel which provides frontage on a public street having a right-of-way of not less than 30 feet.
104.2. Any additional dwelling shall have access to a public street by means of a passageway open to the sky at least 20 feet in width.
Section 105. - Lots of record.
Where the owner of a lot of record or his successor to the title thereto does not own sufficient land to enable him to conform to the dimensional requirements of this ordinance, the following exceptions may be allowed:
105.1. Land use. Where a lot, tract or parcel of land has an area or width that does not conform to the requirements of the district in which it is located, said lot may be used for a single-family dwelling (except in the C-1 neighborhood commercial, M-1 and M-2 industrial districts). A single-family dwelling may be constructed in a R-2 or R-3 residential district, provided the lot to be so used has a minimum area of 4,000 square feet and a minimum lot width at the building line of 40 feet, provided it is located on a public sewer.
105.2. Replatting. When two or more adjoining and vacant lots with continuous frontage are in a single ownership at the time of application and such lots have a frontage or lot area less than is required by the use district in which they are located, such lots shall be platted or reparcelled so as to create one or more lots which conform to the minimum frontage and area requirements of the use district.
105.3. Improvements. Buildings or structures located on substandard lots of record may be improved only when the addition of adequate plumbing is required by the laws and ordinances of the council, provided that the yard requirements in section 83 are adhered to.
105.4. Side yard requirements. The side yard requirements for substandard lots of record may be reduced for each side yard at the rate of one foot for each four feet by which the lot width lacks 50 feet, provided in no event shall such side yard be reduced to less than five feet on each side.
Section 106. - Front and side yard setbacks for dwellings.
The setback requirements of this ordinance for side yards on corner lots and/or front yards shall not apply to any lot where the average setback on developed lots located, wholly or in part, 100 feet on each side of such lot and within the same block and zoning district and fronting on the same streets as such lot, is less than the minimum required setback. In such cases, the setback on such lot may be less than the required setback not less than the average of the existing setbacks on the existing developed lots.
