ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; COUNTY MANAGER[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— At the discretion of the editor, the title of Art. II has been amended to reflect inclusion of Ordinance of March 27, 2007 as part of Art. II, §§ 2-43—2-46.
Related laws reference—Board of commissioners, art. I.
State Law reference— County government generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-1 et seq.; board of commissioners authorized to adopt ordinances for the governing and policing of the unincorporated areas of the county, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(a); county a body corporate, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-3; claims against counties, O.C.G.A. § 36-11-1 et seq.; grants of state funds to counties, O.C.G.A. § 36-17-1 et seq.; organization of county government, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20 et seq.; authority to control property of the county, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.1(a)(1); matters over which governing authority has jurisdiction, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.1; provisions applicable to counties and municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-1 et seq.; provisions applicable to counties and municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-1 et seq.; county property generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-9-1 et seq.; code of ethics for government service, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-1; offenses involving public records, documents and other items, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1; inspection of public records, O.C.G.A. § 45-6-6; duty of incumbent to deliver office property to successor, O.C.G.A. § 45-6-7 et seq.; records as public property, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-102; records management plans for local governments, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-90; home rule for counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I; supplemental powers of municipalities and counties enumerated, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III; counties a body corporate and politic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ I; county officers; election; term; compensation, Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ III.

Sec. 2-31. - Election of chairman; duties.
(a)
In January of each year, the board of commissioners shall elect one of its members as chairman of the board. Such chairman shall be elected by majority vote of the board at the first meeting in January of each year. Such chairman shall serve in such capacity for one year, unless removed by a three-fourths vote of the board. The chairman may be elected to succeed himself.
(b)
The chairman shall preside at all meetings of the board, shall preserve order and decorum, and shall appoint the chair and members of all board committees. The chairman shall also be authorized to execute legal documents and other such documents as may be required of the board in its corporate capacity, when he is authorized to do so by the board.
(Ord. of 3-26-1998, § 1)
Sec. 2-32. - Election of vice-chairman; duties.
(a)
In January of each year, the board of commissioners shall elect one of its members as vice-chairman of the board. Such vice-chairman shall be elected by majority vote of the board at the first meeting in January of each year. Such vice-chairman shall serve in such capacity for one year, unless removed by a three-fourths vote of the board. The vice-chairman may be elected to succeed himself.
(b)
The vice-chairman shall preside at all meetings of the board in the absence of the chairman. The vice-chairman shall also be authorized to act on behalf of the board in the absence of the chairman and shall be vested with all the powers of the chairman during such absence.
(Ord. of 3-26-1998, § 2)
Sec. 2-33. - Meetings; when held.
(a)
The board of commissioners shall meet regularly at least two times each month at such place and time as the board may fix and prescribe. One such meeting shall be designated as a voting/working session meeting, and the second such monthly meeting shall be designated as the regular monthly meeting of the board. The board may take any action it is authorized to take at either type of meeting, and all meetings shall be held in accord with the state open meetings law.
(b)
Special meetings may be called by the chairman at any time for the consideration and determination of any questions or matters requiring immediate attention of the board. The county clerk shall give the members at least 24 hours' advance notice of each such special meeting unless the chairman declares that an emergency exists; and, in such event, the county clerk shall give notice of such special meetings as he may be able to provide under the circumstances.
(c)
Nothing in this section shall prevent the board from amending its meeting schedule or from having less than two meetings in any given month due to such reasons as the board may deem proper.
(Ord. of 3-26-1998, § 3)
Sec. 2-34. - Quorum.
A majority of the members of the board of commissioners, including the chairman, shall constitute a quorum for meetings of the board. If there exists a vacancy on the board that has not yet been filled at the time of any meeting of the board, a quorum of the board shall be a majority of the board members then actually serving on the board.
(Ord. of 3-26-1998, § 4)
Sec. 2-35. - Voting on questions before the board.
(a)
In any meeting of the board of commissioners, each commissioner present shall vote on each question before the board unless a member of the board is immediately and particularly interested in the question or unless a member of the board is excused from voting by majority vote of the board. A motion to excuse a member from voting must be made before the question is put to a vote, and such motion shall be decided without debate; except that the board member making the motion may state briefly the reasons the motion was made.
(b)
All questions to be decided by the board shall be put by the presiding officer. The members of the board shall vote viva voce, with a majority determining all questions, unless otherwise provided. The chairman or presiding officer, as the case may be, shall be authorized to vote on any question but shall not be required to vote on any question unless there is a tie vote, in which case the chairman shall cast the deciding vote unless he is otherwise disqualified from voting.
(c)
Whenever it shall be requested by any one or more board members, the yeas and nays shall be recorded on any question put to the board.
(Ord. of 3-26-1998, § 5)
Sec. 2-36. - Agenda.
(a)
Unless otherwise agreed by the board of commissioners, the board shall conduct its meetings based upon an agenda of the items to be considered by the board. Such agenda may be submitted to the members of the board prior to or at the time of the board meeting. Any member may make a motion to add any item to the agenda; and if there is a second to that motion, the board may consider, discuss, debate, table or take final action as to such motion.
(b)
The agenda for each board meeting shall be prepared by the county manager, and any member of the board who desires to have an item placed on the agenda for consideration shall contact the county manager and advise him regarding such item at least 24 hours prior to the time of the board meeting at which the board member desires such item to be considered.
(c)
Upon completion of the preparation and printing of the agenda, it shall be considered a public record and shall be open for inspection by the public pursuant to the state open records law.
(d)
In preparing the agenda for each board meeting, the county manager shall be authorized to include, as part of said meeting agenda, a "consent agenda." The consent agenda shall consist of items that have been previously considered by the commission, that have not yet been finally voted upon, and that are items which are likely to be approved by the commission unanimously and without further discussion thereof. The consideration of the consent agenda shall be undertaken as part of the regular meeting, and each item to be included as a part of the consent agenda shall be listed upon the consent agenda in such manner that will apprize each interested person of the general nature of the item. Prior to the consideration of the consent agenda, the chair shall request of the members of the commission whether any of them have a matter that such member wishes to have removed from the consent agenda, and if any member requests that an item or items be removed from the consent agenda, then such item or items shall be removed from the consent agenda and voted upon separately by the commission as part of its regular agenda. The consent agenda shall be voted upon by the commission as one item, and approval of the consent agenda by the requisite vote of the board of commissioners shall constitute approval of each and every item appearing in the consent agenda in accord with the actual wording thereof on the agenda.
(Ord. of 3-26-1998, § 6; Ord. of 2-21-2005; Ord. of 5-28-2013)
Sec. 2-37. - Applications to the board to be in writing.
All applications, petitions or other requests to the board from a citizen or interested party must be in writing; and it may, in the discretion of the chairman, be referred to a committee before any action is taken unless the board shall, by majority vote, direct otherwise.
(Ord. of 3-26-1998, § 7)
Sec. 2-38. - Ordinance and resolution adoption procedure.
(a)
Every proposed ordinance or resolution shall be introduced in writing. No ordinance or resolution shall be passed that refers to more than one subject matter or contains matter different from that expressed in the title except ordinances or resolutions adopting the annual operating and capital budgets and general codification and revision of ordinances and resolutions of the board of commissioners.
(b)
Except for emergency ordinances under subsection (c) of this section, no ordinance shall be adopted unless it has been read or presented in written form to the members of the board during at least two meetings held not less than one week apart. A resolution may be adopted at the same meeting at which it is introduced. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the board unanimously consents, an ordinance may be adopted at the same meeting at which it is introduced.
(c)
To meet a public emergency threatening life, health, property or public peace, the board may adopt emergency ordinances or resolutions; but such ordinances or resolutions may not be enacted to levy taxes; or to grant, renew or extend a franchise; or to regulate the rate charged for any public utility or service; or to authorize the borrowing of money. An emergency ordinance or resolution shall be in the form prescribed for ordinances or resolutions generally, except that it shall be plainly designated as an emergency ordinance or resolution and shall contain a declaration stating what emergency exists. An emergency ordinance or resolution may be adopted with or without amendment or may be rejected at the meeting at which it is introduced, but the affirmative vote of a majority of the board shall be required for its adoption. Such emergency ordinance or resolution shall become effective upon adoption or at such later time as it may specify. Every emergency ordinance or resolution shall automatically stand repealed, unless otherwise provided, on the 31st day following the date on which it was adopted; but, if the emergency still exists, the automatic repeal of the ordinance or resolution shall not prevent its reenactment in the manner provided in this subsection. An emergency ordinance or resolution may also be repealed in the same manner as provided for the adoption of an emergency ordinance or resolution in this subsection.
(d)
Every proposed ordinance of the board that is to have the force and effect of law shall begin with the words "BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Commissioners of Lee County, Georgia, and it is hereby ordained by authority of the same, that." All other acts of the board shall be by resolution or shall take such other form as prescribed by law or county ordinance.
(Ord. of 3-26-1998, § 8)
Sec. 2-39. - Reconsideration of previous business.
Before the minutes of any preceding meeting of the board of commissioners are approved, any member of the board may move to reconsider any question, motion, resolution, ordinance, or other matter or thing in the minutes of such previous meeting. If such reconsideration is approved by a majority of the board members present, the subject matter of such reconsideration shall be the first business to be disposed of during the meeting.
(Ord. of 3-26-1998, § 9)
Sec. 2-40. - Robert's Rules of Order adopted.
The meetings of the board of commissioners shall be guided and governed by those parliamentary rules and regulations properly known as Robert's Rules of Order, Newly Revised, being adopted and made a part of this section as though fully set out in this section. In the event of a conflict between a county ordinance and Robert's Rules of Order, Newly Revised, the county ordinance shall control.
(Ord. of 3-26-1998, § 10)
Sec. 2-41. - Standing board committees.
(a)
The board of commissioners establishes standing committees of the board. The chair and members of each of these committees shall be appointed by the chairman of the board as provided in this article. Such committees shall be appointed at the first board meeting in January of each year, and these committees shall serve for a term of one year unless vacancies occur that necessitates the chairman's reconstituting the committees or their chairmen.
(b)
The standing committees of the board are as follows:
(1)
Road committee. The road committee is responsible for reviewing the county's road system to determine paving and resurfacing needs, considering public and private road concerns, and general road concerns.
(2)
Personnel committee. The personnel committee is responsible for reviewing and evaluating personnel issues, such as additional personnel needs, annual and other employee salary increases, the hiring, retention and termination of department heads, and county personnel rules and regulations.
(3)
Budget and finance committee. The budget and finance committee is established for the purpose of reviewing the county's annual budget before it is presented to the full board for public hearing and consideration.
(c)
Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of the chairman or the board, by majority vote, to establish additional standing committees or temporary committees in order to assist in the work of the board.
(Ord. of 3-26-1998, § 11)
Sec. 2-42. - County clerk to maintain original ordinances.
The original of each ordinance shall be deposited with the county clerk, who shall note on the ordinance the date and time of its passage and the vote for and against the passage of the ordinance. Such original ordinances shall be retained by the county clerk in a file maintained for such purposes.
(Ord. of 3-26-1998, § 12)
Sec. 2-43. - County manager; appointment; ineligibility of board member.
The day-to-day operations of Lee County shall be overseen and conducted by the county manager. The county manager shall be appointed by majority vote of the members of the board of commissioners. No member of the board shall be appointed county manager or acting county manager during the term of office for which such member was elected or for a period of one year thereafter.
(Ord. of 3-27-2007; Ord. of 5-28-2013)
Sec. 2-44. - Contract for county manager.
The terms of employment of the county manager shall be established by a written contract.
(Ord. of 3-27-2007; Ord. of 5-28-2013)
Sec. 2-45. - Qualifications.
The county manager shall be chosen by the board of commissioners solely upon the basis of the person's executive and administrative qualifications, with special reference to the person's actual experience in, or knowledge of, accepted practices in respect to the duties of the office as set forth in this Code. The board shall prescribe such educational and experience requirements for selection as county manager as the board may from time to time deem appropriate, but the required qualifications for such position shall not be changed or revised during the term of the contract of a county manager.
(Ord. of 3-27-2007; Ord. of 5-28-2013)
Sec. 2-46. - Duties generally.
The county manager shall be the head of the administrative branch of the county government. Such county manager shall be responsible to the board of commissioners for the proper administration of all affairs of the county, except as otherwise provided by law. Specific duties shall include the following:
(1)
To see that all ordinances, resolutions, regulations, and orders of the board and all laws of the state subject to enforcement by him or by officers or department heads subject, under this article, to his direction and supervision are faithfully executed.
(2)
To attend all meetings of the board of commissioners, with the right to take part in the discussion; provided that such manager shall have no vote before the board.
(3)
To examine regularly at periods fixed by the board the accounts, records, and operations of every county board, commission, department, office, and agency which receives appropriations from the board; to make regular monthly reports to the board on county fiscal and other affairs; to keep the board fully advised on the financial condition of the future needs of the county; and to make such recommendations on county affairs as he deems necessary for the efficient operation of the county.
(4)
To prepare and submit the annual budget and capital program to the board and to execute the budget and capital program adopted by the board, approving all disbursements and expenditures as budgeted and/or authorized by the board.
(5)
To prepare and submit budget amendments to the board where the county manager deems it in the best interest of the county to do so.
(6)
To confer with, advise, and assist other county and quasi-county public authorities and agencies, which are not under the direct control and supervision of the board of commissioners, but which may depend upon appropriations of the board for their continued operation.
(7)
To confer with, advise, and assist all elected or appointed officials of the county who are not under the immediate control of the board, but who receive financial support from the board, such as the sheriff, clerk of superior court, tax commissioner, probate judge, magistrate judge and similar officials.
(8)
To monitor and propose updates of the county's employee pay plan from time to time and to recommend the salaries and other compensation to be paid to county employees lawfully employed by the county government.
(9)
To act as a liaison between the board of commissioners and the department heads and employees of the county.
(10)
To see all statutes, programs, regulations, or plans promulgated and required by the state or federal governments are duly carried out and complied with in accordance with such statutes, programs, regulations, and plans.
(11)
To exercise supervisory control and authority over county offices, departments and agencies, directing and supervising the administration of all county offices, departments, and agencies for which the said board is responsible, or may hereafter be responsible, including the authority to hire, appoint, suspend, discharge, transfer, discipline, and/or remove department heads and employees (but the county manager may delegate to any department head such powers with respect to such department head's subordinates within his or her department where such delegation is authorized by the county's personnel policies). Such authority shall not extend to: (i) the county attorney, who shall be appointed and removed by the board; (ii) the county auditor, who shall be appointed and removed by the board; or (iii) members of the various boards, commissions, and authorities, who shall be appointed and removed by the board of commissioners as authorized by law. Nothing herein shall be construed to authorize the county manager to hire employees for positions which are not budgeted or authorized by the board of commissioners; provided, however, that the county manager shall take all reasonable steps to notify each member of the board of commissioners of any adverse personnel action taken by the county manager with respect to any department head within 24 hours after such personnel action is taken.
(12)
To supervise, either himself or through appointed department heads, the conduct of county employees during the course of their employment.
(13)
To supervise the performance of contracts to which the county is a party.
(14)
To regulate purchases of county supplies and materials as provided in the county purchasing policy.
(15)
To require reports from heads of departments and other employees entrusted with administrative duties or exercising discretion. The county manager shall have at all times the authority to examine all books and records of every officer and department of the county under the jurisdiction of the board of commissioners.
(16)
To undertake and perform such other tasks as directed by the board for the benefit of the county and its citizens.
(Ord. of 3-27-2007; Ord. of 5-28-2013)
Secs. 2-47—2-75. - Reserved.
