ARTICLE IV. - R-1L LOW DENSITY, SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 70-126. - Statement of purpose.
This district is composed of certain areas having both rural and single-family residential characteristics and areas where it is desirable and likely that similar development will occur in the future. The district is also characterized by very low density of housing and large lot sizes, as well as uses that are associated with rural areas. It is designed to accommodate residential development opportunities for those who desire exurban, low density, or estate living and are willing to live in more remote locations and to assume the costs of providing many of their own services and amenities. The public provision of these amenities is precluded because the county must concentrate its limited resources in areas where more intense future development is logical. The low intensity allowed in this district is similarly necessitated by the county's need to preserve and support the existing public infrastructure. Accordingly, capital improvements such as such as highways and major sewer interceptors should be directed away from this district. The low densities permitted in this district generally permit on-site septic systems and wells, thereby reducing public capital expenditures.
(Ord. of 12-2-2002, § 70-126)
Sec. 70-127. - Permitted uses.
(a)
Single-family detached dwellings, except manufactured or mobile homes.
(b)
Accessory buildings or uses customarily incidental to any of the permitted uses, when located on the same lot as the primary use and not involving any business, profession, trade or occupation, provided that all accessory buildings shall conform and be located as required in section 70-84 of this chapter.
(c)
Churches, provided that the proposed site for a church is not less than three acres, and a complete site development plan is submitted with the application for a building permit.
(d)
Home occupations.
(e)
Gardens.
(f)
The keeping of horses for home use and enjoyment; provided that the lot is not less than five acres total and only three such animals shall be permitted for each 50,000 square feet of land area not to include the front or side yard of the principal dwelling and all horses shall be adequately fenced within the property and maintained 25 feet from all property lines in the rear yard.
(1)
The keeping, breeding or training of any animals for monetary gain or profit shall be deemed a commercial business and is expressly prohibited in all residential districts except where such operations may qualify as a non-conforming use as defined in this chapter.
(2)
No keeping of horses shall become a nuisance as defined in the county nuisance ordinance.
(3)
No horses shall be kept on a lot in this zoning district when there is no principal dwelling on the lot.
(Ord. of 12-2-2002, § 70-127)
Sec. 70-128. - Conditional uses.
(a)
Public cemeteries, provided that a complete site development sketch is submitted with the application. The proposed site must be at least five acres and have an adequate buffer.
(b)
Nursery schools, kindergartens or day care facilities provided that all state licensing requirements are met.
(c)
Social or fraternal clubs, lodges, union halls, and other similar uses.
(d)
Bed and breakfast inn.
(e)
Privately owned outdoor recreational facilities such as golf and country clubs, swimming or tennis clubs and other similar uses.
(f)
Temporary emergency construction and repair residences.
(g)
Unless otherwise specified, keeping of domestic livestock and/or fowl subject to the requirements of section 70-87 of this chapter.
(Ord. of 12-2-2002, § 70-128; Ord. of 3-27-2018 , pt. 2)
Sec. 70-129. - Area, height, bulk, and placement requirements.
R-1L
EXPAND
Dwelling Units Per Acre of Developable Land—R-1L
Well and septic 1 unit per every 5 acres
Water and septic 1 unit per every 4 acres
Water and sewer 1 unit per every 3 acres
Lot Width at Setback
Well and septic 150'
Water and septic 100'
Water and sewer Staff review*
Minimum Building Setback
Front 35'
Side and rear 10'
Maximum lot coverage 40%
Maximum building height 50'
  *Each lot shall have, at a minimum, a 30-foot-wide access to a public road.
(1)
Lot length shall not be more than four times the lot width.
(2)
This height limitation shall not apply to grain elevators, silos, windmills, elevator legs, cooling towers, water towers, chimneys and smokestacks, or church spires.
(3)
Side and rear setbacks may be less if indicated on approved subdivision plans.
(4)
All new roads in this district shall connect directly to existing, paved, public roads.
(5)
All final lot sizes shall be subject to the county health department standards.
(Ord. of 12-2-2002, § 70-129)
Secs. 70-130—70-160. - Reserved.
