ARTICLE VII. - STREAM BUFFER PROTECTION PLAN

Sec. 34-270. - [Generally.]
(a)
Purpose and applicability. In 1991, the General Assembly passed the Mountain and River Corridor Protection Act, which called for the Department of Natural Resources (DNR) to develop criteria for the protection of important river corridors within the State of Georgia. These criteria apply to all perennial rivers or streams with an average annual flow of at least 400 cubic feet per second (as defined by the United States Geologic Survey). In December 1991, the Board of Natural Resources adopted these river corridor protection criteria. A subsequent amendment of the Minimum Planning Standards and Procedures for Local Comprehensive Planning (approved by the board of community affairs in April 1992), requires all local governments to address these river corridor protection criteria within their comprehensive plans as they apply to rivers and streams in their municipal boundaries. Lee County has adopted a more stringent requirement for stream flows to include all streams and creeks with flows of 300 cubic feet per minute or greater. Within Lee County, the Flint River and Kinchafoonee Creek and the Muckalee Creek are subject to the river corridor protection criteria referred to hereafter as the "stream buffer protection plan."
The primary purposes of the stream buffer protection plan criteria are to protect water quality, reduce erosion, encourage the protection of wildlife habitats, and reduce the risk of flood damage to properties near major rivers. Therefore, the protection criteria require the establishment and maintenance of a 100-foot natural vegetative buffer, containing flora and fauna native to the area. The 100-foot wide buffer, consisting of the area between the top of the bank 1 and the edge of the river's low water line shall be included within the stream buffer protection plan.
Because stream channels move due to natural processes such as meandering, riverbank erosion, and jumping of channels, the river corridor may shift with time. For the purposes of these criteria, the stream corridor shall be considered to be fixed at its position at the beginning of each review period of local comprehensive plans. Any shift in the location of the protected river after the start of the review period will require a revision of the boundaries of the river corridor at the time of the next review by the department of community affairs.
(b)
Permissible uses.
(1)
Land use existing prior to the promulgation of a stream buffer protection plan.
(2)
Single-family dwellings, including the usual appurtenances, are permitted within the buffer area, subject to the following conditions:
a.
The dwelling shall be in compliance with all local zoning regulations.
b.
No more than one dwelling shall be located on a tract of land containing at least two acres, not including any area that lies within the river corridor or within the boundaries of the "floodway" as determined by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and delineated on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) panels.
c.
A septic tank serving such a dwelling may be located within the buffer area.
d.
Septic tank drain fields shall not be located within the buffer area.
(c)
Construction of road crossings and utility crossings provided that construction of such road and utility crossings shall meet all requirements of the Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act of 1975, and of any applicable local ordinances on soil erosion and sedimentation control.
(d)
Timber production and harvesting are subject to the following conditions:
(1)
Forestry activity shall be consistent with best management practices established by the Georgia Forestry Commission; and
(2)
Forestry activity shall not impair the drinking quality of the river water as defined by the Federal Clean Water Act, as amended.
(e)
Wildlife and fisheries management activities.
(f)
Recreational usage consistent either with the maintenance of a natural vegetative buffer or with river dependent recreation. For example, a boat ramp would be consistent with this criterion, but a hard-surface tennis court would not. Parking lots are not consistent with this criterion. Paths and walkways within the river corridor are consistent with this criterion.
(g)
Natural water quality treatment or purification.
(h)
Agricultural production and management, subject to the following conditions:
(1)
Agricultural activity shall be consistent with the Best Management Practices established by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission;
(2)
Agricultural activity shall not impair the drinking quality of the river water as defined by the Federal Clean Water Act, as amended; and
(3)
Agricultural activity shall be consistent with all state and federal laws, and all regulations promulgated by the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
(i)
Mining activities, if permitted by the Department of Natural Resources pursuant to the Georgia Surface Mining Act of 1968, as amended.
(j)
Utilities, if such utilities cannot feasibly be located outside the buffer area, and provided that:
(1)
The utilities shall be located as far from the river bank as reasonably possible;
(2)
Installation and maintenance of the utilities shall be such as to protect the integrity of the buffer area as well as is reasonably possible; and
(3)
Utilities shall not impair the drinking quality of the river water.
(k)
Other uses permitted by the Department of Natural Resources or under Section 404 of the Clean Water Act.
For all of the above uses, the natural vegetative buffer shall be restored as quickly as possible following any land disturbing activity within the river corridor. These uses are permissible upon compliance with all local, state, and federal laws currently in effect.
(l)
Prohibited uses.
(1)
Except as provided in connection with permitted single-family dwellings, septic tanks, and septic tank drain fields are prohibited.
(2)
Handling areas for the receiving and storage of hazardous waste. Port facilities are exempt from this criterion provided that:
a.
Port facilities shall meet all federal and state laws and regulations for the handling and transport of hazardous waste.
b.
Port facilities handling hazardous waste shall perform their operations on impermeable surfaces having spill and leak protection systems as prescribed by the Department of Natural Resources.
(3)
Hazardous waste or solid waste landfills.
(4)
Other uses which are not approved by the county shall not be acceptable within the river corridors.
(Any use not permitted in the buffer area shall be "set back" at least 100 feet or from the river bank.)
1 "River bank" shall mean the rising ground, bordering a river, which serves to confine the water to the natural channel during the normal course of flow.
2 "River corridor" shall mean all land, inclusive of islands, not regulated under the Metropolitan River Protection Act (O.C.G.A. 12-5-440 through 12-5-457), or the Coastal Marshland Protection Act (O.C.G.A. 12-5-280 through 12-5-293), in areas of a protected river and being within
(Res. No. LD05-A050, 9-23-2005)
Secs. 34-271—34-280. - Reserved.
