Chapter 24 - CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— An Ord. of Nov. 11, 1999 added a new chapter 19 pertaining to certificates of occupancy. To maintain the alphabetical sequence of chapters, the chapter added by said ordinance has been redesignated at the discretion of the editor as chapter 24.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 24-1. - Purpose.
The certificate of occupancy requirement provides a procedure for the inspection of completed premises to ensure their compliance with this article and any plans that were approved prior to commencement of the use or occupancy and to ensure that the proposed use is permitted by the zoning district in which the property is located.
(Ord. of 11-11-99; Ord. of 1-7-2002)
Sec. 24-2. - Authority.
The director of planning, or his duly authorized representative (chief building inspector), shall have the authority to issue certificates of occupancy in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 11-11-99; Ord. of 1-7-2002)
Sec. 24-3. - Certificate required.
Unless a certificate of occupancy shall have first been obtained certifying compliance with the provisions of this article:
(1)
No business license will be issued;
(2)
No building or structure, or addition thereto, constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, structurally altered or moved shall thereafter be occupied or used for any purpose; to include tendering goods or services for payment;
(3)
No vacant land shall be used or occupied for any purpose;
(4)
No use of any land or structure shall be changed to any other use, whether or not construction, reconstruction, enlargement, structural alteration or moving is involved; and
(5)
No home occupation shall be established.
(Ord. of 11-11-99; Ord. of 1-7-2002)
Sec. 24-4. - Procedure.
(a)
Application. Applications for certificates of occupancy shall be submitted to the director of planning or his duly authorized representative (chief building inspector) and shall be in such form and contain such information and documentation as shall be prescribed from time to time by him. Applications for business licenses include applications for certificates of occupancy and shall be submitted to the director of planning or his duly authorized representative (chief building inspector) for review and approval.
In any case where the structure or use involved has been constructed or established pursuant to any special approval or relief required under this article, the application shall be accompanied by "as built" plans certified by a surveyor, engineer, architect, planner or owner-designer, as may be appropriate, to accurately depict the structure or use as built and certified to be in conformity in all respects to the special approval or relief granted.
(b)
Action on application. Following the receipt of a completed application or from when the owner has completed all work required by the building permit, the chief building inspector shall cause the subject structure or premises to be inspected, if necessary, and shall take one of the following actions based on such inspection.
(1)
If all work has been completed and the structure or premises is certified by all applicable county officials to be in full and complete compliance with all the applicable provisions of this chapter and other relevant codes and ordinances of the county, and with the applicant's plans as approved and with respect to such structure or premises, the director of planning or his duly authorized representative (chief building inspector) shall issue a certificate of occupancy.
(2)
Otherwise, he shall inform the applicant in writing of the specific reasons why such certificate cannot be issued, citing the particular provisions of the codes and ordinances of the county, the particular items in the applicant's plans or the applicable special approval or relief conditions with respect to which compliance is lacking.
(c)
Contents of certificate. Each certificate issued pursuant to this section shall state any conditions imposed by any special approval or relief granted pursuant to this article. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued without the signature of the director of planning and all other applicable county officials.
(d)
Temporary certificate of occupancy. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection 24-4(b), where construction, reconstruction, enlargement or structural alteration of a structure does not require the vacating of the structure, or where parts of the structure are finished and ready for occupancy before the completion of such construction, reconstruction, enlargement or structural alteration and are certified upon inspection to be safe for use or occupancy and to be in full compliance with all applicable provisions of this chapter, other relevant chapters of this code, any and all other relevant laws (state or otherwise), the applicant's plans as approved and the conditions of any special approvals issued with respect to such structure or premises, a temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued for a period not to exceed six months from its date. Such temporary certificate shall bear on its face, in bold type, a statement of its temporary nature.
(e)
Certificate of occupancy for existing uses. The director of planning or his duly authorized representative (chief building inspector) may issue a certificate of occupancy certifying the lawful existence and use of any existing structure or property in accordance with this section with respect to new structures and uses. Such certificate shall be prima facie evidence of the facts contained in it with respect to any structure or use.
(f)
Filing of certificates. Every certificate issued pursuant to this section shall be kept on file in the office of the director of planning or his duly authorized representative (chief building inspector) and shall be a public record open to inspection by interested parties at reasonable times and upon reasonable notice.
(Ord. of 11-11-99; Ord. of 1-7-2002)
Sec. 24-5. - Power and utility connection.
(a)
Allowances for permanent power connection on commercial, industrial, and institutional projects is allowed:
After an inspection of the electrical panel, mechanical room, and if the panel is complete and can be secured and all devices are installed or capped off the power may be released. The inspection of the electrical system will be performed by members of the county building inspection department.
(b)
Utilities: Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit a utility from connecting its utilities to a building or structure under construction or renovation prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy provided that such utility connections are necessary (as determined by the county permitting officer) in connection with such construction or renovation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, such building or structure shall not be occupied for its intended purpose until the requirements of this chapter are met in their entirety.
(Ord. of 1-7-2002)
Sec. 24-6. - Penalties.
(a)
Any business opened without a CO and a business license is in violation of this chapter and shall be subject to penalties.
(b)
No business shall open prior to the issuance of a CO and a business license. In the event a business does open prior to the issuance of a CO and business license the director of planning shall be authorized to cash the monetary guarantee submitted with the building permit application. More specifically, the monetary sum in the amount of $10,000.00 previously submitted to the county along with the application for the building permit shall be cashed. The $10,000.00 may be in the form of an irrevocable letter of credit, or bond. The director of planning shall have verified the monetary guarantee prior to the issuance of a building permit.
(c)
The monetary guarantee may also be cashed and used to complete any work designated on the approved building and site plans. The remainder of any money left after the completion of work will be entered into the general fund of the county.
(d)
Any business opened in violation of this chapter shall be subject to payment in the amount of twice the customary fees for the issue of any permits or licenses.
(Ord. of 1-7-2002)
