ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 38-1. - Purpose.
It is the intent of this chapter that it will apply to and provide guidance for the development of lands within the unincorporated limits of the county, whether the developments involve the subdivision of land or the construction of buildings and/or other improvements on single or multiple parcels of land.
(Ord. of 9-18-2000(2), § 38-1)
Sec. 38-2. - Authority.
(a)
Ga. Const. Art. IX, § 2, ¶ 1 empowers the governing authority of each county and municipality to adopt ordinances designed to promote the public health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the board of commissioners ordains the provisions of this chapter.
(b)
The regulations contained in this chapter shall be known as the land development code. This chapter shall establish additional requirements to ordinances, regulations, specifications and/or other laws of the county and the state. If this chapter contains requirements which are duplicative, supplemental, or additional to those contained in other local, state or federal laws or regulations the most restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. of 9-18-2000(2), § 38-2)
Sec. 38-3. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning. In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be considered as minimum requirements; liberally construed in the favor of the board of commissioners, and deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state statutes.
Addition (to an existing building) means any walled or roofed expansion to the perimeter of a building in which the addition is connected by a common load-bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled or roofed addition that is connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing walls is new construction.
ADT means average daily trips or average daily traffic count.
Angle of a driveway means a 90-degree angle or less made by the intersection of the centerline parallel to both sides of the driveway with the centerline of the nearest traffic lane.
Angle of an entrance driveway means the angle of deflection as made by a vehicle leaving the road to travel on the entrance driveway from its path on the road.
Angle of an exit driveway means the angle of deflection made by a vehicle leaving an exit driveway to travel on the road from the path it would have followed had it not turned.
Appeal means the process by which an aggrieved party may petition for review of a decision made by an official or department of county government.
Applicant means a person who has applied for a permit.
Architect means a currently registered, professional architect, licensed by the state, competent in civil design.
Area of shallow flooding means a designated AO or VO zone on the county's flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident.
Area of special flood hazard means the land in the floodplain subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
Base flood means the flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
Basement means that portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all sides.
Block means a piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highways, streets or by a combination of streets and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines, drainageways or municipal/county boundary lines.
Breakaway wall means a wall that is not part of the structural support of the building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under specific lateral loading forces without causing damage to the elevated portion of the building or the supporting foundation system.
Buffer means an area along the course of any state waters to be maintained in an undisturbed and natural condition.
Building means any structure having a roof, supported by columns or by walls and intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of any person, animal or goods. Where roofed structures are separated from each other by common walls having no opening for passage, each portion so separated shall be considered a building.
Commercial driveway means any private entrance, exit ramp, tunnel, bridge, side road or other vehicular passageway to any property used for commercial purposes, except a farm or dwelling house not exceeding a four-family capacity and which leads to or from any public road on the county highway system.
Construction is used interchangeably with the term "work."
Construction plans mean those maps, drawings and documents used to guide construction and to depict the specific location of and provide the computations and specifications for the design of the improvements to be installed in the development in accordance with the requirements and standards of this chapter and other county ordinances.
County planner means the planner employed by the county.
Cul-de-sac means a street having one end open to traffic and the other end permanently terminated in the minimum right-of-way and paved turnaround.
Cut means a portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation; the depth below the original ground surface to excavated surface. Also known as "excavation."
Dedication means the act of granting a right of property to the public at no cost to local government often through the form of an easement or right-of-way.
Developer means the legal or beneficial owner of a tract of land included in a proposed development; also, the holder of an option or contract to purchase, or any other person having enforceable proprietary interest in such land.
Development means a planning or construction project involving substantial property improvement and, usually, a change of land use character within the site; the act of using land for building or extractive purposes. The term also means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate, including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or permanent storage of materials or equipment.
Drainage means the removal of surface water or groundwater from land by drains, grading or other means.
Drainage easements means an area set aside for the purpose of transporting or storing surface or groundwater.
Drainage structure means a device composed of a virtually nonerodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water from one place to another by intercepting the flow and carrying it to a release point for stormwater management, drainage control, or flood control purposes.
Drainage system means the system through which water flows from the land, including all watercourses, water bodies and wetlands.
Driveway means a paved or unpaved area used for ingress or egress of vehicles and allowing access from a street or alley to a building or other structure or facility.
Easement means a right-of-way granted for limited use of private land for a public, quasi-public or private purpose.
Elevated building means a building with no basement built to have the lowest floor elevated above ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls, pilings, columns (posts and piers), shear walls or breakaway walls.
Engineer means a currently registered, professional engineer, licensed by the state and competent in civil design.
Erosion means the process by which land surface is worn away by the action of wind, water, ice or gravity.
Existing construction means any structure or improvement for which construction commenced before July 27, 1995 the date the updated FIRM maps took effect.
Existing manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations adopted by the county on July 27, 1995.
Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision means the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
Fill means a portion of land surface to which soil or other solid material has or will be added; the depth above the original ground.
Finished grade means the final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting and/or filling and conforming to the proposed design.
Flood or flooding means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters or the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
Flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) means an official map of the county, issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard have been defined as zone A.
Flood insurance rate map (FIRM) means an official map of the county, on which the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the county.
Flood insurance study is the official report provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the flood boundary/floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
Floodway means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
Floor means the top surface of an enclosed area in a building (including basement), i.e., top of slab in concrete slab construction or top of wood flooring in wood frame construction. The term does not include the floor of a garage used solely for parking vehicles.
Functionally dependent facility means a facility that cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair or seafood processing facilities. The term does not include long-term storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
Grading means altering the shape of ground surface to a predetermined condition; this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling and shaping or any condition of such activities and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
Ground elevation means the original elevation of the ground prior to cutting or filling.
Highest adjacent grade means the highest natural elevation of the ground surface, prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of the building.
Historic structure means any structure that is:
(1)
Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the department of the interior) or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National Register.
(2)
Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as contributing to the historic significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
(3)
Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with historic preservation programs that have been approved by the secretary of the interior; or
(4)
Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either: by an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the interior, or directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved programs.
(5)
A structure considered locally to be of historical significance.
Improvements guarantee means a guarantee in the form of a letter of credit, bond, certified check or similar method of guarantee approved by the county to insure completion of required improvements.
Individual means any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association, estate, trust or other recognized legal entity as defined by the laws of the state, whether in this state or not.
Island means the property separating adjacent driveways extending back at least to the right-of-way line.
Land-disturbing activity means any activity that may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto lands within the state, including but not limited to clearing, dredging, grading, excavation, transporting, and filling of land, but not including agricultural processes as described in this chapter.
Landowner means any individual having or controlling over 50 percent proprietary interest in the land sought to be developed.
Lot means a parcel of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a principal building or use and any accessory building or uses customarily incident to it and including open spaces not less in extent than those required in connection with the lot by this chapter or other county regulations pertaining to land development.
Lot, double-frontage means an interior lot having frontages on two or more parallel streets as distinguished from a corner lot. In the case of a row of double-frontage lots, one street will be designated as the front street on the plat; and the request for a building permit will indicate which street is the designated front street.
Lot frontage means a portion of a lot extending along a street right-of-way.
Manufactured home means a building, transportable in one or more sections, built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term also includes park trailers, travel trailers and similar transportable structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to be improved property.
Manager of development services means the person designated by the board of commissioners to administer this chapter.
Mean sea level means the average height of the sea for all stages of tide. It is used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain. For purposes of this chapter, the term is synonymous with NGVD.
Metropolitan River Protection Act (MRPA) means a state law referenced as O.C.G.A. § 12-5-440 et seq., which addresses environmental and development matters in certain metropolitan river corridors and their drainage basins.
Mph means miles per hour.
MUTCD means the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices, latest edition and appendices.
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD), as corrected in 1929 is a vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain.
Natural ground surface means the ground surface in its original state before any grading, excavation or filling.
Nephelometric turbidity units (NTU) means numerical units of measure based upon photometric analytical techniques for measuring the light scattered by finely divided particles of a substance in suspension. This technique is used to estimate the extent of turbidity in water in which colloidally dispersed particles are present.
New construction means any structure or improvement for which construction commenced after the date of adoption (July 27, 1995) of the original flood damage prevention ordinance. The term also includes any subsequent improvements to such structure. Any walled or roofed addition that is connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing walls is new construction.
New manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by the county.
Off-street parking space means a parking space provided in a parking lot, parking structure or private driveway.
Permit means the authorization necessary to conduct any land-disturbing activity under the provisions of this chapter.
Person means any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, state agency, municipality, or other political subdivision of the state, any interstate body or any other legal entity.
Phased development means a tract of land that is subdivided and developed in a series of planned phases.
Plan means the documents, drawings, (paper and digital with digital format of .dxf as the preferred though DRG and DWG will be accepted) sketches, details, specifications, etc., which define the scope of construction and work to be performed.
Planning commission means the duly designated planning board of the county.
Planning Director means the department head of the planning and development department.
Project means the entire proposed development project regardless of the size of the area of land to be disturbed, as determined by the manager of development services.
Public utilities means water, gas, sanitary sewer and storm drainage, electrical, cable and communications lines and facilities that regularly serve more than 25 individuals or have more than 15 service connections.
Public water system means a water system, for the provision of piped water, from any source for residential, commercial, industrial and institutional consumption, if such system has at least 15 service connections or regularly serves at least 25 individuals. Such term includes but is not limited to any water collection, treatment, storage, pumping or distribution facility used in connection with such system and any collection or pretreatment storage facility used in connection with such system.
Record drawings means drawings that depict, to scale, the finished condition and location of roadways, water, sewer, storm drainage facilities, and other site improvements.
Recreational vehicle means a vehicle that is:
(1)
Built on a single chassis;
(2)
No more than 400 square feet when measured at the largest horizontal projection;
(3)
Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck, and;
(4)
Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
Reverse frontage lot means a lot extending between and having frontage on an expressway or arterial and a minor or local street and with vehicular access solely from the latter.
Right-of-way (ROW) means a strip of land owned and used by the general public, railroads or utility companies for transportation or other special use. For land platting purposes, every right-of-way established and shown on an approved final plat is to be separate and distinct from adjoining lots or parcels and not included within the dimensions or area of such lots or parcels. Rights-of-way intended for transportation and utilities shall be dedicated to public use by the maker of the plat on which such right-of-way is established.
Right-of-way line means the line between a right-of-way and adjacent property.
Right-of-way miter means the right-of-way line at an intersection that is parallel to neither road but forms a triangle with the extension of right-of-way lines of adjacent sides of the intersection roads and provides for safer visibility for vehicles approaching the intersection by enlarging the right-of-way.
Roadway means the actual road surface area between the inside edges of the curbs, which may include travel lanes, parking lanes, and deceleration and acceleration lanes. Where there are no curbs, the roadway is that portion between the edges of the paved surface (or hard surface) width.
Roadway drainage structure means a device such as a bridge, culvert or ditch, composed of a virtually nonerodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water under a roadway by intercepting the flow on one side of a traveled way consisting of one or more defined lanes, with or without shoulder areas and carrying water to a release point on the other side.
Sand dunes mean naturally occurring accumulations of sand ridges or mounds landward of the beach.
Sanitary sewer means a sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from buildings together with small quantities of groundwaters, stormwaters and surface waters that are not admitted intentionally.
Sediment means solid material, both organic and inorganic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water, ice or gravity as a product of erosion.
Sedimentation means the process by which eroded material is transported and deposited by the action of water, wind, ice or gravity.
Septic system means an underground system with a septic tank and drain field used for the disposal of sewage wastes.
Service connection means any connection from a building or site to a public water or sanitary sewer system that provides water to or receives sewage from the building or site.
Sewage means the same as "wastewater."
Sewer means a pipe or conduit that carries wastewater and/or sewage.
Shoulder means that portion of a street or road from the outer edge of the paved surface to the inside edge of the ditch.
Sidewalk means a paved path provided for pedestrian use and usually located at the side of a road within the right-of-way.
Stabilization means the process of establishing an enduring soil cover of vegetation by the installation of temporary or permanent structures for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the erosion process and the resultant transport of sediment by wind, water, ice or gravity.
Start of construction, for other than new construction or substantial improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (PL 97-348), includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of a building (including a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings, installation of piles, construction of columns, or any construction beyond the stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main building. For a substantial improvement the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
State waters means any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural and artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the state that are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership or corporation.
Street means a roadway, as distinguished from an alley, that affords traffic circulation and principal means of access to abutting property; commonly designated as a street, highway, thoroughfare, expressway, freeway, road, avenue, drive, boulevard, lane, place, circle, court or otherwise.
Structural erosion and sedimentation control practices means measures for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purposes of either changing the surface of the land or storing, regulating or disposal of runoff to prevent excessive sediment loss. Examples of structural erosion and sediment control practices are riprap, sediment basins, dikes, level spreaders, waterways or outlets, diversions, grade stabilization structures, sediment traps, land grading, etc. Such measures can be found in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
Structure means anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on or in the ground or attached to something having a fixed location on or in the ground. Among other things the term includes buildings, manufactured homes, signs, swimming pools and emergency shelters but does not include landscaping walls or fences.
Subdivision means as defined in chapter 58.
Subdivision regulations mean the county subdivision regulations.
Substantial damage means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
Substantial improvement means any combination of repairs, reconstruction, alteration or improvements to a building, taking place during the life of a building in which the cumulative cost equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the building. The market value of the building shall be (1) the appraised value of the building prior to the start of the initial repair or improvement, (2) in the case of damage, the value of the building prior to the damage occurring. This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial damage, " regardless of the actual repair construction performed. For the purposes of this definition, "substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not alteration affects the external dimensions of the building. The term does not, however, include any project for improvement of a building required to comply with existing health, sanitary or safety code specifications which have been identified by the code enforcement official and which are solely necessary to assure the safe living conditions.
Substantially improved existing manufactured home parks or subdivisions means repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets, utilities and pads that equals or exceeds 50 percent of the value of the streets, utilities and pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
Surveyor means a currently registered, practicing surveyor licensed by the state.
Trout streams means all streams or portions of streams within the watershed as designated by the game and fish division of the state department of natural resources under the provisions of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A § 12-5-20 et seq. Streams designated as primary trout waters are defined as water supporting a self-sustaining population of rainbow, brown or brook trout. Streams designated as secondary trout waters are those in which there is no evidence of natural trout reproduction but are capable of supporting trout throughout the year.
USGS means United States Geological Survey.
Utilities authority means the county utilities authority.
Variance means a grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
Vegetative erosion and sediment control practices means practices for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by covering the soil with:
(1)
Permanent seeding, sprigging or planting, producing long-term vegetative cover;
(2)
Temporary seeding, producing short-term vegetative cover; or
(3)
Sodding, covering areas with a turf or perennial sod-forming grass.
Such measures can be found in the publication Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
Wastewater means the liquid wastes collected in a sewerage system and conveyed to a treatment plant for processing. For this definition, a septic collection and disposal system is included.
Watercourse means any natural or artificial watercourse, stream, river, creek, channel, ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine or wash in which water flows either continuously or intermittently and which has a definite channel, bed, banks and including any adjacent area subject to inundation by reason of overflow or floodwater.
Wetlands means those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs and similar areas.
Work means the same as "construction."
(Ord. of 9-18-2000(2), § 38-3; Ord. of 9-15-2003(2))
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 38-4. - Penalties.
(a)
Failure to obtain a permit for regulated activity. If a person commences any activity requiring a permit as prescribed in this chapter without first obtaining such permit, the person shall be subject to revocation of his business license, work permit or other authorization for the conduct of a business and associated work activities within the jurisdictional boundaries of the county.
(b)
Monetary penalty.
(1)
Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements, including violation of condition and safeguards established in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter, fails to comply with any of its requirements, violates a stop work order and/or permitting conditions shall, upon conviction, be liable for a monetary penalty not to exceed $2,500.00 per day or a sentence of imprisonment not exceeding 60 days in jail, or both, and in addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case as provided in O.C.G.A § 15-10-60. Each day such violation, failure, or refusal to comply continues shall constitute a separate offense. Additionally, failure to comply shall result in denial or revocation of permits and the denial of acceptance of easements and right-of-ways by the county until compliance is achieved. Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the county from taking such other lawful actions as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violations.
(2)
The procedures set forth in O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq. shall govern trials of violations of this section.
(c)
Environmental protection division enforcement action against soil erosion and sedimentation control. Upon written request by the county, the director of the environmental protection division of the department of natural resources may determine that public interest requires initiation of an enforcement action by the environmental protection division of the department of natural resources. Such request shall be accompanied by documentation that demonstrates to the director's satisfaction that local remedies have been exhausted and that compliance with local ordinances or resolutions have not been achieved. Where such a determination is made and the county has failed to ensure compliance, the director may implement the board of natural resources' rules and seek compliance under provision of O.C.G.A. §§ 12-7-12—12-7-15. For purpose of this subsection, enforcement actions taken by the environmental protection division of the department of natural resources pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 12-7-12—12-7-15 shall not require prior revocation of certification of the county.
(Ord. of 9-18-2000(2), § 38-4)
Sec. 38-5. - Liability.
(a)
Neither the approval of a plan under the provision of this chapter nor the compliance with provisions of this chapter shall relieve any person from the responsibility for damage to any person or property otherwise imposed by law, nor shall such approval or compliance impose any liability upon the county or the Lower Chattahoochee River Soil and Water Conservation district for damage to any person or property.
(b)
The fact that an activity for which a permit has been issued results in injury to the property of another shall neither constitute proof or nor create a presumption of a violation of the standards provided for in this chapter of the terms of the permit.
(Ord. of 9-18-2000(2), § 38-5)
Secs. 38-6—38-40. - Reserved.
