ARTICLE III. - CHEHAW PARK AUTHORITY[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1979 Ga. Laws, page 4515, which created and established the Chehaw Park Authority. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act.
State Law reference— Code of ethics for members of boards, commissions and authorities, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-3.

Sec. 1. - Creation of authority.
There is hereby created a public body corporate and politic to be known as Chehaw Park Authority which shall be an instrumentality and a public corporation of the State of Georgia. By that name, style and title said authority may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity.
Sec. 2. - Definitions.
As used in this act, the following words and terms shall have the meaning set forth hereinbelow:
(a)
The term "authority" means the authority created by this act.
(b)
The term "project" means any undertaking of the authority in connection with the development, redevelopment, improvement, extension, repair, maintenance, or operation of Chehaw Park, located in Lee and Dougherty Counties, and shall be deemed to mean and include, but not limited to, the acquisition, construction, equipping, maintaining, and operation of Chehaw Park, including all facilities useful or desirable in connection with the same, and the acquisition of necessary property therefor, both real and personal, including, but not limited to, wild animals, all of which accomplish the essential public purpose for which the authority is created hereunder.
(c)
The term "park" shall mean Chehaw Park located in Lee and Dougherty Counties, Georgia, as presently constituted, or as the same may hereafter be extended, altered, diminished or enlarged.
(d)
The term "cost of the project" shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of lands, properties, rights, easements and franchises acquired and the cost of all conveyances in fee simple of the authority for title thereto and leases thereof, the cost of preparing the land, including the construction of all facilities and utilities necessary for the operation of the park, the cost of all wild animals acquired for the park, the cost of all machinery, equipment and furnishings related to any project or projects, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction and for six months after completion of construction, cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal and legal expenses and other expenses necessary and incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized and the cost of placing any project in operation. Any expenses incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as part of the "cost of the project or projects" and may be paid or reimbursed out of funds of the authority, including the proceeds of any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act for such project or projects.
Sec. 3. - Purposes of the authority.
(a)
It is hereby determined, declared and established that the creation of the authority and the implementation of the corporate purposes set forth in this act are in all respects for the benefit of the people of this state, and that the authority is an institution of purely public charity; and it is further declared that the construction, operation, maintenance and expansion of the park is a proper public purpose and this act is adopted for the purpose of promoting and expanding for the public good and welfare the public facilities of said park, including the construction of facilities, the acquisition of animals, and any and all other facilities useful or desirable in connection therewith, acquiring the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, with the right to contract for the use of or to lease or sell any or all of said facilities, including real property, and to do any and all things deemed by the authority necessary, convenient or desirable for and incident to the efficient and proper development, revitalization, modernization, and operation thereof.
(b)
It is further found, determined, and declared that all property of said authority is hereby declared and shall in all respects be considered to be public property and title to such property shall be held by the authority only for the benefit of the public, and the use of such property pursuant to the terms of this act shall be and is hereby declared to be for public and governmental purposes, that is, for the promotion of the general public welfare in matters of cultural development, education, pleasure, convenience and recreation of the public at large, in an effort to better the general condition of society, or that considerable part of society residing in Lee and Dougherty Counties, Georgia, which promotion is hereby declared to be a public beneficence for the good of humanity and for the general improvement and happiness of society, and all the property, income, obligations, and interest on the obligations of the authority and the transfer thereof shall be and hereby are declared to be nontaxable for any and all purposes.
Sec. 4. - [Composition and organization of authority.]
(a)
On and after July 1, 1997, additional voting members and one additional ex officio nonvoting member are added to the membership of the authority, and thereafter the authority shall consist of nine voting members and two ex officio nonvoting members. All members shall be eligible to succeed themselves. Except as otherwise provided in this act, members may reside anywhere within Dougherty County or any county which is contiguous to Dougherty County; however, at no time shall more than two members reside outside of Dougherty County. The terms of all members shall be as stated in this section and until their successors have been appointed and have accepted.
(b)
The members of the authority serving as such on June 1, 1997, shall continue to serve out the terms to which they were appointed and until their respective successors are appointed and have accepted. A successor to each member shall be appointed immediately prior to the expiration of the member's term of office, and, except as otherwise provided in this subsection, the person so appointed shall be appointed for a term of two years and until a successor is appointed and has accepted. One voting member of the authority shall be appointed by the board of commissioners of the City of Albany from its own membership to serve as a member of the authority concurrently with that person's term of office as commissioner. One voting member of the authority shall be appointed by said board of commissioners from nominees submitted by Chehaw Wildlife Society, Inc., or its successor, to serve for a term of two years, beginning on July 1, 1997, and until that person's successor is appointed and has accepted. Three voting members, including one of the two new voting members, shall be appointed for a term of two years, beginning on July 1, 1997, and until their respective successors are appointed and have accepted. One new voting member shall be appointed for a term of one year, beginning on July 1, 1997, and until a successor is appointed and has accepted. In 1998, four voting members shall be appointed for a term of two years, beginning on July 1, 1998, and until their respective successors are appointed and have accepted. The mayor of the City of Albany and the city manager of the City of Albany shall be ex officio nonvoting members of the authority. All vacancies as the result of the expiration of the terms of said members or otherwise shall [be] filled by the Board of Commissioners of the City of Albany. In the event Chehaw Wildlife Society, Inc., shall cease to exist, leaving no successor, the member appointed from its nominees shall thereafter be appointed in the same manner as the at-large members.
(c)
The authority shall meet at such times and places as it shall determine, but in any event the authority shall meet not less often than quarterly. The authority shall also meet at any time that a meeting is called by the chairman, or by any two members of the authority.
(d)
The authority shall elect one of its members as chairman and one as vice-chairman, and shall elect a secretary-treasurer who may but need not necessarily hold membership in the authority.
(e)
The authority shall appoint a chief executive officer of the authority. The chief executive officer shall be responsible for the administration and execution of the policies of the authority and shall have such powers, duties, authority, and responsibilities as shall be provided by the authority. The compensation and expenses of the chief executive officer shall be as provided by the authority. The chief executive officer shall not be a member of the authority.
(f)
Seven voting members of the authority shall constitute [a] quorum, and no vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all of the rights and perform all of the duties of the authority at every meeting, and in every instance a majority vote of a quorum shall authorize any legal act of the authority, including all things necessary to incur debt and to authorize and issue revenue bonds.
(g)
The members of the authority shall not be entitled to compensation for their services, but may be reimbursed by the authority for their actual expenses properly incurred in the performance of their duties. Each member of the authority shall hold office until a successor shall have been appointed. The authority shall make rules and regulations for its own government and may retain, employ and engage professional and technical supervisors, assistants, and experts and other agents and employees, temporary or permanent, as it may require. The members of the authority shall be accountable in all respects as trustees, and the authority shall keep suitable books and records of all its obligations, contracts, transactions and undertakings, and of all income and receipts of every nature and all expenditures of every kind.
(h)
The board of commissioners of the City of Albany may declare vacated the office of any member of the authority who is absent for more than two consecutive meetings of the authority and may appoint a successor to fill the unexpired term of the membership position so vacated.
(1981 Ga. Laws, page 3131; 1987 Ga. Laws, page 5146; 1997 Ga. Laws, page 4339)
Sec. 5. - Powers of the authority.
The authority shall have all of the powers necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions set forth in this act, including, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power:
(a)
To sue and be sued;
(b)
To adopt and amend a corporate seal;
(c)
To make contracts and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired, and to contract with any departments, institutions, agencies, counties, municipalities or political subdivisions of the State of Georgia, public corporations and with private legal entities and others upon such terms and for such purposes as may be deemed advisable for a term not exceeding 50 years; any such political subdivision shall have and hereby is given the right and power to make such contracts, and the rentals contracted to be paid by the lessee or tenants to the authority under such contract or contracts entered into pursuant to the provisions of this act shall constitute general obligations of the political subdivision for the payment of which the full faith and credit of such political subdivision shall be and the same hereby is pledged to provide the funds required to fulfill all obligations arising under any such contract; and any such political subdivision which shall have entered into such a contract pursuant to the provisions of this act shall annually in each and every fiscal year during the term of such contract include in a general revenue or appropriation measure, whether or not any other items are included, sums sufficient to satisfy the payments required to be made in each year by such contract until all payments required under such contract have been paid in full, and such revenues shall be and hereby are unconditionally obligated to the payment of such sums. In the event for any reason any such provision or appropriation is not made, then the fiscal officers of such political subdivision are hereby authorized and directed to set up as an appropriation on their accounts in each fiscal year the amounts required to pay the obligations called for under any such contract. The amount of the appropriation in each fiscal year to meet the obligations of such contract as authorized and required hereby shall be due and payable and shall be expended for the purpose of paying and meeting the obligations provided under the terms and conditions of such contract, and such appropriation shall have the same legal status as if the contracting political subdivision had included the amount of the appropriation in its general revenue or appropriation measure, and such fiscal officers shall make such payment to the authority if for any reason such appropriation is not otherwise made; and said political subdivision be and the same is hereby specifically authorized to levy taxes, without limitation as to rate or amount, and to expend tax monies of said political subdivision and any other available funds thereof, and to obligate said political subdivision to make payment thereof to the authority upon such terms as may be provided in any such contract entered into by and between the authority and said political subdivision, in order to enable the authority to pay the principal of and interest on any of its bonds as the same mature and to create and maintain a reserve for that purpose and also to enable the authority to pay the cost of maintaining, repairing and operating the property so furnished by said authority;
(d)
To acquire, construct, own, repair, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate, maintain and manage projects, as hereinabove defined, the cost of any such project to be paid, in whole or in part, from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the authority or from such proceeds and any grant or contribution from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof or from the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(e)
To accept loans and or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States of America, the State of Georgia, or any agency, instrumentality or political subdivision thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America, the State of Georgia, or such agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision may require;
(f)
To receive and administer gifts, grants, and devises of any property and to administer trusts;
(g)
To acquire by purchase, gift or donation any real or personal property desired to be acquired as a part of any project or for the purpose of improving, extending, adding to, reconstructing, renovating or remodeling any project or part thereof already acquired, or for the purpose of demolition to make room for such project or any part thereof;
(h)
To sell, lease, exchange, transfer, assign, pledge, mortgage or dispose of, or grant options for any such purposes, any real or personal property or interest therein;
(i)
To mortgage, convey, pledge or assign any properties, revenues, income, tolls, charges or fees owned or received by the authority;
(j)
To issue revenue obligations for the purpose of providing funds for carrying out the purposes of the authority, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(k)
To appoint officers and retain agents, engineers, attorneys, fiscal agents, accountants and employees and to provide their compensation and duties;
(l)
To acquire by purchase, gift or lease any property owned by a political subdivision which has been acquired or damaged through the exercise of the right of eminent domain by said political subdivision;
(m)
To construct, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, extend, improve, and equip projects located on land owned or leased by the authority, or upon land owned or leased by a political subdivision or other political body or entity, pursuant to contracts with such other subdivision, body, or entity, and to pay all or part of the cost of any such project from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the authority or from any contribution or loans by persons, firms, or corporations, or any other contributions, all of which the authority is hereby authorized to receive, accept, and use. The authority and the City of Albany shall be authorized to contract with each other for the City of Albany to furnish employees to the authority, which employees shall be subject to the control and direction of the chief executive officer of the authority but shall be and remain city employees for all purposes, including payment of salaries and the enjoyment of all employee benefits, and shall be subject to all rules, regulations, and requirements of city employees;
(n)
To borrow money and to issue notes or revenue bonds for the purpose of paying all or part of the cost of any project, including the cost of extending, adding to or improving such project, or for the purpose of refunding any such bonds of the authority theretofore issued. Such revenue bonds shall be issued and validated under and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Revenue Bond Law of the State of Georgia (O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.) as heretofore or hereafter amended. As security for the payment of any revenue bonds so authorized, any property, real or personal, of the authority may be pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered and said authority may execute any trust agreement or indenture containing any provisions not in conflict with law for the security of such bonds, which trust agreement or indenture may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default on such bonds either in payment of principal or interest or upon default in the performance of any term or condition contained in such agreement or indenture. The State of Georgia on behalf of the state and each county, municipal corporation, political subdivision and taxing district therein hereby waives any right it or such county, municipal corporation, political subdivision or taxing district may have to prevent the forced sale or foreclosure of any property of the authority so mortgaged or encumbered and any such mortgage or encumbrance may be foreclosed in accordance with law and the terms thereof;
(o)
To make or cause to be made studies and analyses from time to time concerning the operation of the park, and its needs;
(p)
To prepare a plan or plans for the development and redevelopment of the park; such plan or plans may be coordinated with governmental planning boards and agencies but the authority shall have the ultimate responsibility for preparation of such plan or plans;
(q)
To implement any general plan of development in the park which has been approved by the City of Albany;
(r)
To have and to exercise any and all of the usual powers of private and public corporations which are not in conflict with the Constitution and the laws of the State of Georgia, including the power to adopt and amend bylaws and regulations for the conduct and management of the authority;
(s)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested;
(t)
To designate officers to sign and act for the authority generally or in any specific manner;
(u)
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish or to complement the purpose and powers of the authority as herein stated.
(1997 Ga. Laws, page 4339)
Sec. 6. - Revenue bonds.
(a)
The authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties and liabilities vested in the authority created hereby, shall have power and is hereby authorized, subject to the limitation imposed in section 5, paragraph (n) hereof, to provide by resolution for the issuance of revenue bonds for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as herein defined of any one or more projects. The principal of and interest on such revenue bonds shall be payable and may be secured by a pledge of rents, fees, charges, and other revenues of, and by the mortgage of, all or any part of the project or projects financed in whole or in part with the proceeds of such bonds or with the proceeds of bonds called and refunded or to be called and refunded by such bond issue. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates per annum, payable at such time or times, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 40 years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority, and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds.
(b)
The authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of the principal thereof and the interest thereon, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the state. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the authority may determine, and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both principal and interest.
(c)
All such bonds shall be executed with the engraved, imprinted, stamped, or otherwise reproduced facsimile of the signature of the chairman of the authority and the corporate seal of the authority shall be thereunto impressed or a facsimile thereof imprinted or otherwise reproduced and attested by the manually executed signature of the secretary-treasurer of the authority and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the facsimile signature of said secretary-treasurer. In case any officer whose signature shall appear on the bonds or coupons shall cease to be such officer before delivery of such bonds, such signature shall, nevertheless, be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until delivery, and such bonds may, nevertheless, be issued and delivered as though the person who signed or sealed such bonds had not ceased to be such officer, and any of such bonds may be executed and sealed on behalf of said authority by such officers who may, at the time of the execution of such bonds, hold the proper offices of said authority although on the date of such bonds or on the date of any lawful proceedings taken in connection therewith such persons may not have held such offices.
(d)
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act shall be and are hereby declared to be negotiable under the laws of the State of Georgia, subject to provisions for registration.
(e)
The authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interest of the authority and the proceeds derived from the sale of such bonds shall be used solely for the purpose provided in the proceedings authorizing the issuance of such bonds.
(f)
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim certificates or temporary bonds, with or without coupons exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
(g)
The authority may also provide for the replacement of any bonds and coupons which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
(h)
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things other than those proceedings, conditions and things which are specified or required hereunder. Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions hereof shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the authority.
(i)
Revenue bonds issued by the authority hereunder shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of the State of Georgia or any political subdivision thereof which may contract with said authority. No contracts entered into by the authority with any such political subdivision shall create a debt of such political subdivision of the State of Georgia within the meaning of Ga. Const. art. VII, § VII, ¶ I, but any such political subdivision may obligate itself to pay the payments required under such contracts, as herein set out, from monies received from taxes and from any other source without creating a debt within the meaning of Ga. Const. art. VII, § VII, ¶ I.
(j)
In the discretion of the authority, any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or without the state. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues and earnings to be received by the authority. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair and insuring of the project, and the custody, safeguarding and application of all monies; and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the authority, and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds; and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depositary of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other monies be satisfactory to such purchasers; and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state or of the United States to act as such depositary and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
Sec. 7. - To whom proceeds of bonds shall be paid.
The authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who, or any agency, bank or trust company which, shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes hereof, subject to such regulations as such resolutions or trust indentures may provide.
Sec. 8. - Sinking fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings, and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the authority to the payment of the principal of and interest on revenue bonds of the authority, as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument may provide, and such funds, so pledged from whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture, into a sinking fund, which said sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payment of:
(1)
The interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due;
(2)
The principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due;
(3)
The necessary charges of paying agents for paying principal and interest and other investment charges; and
(4)
Any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as hereinabove provided.
The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be maintained as a trust account for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds, or in the trust indenture, any surplus monies in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be cancelled and shall not again be issued.
Sec. 9. - Remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia or granted hereunder or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this act or by such resolution or trust indenture, to be performed by the authority, or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
Sec. 10. - Funding and refunding bonds.
The authority is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of bonds of the authority for the purpose of funding or refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and premium, if any. The issuance of such funding or refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the authority in respect to the same, shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this act insofar as the same may be applicable.
Sec. 11. - Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this act or any suit or action against such authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Dougherty County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to the validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this act shall likewise be brought in said court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
Sec. 12. - Validation.
Bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of the Revenue Bond Law of the State of Georgia, as heretofore or hereafter amended. The petition for validation shall also make a party defendant to such action any political subdivision or instrumentality of the State of Georgia which has contracted with the authority for the services and facilities of the project for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated and any such political subdivision or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any exists, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the contract or contracts adjudicated as security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The bonds, when validated, and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds and the security for the payment thereof and interest thereon and against the authority issuing the same, and any political subdivision or instrumentality, if a party to the validation proceedings, contracting with the said authority.
Sec. 13. - Interest of bondholders protected.
The authority shall have existence for so long as any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, and during such period of time the powers, duties, or existence of said authority or of its officers, employees or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds. The authority's existence shall terminate on December 31, 2010, unless at such time there shall be bonds outstanding; in which event the existence shall continue until said bonds are paid in full; provided, however, that in no event shall bonds of any kind be issued after December 31, 2010.
Sec. 14. - Rates, charges and revenues; use.
The authority is hereby authorized to prescribe and fix rates and to revise same from time to time and to collect fees, tolls and charges for the services, facilities and commodities furnished; and in anticipation of the collection of the revenues of such undertaking or project, to issue revenue bonds as herein provided to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, betterment or extension of its undertakings or projects; and to pledge to the punctual payment of said bonds, and interest thereon, all or any part of the revenues of such undertaking or project, including the revenues of improvements, betterments or extensions thereto thereafter made.
Sec. 15. - Legal investments.
The bonds herein authorized are hereby made securities in which all public officers and bodies of this state and all political subdivisions, all insurance companies and associations, and other persons carrying on an insurance business, all banks, bankers, trust companies, savings banks, and savings associations, including savings and loan associations, building and loan associations, investment companies, and other persons carrying on a banking business, all administrators, guardians, executors, trustees, and other fiduciaries and all other persons whatsoever who are now or may hereafter be authorized to invest in bonds or other obligations of the state may properly and legally invest funds including capital in their control or belonging to them. The bonds are also hereby made securities which may be deposited with and shall be received by all public officers and bodies of this state and all political subdivisions for any purpose for which the deposit of the bonds or other obligations of this state is now or may hereafter be authorized.
Sec. 16. - Property not subject to levy and sale.
The property of the authority shall not be subject to levy and sale under legal process except such property, revenue, income or funds as may be pledged, assigned, mortgaged or conveyed to secure an obligation of the authority, and any such property, revenue, funds or income may be sold under legal process or under any power granted by the authority to enforce payment of the obligation.
Sec. 17. - Construction.
This act and all provisions, rights, powers and authority granted hereunder, being for the welfare of the state and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of its purposes.
Sec. 18. - Powers declared supplementary.
The provisions of this act shall be regarded as supplementary and additional to powers conferred by other laws and shall not be regarded as being in derogation of any powers now existing.
Sec. 19. - Severability.
The provisions of this act are severable, and if any of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions; and, notwithstanding any other evidence of legislative intent, it is hereby declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any provision of this act, or the application thereof to any person or circumstances, is held invalid, the remainder of the act and the application of such provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid, shall not be affected thereby. Insofar as the provisions of this act are inconsistent with the provisions of any other law, the provisions of this act shall be controlling.
Sec. 20. - Effective date.
This act shall be effective immediately upon approval by the governor or upon its becoming law without his approval, without regard to the provisions of 1958 Ga. Laws, page 1364, as amended, codified in O.C.G.A. § 1-3-4.
Sec. 21. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act are hereby repealed.
