ARTICLE IV. - FIREFIGHTERS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 6-366. - Establishment of funds.
There shall be raised and established funds for the aid, relief and pension of members of paid fire departments who are in active service at the time of the passage of this act and whose names are on the payroll of such departments and future members of such departments, and their dependents in all cities in Georgia having a population of more than 300,000 by the United States census of 1970 or any subsequent census of the United States.
(1924 Ga. Laws, page 167, § 1; 1973 Ga. Laws, page 2837, § 3; 1973 Ga. Laws, page 2880, § 2)
Sec. 6-367. - 1978 Pension Act.
(a)
The pension benefits provided by this section and the several subsections hereof shall be in lieu of like pension benefits provided by the existing provisions of this act [1924 Ga. Laws, page 167, as amended].
(b)
(1) Any officer or employee coming under the terms of this act who is in the employment of the city prior to the effective date of this amendment may elect to come under the provisions of this amendment by making written application to the board of trustees. The applicant must agree in writing to accept the benefits and obligations of this amendment, in lieu of other pension benefits and obligations under this act, as amended.
All such officers and employees in the employment of the city on the effective date of this act who do not in writing agree to accept the benefits and obligations of this amendment shall have their rights and obligations determined under the law as it existed prior to this amendment, even though such provisions of law are specifically repealed as hereinafter set forth.
All regular officers or employees of the city, eligible for participation in this act, as amended, who shall be elected or employed after the effective date of this act, shall be required to come under provisions of this act, as now amended, and shall have all rights and duties provided in the amended act. Temporary and casual employees shall not be required to participate in this act, as amended.
(2) Pension Application; Procedure. Unless the pension applicant withdraws a pending application for pension benefits, or abandons his or her appeal from the denial of such application by the board of trustees, no new application for a different category of pension benefits shall be accepted by the board of trustees. Further, whenever an officer or employee has been granted a certain category of pension benefits, no new application for a different category shall be accepted by the board of trustees. (1981 Ga. Laws, page 3553, § 1)
(c)
All officers and employees, who shall elect or be required to come under the terms of this amendment, may as a matter of right retire from active service and receive a monthly pension benefit hereinafter set forth and referred to hereinafter as a "normal monthly pension benefit." Provided such person shall have served 15 years in the active service of such city and shall have attained the age of 55 years prior to commencement of such benefit. Upon such officer or employee retiring as a matter of right, such person shall be paid thereafter a normal monthly pension benefit equal to two percent of such person's average monthly earnings multiplied by the number of each person's years, or fraction thereof, of creditable service and that normal pension benefit shall not exceed 100 percent of such person's average monthly earnings. Average monthly earnings shall be the average of the monthly earnings of the highest three consecutive years' salary or earnings during the term of employment. In computing the average monthly earnings, if the officer or employee shall have received a lump sum payment for compensation, accumulated vacation, sick leave bonus pay, or similar benefits, the amounts of such payments shall be equally distributed over the period of time in which such compensation or benefit was earned or accumulated.
(d)
All officers and employees, who shall elect or be required to come under the terms of this amendment, may as a matter of right retire from active service and receive an early retirement benefit, hereinafter referred to as "early monthly retirement benefit," provided such person shall have served 15 years in the active service of the city. When such officer or employee shall elect early retirement as a matter of right, such person shall be paid thereafter an early monthly retirement benefit equal to a normal monthly pension benefit less one-half of one percent per month for each month not to exceed 60 months that the officer or employee lacks in being 55 years of age and one-fourth of one percent per month for each month in excess of 60 months that the officer or employee lacks in being 55 years of age. Provided, however, as to any officer or employee coming under the terms of this act who was in the employment of such city prior to the effective date of this amendment, such officer or employee may elect a monthly pension benefit, hereinafter referred to as a "reduced monthly pension benefit," provided such person shall have served 25 years and shall have attained the age of 50 years. Said reduced monthly pension benefit shall be equal to a normal monthly pension benefit less one-twelfth of three percent per month for each month the officer or employee lacks in being 55 years of age.
(e)
(1) Whenever any officer or employee, electing to or having been required to come under the terms of this amendment, shall have completed at least five (5) years of active service with such city and not yet have reached the age of 60 years, then such person shall have the right to terminate such person's employment with such city upon completion of said five (5) years, or any time thereafter; elect not to withdraw or have paid to such person the amount which said person would have paid into the pension fund prior to terminating such employment; and upon subsequently attaining 60 years of age commence to receive at said time, and be paid thereafter a monthly pension benefit, hereinafter referred to as a "vested monthly pension benefit," as set forth below based upon the number of years of completed service:
a.
Completion of 10 or more years of service—A normal monthly pension benefit (100% vested).
b.
Completion of less than 10 years of service—The vesting schedule is as follows:
Completion of 9 years = 45% Completion of 8 years = 40% Completion of 7 years = 35%
Completion of 6 years = 30%
Completion of 5 years = 25%
Completion of less than 5 years = 0%
Should such person have provided for the payment of a pension to a beneficiary, as authorized by said act, as amended, by making the required payments or contribution to the pension fund, then after terminating the employment with such city, thereby electing to exercise such person's vesting rights, and upon the death of such officer or employee, either before or after attaining 60 years of age, such beneficiary designated under the terms of this act, as amended, shall be entitled to a beneficiary pension equal to three-fourths (¾) of the amount the pensioner was receiving or such person would have received in accordance with the applicable provisions of this act, as amended.
(2) Pension Benefits; No Simultaneous Payment of Benefits and Salary; No entitlement to Interest.
a.
Whenever an officer or employee has been declared eligible for pension benefits, such pension benefits shall only commence the day following the last day of paid employment for such city.
b.
In each and every instance where pension benefits shall become payable pursuant to this act, as amended, such payments shall be limited to the statutorily required amount as provided by this act, as amended, and shall be exclusive of interest or other amounts. (1981 Ga. Laws, page 3553, § 5)
(f)
No department head who elects to come under the provisions of this act shall be entitled to receive any emeritus salary as provided by the governing authorities of any city coming within the provisions of this act.
(g) (1) Any officer or employee who is a member of the pension fund shall be considered totally and permanently disabled by the board of trustees while the officer or employee is in a continuous state of incapacity due to illness or injury:
a.
During the first months which the officer or employee is prevented from performing his/her regular assigned or comparable duties; and
b.
Thereafter, if the condition continues to prevent the officer or employee from engaging in any occupation for which he/she is or becomes reasonably qualified by education, training or experience.
(2) A member who is considered by the board of trustees to be totally and permanently disabled in accordance with subsection (g)(1)a. and b. on or after January 1, 1986, shall receive a monthly disability benefit which shall commence on the day following the officer's or employee's last date on the payroll and continue until the earlier of
a.
Cessation of total and permanent disability;
b.
Attainment of age 55.
(3) Such monthly disability benefit shall be equal to 50 percent of the officer's or employee's average monthly earnings during the highest three (3) consecutive years of service prior to the date of approval by the board of trustees or the officer's or employee's accrued normal retirement benefit, whichever is greater.
(4) Upon the cessation of disability benefits pursuant to subsection (g)(2)a. or b., and the officer's or employee's failure to return to city employment, the officer or employee would be entitled to a pension benefit as calculated in accordance with subsections b., c. or d. of 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508, as applicable. Provided further, that the calculation of any such subsequent benefit shall include credit for all years and fractions thereof during the time disability pension benefits have been paid, but shall not include credit for any disability pension payments made. Provided further, that for the purposes of calculating any cost-of-living adjustments, the subsequent benefits shall be considered as a new pension with a new effective date.
(5) Disability pension benefits shall be offset by worker's compensation payments so that the combination of payments shall not exceed 75 percent of the officer's or employee's salary at the time disability pension benefits are to commence or 60 percent of an officer's or employee's salary at the time of disability or death in the case of a beneficiary. However, this subsection shall not affect any cost-of-living adjustments as provided in subsection (h), nor prevent the restoration of disability pension benefits payable upon the reduction or termination of any such compensation benefits payable by the city under applicable worker's compensation laws.
(6)  a. Pensions for beneficiaries designated under the terms of this act, as amended, shall be three-fourths of the amount the pensioner was receiving, at the time of his death, as a result of retirement as a matter of right or because of total and permanent disability; or three-fourths of the amount such officer or employee would have been entitled to receive had such person retired prior to death.
b.
The pension benefits for a primary beneficiary shall be continued to the secondary beneficiary, upon the death, or ineligibility for benefits, of the primary beneficiary. Provided, however, if such primary beneficiary was not receiving the maximum beneficiary payment provided for in this act because of any provision of this act reducing such amount, such maximum beneficiary amount shall be paid to the secondary beneficiary, notwithstanding any lesser amount previously paid to the primary beneficiary.
c.
No spouse, designated as a beneficiary, shall be entitled to receive any of said service pension benefits unless such spouse shall have been legally married to such officer or employee of such city for a period of one (1) year prior to the death of such pensioner; provided the officer or employee has made payment for such benefits prior to retirement. No domestic partner, designated as a beneficiary, shall be entitled to receive any of said service pension benefits unless such domestic partner shall have been legally registered as a domestic partner for a period of one (1) year prior to the death of such pensioner; provided the officer or employee has made payment for such benefits prior to retirement.
d.
In determining all pensions of officers or employees referred to above, fractional parts of years of service shall be counted and accumulated annual sick leave days credited to such officer or employee shall be counted as provided for in paragraph e.
e.
In determining creditable service, accumulated, unused sick leave days credited to such officer or employee shall be added as work days to the creditable service otherwise provided by this act, as amended. In determining average monthly earnings, such accumulated unused sick leave days shall be credited at the highest daily rate of regular salary or earnings during the highest three (3) consecutive years' salary or earnings; and all accumulated unused sick leave days shall be substituted for a like number of days at the lowest rate of regular salary or earnings during such highest three (3) consecutive years' salary or earnings during the term of employment.
f.
Any person entitled to disability benefits under the provisions of this act, as amended, may receive benefits after he/she has been in the active employment of the city for at least a period of five (5) years. Provided, however, said requirement shall not apply to an officer or employee disabled as a direct result of a traumatic event or events occurring during and as a result of the performance of an officer's or employee's regular or assigned duties and not the result of such officer's or employee's willful negligence.
(7) Disability pensions; annual review. The retirement of a pension applicant by reason of permanent and total disability shall be subject to the following conditions:
a.
The board of trustees shall have the right to at least once a year require the pensioner to submit to a medical examination for the purpose of determining whether or not the pensioner has sufficiently recovered from his/her disability and is able to return to any occupation for which he/she is or becomes reasonably qualified by education, training or experience.
b.
If the board, after such examination, determines that the pensioner is not actually totally and permanently disabled and is able to return to any occupation for which he/she is or becomes reasonably qualified by education, training or experience, then the payment of such disability pension shall cease. (1981 Ga. Laws, page 3553, § 3; Ord. No. 1985-94, § 5, 12-19-85; Ord. No. 1987-30, § 1, 4-8-87; Ord. No. 1994-45, § 1, 9-25-94; Ord. No. 2006-14, § 1, 3-23-06)
(h)
Any person coming under the provisions of this amendment, either voluntarily or by compulsion, shall be entitled to cost-of-living adjustments as hereinafter set forth. As used herein, the following terms shall have the following meaning:
(1)
Current average cost-of-living index. The average of the monthly Consumer Price Index for the 12 month period from November 1 through October 31, prior to the annual adjustment date, as determined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor for all items and major groups, United States city average.
(2)
Pensioner base index. The average of the Consumer Price Index for the 12 month period ending two (2) months prior to the date of retirement for any Participant who retires under the provisions of this amendment. In the event the base year used in computing the monthly Consumer Price Index should be changed by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the board of trustees shall, with the advice of an independent actuary, adjust the pensioner base index of each retired pensioner and of each pensioner or beneficiary, with benefit payments commencing during the first year in which such change was made, so as to effect the original intent of this section in an equitable manner.
(3)
Adjusted pensioner index. The pensioner base index, adjusted, on a cumulative basis, for all percentage adjustments made in benefits prior to the current annual adjustment date. The adjusted pensioner index and the pensioner base index shall be applicable to any beneficiary becoming entitled to benefits under this amendment in the same manner as they would have been applicable to the pensioner had such pensioner continued in life.
(4)
Annual adjustment date. January 1 of each year.
The board of trustees shall ascertain the current average cost-of-living index as of January 1 each year, and the benefits being paid under this amendment shall be adjusted as of the annual adjustment date as follows: If the current average cost-of-living index is more than 100 percent of the adjusted pensioner index, the benefit shall be increased by a percentage equal to the difference between 100 percent and the percentage representing the current average cost-of-living index divided by such person's adjusted pensioner index. If the current average cost-of-living index is less than 100 percent of the adjusted pensioner index, such person's basic benefit shall be reduced by a percentage equal to the difference between 100 percent and the percentage representing the current average cost-of-living index divided by his adjusted pensioner index.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this subsection, no increase or decrease in the amount of the monthly retirement benefit due to changes in the current average cost-of-living index, effective at any annual adjustment date, shall be in excess of three percent (3%) of the amount of the monthly retirement benefit payable immediately prior to such date. Neither shall the provisions of this subsection be applied so as to reduce the amount of the benefits of a pensioner or beneficiary to an amount less than that to which such pensioner or beneficiary would be entitled to receive under the other provisions of this amendment.
(i)
There shall be deducted from the total salary of any officer or employee electing to come under this amendment the sum of seven percent (7%), in the event such person does not provide for payment of a pension to such person's beneficiary, as authorized by this act, as amended, or a sum to be actuarially determined pursuant to the most recent actuary study, sufficient to cover the cost of providing a continuing pension benefit to such person's beneficiary. Like deductions shall be made from the salary of future employees required to come under this amendment.
(j)
(1) In addition to the payments required to be made in subsection (i) above, any officer or employee who becomes a participant under this amendment shall be entitled to all benefits and receive credit for all the years, or fraction thereof, of such person's creditable service, provided such person shall pay into the fund the sum of six percent (6%) of such person's total salary or earnings, received by such person during the years claimed for such creditable service, if such person does not provide for the payment of a pension to a beneficiary; and the sum of seven percent (7%) of such person's total salary or earnings, received during the years claimed for such creditable service, if such person does provide for the payment of a pension to a beneficiary. Payments previously made to the pension fund, not exceeding the amount due to the fund, shall be deducted from the total amount due in arriving at the total payment due, plus any additional sums as may be required by the following provisions for prior service credits. If any part of the creditable service consists of prior service, as defined by this act, as amended, which was allowed and credited prior to this amendment, the percentages of salary or earnings, used in computing the sum to be paid for such prior service credit shall be twice those set forth above, and shall constitute both the employee and employer contributions. Provided further that payment for any such creditable service rendered on or after April 1, 1978, shall be twice the payment due as computed above.
Any officer or employee electing to come under the provisions of this amendment within six (6) months subsequent to the enactment of this amendment, shall have a period of 60 months from the date of such election in which to pay all back pension contributions, as provided in this subsection, without interest. Any officer or employee electing to come under the provisions of this amendment, subsequent to the expiration of six (6) months after the enactment of this amendment, shall have a period of 60 months from the date of such election in which to pay all back pension contributions, as provided in this subsection, and shall be required to pay interest on said back pension contributions at the rate of seven percent (7%) per annum from October 1, 1978, to the date of such payment. The board of trustees is authorized to establish rules and regulations for extending the period in which back pension contributions may be paid provided that interest in the amount of seven percent (7%) per annum shall be added to any amounts not paid within the above specified time period. The board of trustees shall require as a prerequisite for the granting of such extension an assignment of life insurance in an amount sufficient to cover the outstanding obligation.
(2) Employee Back Pension Contributions, Deductions From Benefits; Assignment of Group Life Insurance Proceeds.
a.
In the event an officer or employee obligated to pay back pension contributions should retire or die before said payments into the fund are completed, the secretary of the retirement fund is authorized to deduct an appropriate amount, as determined by the board of trustees, from the monthly retirement or beneficiary benefits, or in lieu thereof, such lump sum amounts as the board, in its discretion, deems appropriate until the obligation is discharged.
b.
In the event an officer or employee obligated to pay back pension contributions should retire before said payments into the fund are completed, the board of trustees shall require, in consideration of the payment of such indebtedness, an assignment of such officer's or employee's group life insurance in an amount sufficient to satisfy the outstanding obligation. (1981 Ga. Laws, page 3553, § 4)
(k)
(1) Any officer or employee coming under the provisions of the amendment shall be entitled to all of the forms and types of prior service authorized under the Act approved August 20, 1927 (1927 Ga. Laws, page 265 et seq.) as amended, prior to this amendment. Provided, however, contributions for any such prior service shall be based on the salary or wages then being earned by such officer or employee as and when such person becomes eligible for such prior service and such is credited.
To be eligible for such prior service credit the officer or employee must have completed at least five (5) continuous years in the employment of the city, and must have filed, five (5) years prior thereto, an application with the board of trustees for such prior service credit. Thereafter prior service credit may be granted to such person eligible and continuing in the service of such city on a pay period basis (one (1) year of prior service credit, not to exceed a maximum of 10 years, for each year such person continues in the service of such city) upon the payment of contributions by such person for such prior service credit based on the wages or salary earned by such person at the time of such prior service being credited.
The contributions to be paid by such officer or employee, herein referred to, shall be at the rates set forth in subsection (i) above, plus the rates of the employer's contribution set forth in subsection (m).
(2) Credit For Previous City Service, Contributions, Payment. Any officer or employee claiming previous service credit for previous employment as a regular, temporary, or part-time employee of the city may be eligible for previous service credit immediately upon filing application for same, and upon payment of the contribution in accordance with the provisions set forth in subsection (I) of the 1978 Pension Act Amendment (1978 Ga. Laws, pages 4508, 4516) [subsection (j) of this section]; provided, however, the penalty provision of said subsection (I) shall be applicable only to such officers or employees who failed to elect enrollment under said 1978 Pension Act Amendment prior to October 1, 1978, and who terminated employment subsequent to April 1, 1978. The total amount of such required contributions shall be increased by a sum equal to the amount previously paid into the pension fund by a regular officer or employee and withdrawn upon termination of employment, multiplied by an interest factor of seven percent (7%) per annum compounded from the date of termination to the date of filing of the application. The total amount of such required contributions, less a sum equal to the amount previously paid into the pension fund by a regular officer or employee and withdrawn upon termination of employment, shall be increased by an amount equal to such required contributions, less the said amount withdrawn multiplied by an interest factor of seven percent (7%) per annum compounded from the date of termination or October 1, 1978, whichever is later to the date of application. The total amount of such required contribution shall be decreased by the amount previously paid into the pension fund by a regular officer or employee and not withdrawn upon termination of employment plus an amount equal to seven percent (7%) per annum compounded of such amount not withdrawn from the date of termination to the date of filing of the application. As to credit for part-time or temporary service with the city, such previous service credit shall be on the basis of one (1) day for each day worked by such person as a temporary employee or on a part-time basis; except that the required contribution shall be based upon the gross salary of such person at the time of filing of the application for previous service credit. The payment of the contributions of previous service credit for previous employment as a regular, temporary, or part-time employee of the city may be paid upon the filing of the application for such credit; or such officer or employee shall have a period of sixty (60) months from the date of filing the application in which to pay such contributions; provided, however, the total amount of such contribution shall bear interest at seven percent (7%) per annum on the unpaid balance.
The board of trustees is authorized to establish rules and regulations for extending the period in which back pension contributions may be paid provided that interest in the amount of seven percent (7%) per annum shall be added to any amounts not paid within the above specified period. The board of trustees shall require as a prerequisite for the granting of such extension an assignment of life insurance in an amount sufficient to cover the outstanding obligation.
(l)
This section and the several subsections shall be effective as of April 1, 1978, except for the provisions of subsection (m) which shall be effective as of January 1, 1979. Payments required by subsection (i) above, as to those persons then employed and electing to come under this amendment, shall commence on April 1, 1978. As to such persons subsequently coming into the service of such city or subsequently electing to participate under the terms of this amendment, said payments shall begin with the date of employment or date of such election.
(m)
(1)
In addition to the funds derived from deductions from salaries and wages, as required by subsection (i) of this amendment, it shall be the duty of the governing authority of such cities to appropriate and pay into the pension fund each year an amount which shall be equal to the actuarially determined percentage of members' salary and wages necessary to pay the normal cost contribution of benefits earned by members and to amortize the unfunded accrued liability of the pension fund on a closed 30-year schedule commencing July 1, 2011, after deducting contributions required of officers and employees required by subsection (i) of this amendment.
For purposes of paying the required employer contributions provided above, the governing authority of such cities shall be authorized to levy ad valorem taxes payable to the pension fund sufficient to amortize the unfunded accrued liability under provisions of this amendment within a closed schedule of thirty (30) years commencing July 1, 2011, and upon the determination by an independent actuarial valuation as provided in subsection (n) below that such unfunded accrued liability has been amortized, such authorization to levy such ad valorem taxes shall cease. Should said pension fund at any time be insufficient to meet and pay the pension due to such officers and employees, the governing authority shall appropriate from current funds amounts sufficient to make up the deficiency as it relates to the respective officers and employees and deposit same into said pension fund. Should such actuarial valuation as provided in subsection (n) below result in a determination that the total required employer contribution would be less than the contribution required of members by subsection (i) of this amendment, then the contributions required of members by subsection (i) of this amendment shall be reduced and the required employer contributions in this subsection shall be increased so that the member contributions required by subsection (i) will not be greater than the required employer contributions under this subsection.
(2)
Every three (3) years and prior to submitting the annual fiscal budget for that third year, the Chief Financial Officer for the City of Atlanta shall review and prepare for the chair of the finance executive committee and the boards of trustees a report on the effect the amortization schedule has upon the actuarial accrued liability for the pension funds.
(n)
When any person covered by the provisions of this Act shall die as a result of injuries incurred in the line of duty, the compensation to which such person would have been entitled had such person continued in active service shall be continued for two years by such city and paid to the primary beneficiary designated by such officer or employee. Any compensation received by the member due to said injury shall be deducted from the two-years' compensation herein provided for. At the expiration of the two-year period referred to above, the pension benefits due the beneficiary shall be computed in accordance with the provisions of this amendment. The pension benefits for a primary beneficiary shall be continued to the secondary beneficiaries upon the death or ineligibility of the primary beneficiary.
The city employing any officer or employee coming under the provisions of this Act shall immediately notify the board of trustees upon the occurrence of the disability or death of any such officer or employee, and the board of trustees shall conduct an investigation within ninety (90) days of the date of the event which caused such disability or death.
Thereafter, the board of trustees shall make a determination as to whether such disability or death was incurred in line of duty or not in line of duty. Should such city, or any person having an interest in said decision, disagree with such decision of the board then either such city or such person may appeal from such decision as provided by law.
It shall also be the duty and responsibility of the board of trustees to employ an independent actuary to render an actuarial review of the pension fund at periodic intervals of not more than five (5) years, commencing with the enactment of this amendment. The term "independent actuary" as used herein means a fellow of the Society of Actuaries, or a member of the American Academy of Actuaries, or an organization of which one or more members is a fellow of the Society of Actuaries or a member of the American Academy of Actuaries, or both.
(o)
The board of trustees is authorized to invest funds accumulated under this Act in any manner permitted by the Public Retirement Systems Investment Authority Law, Ga. Stat. Ann. section 47-20-80, et seq., as amended.
(Ord. No. 1992-45, § 2, 7-28-92; Ord. No. 1994-13, § 6, 3-24-94; Ord. No. 1996-37, § 2, 6-10-96; Ord. No. 2005-81, § 3, 11-22-05; Ord. No. 2009-27(09-O-0776), § 3, 6-23-09; Ord. No. 2011-15(11-O-0674), § 3, 5-9-11)
(p)
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this act, as amended, regarding the rights of officers or employees to designate beneficiaries of their pension benefits after their death, every male or female officer, coming under the provisions of this amendment, either voluntarily or by compulsion, having a spouse or unmarried child or children (natural or legally adopted) under the age of 18 years or domestic partner shall be compelled to make the necessary additional contributions in order to provide continued pension benefits for such spouse or unmarried child or children (natural or legally adopted) or domestic partner under the age of 18 years, and designated as beneficiaries.
Nothing herein provided shall prevent an officer or employee from designating a primary beneficiary (spouse or unmarried child or children (natural or legally adopted) under 18 years of age) or domestic partner and a secondary beneficiary (either spouse or unmarried child or children (natural or legally adopted) under 18 years of age or domestic partner and not named as primary beneficiary). If an officer or employee designates a beneficiary, and thereafter such beneficiary should cease to be qualified to receive a pension in the event of the member's death, then such officer or employee may at his or her option, designate some other beneficiary who does qualify for pension benefits under this amendment, and continue to make contributions for such beneficiaries, or should no qualified beneficiary exist, cease to make further contributions for beneficiaries, in which event contributions theretofore made for the benefit of a beneficiary shall not be refunded except insofar as refunds may be allowed by other provisions of this act, as amended.
Should any officer or employee become eligible for a service pension and thereafter remain in the service of such city, then upon the death of such person, without having retired, the spouse or domestic partner of such person may apply for a beneficiary pension as provided for in this amendment, which shall continue for the life of such spouse or domestic partner. In the event of the death or disqualification of a spouse or domestic partner to receive such beneficiary pension, then the unmarried child or children (natural or legally adopted) under the age of 18 years shall succeed to the rights of such deceased or disqualified spouse or domestic partner, as above provided, and such beneficiary pension shall be continued to such child or children until the youngest living child shall reach the age of 18 years, die, or marry, whichever event should first occur. No child (natural or legally adopted) of such officer or employee shall be entitled to receive any benefits unless such child is less than 18 years of age and unmarried or unless such child is less than 23 years of age and enrolled as a full-time student at an accredited secondary school, college or university, and unmarried.
Any officer or employee coming under the provisions of this amendment either voluntarily or by compulsion, who, at such time, has no qualified beneficiary, either spouse or unmarried child or children under 18 years of age or domestic partner, shall not be required to make the contributions necessary to provide for the continuation of pension benefits to a beneficiary. Provided, however, upon the occurrence of the event by which such officer or employee acquires a qualified beneficiary, then such officer or employee shall immediately commence making required contributions to provide benefits for such beneficiary and shall within a period of two (2) years thereafter, in addition to current requirements, pay into the pension fund one percent (1%) of his total salary or earnings for all creditable service prior to the occurrence of such event.
Any officer or employee, electing to come under the provisions of this act, who prior thereto had a qualified beneficiary but who had not made the contributions to provide for the payment of continued pension benefits to such beneficiary, shall be required to pay to the pension fund the amount of such beneficiary contributions for the number of years of service with such city and during which such officer or employee had a qualified beneficiary, such payments to be at the rates and in the manner as set forth in subsection (j) hereof.
In the event that a member dies after retirement, either before or after receiving retirement payments, the named beneficiary, or the member's estate in the absence of a named beneficiary, shall receive a refund in an amount equal to the amount such member paid into said pension fund less the total amount received by such member or beneficiaries in retirement benefits. (Ord. No. 1985-94, § 6, 12-19-85; Ord. No. 2006-14, § 2, 3-23-06)
(q)
The board of trustees may pool any amount of the funds administered by them with the funds of any other pension or retirement fund for other employees of such city for the purpose of joint investments. When such pooling occurs, the pooled trust funds shall be accounted for in accordance with generally accepted principles of accounting in order to maintain the separate accountability of such pension funds. The board of trustees may employ an independent investment counselor who shall advise them on the best and most appropriate portfolio of investments.
(r)
Should an officer or employee in the employment of such cities transfer from a position of employment covered by another pension fund to a position of employment covered by this pension fund, the accumulated employee and employer contributions of such officer or employee paid to such other pension fund shall be transferred to this pension fund and such officer or employee shall be credited with all creditable service certified in such other pension fund as though such service had been rendered under this pension fund, provided, however, that should such officer or employee retire as a matter of right within three (3) years subsequent to the date of such transfer, the service retirement benefits payable to such officer or employee shall be the lesser of the service retirement payable under the provisions of this act, as amended, or the provisions of the pension fund from which such officer or employee transferred.
(s)
Any employee participating in the provisions of the act approved August 13, 1924 (1924 Ga. Laws, page 167 et seq.) [this section], or of the several acts amendatory thereof, who leaves the employ of such municipality prior to retirement shall be entitled to a refund of all monies paid into such fund by said employee; provided, however, that such refunds shall be subject to withholding or deduction for any debts owed or amounts due to such municipality by such ex-employee.
(t)
The terms of this amendment to said act shall apply to any member who meets the following terms and conditions:
(1)
Any officer who has received an in-line-of-duty disability pension from the firefighters pension fund prior to November 13, 1987; and
(2)
Thereafter has been reemployed by the city in the fire department.
(3)
Any such employee meeting the aforementioned conditions shall make application for such credit within 90 days of the enactment of this amendment or within 90 days of their return to work, whichever is later.
(4)
Such employee may receive credit toward retirement for the years they received an in-line-of-duty disability pension.
(5)
The maximum credit to be received under this amendment at the time of retirement is limited to the number of years an employee works after being reemployed. (Ord. No. 1993-41, § 2, 9-7-93)
(u)
Subject to approval by the United States Internal Revenue Service in accordance with IRC section 414(h), employee contributions shall be treated as employer contributions in determining tax treatment effective with the following payroll periods in 1994:
EXPAND
Groups I, III, IV, VI Pay period 6
Group II Pay period 11
Group V Pay period 3
  Such contributions shall not be included as gross income of the employee for tax purposes until such time as they are distributed or made available. The City of Atlanta shall reduce the compensation payable to a member in an amount of the contributions made on behalf of the employee.
(v)
Any officer or employee who retires pursuant to this section between August 15, 1994, and September 30, 1994, and whose age and creditable service before credit for accrued unused sick leave equals at least 75 years, shall be entitled to a monthly pension benefit upon retirement without any reduction for any age or vesting penalties as would otherwise be applicable. Provided further that such officer or employee shall receive a benefit calculated by adding three (3) years to their service.
Entitlements specified under subsection (v), above, shall be accorded to those officers and employees not covered by the aforesaid 1978 pension amendment, under applicable provisions of amendments to said law adopted prior to the 1978 amendment.
(w)
Any officer or employee whose age and creditable service before credit for accrued unused sick leave equals at least 73 years as of March 31, 1998, shall be entitled to a monthly pension benefit upon retirement without any reduction for any age or vesting penalties as would otherwise be applicable.
All officers and employees eligible to retire pursuant to this section must make written application to the pension office between February 13, 1998 and March 31, 1998.
(x)
Any officer or employee who was eligible to elect coverage under the pension laws as amended by Ordinance No. 1985-94 and who failed to make such election may do so by making written application on forms provided by the pension office within 60 days of the effective date of this subsection.
(y)
[Catastrophic injury.]
1.
Georgia Laws 1924, p.167, particularly as amended by Georgia Laws 1978, p. 4508 (and as has been further amended) and codified at section 6-367, Related Laws Section of Volume I, City Charter and Code (Firefighters Pension Fund) is hereby amended by providing that any City of Atlanta firefighter who receives a catastrophic injury in the line of duty, will receive 100% of the top salary for the grade and position that he/she occupied at the time of his/her injury.
2.
The determination of whether a disability is catastrophic shall be in the sole discretion of the board by a preponderance of the evidence and as supported by official medical records, qualified medical expert opinions, sworn testimony and/or other such reliable source accepted by the board in its discretion. For the purposes of this Code Section, a catastrophic injury is a sudden, violent, life-threatening injury sustained by a member who is or was employed as a sworn employee by the City at the time of the injury, which injury is due to an externally-caused event or events, as supported by evidence, including, but not specifically limited to, one of the conditions described below: (1) loss of sight in one or both eyes; (2) loss of one or both feet at or above the ankle; (3) loss of one or both hands at or above the wrist; (4) an injury to the spine that results in permanent and complete paralysis of both arms, both legs, or one arm and one leg, or; (5) an externally caused traumatic physical injury to the brain or-skull that renders one physically or mentally unable to perform two or more Activities of Daily Living (feeding oneself, dressing, continence, bathing, toileting and transferring, i.e. getting in and out of bed), driving a motor vehicle, etc. or catastrophically disabled includes a permanent severely disabling injury or disorder that compromises the ability to carry out the activities of daily living to such a degree that the individual requires personal or mechanical assistance to leave home or bed or requires constant supervision to avoid physical harm to self or others.
3.
This ordinance shall be retroactive and those persons who have received catastrophic injuries in the line of duty, while employed as City of Atlanta officer or employee, shall be eligible for review and adjustment of their pension in accordance with this section.
4.
The Chief Financial Officer of the City of Atlanta shall identify any and all funding required to implement this ordinance.
5.
As expressed and referenced in Resolution 01-R-1940, Adopted on November 19, 2001, it is the intent of the City Council to increase the monthly benefit of Firefighters as it relates to catastrophic injury, to provide that the eligibility for said increased monthly pension benefit shall be retroactive, but that the payment of said benefit shall be prospective from the effective date of the passage of an ordinance providing for such benefit, and also as referenced in Ordinance 01-O-0976, Adopted on September 17, 2001 where the definition of catastrophic injury is contained.
(z)
Any officer or employee who is a member of the Firefighters Employee Pension Fund, and whose creditable service before credit for accrued unused sick leave equals at least 30 years shall be entitled to a monthly pension benefit upon retirement without any reduction for any age or vesting penalties as would otherwise be applicable.
(aa)
(1)
Defined terms:
An "eligible roll-over plan participant" is any former Fulton County Firefighter rehired as a full-time firefighter by the City of Atlanta after June 1, 2007.
Prior eligible rollover employment is any employment as a full-time firefighter with Fulton County, Georgia prior to June 1, 2007.
(as defined in paragraph (2) below) may elect to have part or all of his "prior eligible employment" (as defined in paragraph (2) below) considered as creditable service under this plan in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (3) below. If such a participant becomes entitled to "prior eligible employment" by making the payment described in paragraph (4) below, then his "prior eligible employment" will count as creditable service for all purposes under the plan as if such employment had been served with the City of Atlanta.
(2)
For purposes of this section, an "eligible plan rollover participant" may elect to have part or all of his "prior eligible rollover employment" considered as creditable service under this plan in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (3). Credit for "prior eligible rollover employment" may be obtained through the purchase procedures contained in paragraph (3).
(3)
In order for an eligible plan participant to receive credit under this plan for part or all of his prior eligible employment, such participant must make an irrevocable "prior service contribution" to this plan in addition to any other contributions required from participating employees. The amount of the "prior service contribution" will be determined by the plan's enrolled actuary as the actuarial present value of the additional benefit that is expected to accrue to the participant solely due to his "prior eligible employment." In making such a determination, the actuary will use the same actuarial assumptions and methods that are used to determine the minimum required contribution due from the City for the 2007 plan year pursuant to Georgia Code section 47-20-10 and, furthermore, the determination will be made such that the City of Atlanta is not expected on an actuarial basis to be required to make any increased contributions due to the granting of such prior eligible employment to any participant. A participant electing to receive credit for part or all of his prior eligible employment must make the prior service contribution in the manner described in paragraph (4) below.
(4)
A participant must make his prior service contribution in one of the following methods:
(a)
As a single lump sum payment from the participant's funds;
(b)
As a single lump sum paid directly from another pension fund that is qualified under Internal Revenue Code (IRC) section 401(a) or 457;
1.
Whenever the amount transferred from another qualified pension fund exceeds the cost of the prior service credit, the excess increment will be rolled over into an individual retirement account (IRA).
(c)
As a series of level-dollar payments spread over a period of up to five years, where the amount of such payments are determined based on an amortization of the single lump sum payment otherwise required using an interest rate of 8.00% per annum;
(d)
As a series of level-dollar payroll deductions spread over a period of up to five years where the amount of such payroll deductions are determined based on an amortization of the single lump sum payment otherwise required using an interest rate of 8.00% per annum; or
(e)
In any combination of the methods described in (a) through (d) above.
(5)
A participant who terminates his employment with the City of Atlanta for any reason and who has not effected full payment for his prior eligible employment as set forth in paragraph (4) above will only receive creditable service for such employment in proportion to the payments actually made as determined by the plan's actuary using the actuarial methods and assumptions described in paragraph (3) above.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508, § 1; 1979 Ga. Laws, page 3620, § 1; 1979 Ga. Laws, page 3618, §§ 1, 2; 1979 Ga. Laws, page 3633, § 1; 1980 Ga. Laws, page 3692, §§ 1, 2; 1981 Ga. Laws, page 3553, § 6; Ord. No. 1985-49, § 2, 8-9-85; Ord. No. 1994-11, § 2, 3-14-94; Ord. No. 1994-37, § 2, 8-1-94; Ord. No. 1994-45, § 1, 9-25-94; Ord. No. 1998-2, § 1, 2-10-98; Ord. No. 1998-5, § 2, 2-23-98; Ord. No. 2000-2, § 2, 1-11-00; Ord. No. 2005-28, §§ 1—5, 5-23-05; Ord. No. 2005-52, § 1, 9-12-05; Ord. No. 2005-53, § 3, 9-12-05; Ord. No. 2005-55, § 2, 9-12-05; Ord. No. 2005-81, § 3, 11-22-05; Ord. No. 2006-63, § 1, 9-26-06; Ord. No. 2007-78(07-O-2148), § 1, 12-11-07; Ord. No. 2010-41(10-O-0907), §§ 1, 2, 6-29-10)
Editor's note— The ordinances listed in the left-hand column below are found in the state session laws at the location listed opposite them in the right-hand column below:
EXPAND
Georgia Laws
Ord. No. Year Page
1985-49 — —
1985-94 — —
1987-30 — —
1992-45 — —
1994-11 — —
1994-37 — —
1994-45 — —
  Sec. 6-368. - Consent by applicant to participate in system.
The receipt of an applicant's executed enrollment or application card by the commissioner of finance or his agent shall constitute the irrevocable consent of the applicant to participate under the provisions of this act, as amended, or as may hereinafter be amended.
(1980 Ga. Laws, page 3204, § 1)
Sec. 6-369. - Refunds regulated.
Except upon the separation of employment other than retirement or death of an employee, or in the case of bookkeeping, clerical or data processing errors, the refund of pension contributions paid by an employee shall be prohibited.
(1980 Ga. Laws, page 3204, § 2)
Sec. 6-370. - Tax on salaries of firemen.
(a)
Beginning April 1, 1945, three percent shall be deducted from the salaries and wages of all members of said fire department up to a maximum of $200.00 per month or a total deduction of $6.00 per month. Where a member has either a wife or a minor child or children, which children are under the age of 16 years, it shall be mandatory that he designate such wife or child or children as his beneficiaries and in such case, there shall be deducted from the member having the beneficiary, the sum of four per centum from his monthly salary or wage up to a maximum of $200.00 or a total of $8.00 per month deduction, as and when paid. If, at the time of the effective date of this Act, a member does not have anyone who is eligible to be named as beneficiary, but later does have a person who is eligible to be a beneficiary, he shall designate such beneficiary and shall pay into said pension fund an additional one percent upon his salary up to a maximum of $200.00 or not more than $2.00 per month from April 1, 1945.
(b)
No spouse, designated as beneficiary, shall be entitled to receive any of said service pension benefits unless such spouse shall have been legally married to such officer or employee of such city for a period of one (1) year prior to retirement of such pensioner, or for one (1) year prior to the death of an officer or employee who was entitled to retire but failed to do so, as provided by the terms of this act.
(1924 Ga. Laws, page 167, § 9; 1935 Ga. Laws, page 450, § 5; 1945 Ga. Laws, page 1080, § 6; 1946 Ga. Laws, page 136, § 2; 1976 Ga. Laws, page 3050, § 1)
Editor's note— Except for the last sentence (derived from 1976 Ga. Laws, page 3050, § 1), the provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-371. - Tax on fire and lightning insurance companies.
A tax of not less than one and one-fourth per centum (1-¼%) shall be levied against the premiums of all fire and lightning insurance companies or associations or property situated within the corporate limits of such cities, to be collected from and after the passage of this act. The tax provided in this section shall go to the aid, relief and pension funds provided in this act.
(1924 Ga. Laws, page 167, § 10; 1925 Ga. Laws, page 194, § 1; 1931 Ga. Laws, page 223, § 5; 1935 Ga. Laws, page 450, § 6; 1968 Ga. Laws, page 3706, § 2)
Sec. 6-372. - Maintenance of fund.
The city treasurer, or other person performing the duties of such, shall keep separate and apart from other monies in his possession the funds raised under the provisions of sections 6-370 and 6-371 and all other funds, which may be received by him in connection with the provisions of this act, as amended.
(1924 Ga. Laws, page 167, § 11; 1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., page 2705, § 2)
Editor's note— The 1953 amendment purports to amend section 12 of the 1924 act but in fact amends section 11.
Sec. 6-373. - Appropriations by city, when fund is insufficient.
Should said fund at any time be insufficient to meet and pay the pensions due to such members, such governing authorities shall appropriate from current funds other than funds derived from ad valorem taxation sufficient amounts to make up the deficiency as it relates to such members.
(1961 Ga. Laws, page 3373, § 2; 1963 Ga. Laws, page 3356, § 4)
Sec. 6-374. - Compulsory participation.
All regular members of the fire department of such cities, elected or employed after the effective date of this act, shall be required to come under the provisions of this act, as amended by the preceding section, and shall have all the rights and duties provided in this act, as now amended.
(1955 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., page 2051, § 2)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-375. - Right of retirement; computation of service.
Any member of such fire department who is in active service at the time of the passage of this act and whose name is on the payroll, and future members, may as a matter of right, retire from active service, provided he shall have served 25 years in active service at the time of his retirement. The time of service shall be determined from the payroll records in the office of the city comptroller.
(1924 Ga. Laws, page 167, § 2; 1947 Ga. Laws, page 717, § 2)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-376. - Credit for prior service; terms, conditions.
Any person qualified for pension benefits under this act, as amended, who was employed by the State of Georgia or a political subdivision thereof, prior to his employment by such city, to render service within the county in which such city is located in whole or in part, may receive credit for such service for pension benefits under this act, as amended, upon the following terms and conditions:
(1)
No credit may be given for part-time or temporary service.
(2)
Such person must have at least five (5) years' continuous service with the city, before becoming eligible for this credit.
(3)
Application must be made for the credit within six (6) months after the passage of this act or after becoming eligible for the credit, whichever is later.
(4)
Such person shall pay into the pension fund created by this act, as amended, an amount equal to the amount he would have paid into such fund had he been an employee of such city during such time. The payments may be divided into 36 equal installments bearing interest at four percent (4%) per annum, and the amounts thereof deducted from any compensation of pension benefits due such person.
(5)
It shall be the responsibility of the person making application for such credit to furnish to the board of trustees proof of the years of service and the monthly rate of compensation in such manner as the board may by rules prescribe.
(6)
The total amount of creditable service as provided in this act shall not exceed 10 years.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 2854, § 5)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals. Section 7 of the 1957 act provides that it is to be liberally construed.
Sec. 6-377. - Status of member not desiring to retire after becoming eligible.
In case a member has served 25 years, does not desire to retire, and the board of trustees deem such member incapable of further service in the department, the same proceeding shall be had as that to determine the condition of a disabled fireman as set forth in section 6-469 hereof. The decision shall be final.
(1924 Ga. Laws, page 167, § 14)
Sec. 6-378. - Eligibility to retire of firemen employed on or after April 1, 1945.
Effective April 1, 1945, any person employed on or after that date must attain the age of 55 years and have served 25 years before being eligible to retire on a pension, provided, however, the provisions of this section shall not apply to any person on the payroll as of March 31, 1945, nor any person claiming a pension by reason of permanent disability.
(1945 Ga. Laws, page 1080, § 4)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-379. - Rights of employees transferring from one department to another; application of provisions.
Whenever any officer or employee of the city is transferred from one department to another, he shall be entitled to become a member of the pension fund of the department to which he has been transferred and to receive credit for the years of service in the department from which he has been transferred by paying into the pension fund of the department to which he is transferred the amount of premiums he would have paid into said fund if he had been a member of said department for the number of years he claims credit for service in the other department. Such transferred employee shall have the right to have transferred from the pension fund the amount he had paid into such fund. The rights given in this act shall be effective as to the officers and employees who have transferred prior to this act, as well as future transferees. This act shall apply to all the pension funds of the city, namely, the policemen's[officer's] pension fund, the firefighter's pension fund and the general employees' pension fund.
(1947 Ga. Laws, page 717, § 1; Ord. No. 1993-41, § 5, 9-7-93)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-380. - Rights of county firemen transferring to city.
Whenever a member of any fire department in any county in which such a city is located is transferred to such city from such county, he shall have all the rights, privileges and benefits of any member of such fire department set forth in this act as amended upon the following terms and conditions:
(1)
There shall be paid into the pension fund of any such city an amount equal to the amount paid into the county pension fund by such county employee and an equal amount to represent the fund required to be paid into such county pension fund by the county authorities.
(2)
Such transferred officer or employee shall thereupon receive the same credit for service that the employee would have received under the pension plan applicable to such employee at the time of transfer from the county to the city, it being the purpose of this provision to grant to all such transferred employees full credit for the years of service in the county towards accumulating time required to be made in order for such employee to retire as a matter of right under the county pension law.
(3)
Such transferred employee shall have all other rights, privileges and benefits provided in this article, and shall be required to contribute to the pension fund the same amounts required of other members of the fire departments of such cities.
(1951 Ga. Laws, page 529, § 1; 1952 Ga. Laws, page 2566, § 1; 1962 Ga. Laws, page 3194, § 1)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals. Paragraphs have been renumbered after repeal of former paragraph (2).
Sec. 6-381. - Service in the armed forces—Scope of provisions.
The terms of this amendment to said act shall apply to any member of any fire department or any such city who has been or shall be inducted into the armed forces of the United States, either voluntarily or involuntarily, or under the Selective Service and Training Act, or otherwise, on the following terms and conditions:
(1)
Such member must have been or must be on the payrolls of such department and in good standing at the time of such induction;
(2)
He shall not voluntarily extend his term of service beyond the termination of the present conflict;
(3)
He shall return to service in such fire department promptly upon his honorable discharge from the armed forces;
(4)
Dishonorable discharge from such armed forces shall terminate all rights under said acts as amended, whether said rights arise under this amendment or any other part of said act as amended.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 560, § 1)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals. To the extent the above provisions are in conflict with 1953 Ga. Laws, page 2251, section 1, codified as section 6-382, the provisions hereof are superseded.
Sec. 6-382. - Same—Terms, conditions of service.
Service in the armed forces of the United States, under the Department of Defense, or service in the Coast Guard of the United States, shall, for the purpose of service pension rights established by this Act, be considered service to any such city, upon the following terms and conditions:
(1)
Such officer or employee must have been inducted into such armed forces, either voluntarily or involuntarily, under any Act applicable thereto, when there is at the time of such induction an actual conflict or such induction is mandatory under the applicable law;
(2)
Such officer or employee must have been on the payrolls of any such city and in good standing at the time of such induction;
(3)
Such officer or employee shall not voluntarily extend his term of service beyond the termination of the conflict or beyond the time when he could retire from such service;
(4)
Such officer or employee shall make application for reemployment to his former position within the time required by the charter of any such city for the reemployment of such officers or employees;
(5)
Dishonorable discharge from such armed forces shall terminate all rights under this amendment;
(6)
Such officer or employee, upon his return to the service of such city from service in the armed forces, shall make the same contributions to the said pension fund for the time served in the armed forces as he would have made if he had been in active service of the city, but shall be permitted to make such contributions in equal monthly installments within a period of time equal to the time served in such armed forces; and
(7)
In the event such officer or employee dies while performing "qualified military service" as defined in U.S. Internal Revenue Code Section 414(u), on or after January 1, 2007, such officer or employee shall be considered to have been rehired on the day prior to the date of death, and the survivors of such officer or employee shall be entitled to any additional benefits required to be paid pursuant to U.S. Internal Revenue Code Section 401(a)(37).
(1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., page 2251, § 1; Ord. No. 2015-04(14-O-1631), § 1, 2-26-15 )
Sec. 6-383. - Same—Officers and employees serving in Korean conflict or subsequent thereto.
Any officer or employee who was inducted into service in the armed forces of the United States under the Department of Defense, or service in the Coast Guard of the United States either during the Korean conflict or subsequent thereto, or shall have served in the Navy in connection with such service, shall be given full credit for the time served in such service as though he were actually employed during that time by the city and shall not be required to make any contributions to the pension fund for such period of service provided such employee meets the conditions set forth in section 1 of the amendment to this act approved February 16, 1953, (1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Session, page 2269 et seq.), except he shall not be required to make contributions as provided in subsection (f) thereof.
(1956 Ga. Laws, page 3097, § 1; 1958 Ga. Laws, page 3015, § 1)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-384. - Same—Method of receiving credit for military leave.
All members of the fire department who are on approved military leave from active service and employment may receive credit towards retirement by making the same contribution to the said pension fund as they would have made if they had been on active employment service where a leave of absence from active employment service had been granted to one on military leave. Said contribution shall be paid within 36 months after reassignment to active duty. No credit will be allowed to any member who voluntarily reenlists in the military service after the end of his said leave for the period of reenlistment unless he be granted an additional military leave by the proper authority.
(1946 Ga. Laws, page 136, § 3)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-385. - Spendthrift provisions.
None of the funds herein mentioned shall be subject to attachment, garnishment, judgment; nor shall they be assignable; but shall be paid in cash to the beneficiary if so requested by him or her.
(1924 Ga. Laws, page 167, § 17)
Sec. 6-386. - Reemployment of pensioners.
(a)
Any officer or employee of the fire departments of such cities who has applied for and been granted a service pension shall be eligible for reemployment or reappointment to any position in the government of such cities, provided such person has not reached the age of 70 years, such reemployment in any position to terminate the end of the year in which such person reaches age 70. Such reemployment shall be made under the provisions relating to reemployment of former employees as now provided by law or ordinance, except that such reemployed person shall not acquire any civil service rights or any further pension rights during such period of reemployment, shall not be paid a pension during such period, and shall not be required to make any contribution to the pension fund during such period of reemployment. The payment of his pension shall be resumed as of the date of termination of such period of reemployment. No such reemployment shall be effective until the person to be reemployed under the provisions of this section shall execute and deliver to the comptroller of any such cities a contract agreeing to the conditions hereof.
(b)
Nothing herein contained shall prevent any retired officer or employee of the fire departments of such cities from holding any position which is filled by an election by the people. No additional pension or civil service rights or privileges shall accrue to such officer or employee during such period.
(c)
The provisions of this act as amended shall not in any way affect or restrict the rights, powers and privileges of an emeritus officer of such cities who now or shall hereafter hold an emeritus office pursuant to the provisions of any law or ordinance establishing same.
(d)
Whenever by contract with a city or one (1) of its agencies, boards or commissions, a retired person, regardless of age and as an independent contractor, agrees to perform a special or particular service, as may be now or hereafter allowed by law or ordinance, then such person, during the term of such contract which shall not exceed one (1) calendar year, shall be entitled to continue to receive his or her regular pension payments, but shall not acquire any civil service rights or any further pension rights, and shall not be required to make any contribution to the pension fund; provided, however, no such contract shall be effective until a fully executed copy of such contract, in which such retired person agrees to the conditions hereof, has been delivered by such person to the secretary of the board of trustees of the pension fund.
(1961 Ga. Laws, page 2777, §§ 1—3; 1969 Ga. Laws, page 3393, § 1; 1970 Ga. Laws, page 2351, § 1)
Sec. 6-387. - Effect on workers' compensation laws.
Except as provided in section 6-367(g), this Act shall not affect nor be affected by any workers' compensation law, or other similar laws. Further, no decisions of the state board of workers' compensation shall be entered as evidence with a pension application before the board of trustees of said pension fund, nor shall said board consider any evidence pertaining to the applicant's previously determined entitlement to workers' compensation in any hearing upon a pension application.
(1924 Ga. Laws, page 167, § 21; 1982 Ga. Laws, page 4385, § 6)
Sec. 6-388. - Prior pension laws preserved.
This act shall not repeal nor in any wise affect any benefit or pension now being paid to those who were receiving the same prior to the passage of this act.
(1924 Ga. Laws, page 167, § 19)
Sec. 6-389. - Computations of time; fractional parts of years to be counted.
Whenever this law, or any amendment of this law, requires a computation, for any purpose, of the years of creditable service of any active or retiring member, fractional parts of years of service shall be counted.
(1924 Ga. Laws, page 167 et seq.; 1977 Ga. Laws, page 320)
Sec. 6-390. - Overtime pay excluded from calculation of benefits.
Insofar as this article appertains to employees and officers of the City of Atlanta, the terms "average monthly earnings," "total salary or earnings" and "total salary," exclude overtime pay, salary or compensation from the calculation of pension benefits and employee contributions to the pension fund. Overtime pay, salary or compensation as used herein shall mean any pay, salary or compensation received for services rendered beyond regularly fixed working hours. This section shall apply to the average monthly earnings and total salary or earnings received on and after the first pay period of 1986 for all officers and employees of the City of Atlanta.
(Ord. No. 1985-71, § 3, 11-12-85)
Editor's note— The ordinances listed in the left-hand column below are found in the state session laws at the location listed opposite them in the right-hand column below:
EXPAND
Georgia Laws
Ord. No. Year Page
1985-71 — —
  Sec. 6-391. - Distribution requirements.
(a)
The requirements of this section shall apply to the distribution of all benefits under this Act, 1924 Ga. Laws, page 167, as amended, and will take precedence over any inconsistent provisions of this Act.
(b)
All distributions required under this section will be determined and made in accordance with section 401(a)(9) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (the `Code'), including the incidental death benefit requirements of Code section 401(a)(9)(G), and the regulations thereunder.
(c)
The entire benefit of an officer or employee under this Act will be distributed beginning not later than his required beginning date over the life of such officer or employee or, if applicable, over the lives of such officer or employee and a designated beneficiary. `Required beginning date' shall mean April 1 of the calendar year following the later of (1) the calendar year in which the officer or employee attains age 70½ or (2) the calendar year in which the officer or employee terminates employment.
(d)
If the distribution of a benefit has begun in accordance with subsection (c) above and the officer or employee dies before his entire benefit has been distributed to him, the remaining portion of such benefit will be distributed at least as rapidly as under the method of distribution being used as of the date of his death.
(e)
If an officer or employee dies before the distribution of his benefit has begun in accordance with subsection (c) above, his interest will be distributed to his designated beneficiary (as defined in Code section 401(a)(9)(E)) over a period not extending beyond the life or life expectancy of such beneficiary, beginning not later than December 31 of the calendar year following the calendar year of the officer's or employee's death. If such benefit is payable to (or for the benefit of) his or her surviving spouse or domestic partner, the date on which the distributions are required to begin shall not be earlier than December 31 of the calendar year in which the officer or employee would have attained age 70½. If the spouse or domestic partner dies before the distribution to such spouse or domestic partner is made or begun, this subsection (e) shall be applied as if the surviving spouse or domestic partner were the officer or employee.
(f)
If an officer or employee dies before the distribution of his benefit has begun in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this section and the officer or employee does not have a designated beneficiary (as defined in Code section 401(a)(9)(E)), the officer's or employee's benefit, if any, shall be distributed in a single lump-sum payment by December 31 of the year in which occurs the five-year anniversary of the officer's or employee's death."
(Ord. No. 2004-84, § II(2), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-88, § 2, 12-10-04; Ord. No. 2006-14, § 3, 3-23-06)
Note— Section 11 of Ord. No. 2004-88 provided for an effective date for this section of Jan. 1, 1997.
Sec. 6-392. - Limitation on benefits.
(a)
Basic limitation. Notwithstanding any provision of this Act, 1927 Ga. Laws, page 265, as amended, to the contrary, the amount of an officer's or employee's annual retirement benefit, calculated as a single life annuity commencing before age 62 or after age 65, shall not exceed $160,000.00, as adjusted as of the first day of each limitation year to the dollar limitation determined by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue pursuant to regulations issued by the Secretary of the Treasury under the authority granted by section 415(d) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (the "Code") (the "maximum permissible dollar amount"). For purposes of this section, the term 'limitation year' shall mean the calendar year.
As of each January 1, the dollar limitation as determined by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue for that calendar year will become effective as the maximum permissible dollar amount for that calendar year. The dollar limitation applicable to officers and employees who have commenced distribution of their benefit shall be adjusted annually to reflect any changes to the maximum permissible dollar amount.
Employee contributions treated as employer contributions made pursuant to section 6-37(u) shall be considered a part of the benefit subject to the limitations of this section. Officer or employee contributions for prior service with certain other employers shall be subject to the rules of section 6-94. Employee contributions not made pursuant to section 6-37(u) and not made for credit for prior service with certain other employers shall be converted to an annual benefit amount pursuant to Code section 411(c)(2)(B) and shall be subtracted from the total annual benefit subject to the limitations of this subsection (a), provided that such contributions shall be considered to be a separate defined contribution plan maintained by the City of Atlanta and subject to the limitations of Code section 415(c).
If the form of payment under the act is other than a straight-life annuity (with no ancillary benefits), or if the officer, or employee has made mandatory or voluntary contributions or rollover contributions, or if any portion of the payment is attributable to assets transferred to the fund from another qualified plan not maintained by the City of Atlanta, the benefit shall be adjusted so that it is actuarially equivalent to a straight-life annuity with no ancillary benefits. For purposes of adjusting any benefit, the actuarially equivalent amount shall be the greater of: (i) the annual amount of the straight life annuity (if any) payable to the officer or employee under the act commencing at the same annuity starting date as the form of benefit payable to the officer or employee; or (ii) the annual amount of the straight life annuity commencing at the same annuity starting date that has the same actuarial present value as the form of benefit payable to the officer or employee, computed using a five percent interest rate and the applicable mortality table. No actuarial adjustment shall be required to reflect the value of any of the following: (A) that portion of any joint and survivor annuity that constitutes a qualified joint and survivor annuity (as defined in Code section 417); (B) benefits that are not directly related to retirement benefits, such as pre-retirement disability and death benefits, and post-retirement medical benefits; and (C) post-retirement cost-of-living increases made in accordance with Code section 415(d) and the regulations thereunder.
The provisions of this section 6-93 shall be applied in accordance with the rules of Code section 415 and the regulations thereunder, and the relevant provisions of the regulations are incorporated by reference herein. If payments to or on behalf of an officer or employee begin on multiple dates, the rules of this section 6-93 shall be applied on each such date to the relevant portion of the benefit.
(b)
Exception to basic limitation. If the annual retirement benefit payable to an officer or employee under this act does not exceed $10,000.00 for the limitation year with respect to which a determination is being made or any prior limitation year, and the City of Atlanta has not at any time maintained a defined contribution plan (as determined pursuant to the Code section 415(d) regulations) in which the officer or employee has participated, the limitation otherwise imposed by subsection (a) shall not apply. For purposes of determining whether any officer or employee has ever participated in a defined contribution plan, mandatory employee contributions to any defined benefit plan maintained by the City of Atlanta are not to be treated as a separate defined contribution plan maintained by the City of Atlanta.
(c)
Reduction for fewer than ten years of participation. If an officer or employee has participated under the provisions of this act for fewer than ten years, the maximum permissible dollar amount shall be adjusted by multiplying such limitation by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of the officer's or employee's years of participation as of such date (and any fraction thereof) and the denominator of which is ten. The foregoing reduction shall not apply to (1) disability retirement benefits received by an officer or employee under this act or (2) death benefits received by an officer's or employee's beneficiary under this act.
(d)
Actuarial adjustment when benefits commence before age 62 or after age 65. If an officer's or employee's annual retirement benefit commences before he attains age 62, the maximum permissible dollar amount for the limitation year shall be reduced so that it is the actuarial equivalent of the maximum permissible dollar amount that would be applicable if the retirement benefit had commenced at age 62. The actuarially equivalent amount shall be equal to the lesser of (A) the maximum permissible dollar amount multiplied by the ratio of the annual retirement benefit payable under the act at the time payments are scheduled to commence, without regard to the limits of this section 6-93, to the annual retirement benefit commencing at age 62, without regard to the limits of this section 6-93, and (B) the actuarially equivalent amount using a five percent interest rate and the applicable mortality table. To the extent that benefits will not be forfeited upon the death of the officer or employee, the mortality decrement shall be ignored for purposes of determining any reduction in the dollar limitation. If any benefits are forfeited upon death, the full mortality decrement shall be taken into account. If an officer's or employee's annual retirement benefit commences after age 65, the maximum permissible dollar amount for the limitation year shall be increased so that it is the actuarial equivalent of the maximum permissible dollar amount at age 65. The actuarially equivalent amount shall be equal to the lesser of: (A) the maximum permissible dollar amount multiplied by the ratio of the annual retirement benefit under the act at the time payments are scheduled to commence, disregarding accruals after age 65 and without regard to the limits of this section 6-93, to the annual retirement benefit commencing at age 65, without regard to the limits of this section 6-93, and (B) the actuarially equivalent amount determined using a five percent interest rate and the applicable mortality table.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the maximum permissible dollar amount shall not be reduced by reason of the commencement of annual retirement benefits before age 62 for (1) any full-time officer or employee with at least 15 years of full-time service with any police or fire department that is organized and operated by the City of Atlanta, (2) disability retirement benefits paid to an officer or employee pursuant to this act or (3) a death benefit paid to a beneficiary pursuant to this act.
(e)
Applicable mortality table. On or after January 1, 2008, "applicable mortality table" shall mean the mortality table specified by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to Code section 417(e)(3)(B). Before January 1, 2008, "applicable mortality table" shall mean the mortality table prescribed by Revenue Ruling, 2001,-62, 2001-2 C.B. 632, or any successor revenue ruling, notice or other guidance provided by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue that establishes a replacement mortality table pursuant to Code section 415(b)(2)(E)(v).
(f)
Preservation of old law benefits. In the case of an officer or employee who participated in one or more defined benefit plans of the City of Atlanta as of the first day of the first limitation year beginning after December 31, 1994, the application of the limitations of this section shall not cause the maximum permissible benefit for such officer or employee under all such defined benefit plans to be less than the officer's or employee's RPA'94 Old-Law Benefit.
For officers or employees with RPA '94 Old-Law Benefits, for purposes of determining whether an officer's or employee's benefit exceeds the limitations of this section after December 31, 1999 (the "RPA '94 Freeze Date"), an officer's or employee's total annual benefit under the act calculated as a straight life annuity shall be determined, and this benefit shall not exceed the maximum permissible dollar amount applicable to the officer or employee. Where an officer's or employee's benefit must be adjusted to an actuarially equivalent straight life annuity, such adjustment shall be calculated as provided under subsection (a) above.
In no event shall an officer or employee receive less than the officer's or employee's RPA '94 Old-Law Benefit. For purposes of determining that an officer or employee receives no less than the officer's or employee's RPA '94 Old-Law Benefit, the limitation applicable to the officer's or employee's RPA '94 Old-Law Benefit ("Old-Law Limitation") shall be determined, and the officer or employee shall receive the RPA '94 Old-Law Benefit to the extent it does not exceed such old-law limitation. Before January 1, 2000 (the "final implementation date"), adjustments to the old-law limitation for benefits that commence before age 62 or after age 65 shall be calculated as provided under Code section 415(b)(2)(E) and the terms of the act as in effect on December 7, 1994. On or after the final implementation date, adjustments to the old law limitation for commencement of benefits before age 62 or after age 65 shall be calculated as provided in subsection (d) above. In no event, however, may an officer's or employee's old-law benefit exceed the officer's or employee's old-law benefit as of the RPA '94 Freeze Date.
For the purposes of this subsection, the term "RPA '94 Old-Law Benefit" shall mean the officer's or employee's accrued benefit under the terms of the act as of the RPA '94 Freeze Date, for the annuity starting date and optional form and taking into account the limitations of Code section 415 as in effect on December 7, 1994, including the participation requirements under Code section 415(b)(5). In determining the amount of an officer's or employee's RPA Old-Law Benefit, the following shall be disregarded: (1) any ordinance or amendment to the act increasing benefits adopted after the RPA '94 Freeze Date, and (2) any cost-of-living adjustments that become effective under Code section 415(d) after the RPA '94 Freeze Date.
If, at any date after the RPA '94 Freeze Date, the officer's or employee's total benefit under the act, before the application of Code section 415, is less than the officer's or employee's old-law benefit, the RPA '94 Old-Law Benefit will be reduced to a benefit equal to the officer's or employee's total benefit.
The use of a different interest rate and mortality table may not increase an officer's or employee's RPA '94 Old-Law Benefit to an amount greater than such benefit as of the RPA '94 Freeze Date.
(Ord. No. 2004-84, § II(3), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-88, § 3, 12-10-04; Ord. No. 2010-68(10-O-1894), § 1, 12-15-10)
Note— Section 11 of Ord. No. 2004-88 provided for an effective date for this section of Jan. 1, 2002.
Sec. 6-393. - Treatment of employee contributions for prior service with certain other employers.
(a)
Basic Limitation. If an officer or employee makes one or more contributions under this Act, 1924 Ga. Laws, page 167, as amended, to purchase permissive service credit on or after January 1, 1998, the requirements of section 6-392 shall be treated as satisfied if either:
(1)
The requirements of section 415(b) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (the `Code') are satisfied, determined by treating the accrued benefit derived from all contributions under this Act for permissive service credit as an annual benefit for purposes of Code section 415(b), provided, however, that the reduced limit under Code section 415(b)(2)(C) (as described in section 6-392(d)) shall not be exceeded solely by reason of this section 6-393; or
(2)
The requirements of Code section 415(c) are satisfied, determined by treating all contributions under this Act for permissive service credit as an annual addition for purposes of Code section 415(c), provided, however, that the percentage limitation under Code section 415(c)(1)(B) shall not be exceeded solely by reason of this section 6-393.
(b)
Limitation on Nonqualified Service. Notwithstanding the foregoing, not more than five years of permissive service credit attributable to nonqualified service shall be taken into account for purposes of this section, and no permissive service credit shall be taken into account before the officer or employee has participated under the provisions of this Act for at least five years.
(c)
Definitions.
(1)
Permissive Service Credit. For purposes of this section, the term `permissive service credit' shall mean service credit that (A) is recognized under this Act for purposes of calculating an officer's or employee's benefit, (B) such officer or employee has not received under this Act and (C) such officer or employee may receive only by making a voluntary additional contribution in an amount determined under this Act that does not exceed the amount necessary to fund the benefit attributable to such service credit.
(2)
Nonqualified Service. For purposes of this section, the term 'nonqualified service' means service for which permissive service credit is allowed, other than:
(A)
service (including parental, medical, sabbatical and similar leave) as an employee of the Government of the United States, any State or political subdivision thereof or any agency or instrumentality of any of the foregoing (other than military service or service for credit that was obtained as a result of a repayment under Code section 415(k)(3));
(B)
service (including parental, medical, sabbatical and similar leave) as an employee (other than as an employee described in clause (A) above) of an educational organization described in Code section 170(b)(1)(A)(ii) that is a public, private or sectarian school providing elementary or secondary education (through grade 12), as determined under the laws of the State of Georgia;
(C)
service as an employee of an association of employees who are described in clause (A), above; or
(D)
military service (other than qualified military service under Code section 414(u)) recognized under this Act.
In the case of service described in clauses (A), (B) or (C), such service will be nonqualified service if recognition of such service would cause an officer or employee to receive a retirement benefit for the same service under more than one retirement plan.
(Ord. No. 2004-84, § II(4), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-88, § 4, 12-10-04)
Note— Section 11 of Ord. No. 2004-88 provided for an effective date for this section of Jan. 1, 2002.
Sec. 6-394. - Limitation on monthly earnings.
For the period from January 1, 1996 to December 31, 2001, the annual compensation of each officer and employee taken into account for determining all benefits provided under this Act, 1927 Ga. Laws, page 265, as amended, for any year shall not exceed $150,000.00, as adjusted for the cost of living in accordance with Section 401(a)(17)(B) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"). For years beginning on and after January 1, 2002, the annual compensation of each officer and employee taken into account for determining all benefits provided under this Act for any year shall not exceed $200,000.00, as adjusted for the cost of living in accordance with Code Section 401(a)(17)(B).
If compensation for any prior year is taken into account in determining the benefits of an officer or employee, the compensation for such prior year shall be subject to the applicable annual compensation limit in effect under Code Section 401(a)(17) for that prior year. Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective January 1, 2002, the limit on compensation taken into account with regard to years before January 1, 2002 shall be increased to $200,000.00, and the monthly benefit of officers and employees who have terminated employment, including officers and employees who have commenced receiving a benefit, shall be recalculated to reflect such increase.
The annual compensation of an officer or employee who commenced participation under this Act before January 1, 1996 shall not be limited by the terms of this section.
For the purposes of compliance with the requirements of Code Section 415, on or after January 1, 2009, the definition of "compensation" shall include differential wage payments within the meaning of Code Section 414(u)(12).
(Ord. No. 2004-84, § II(5), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-88, § 5, 12-10-04; Ord. No. 2015-04(14-O-1631), § 2, 2-26-15 )
Note— Section 11 of Ord. No. 2004-88 provided for an effective date for this section of Jan. 1, 1996.
Sec. 6-395. - Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, 1924 Ga. Laws, page 167, as amended, to the contrary, contributions, benefits and service credit with respect to qualified military service will be provided in accordance with section 414(u) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.
(Ord. No. 2004-84, § II(6), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-88, § 6, 12-10-04)
Note— Section 11 of Ord. No. 2004-88 provided for an effective date for this section of Dec. 12, 1994.
Sec. 6-396. - Supplemental benefit arrangement.
(a)
Purpose. The purpose of this Supplemental Benefit Arrangement is to provide officers and employees participating under the provisions of this Act, 1924 Ga. Laws, page 167, as amended, with the full amount of benefit intended under the Act, without regard to the limitations imposed by section 415 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (the `Code').
(b)
Benefits. If the annual retirement benefit of an officer or employee under the Act is reduced as a result of the limitations in Code section 415 (as described in sections 6-392 and 6-393) such officer or employee shall receive an amount from the Supplemental Benefit Arrangement equal to the difference between (i) the amount that would have been payable under the terms of the Act without the application of Code section 415 and (ii) the amount payable under the terms of the Act determined with the application of the limitations in Code section 415.
(c)
Elective Deferrals Not Permitted. Officers and employees shall not be permitted to defer compensation either directly or indirectly under the Supplemental Benefit Arrangement at any time.
(d)
Subfund. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Act, the benefits payable under this section shall be paid from the assets of a subfund established under the existing fund, provided that such subfund shall be maintained solely for the purpose of providing benefits under the Supplemental Benefit Arrangement. The assets of the fund (other than the subfund) shall not be used to pay benefits under this section.
(Ord. No. 2004-84, § II(7), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-88, § 7, 12-10-04)
Note— Section 11 of Ord. No. 2004-88 provided for an effective date for this section of Jan. 1, 2004.
Sec. 6-397. - Eligible rollover distributions.
(a)
General rule. The distributee of any eligible rollover distribution made under this Act, 1927 Ga. Laws, page 265, as amended, may elect, in the manner and at the time specified by the board of trustees, to have any portion of an eligible rollover distribution paid directly to an eligible retirement plan specified by the distributee in a direct rollover.
(b)
Definitions.
(1)
Distributee. For purposes of this section, a "distributee" shall include any current or former officer or employee who has a right to a benefit under this act. In addition, a 'distributee' shall include the current or former officer's or employee's surviving spouse, as well as the current or former officer's or employee's current or former spouse who is the alternate payee under a qualified domestic relations order as defined in Code section 414(p). Effective January 1, 2010, a "distributee" shall include a non-spouse beneficiary who is a designated beneficiary within the meaning of Code section 401(a)(9)(E).
(2)
Eligible rollover distribution. For purposes of this section, an "eligible rollover distribution" is any distribution from the fund established under the act of all or any portion of the balance to the credit of the distributee, except that an eligible rollover distribution does not include: any distribution that is one of a series of substantially equal periodic payments (not less frequently than annually) made for the life (or life expectancy) of the distributee or the joint lives (or joint life expectancies) of the distributee and the distributee's designated beneficiary, or for a specified period of ten years or more; any distribution to the extent such distribution is required under section 401(a)(9) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"); and any hardship distribution. All or a portion of a distribution shall not fail to be an eligible rollover distribution merely because the distribution includes after-tax employee contributions that are not includible in gross income, provided, however, that such amounts may only be paid to a plan that constitutes an eligible retirement plan with respect to a distribution or portion of a distribution constituting after-tax contributions, as defined below.
(3)
Eligible retirement plan. For purposes of this section, an 'eligible retirement plan' is an individual retirement account or annuity described in Code sections 408(a) or 408(b); a qualified trust described in Code section 401(a); an annuity plan described in Code section 403(a); an annuity contract described in Code section 403(b); and an eligible deferred compensation plan described in 457(b) that is maintained by a state, a political subdivision of a state, or any agency or instrumentality of a state or political subdivision of a state and that agrees to account separately for amounts transferred into such plan from this fund; and, effective January 1, 2008, a Roth IRA described in Code section 408A. With respect to that portion of an eligible rollover distribution that consists of after-tax contributions that are not includible in gross income, an eligible retirement plan shall include only an individual retirement account or annuity described in Code sections 408(a) or (b) or a qualified defined contribution plan described in Code sections 401(a) or 403(a) that agrees to account separately for the amounts so transferred, including separate accounting for that portion of such distribution that is not includible in gross income. In the case of a distribution to a non-spouse beneficiary, the term eligible retirement plan shall include only an inherited individual retirement account described in Code section 408(a) or an inherited individual retirement annuity described in Code section 408(b).
(c)
Mandatory distributions. Effective January 1, 2006, if with respect to any mandatory distribution in excess of $1,000.00 that is an eligible rollover distribution, a distributee does not make an election pursuant to subsection (a) above and does not elect to receive the distribution directly, the amount of the distribution shall be transferred to an individual retirement plan as described in Code section 408(a) or 408(b) of a designated trustee or issuer, and the distributee shall be notified in writing that the distribution may be transferred to such an individual retirement plan.
(Ord. No. 2004-84, § II(8), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-88, § 8, 12-10-04; Ord. No. 2006-14, § 4, 3-23-06; Ord. No. 2010-68(10-O-1894), § 2, 12-15-10)
Note— Section 11 of Ord. No. 2004-88 provided for an effective date for this section of Jan. 1, 2002.
Sec. 6-398. - Exclusive benefit.
At no time prior to the satisfaction of all liabilities with respect to officers and employees participating under the provisions of this Act, 1924 Ga. Laws, page 167, as amended, and their beneficiaries shall any part of the corpus or income of the fund established under this Act be used for, or diverted to, purposes other than for the exclusive benefit of such officers, employees and beneficiaries, except that a contribution by an employer to the fund established under this Act made under a mistake of fact may be returned to such employer within one year after the payment of the contribution.
(Ord. No. 2004-84, § II(9), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-88, § 9, 12-10-04)
Note— Section 11 of Ord. No. 2004-88 provided for an effective date for this section of Jan. 1, 1997.
Sec. 6-399. - Minimum vesting standards.
Upon the termination of the fund established under this Act, 1924 Ga. Laws, page 167, as amended, or upon complete discontinuance of contributions under the Act, the rights of all officers and employees to benefits accrued to the date of such termination or discontinuance, to the extent then funded, shall be nonforfeitable.
(Ord. No. 2004-84, § II(10), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-88, § 10, 12-10-04)
Note— Section 11 of Ord. No. 2004-88 provided for an effective date for this section of Jan. 1, 1997.
Sec. 6-400. - Application of Pension Modification pursuant to City Related Laws Section 6-2.
There has been raised and established funds for the aid, relief and pension of members of the Atlanta Fire Department who were in active service on or after the date of the passage of this act ("Firefighters' Pension Fund"). The terms of the Firefighters' Pension Fund have been modified by City Related Laws Section 6-2. The terms of the Firefighters' Pension Fund shall be as set forth in City Related Laws Sections 6-366 through 6-420, as amended by Related Laws Section 6-2. The retirement plan and benefits of the following members of the Firefighters' Pension Fund shall not be impacted by Related Laws Section 6-2: 1) members who were active service City Employees on November 1, 2011 who were hired by the City and Joined the Firefighters' Pension Fund prior to January 1, 1984, and had continuous City service, or had had a break in service and purchased the interim pension benefits upon rehire; and 2) members who retired before November 1, 2011.
(Ord. No. 2011-27(11-O-0672), § 11, 6-29-11)
Secs. 6-401—6-420. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BOARD OF TRUSTEES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2020-21(20-O-1178), § 3, adopted April 29, 2020, amended division 2 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former division 2, §§ 6-421—6-430, pertained to similar subject matter, and derived from 1924 Ga. Laws, page 167, § 7; 1924 Ga. Laws, page 167, § 8; 1924 Ga. Laws, page 167, § 13; 1924 Ga. Laws, page 167, § 15; 1924 Ga. Laws, page 167, § 16; 1931 Ga. Laws, page 223, § 6; 1947 Ga. Laws, page 717, § 4; 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4506, § 1; 1979 Ga. Laws, page 3630, § 1; 1981 Ga. Laws, page 3553, §§ 2, 8; 1982 Ga. Laws, page 4385, § 3; Ord. No. 1985-45, § 2, 8-9-85; Ord. No. 1985-49, § 1, 8-9-85; Ord. No. 1992-45, §§ 1, 2, 7-28-92; Ord. No. 1992-58, § 1, 9-21-92; Ord. No. 1994-13, §§ 4, 5, 3-24-94; Ord. No. 2003-55, §§ 1, 2, 2-25-03.

Sec. 6-421. - Board of trustees; constituted, membership, duties.
(a)
There is hereby established one board of trustees whose duty it shall be to implement the provisions of this act with respect to the City of Atlanta's General Employees' Pension Fund, Police Officers' Pension Fund and Firefighters' Pension Fund and to ensure that the funds of each pension fund are maintained and accounted for separately, except as provided in Section 6-37(r), Section 6-222(q) and Section 6-367(q). The board of trustees shall be authorized to adopt such rules, procedures and policies that it deems necessary to perform its duties; provided, however, that any such rules, procedures and policies are consistent with the provisions of this act and with all other applicable laws. The board of trustees shall be authorized to retain a third-party administrator, an independent attorney, and an independent actuary.
(b)
The board of trustees shall be known as the City of Atlanta Defined Benefit Pension Plan Investment Board (the "Investment Board") and shall be comprised of eleven (11) members with representation from the City of Atlanta and pension participants as follows:
(1)
Chair. The Investment Board shall have an independent chair who shall be appointed by the Mayor of the City of Atlanta and confirmed by the Atlanta City Council to one (1) term of five (5) years beginning on the date of confirmation. The Investment Board Chair shall have relevant financial industry experience, preferably in the area of investments, and shall have no familial or business ties to the City of Atlanta or the Atlanta Public Schools.
(2)
Vice Chair. The vice chair of the Investment Board shall be the Mayor of the City of Atlanta or her/his designee.
(3)
The Chief Financial Officer of the City of Atlanta.
(4)
The Commissioner of the Department of Human Resources of the City of Atlanta.
(5)
Three (3) members of the Atlanta City Council, of which one shall be a member of the Finance/Executive Committee, elected annually by the Atlanta City Council.
(6)
One (1) member either an active or retired employee of the City of Atlanta who is a participant in either the City of Atlanta's General Employees' Pension Plan, Firefighters' Pension Plan, or the Police Officers' Pension Plan, appointed annually by the President of the Atlanta City Council.
(7)
One (1) member, appointed annually by the Atlanta Board of Education.
(8)
One (1) member, elected every three (3) years by the active and retired participants in the Atlanta Public Schools portion of the City of Atlanta General Employees' Pension Plan (the "Atlanta Public Schools trustee").
(9)
One (1) member elected every three (3) years by the active and retired participants in the City of Atlanta General Employees' Pension Plan (the "General Employees' trustee").
(10)
One (1) member elected every three (3) years by the active and retired participants in the City of Atlanta Firefighters' Pension Plan (the "Firefighters' trustee").
(11)
One (1) member elected every three (3) years by the active and retired participants in the City of Atlanta Police Officers' Pension Plan (the "Police Officers' trustee").
(c)
Trustee qualifications. To qualify as a Trustee, a candidate must demonstrate no less than twenty-four (24) hours of training in a recognized or accredited program, education, experience, or a combination of the three, regarding the following core competencies:
(1)
Understanding of governance and administration of a public pension fund, including benefits administration and disability.
(2)
Basic knowledge of fiduciary responsibility and liability.
(3)
Basic understanding of investment structures and strategies.
(4)
Basic understanding of financial controls and audits.
(5)
Understanding of ethical standards of behavior, including conflicts of interest and disclosures.
(6)
Basic knowledge of applicable Georgia Law, including the Open Records Act and Open Meetings Act.
(d)
Committees. The Board shall create the following committees:
(1)
Administration Committee. There shall be three (3) separate Administration Committees to manage the administrative duties and make all pension award decisions for each of the three separate pension plans. The three (3) committees shall be as follows:
A.
The City of Atlanta and Atlanta Public Schools General Employees' Administration Committee shall be comprised of:
i.
The General Employees' Pension Plan elected representative to the Investment Board.
ii.
The Atlanta Public Schools' Pension Plan elected representative to the Investment Board.
iii.
One (1) member elected every three (3) years by active City of Atlanta participants in the City of Atlanta General Employees' Pension Fund.
iv.
One (1) member elected every three (3) years by retired City of Atlanta participants in the City of Atlanta General Employees' Pension Fund.
v.
One (1) member elected every three (3) years by active participants in the Atlanta Public Schools portion of the City of Atlanta General Employees' Pension Fund.
vi.
One (1) member elected every three (3) years by retired participants in the Atlanta Public Schools portion of the City of Atlanta General Employees' Pension Fund.
vii.
The Chief Financial Officer or her/his designee.
viii.
The Commissioner of the Department of Human Resources or her/his designee.
B.
The Police Officers' Administration Committee shall be comprised of:
i.
The Police Officers' Pension Plan elected representative to the Investment Board.
ii.
One (1) member elected every three (3) years by active participants in the City of Atlanta Police Officers' Pension Fund.
iii.
One (1) member elected every three (3) years by retired participants in the City of Atlanta Police Officers' Pension Fund.
iv.
The Chief Financial Officer or her/his designee.
v.
The Commissioner of the Department of Human Resources or her/his designee.
C.
The Firefighters' Administration Committee shall be comprised of:
i.
The Firefighters' Pension Plan elected representative to the Investment Board.
ii.
One (1) member elected every three (3) years by active participants in the City of Atlanta Firefighters' Pension Fund.
iii.
One (1) member elected every three (3) years by retired participants in the City of Atlanta Firefighters' Pension Fund.
iv.
The Chief Financial Officer or her/his designee.
v.
The Commissioner of the Department of Human Resources or her/his designee.
(2)
Governance Committee. The Governance Committee shall be responsible for implementation of the qualification requirements listed in paragraph (c) above. The Governance Committee shall also review and address conflicts of interest and compliance issues related to trustees and investment managers. The Governance Committee shall be comprised of:
A.
The Chair of the Investment Board.
B.
Three Administration Committee members, each appointed from one of the three Administration Committees. Such appointees may be a member of the respective Administration Committee or an individual selected by the members of that Administration Committee.
C.
The Commissioner of the Department of Human Resources or her/his designee.
(3)
Audit Committee. The Audit Committee shall oversee audits of the three pension plans, as required by Sections 6-144, 6-285 and 6-426 of Chapter 6 (Pensions) of the Atlanta City Code, and review the financial statements for each pension plan. The Audit Committee shall ensure an experience audit of all three pension funds is performed at least every three years and an actuarial study of all three pension funds is performed by an independent actuary every three to five years. The Audit Committee shall be comprised as follows:
A.
The Chair of the Investment Board.
B.
Three members elected by the combined membership of the three Administration Committees. Such members shall be elected from the active and retired participants of all three pension plans.
C.
The Chief Financial Officer or her/his designee.
(e)
Transparency. The Investment Board and each of its Committees shall comply with the requirements of the Georgia Open Meetings Act and the Georgia Open Records Act. All meetings of the Investment Board and any of its committees shall be televised on City Channel 26 or its equivalent. The Investment Board shall create and maintain a website where, at a minimum, the following shall be available online: the names and resumes of all trustees and committee members, the terms of each of their appointments, notices of all regularly scheduled meetings, approved minutes of all meetings, quarterly investment reports, and bylaws.
(f)
Reporting. The Investment Board shall report quarterly to the Finance and Executive Committee of the Atlanta City Council.
( Ord. No. 2020-21(20-O-1178) , § 3, 4-29-20)
Sec. 6-422. - Appeals; procedure.
(a)
A majority of the Investment Board shall control on all disputed questions before that board.
(b)
A decision of an Administration Committee to award or deny a service pension or a disability pension must be appealed to the Administration Committee that issued the decision in writing within 14 days of the decision being appealed. Upon the receipt of a written appeal, the Administration Committee will schedule a hearing to receive testimony from the appealing party or parties. Such hearing shall be conducted informally by the examination of witnesses who may be represented by legal counsel if they so desire. The Administration Committee shall be authorized to promulgate reasonable rules and procedures, not inconsistent with general legal principles, governing the manner in which such hearings shall be conducted. The decision of the Administration Committee after the hearing shall be final and shall be provided to the individual appealing in writing; provided, however, that such final decision shall be subject to review by writ of certiorari to the Superior Court of Fulton County.
(c)
The method of appeal as provided herein shall also serve as the method by which all other disputed pension award questions shall be appealed.
( Ord. No. 2020-21(20-O-1178) , § 3, 4-29-20)
Sec. 6-423. - Investment of excess funds.
In the event there should accumulate more funds than are needed for immediate use, the board of trustees is empowered to invest such excess funds as authorized by applicable laws, including but not limited, to the provisions of this act and the Georgia Investment Authority Law, §47-20, Article 7, et seq.
( Ord. No. 2020-21(20-O-1178) , § 3, 4-29-20)
Sec. 6-424. - Court review of decisions of board of trustees.
The decision of said board of trustees granting or refusing a pension shall be subject to review by the superior court in an action at law, suit in equity, writ of certiorari as provided by general law for such writs or other proper proceeding, upon petition of such city or any other person who may have an interest in the funds provided by this act, as amended.
( Ord. No. 2020-21(20-O-1178) , § 3, 4-29-20)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-425. - City attorney; function, compensation.
The city attorney shall without extra compensation render such legal service as such board of trustees shall require.
( Ord. No. 2020-21(20-O-1178) , § 3, 4-29-20)
Sec. 6-426. - Actuarial investigations.
The board of trustees of this retirement system shall have the system's actuary make an actuarial investigation every three (3) years or more often as the board, in its discretion, may deem proper. Such actuarial investigation shall include the results of any actuarial investigation into the then current assumptions as to rates of interest, mortality, disability, withdrawal and retirement. The actuarial investigation shall also include consideration of the experience of the retirement system under its assumptions and a comparison of results with the previous actuarial investigations and may also include such other studies as may be necessary or desirable for the completeness and accuracy of the actuarial investigation. The actuarial investigation shall also include a valuation of the contingent assets and liabilities of the retirement system and a determination of the payment necessary to amortize over a stated period any unfunded accrued liability disclosed. As an exhibit to the actuarial investigation, the retirement system board of trustees shall attach a copy of all the provisions of the plan for the retirement system, including the requirements and conditions for qualifying to participate, the nature of benefits under the plan, and the manner in which the local retirement system is funded. The board of trustees of the retirement system shall file with the state auditor a copy of each actuarial investigation.
( Ord. No. 2020-21(20-O-1178) , § 3, 4-29-20)
Secs. 6-427—6-460. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - BENEFITS

Sec. 6-461. - Amount of pension; benefits to dependents.
When such member shall retire as a matter of right, he shall be paid thereafter for the rest of his life 55 percent of the monthly salary or pay he was receiving at the time of such retirement, but the maximum amount to be paid to any fireman as a pension shall be the sum of $100 per month, provided he shall have served the 25 years in active service at the time of his retirement, or shall have become totally disabled in the line of duty at any time as aforesaid. In case of death of such pensioner, his widow, if any, shall receive during her life or until remarried, a sum equal to three-fourths (¾) of the amount the pensioner was drawing at the time of his death; provided, however, that no such widow shall receive any such sum hereunder unless she was the lawful wife of said pensioner prior to his retirement from active service. If such pensioner at death leaves no widow or if pensioner's widow was not the lawful wife of pensioner prior to his retirement from active service, but leaves orphan children under the age of 16 years, such orphan child or children, except adopted children, adopted subsequent to said pensioner's retirement from active service, shall receive until reaching the age of 16, a sum equal to three-fourths (¾) of the amount the pensioner was drawing at the time of his death. Upon the death of any member under this act, from any cause, who has no dependents entitled to his pension, the money he has paid into the pension fund shall be paid to his estate at his death. Provided, however, the amount of the pension shall be increased five dollars ($5.00) per month for each full year's service not in excess of 10 years rendered by the officer or employee after the time when he might have retired as a matter of right.
(1924 Ga. Laws, page 167, § 4; 1931 Ga. Laws, page 223, § 1; 1935 Ga. Laws, page 450, § 1; 1945 Ga. Laws, page 1080, § 1; 1947 Ga. Laws, page 717, § 3; 1952 Ga. Laws, page 2566, § 3)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-462. - Designation of spouse or unmarried child or children as beneficiaries; secondary beneficiary.
(a)
Any member of the fire department that has qualified as a firefighter or is subject to firefighting duties coming under the terms of this act, whether male or female, who has a spouse or unmarried child or children under the age of 18 years, as provided for in section 6-479, or under the age of 16 years wherever provided for in other provisions of said act, as amended, shall have the right at any time to designate such spouse or such child or children as beneficiary of such member's pension benefits, the amount of such pension benefits to be the same as provided for beneficiaries elsewhere in this act, as amended, and provided that the additional contributions for beneficiaries required in this act, as amended, are made; provided, however, that as to every male member hereafter elected or employed, participation for the benefit of such member's wife or unmarried child or children under the age of 18 years, or under the age of 16 years as the provisions of said act may provide, shall be compulsory. Any and all provisions of this act, as amended, conferring benefits or placing restrictions on the wife or widow, as beneficiary, of male members, shall apply equally and in the same manner to the husband or widower as beneficiary of female members. Whenever, in said act, as amended, a beneficiary is designated as a wife or widow, such shall also include the husband or widower of a female member, if such should be the case. A child or children of a female member, who has provided for payment of a pension to her beneficiary, shall be entitled to the same benefits and subject to the same restrictions as may now or hereafter apply to the child or children of a male member, as provided in said act, as amended.
(b)
If a member, whether male or female, designates a beneficiary, and thereafter such beneficiary should cease to be qualified to receive a pension in the event of the member's death, then such member may at his or her option designate some other beneficiary who does qualify for pension benefits under this act, as amended, and continue to make contributions for such beneficiary, or cease to make further contributions for beneficiaries, in which event contributions theretofore made for the benefit of a beneficiary shall not be refunded except insofar as refunds may be allowed by other provisions of this act, as amended. Nothing herein provided shall prevent a member from designating a primary beneficiary (spouse or children under the age of 18 years, or under the age of 16 years as the provisions of said act may provide) and a secondary beneficiary (either spouse or children under the age of 18 years, or the age of 16 years as the provisions of said act may provide, and not named as primary beneficiary).
(c)
At such time as a member elects participation for the benefit of a beneficiary, such member shall give written notice of such election to the board, and shall within a period of two (2) years thereafter, in addition to current requirements, pay into the pension fund such additional percentage of such member's monthly salary as will equalize the contributions of such electing member with the contributions of other members made during the same prior years and months of eligible service for the same benefits, together with three percent (3%) interest thereon for the months during which other members currently made their contributions for the same benefits.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3292, § 1)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-463. - Benefits continued for persons receiving pensions under 1924 act.
All persons now receiving pensions under the provisions of said act approved August 13, 1924, shall henceforth receive such pensions in the amounts provided for in this act.
(1931 Ga. Laws, page 223, § 7)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-464. - Total pension benefits limited.
The total pension benefits as provided by this act, as now amended, shall be limited in the following particulars: The total pension benefits plus any social security benefits that may inure to such person by reason of his employment by such city shall not exceed 75 percent of his average monthly salary averaged for the last year of his employment as herein provided. The board of trustees shall establish rules to carry out this restriction, which shall not apply to social security benefits inuring to such person by reason of other employment.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 2854, § 4)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-465. - Recomputation of pensions for certain retired officers, employees.
(a)
Pension payments due all former officers and employees who have retired prior to April 1, 1955, and have been awarded a pension under the provisions of this act, who have reached 70 years of age, or who shall hereafter reach 70 years of age, shall be recomputed upon the following basis: The total pension benefits shall be a sum equal to one-half (½) of the average monthly salary of such former employee during the last three (3) years of his active service to such city, but shall not exceed the sum of $150 per month. The pension payments due to persons who were retired because of disability or for a period of service less than 25 years shall be increased in the same proportion. All such persons shall receive a minimum of four dollars ($4.00) per month for each full year of active service to such city subject to the limitations set out in this act as amended.
(b)
The board of trustees shall permit any officer or employee who is eligible for pension benefits or increased pension benefits under this act, as amended, and who is not now making the required contributions for such benefits, to become a member of such pension fund and to participate in the increased benefits provided by this act as amended provided such officer or employee shall pay into the pension funds of such city an amount which would be equal to the amounts which he would have been required to pay had he exercised his privileges upon becoming eligible for such benefits. These payments shall be increased by four percent (4%) per annum from the dates such payments would have been due and may be paid over a period of 50 months. The board of trustees shall by rules provide for the exercise of the options herein authorized.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 2854, § 2; 1958 Ga. Laws, page 2399, §§ 1, 2)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-466. - Rights of dependents when fireman dies after becoming eligible for retirement.
When any fireman who has served 25 years and is in active service at the time of his death dies, his widow or minor children, natural or adopted, shall receive the same pension she would have received under this act as amended had such fireman been retired and receiving a pension under section 4 thereof.
(1925 Ga. Laws, page 194, § 2; 1935 Ga. Laws, page 450, § 7)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-467. - Increase of pensions for retired officers with over 25 years of service.
(a)
Pension payments due to former officers and employees who have retired as a matter of right prior to the effective date of this act, and who have to their credit 25 years or more of active service with said city and have been awarded pensions under the terms of this act, as amended, shall have their pensions recomputed on the following basis:
(1)
Subject to the limitations hereinafter set forth, there shall be paid to such former officers and employees a basic pension of $190 per month.
(2)
In addition to the basic pension provided in the preceding subparagraph, there shall be paid the sum of six dollars ($6.00) per month for each full year's active service in excess of 25 years. For each full year's active service in excess of 35 years, there shall be paid an additional $10 per month. The record kept in the office of the department of finance, division of pensions, shall be conclusive as to the time served.
(3)
The aggregate of all pension benefits payable to former officers and employees under the provisions of this act shall be limited in that the same shall not exceed 75 percent of the average monthly salary paid to such officer or employee for the last year of employment in active service.
(b)
Former officers and employees who retired prior to the effective date of this act, but who had less than 25 years of active service with said city, but who had been awarded pensions under the terms of this act as heretofore amended, shall be paid that proportion of the basic pension provided in paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of section 1 above [subsection (a)(1) of this section] as the length of their service, measured in full years of service, bears to 25 years.
(c)
No recomputation provided for under this act shall be made, if the result thereof would be to reduce pension payments already received by any former officer or employee.
(d)
Benefits now being paid to dependents of deceased former officers and employees awarded pensions under the terms of this act as heretofore amended, shall be recomputed under the terms and provisions of this act, so as to make the same applicable to such deceased former officers and employees, and the benefits payable to their dependents on account thereof.
(e)
This section shall not be effective to, nor be construed to, confer eligibility for a pension upon any former officer or employee who was not eligible for a pension under the provisions of this act in effect on the date of the retirement, resignation or other withdrawal from service of such former officer or employee.
(f)
Increased benefits payable under the terms of this act shall be paid out of general funds of the City of Atlanta.
(g)
The provisions of this act shall be effective as of January 1, 1973.
(1955 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., page 2051, § 3; 1957 Ga. Laws, page 2854, § 1; 1973 Ga. Laws, page 2880, § 1)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-468. - Funds for benefits provided in sections 6-465 and 6-467.
The increased pension benefits provided by sections 6-465 and 6-467 shall be paid by the board of trustees from funds available to them for the payment of pensions.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 2854, § 10)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-469. - Disability retirement generally.
Any member of such department in active service whose name is on the payroll or who shall be injured or whose health shall become permanently impaired to such an extent as to render him totally disabled as a result of such service, shall upon application be retired. The board of trustees shall have the applicant for a pension on account of permanent and total disability examined by competent physicians and surgeons. In passing upon the question of permanent and total disability, they may receive and consider the reports and recommendations of such examining medical officers and the applicant shall have the right to submit medical and other competent evidence on the question of his disability and right to be retired. If the board of trustees determines that the applicant is not totally and permanently disabled, the act of the board shall be final. If the determination be that the applicant is totally and permanently disabled, he shall be retired, subject, however, to the following conditions:
(1)
The board of trustees shall have the right to at least once a year require the pensioner to submit to a medical examination for the purpose of determining whether or not the pensioner has sufficiently recovered from his disability and is able to return to his former position;
(2)
If the board, after such examination, determines that the pensioner is not actually totally and permanently disabled but is able to return to his former position or employment he occupied at the time of retirement and such employment and status as to position, pay and service credit at the time of retirement is offered to such pensioner and he takes the former position or fails or refuses to take such offer, then the payment of such disability pension shall cease.
(1924 Ga. Laws, page 167, § 3; 1945 Ga. Laws, page 1080, § 7)
Sec. 6-470. - Benefits payable to member for total disability incurred in line of duty.
When such member shall be retired for total disability from injuries received in line of duty, he shall be paid 55 percent of his monthly salary that he was receiving at the time he was injured, but the maximum amount to be paid to any fireman as a petitioner shall be the sum of $100 per month for the rest of his life, subject, however, to the right of the board to reexamine such pensioner on the question of total disability or discontinuance of pension as is hereinafter provided by section 8 [section 6-469] of this act.
(1924 Ga. Laws, page 167, § 5; 1931 Ga. Laws, page 223, § 2; 1935 Ga. Laws, page 450, § 2; 1945 Ga. Laws, page 1080, § 2)
Editor's note— The reference to "section 6-469" in the above section actually refers to section 7 of 1945 Ga. Laws, page 1080.
Sec. 6-471. - Service prerequisite to disability benefits.
Any person entitled to disability benefits under the provisions of this act, as amended, may receive such benefits after he has been in the active employment of the city for a period of five (5) years.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 2854, § 6; 1973 Ga. Laws, page 2837, § 2)
Sec. 6-472. - Benefits for disability not in line of duty; effect of death of member.
(a)
Should any member become totally disabled not in line of duty but not on account of injuries or ill health brought about on account of his own indiscretion so as to make such member unfit for fire duty or service, he shall receive a pension graduated as follows: After five (5) years of service, he shall be entitled to receive as a pension five twenty-fifths ( 5/25 ) of the pension that he would receive if he had served 25 years, and each year thereafter there shall be a graduated increase based upon the number of years that he served as bears to his years of service based upon the 25 years. To illustrate, if he becomes totally disabled after 11 years of service, he would be entitled to receive eleven twenty-fifths ( 11/25 ) of the full pension that he would be entitled to after 25 years of service and progressively thereafter, so that if he should become disabled after 24 years of service, he would be entitled to receive twenty-four twenty-fifths ( 24/25 ) of the pension he would be entitled to after serving 25 years, but in no event shall he receive more than twenty-five twenty-fifths ( 25/25 ) of the amount of pension he would have received after serving 25 years.
(b)
Upon the death of any member or pensioner not in line of duty but after the completion of five (5) years of active service or employment prior to the date of such death, his widow, if any, shall be paid during the rest of her life or until she remarries three-fourths (¾) of the pension that the member or pensioner would have been entitled to if he himself had applied for a pension at the time of his death and graduated according to the length of service of the deceased husband before his retirement on account of disability or before his death and the said graduated scale shall be on the same ratio and computed in the same manner as set out above in this section as to a member becoming totally disabled after five (5) years of service and applying for a disability pension except that the widow shall be entitled to only three-fourths (¾) of the amount of the pension that her husband would have been entitled to. To illustrate, after five (5) years of service, she would be entitled to three-fourths (¾) of five twenty-fifths ( 5/25 ) of the full pension that her husband would have been entitled to if he had served 25 years, and the illustrations as applied to the first part of this act are applicable here except that the widow would only be entitled to recover three-fourths (¾) of the amount that her deceased husband would have been entitled to. Provided, however, that no such widow shall receive any sum hereunder, unless she was the lawful wife of said pensioner prior to the time he became disabled. If said pensioner or member dies without leaving a widow, or if pensioner's widow was not the lawful wife of pensioner prior to his disability, the pensioner's minor child or children except children adopted subsequent to said pensioner's retirement from active service shall be paid the same gross sums according to the same graduated scale as set out above for the widow until such child or children reach the age of 16 years. In determining the number of years of service, fractional parts of years shall be counted. That is to say, the person who has served 18 years and nine (9) months would be pensioned on a basis of 18 and seventy-five one-hundredths twenty-fifths (18.75/25) of the full pension or for 18 and three-fourths (¾) years of service.
(1931 Ga. Laws, page 223, § 3; 1935 Ga. Laws, page 450, § 3; 1945 Ga. Laws, page 1080, § 3; 1966 Ga. Laws, page 2996, § 3; 1973 Ga. Laws, page 2837, § 1)
Sec. 6-473. - Amount of pension for total disability not in line of duty after five years' service.
All persons now receiving pensions under the provision of said act approved August 13, 1924, and amendments thereto, shall henceforth receive such pensions in the amounts and only under the conditions provided for in this act. Provided, however, that all persons now receiving pensions under said act approved August 13, 1924, as amended, on account of total disability not from accident in line of duty but after five (5) years' service, shall after the passage of this act receive the sum of $15 per month.
(1935 Ga. Laws, page 450, § 8)
Sec. 6-474. - Compensation for death from injuries in line of duty.
(a)
Payment of compensation. When any person covered by the provisions of this act shall die as a result of injuries incurred in the line of duty, the compensation to which he would have been entitled shall be continued for one (1) year and paid to his widow or minor children, if no widow.
(b)
Payment of pension. At the expiration of the one-year period referred to in the preceding paragraph the widow of such deceased person shall be entitled to a minimum pension of $150 per month until she remarries or until her death.
(c)
Termination of widow's benefits. The compensation and pension benefits for the widow provided by this act [section] shall terminate upon her remarriage or her death.
(d)
Children's benefits. The compensation and pension benefits provided by this act [section] shall be continued to the minor child or children upon the death or remarriage of the widow until the youngest child shall have become 16 years of age.
(e)
Benefits in lieu of other like benefits. The pension benefits provided by this act [section] shall be in lieu of like pension benefits provided by this act as amended and shall not be in addition thereto except as to compensation and amount of the pension herein provided.
(f)
Act retroactive. The provisions of this act [section] shall apply retroactively to July 1, 1960.
(1946 Ga. Laws, page 136, § 1; 1961 Ga. Laws, page 2629, §§ 1—6)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-475. - Refunds when leaving employment prior to retirement.
Any employee participating in the provisions of this act, as amended, who leaves the employ of such city prior to retirement shall have refunded to him an amount equal to the amount which he has paid into said fund.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 2854, § 3)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals. Section 7 of the 1957 act provides that such act is to be liberally construed.
Sec. 6-476. - Refunds to firemen leaving service before eligibility for retirement.
Any member participating in the provisions of this act who leaves the employ of said city before being eligible for retirement shall have refunded to him an amount equal to the amount paid into the said fund less one-half of one percentum (0.5%) per year to cover each year that the member has paid into the fund and received protection under this act. To illustrate, if at the end of the first year, the member has paid into said fund $10 and leaves the services of the city or withdraws from the pension fund, he shall be entitled to a refund of said $10 less one-half of one percentum (0.5%) or if at the end of 24 years, he has paid into said fund $240, he would be entitled to a refund of $240 less 12 per centum. If such member should die before being awarded a pension, and should leave no beneficiary entitled to a pension as such under this act, the refund shall be paid to his estate.
(1945 Ga. Laws, page 1080, § 5; 1955 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., page 2051, § 4)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-477. - Refunds for noncredited deductions upon compulsory retirement or death.
When any member shall be compelled to retire because of age or disability, or shall die, fractional parts of years shall be counted in determining the number of years of service with respect to the member being compelled to retire because of age before completing the required number of years of service, and with respect to partial pensions and pensions for total and permanent disability not in line of duty, or pensions upon death, and thereafter such member or his beneficiary shall be entitled to receive a refund of all amounts deducted from his salary for pension purposes for any months for which he or his beneficiary cannot receive full credit on pension benefits. The provision herein shall be retroactive to cover any pensioner or his beneficiary who had service in excess of twelve months for which no pension benefits were received.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 2849, § 1; 1963 Ga. Laws, page 2563, § 1; 1966 Ga. Laws, page 2996, § 2)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-478. - Benefits in lieu of existing benefits, generally.
(a)
The pension benefits provided by this section and the several subsections shall be in lieu of like pension benefits provided by existing provisions of this act.
(b)
Any member of the fire department of such cities eligible for a pension who is in the employment of such cities prior to the effective date of this amendment may elect to come under the provisions of this amendment by making written application to the pension board prior to July 1, 1961. The applicant must agree in writing to accept the benefits and obligations of this amendment in lieu of other pension benefits and obligations under this act, as amended.
All such members of the fire departments in the employment of such cities on the effective date of this act who do not in writing agree to accept the benefits and obligations of this amendment shall have their rights and obligations determined under the law as it existed prior to this amendment.
(c)
When such member shall retire as a matter of right, he shall be paid thereafter a monthly pension equal to one-half (½) of the average monthly salary paid to such member during the 12 months immediately preceding his retirement but said pension payment shall not exceed $150 per month, except as hereinafter provided.
In case the member has served 26 years, or more, the amount of the pension payment shall be increased five dollars ($5.00) per month for each full year's active service in excess of 25 years.
In case the member has served 30 years, or more, the amount of the pension shall be increased an additional five dollars ($5.00) per month for each full year's active service in excess of 30 years.
The records kept in the office of the comptroller or other chief finance officer of such city shall be conclusive as to the time served.
(d)
The sum of five percent (5%) of the salary, not exceeding $300 per month, paid to such member in the event he does not provide for payment of a pension to his beneficiary as authorized by this act, as amended, and the sum of six percent (6%) of the salary, not exceeding $300 per month, in the event he does provide for the continuance of the pension to his beneficiary, shall be deducted from the salaries or wages of all such members who consent and agree to the provisions of this amendment. The sums shall be retained by the comptroller or other chief finance officer of the city, as the case may be, and are hereby set apart as a pension fund, free from the control of any such city for any other purpose or expenditure.
(e)
This section and the several subsections shall be effective the first day of the month following the passage and approval of this act and the payments required by the preceding section, as to those then employed and electing to come under this amendment, shall begin with that date.
(f)
Any member who shall elect to come under the terms of this amendment and who shall retire within three (3) years of the effective date of this act, shall pay or shall have paid into the pension fund an amount equivalent to one percent (1%) of his salary used in computing his retirement pay, for said three (3) year period.
(1955 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., page 2051, § 1; 1961 Ga. Laws, page 3373, § 1)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals. The 1961 act did not amend the 1955 act but clearly superseded it.
Sec. 6-479. - Election by member qualified as fire fighter or subject to fire fighting duties.
(a)
Scope of Provisions. Any member of the fire department that has qualified as a fire fighter or is subject to fire fighting duties coming under the terms of this act who is in the employment of the city prior to the effective date of this amendment may elect to come under the provisions of this amendment by making written application to the pension board. The applicant must agree in writing to accept the benefits and obligations of this amendment, in lieu of other pension benefits and obligations under this act, as amended. Any member of the fire department in the employment of the city on the effective date of this act who is covered under the terms of this act as amended prior to this amendment but who does not qualify as a fire fighter or is not subject to fire fighting duties shall not be allowed to come under the provisions of this amendment but shall have their rights and obligations determined under this act as it existed prior to this amendment or shall be allowed to transfer to the general employees' pension fund as it now exists.
All such members of the fire department in the employment of the city on the effective date of this act who qualify as a fire fighter or are subject to fire fighting duties but who do not in writing agree to accept the benefits and obligations of this amendment shall have their rights and obligations determined under this act as it existed prior to this amendment.
All regular members of the fire department of the city, eligible for participation in this act as amended who shall be elected or employed after the effective date of this act, shall be required to come under the provisions of this act, as now amended, and shall have all rights and duties provided in the amended act.
This amendment and the election to accept its benefits shall be predicated upon an acknowledgement that the General Assembly in adopting this amendment reserved the right to further amend said act and to reduce the benefits provided hereunder not to exceed the primary insurance amount he will be eligible to receive in the event the members of the fire department of such city should ever qualify and accept the benefits under the Federal O.A.S.I. program by reason of their employment by such city. Provided further, that the benefits of this act, as amended, shall in no event be reduced more than the primary insurance amount received from Federal O.A.S.I. program, as a consequence of participation in said Federal O.A.S.I. program. Provided, further, that the benefits of this act, as amended, shall in no event be reduced as a consequence of participation in said Federal O.A.S.I. program below the benefits as same existed prior to the enactment of this amendment.
(b)
Age, Service, Requirements. All members of the fire department, who shall elect to come under the terms of this amendment, must attain the age of 55 years and shall have served 25 years, before being eligible to retire and receive the benefits, as provided by this amendment; provided, however, that any member of the fire department who has served 25 years and who has attained the age of 50 years may elect to retire on a reduced pension, said reduction to be one-twelfth ( 1/12 ) of three percent (3%) per month for each month the member of the fire department lacks in being 55 years of age; provided, further, that the provisions of this section as to age limit shall not apply to any person claiming a pension by reason of total and permanent disability.
(c)
Monthly Pension. When such member of the fire department shall retire as a matter of right, he shall be paid thereafter a monthly pension equal to two percent (2%) of his monthly (base and service) earnings, multiplied by his years of creditable service, up to and including 25 years, and one and one-half percent (1½%) of his monthly (base and service) earnings multiplied by the number of full years of creditable service in excess of 25 years of creditable service. Monthly earnings shall be the average of the highest three (3) years (base and service) salary during the term of employment.
(d)
Total Pension Benefits Payable. In no event shall the total pension benefits payable under this amendment, plus any primary insurance amount under the Federal O.A.S.I. program that may inure to any member of the fire department coming under the provisions of this amendment, by reason of his employment by such city, exceed 75 percent of the average monthly (base and service) salary used in computing the pension benefits under the terms of this amendment. Provided, however, that whenever monthly earnings as defined in this amendment, multiplied by years of creditable service at the time of retirement or death shall entitle any member of the fire department coming under the provisions of this amendment to a pension in excess of the maximum pension allowable hereunder, said member of the fire department or, beneficiary in case of death of said member, shall be refunded all contributions made by him on monthly earnings in excess of monthly earnings necessary to arrive at the maximum pension allowable. No department head who elects to come under the provisions of this act shall be entitled to receive any emeritus salary as provided by the governing authorities of any city coming within the provisions of this act.
(e)
Additional Benefits.
(1)
Any officer or employee who is a member of the pension fund shall be considered totally and permanently disabled by the board of trustees while the officer or employee is in a continuous state of incapacity due to illness or injury:
a.
During the first 12 months which the officer or employee is prevented from performing his/her regular, assigned or comparable duties; and
b.
Thereafter, if the condition continues to prevent the officer or employee from engaging in any occupation for which he/she is or becomes reasonably qualified by education, training or experience.
(2)
A member who is considered by the board of trustees to be totally and permanently disabled in accordance with subsections (f)(1)a. and b. on or after January 1, 1986, shall receive a monthly disability benefit which shall commence on the day following the officer's or employee's last date on the payroll and continue until the earlier of:
a.
Cessation of total and permanent disability;
b.
Attainment of age 55.
(3)
Such monthly disability benefit shall be equal to 50 percent of the officer's or employee's average monthly earnings during the highest three (3) consecutive years of service prior to the date of approval by the board of trustees or the officer's or employee's accrued normal retirement benefit, whichever is greater.
(4)
Upon the cessation of disability benefits pursuant to subsection (f)(2)a. or b., and the officer's or employee's failure to return to city employment, the officer or employee would be entitled to a pension benefit as calculated in accordance with subsections c. or d. of 1964 Ga. Laws, page 2161, as applicable. Provided further, that the calculation of any such subsequent benefit shall include credit for all years and fractions thereof during the time disability pension benefits have been paid, but shall not include credit for any disability pension payments made. Provided further, that for the purposes of calculating any cost-of-living adjustments, the subsequent benefits shall be considered as a new pension with a new effective date.
(5)
Disability pension benefits shall be offset by worker's compensation payments so that the combination of payments shall not exceed 75 percent of the officer's or employee's salary at the time disability pension benefits are to commence or 60 percent of an officer's or employee's salary at the time of disability or death in the case of a beneficiary. However, this subsection shall not prevent the restoration of disability pension benefits payable upon the reduction or termination of any such compensation benefits payable by the city under applicable worker's compensation laws.
(6)
a.
Pensions for beneficiaries designated under the terms of this act, as amended, shall be one-half of the amount the pensioner was receiving, at the time of his death, as a result of retirement as a matter of right or because of total and permanent disability; or one-half of the amount such officer or employee would have been entitled to receive had such person retired prior to death.
b.
The pension benefits for a primary beneficiary shall be continued to the secondary beneficiary, upon the death, or ineligibility for benefits, of the primary beneficiary. Provided, however, if such primary beneficiary was not receiving the maximum beneficiary payment provided for in this act because of any provision of this act reducing such amount, such maximum beneficiary amount shall be paid to the secondary beneficiary, notwithstanding any lesser amount previously paid to the primary beneficiary. Provided, further, that if said beneficiary, primary or secondary, receiving beneficiary benefits as widow or widower of the pensioner is more than five (5) years younger than the pensioner, there shall be deducted from such pension one-twelfth of two percent (2%) per month for each month such beneficiary is more than five (5) years younger than the pensioner.
c.
No spouse, designated as a beneficiary, shall be entitled to receive any of said service pension benefits unless such spouse shall have been legally married to such officer or employee of such city for a period of one (1) year prior to the death of such pensioner; provided the officer or employee has made payment for such benefits prior to retirement.
d.
In determining all pensions of officers or employees referred to above, fractional parts of years of service shall be counted and accumulated annual sick leave days credited to such officer or employee shall be counted as provided for in paragraph e.
e.
In determining creditable service, accumulated, unused sick leave days credited to such officer or employee shall be added as work days to the creditable service otherwise provided by this act, as amended. In determining average monthly earnings, such accumulated unused sick leave day shall be credited at the highest daily rate of regular salary or earnings during the highest three (3) consecutive years' salary or earnings and all accumulated unused sick leave days shall be substituted for a like number of days at the lowest rate of regular salary or earnings during such highest three (3) consecutive years' salary or earnings during the term of employment.
f.
Any person entitled to disability benefits under the provisions of this act, as amended, may receive benefits after he/she has been in the active employment of the city for at least a period of five (5) years. Provided, however, said requirement shall not apply to an officer or employee disabled as a direct result of a traumatic event or events occurring during and as a result of the performance of an officer's or employee's regular or assigned duties and not the result of such officer's or employee's willful negligence.
(7)
Disability pensions; annual review. The retirement of a pension applicant by reason of permanent and total disability shall be subject to the following conditions:
a.
The board of trustees shall have the right to at least once a year require the pensioner to submit to a medical examination for the purpose of determining whether or not the pensioner has sufficiently recovered from his/her disability and is able to return to any occupation for which he/she is or becomes reasonably qualified by education, training or experience.
b.
If the board, after such examination, determines that the pensioner is not actually totally and permanently disabled but is able to return to any occupation for which he/she is or becomes reasonably qualified by education, training or experience, then the payment of such disability pension shall cease. (Ord. No. 1985-94, § 7, 12-19-85)
(f)
Benefits for Death From Injuries in Line of Duty. When any person covered by the provisions of this act shall die as a result of injuries incurred in the line of duty, the compensation to which he would have been entitled shall be continued for one (1) year and paid to his widow or minor children (natural or legally adopted), if no widow. Any compensation received by the member due to said injury shall be deducted from the one-year's compensation herein provided for. At the expiration of the one-year period referred to above, the pension benefits for widow shall be computed by the same formula as set forth in subsection (e) above. The pension benefits for widow provided by this amendment shall be continued to the minor child or children (natural or legally adopted) upon the death of the widow until the youngest child shall have become 18 years of age. (Ord. No. 1985-94, § 8, 12-19-85)
Editor's note— The ordinances listed in the left-hand column below are found in the state session laws at the location listed opposite them in the right-hand column below:
EXPAND
Georgia Laws
Ord. No. Year Page
1985-94 — —
  (g)
Contribution Prescribed. Any member electing to come under this amendment shall pay into the fire department pension fund the sum of five percent (5%) of his total salary, in the event he does not provide for payment of a pension to this beneficiary, as authorized by this act, as amended, or the sum of six percent (6%) of his total salary, in the event he does provide for the continuance of the pension to his beneficiary. Like payments shall be made from the salaries of future employees of the fire department required to come under this amendment.
(h)
Additional Contribution Prescribed. In addition to the payments required to be made in subsection (g) above, any member of the fire department who may become a participant under this amendment shall be entitled to all benefits and receive credit for all the years of his creditable service, provided he shall pay into the fund the sum of five percent (5%) of his total salary from the time his salary exceeded $300 per month, if he does not provide for the payment of a pension to a beneficiary, and the sum of six percent (6%) of his total salary from the time his salary exceeded $300 per month, if he does provide for the payment of a pension to a beneficiary. Payments previously made to the pension fund not exceeding the amount due the fund shall be deducted from the total amount due in arriving at the total sum of five percent (5%) or six percent (6%).
Said total amount due may be paid at the time the member of the fire department elects to come under the terms of this amendment or in 60 monthly installments from the date of his participation under this amendment, at the option of the participant to the plan. Provided, however, that the board of trustees of the fund, as created under this act, as amended, may at their discretion allow additional time for such payments to be made.
Any member of the fire department who does not elect to participate under this amendment within six (6) months of the effective date of this amendment, but who later elects to participate, shall be required to pay interest at the rate of four percent (4%) per annum from the effective date of this amendment to the date he elects to participate. In the event the member of the fire department should retire or die before said payments into the fund are completed, the secretary of the retirement fund is authorized to deduct the monthly payments from retirement or beneficiary benefits until the obligation is discharged.
(i)
Effective Date. This section and the several subsections shall be effective the first day of the month following the passage and approval of this act, and the payments required by subsection (g) above, as to those then employed and electing to come under this amendment, shall begin with that date. As to those subsequently coming into the service of the fire department or subsequently electing to participate under the terms of this amendment, said payments shall begin with the employment or date of such election.
(j)
Appropriations by City. In addition to the fund derived from deductions from salaries and wages, as required by subsection (g) of this amendment, it shall be the duty of the governing authorities of such cities to appropriate and pay into the pension fund an amount which shall be equal to the total amount of deductions from the salaries and wages paid to members of the fire department of said governing authorities, including the amounts paid into said fund by said members of the fire department for prior creditable service, as required by subsection (h). Provided, however, such governing authorities of such cities may delay the matching of additional contributions caused by the enactment of this amendment to the January first next following the effective date of this amendment and provided further, that said governing authorities of such cities may match the payments for prior creditable service, as provided for in subsection (h) in annual installments over a period not to exceed 20 years from the January first next following the effective date of this amendment. Should said pension fund at any time be insufficient to meet and pay the pensions due to such members of the fire department, such governing authorities shall appropriate from current funds amounts sufficient to make up the deficiency and deposit same into the fire department pension fund.
(1964 Ga. Laws, page 2161, § 1; 1965 Ga. Laws, page 3271, § 1; 1966 Ga. Laws, page 2996, § 1; 1972 Ga. Laws, page 3375, § 1)
Editor's note— Except for subsection (j) (derived from 1964 Ga. Laws, page 2161), the provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-480. - Light-duty status.
(a)
In the event that it has been medically determined that an officer or employee of the city is unable to perform his or her regularly assigned duties by reason of physical or mental incapacity or impairment, and where the officer or employee has applied for disability pension, whether in line of duty or not in line of duty, and upon the confirmation and certification of two (2) or more licensed and practicing physicians of Georgia that such officer or employee is capable of performing less strenuous employment duties with such city, such duties to be designated as "light-duty status," and where such less strenuous employment duties are available and are offered to such officer or employee, the officer or employee may, in the discretion of the appointing authority of such city, be placed into such "light-duty status" within the same bureau and thereby continue to be carried on the payroll of such city with no change in salary status or pension fund membership, pending a further medical determination by two (2) or more licensed and practicing physicians of Georgia that such officer or employee is no longer capable of functioning in such "light-duty status."
(b)
The board of trustees of the pension fund shall be authorized to make all rules necessary in carrying out the provisions set forth in subsection (a).
(c)
This amendment shall only apply to officers and employees who become members of the pension fund on or after the effective date hereof. [April 6, 1981].
(1981 Ga. Laws, page 3569, § 3)
Sec. 6-481. - Deferred pension benefits.
(a)
When any person coming within the provisions of this act, as amended, shall have completed 20 years of active service with such city and not yet have reached the age of 65 years, then such person shall have the right to terminate his employment with such city upon completion of said 20 years, or at any time thereafter; elect not to withdraw or have paid to such person the amount which such person would have paid into the pension fund prior to terminating such employment; and upon subsequently attaining 65 years of age commence to receive at said time the benefits to which such person would have been entitled had such person otherwise retired as a matter of right in accordance with the applicable provisions of this act, as amended.
(b)
Should such person have provided for the payment of a pension to the beneficiary of such person, as authorized by said act, as amended, by making the required payments or contributions to the pension fund, then after terminating the employment with such city and upon the death of such person, either before or after attaining 65 years of age, such person's beneficiary designated under the terms of this act, as amended, shall be entitled to all of the benefits provided for such beneficiary as set forth in the relevant and applicable sections of this act, as amended.
(c)
Should such person, after having left the employment with such city after 20 years of active service, become reemployed by such city, then such person at such time shall have the right to continue under the provisions of the amendments to said act which such person was under prior to the termination of such employment, or may elect to come under any amendments to said act enacted subsequently to the termination of such person's employment and as might exist and be in effect at the time of said reemployment, upon there being made such payments or contributions to the pension fund, through deductions from salary or otherwise, as might be required by said act, as amended.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2937, § 1)
Editor's note— The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4508 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-482. - Deduction from benefits for repayment of advanced sick leave.
(a)
In the event that an officer or employee who has been granted advanced sick leave should retire or die prior to having repaid any and all amounts due such city for the advanced sick leave, an appropriate amount, as determined by the board of trustees, may be deducted from the monthly retirement or beneficiary benefits, or in lieu thereof, such lump sum amounts as the board, in its discretion, deems appropriate until the obligation is discharged.
(b)
The provisions of this act shall apply only to officers or employees who become members of the pension fund on or after the effective date of this Act.
(1982 Ga. Laws, page 3887, §§ 3, 4)
