Chapter 6 - ADVERTISING[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 30; consumer protection, ch. 58.
State Law reference— Constitutional grant of home rule powers, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II; statutory grant of home rule powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; outdoor advertising, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-70 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Use of interior of city hall in advertising.
It shall be unlawful for any person to use the interior of city hall, its rooms or offices in any type of advertisement of commercial products and political campaigns without first obtaining express permission from the city council. This prohibition shall apply to the filming or photographing of the interior of city hall for use in such advertisements; provided, however, that nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the filming or photographing of the interior of city hall for news coverage purposes by newspapers, magazines and television.
(Code 1977, § 14-1007)
Sec. 6-2. - Placing advertising matter in or upon motor vehicles.
It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the owner or person in charge of a motor vehicle which is parked on a public street, to place on or inside that parked motor vehicle any placard, handbill, card or advertising matter.
(Code 1977, § 14-1003)
Secs. 6-3—6-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Charter reference— Authority to regulate signs, § 1-102(c)(20).
Cross reference— Flags, banners, signs and displays across streets, § 138-8; fixing signs within right-of-way, § 138-9.
Land development code references—Planning, § 6-3001 et seq.; building regulations, § 8-2001 et seq.; zoning generally, § 16-01.001 et seq.; supplemental zoning sign regulations, § 16-28A.001 et seq.

Sec. 6-26. - Advertising of drug-related objects on billboards.
(a)
For purposes of this section, the term "drug-related object" means any machine, instrument, tool, equipment, contrivance or service which an average person would reasonably conclude is intended to be used for one or more of the following purposes, which shall be to:
(1)
Introduce into the human body any dangerous drug or controlled substance under circumstances in violation of the laws of this state;
(2)
Enhance the effect on the human body of any dangerous drug or controlled substance under circumstances in violation of the laws of this state;
(3)
Conceal any quantity of any dangerous drug or controlled substance under circumstances in violation of the laws of this state; or
(4)
Test the strength, effectiveness or purity of any dangerous drug or controlled substance under circumstances in violation of the laws of this state.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise, display or exhibit upon any billboard any drug-related object.
(Code 1977, § 14-1008)
Sec. 6-27. - Location of advertising structures near freeway or expressway system.
(a)
Definition. For the purpose of this section, the term "lot" means any parcel or tract into which land adjoining the expressway has been or may be subdivided by the owner, but which shall not consist of less than 25 feet of frontage on the expressway.
(b)
Restricted. It shall be unlawful for any person to build, use or maintain, within a distance of 660 feet from any portion of the limited access freeway or expressway system within the city, any animated sign, any flashing sign, any changing sign or any rotating sign as defined in part 16 of this Code. Any sign which involves direct or indirect illumination shall have the approval of the director, bureau of traffic and transportation prior to the issuance of a building permit or the erection of the sign.
(c)
Exception. However, after actual development of property within 300 feet of a limited access highway has commenced on the premises and during the period of construction thereon, one sign not to exceed 40 square feet may be placed thereon for a period not to exceed one year from the erection of the sign.
(Code 1977, § 14-1002)
Cross reference— Streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 138.
State Law reference— Location restrictions for certain signs, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-70 et seq.
Sec. 6-28. - Hearing objections to billboard erection, revoking permit.
The director, bureau of buildings, may hear and decide upon any and all objections which may be made to the erection of any billboard or like structure and may revoke any permit given by the director if, in the director's judgment, the objections are valid and should be sustained, subject to revision and final action of the council.
(Code 1977, § 14-1006)
