Chapter 10 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Church or sanctuary is defined for the purpose of this chapter to be a stand-alone building on one parcel of land whose sole use and active use is religious, church-related, or sanctuary-related and is not located on a commonly platted area which has common or shared parking such as shopping centers, strip malls, etc.
Distances shall be measured in a straight line and shall be computed from the property line of a library, church, school/educational building, school grounds, college campus, licensed commercial child care center, or residentially zoned property to the building of the location in which is located the business for which the license is being sought.
Distilled spirits or alcoholic beverages include, but are not limited to, whiskey, rum, gin, brandy, vodka, tequila, beer, wine and all alcoholic beverages of a similar nature and a similar alcoholic content.
Licensee means an establishment holding a license to engage in the sale of distilled spirits or alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises by the drink.
Original alcoholic beverage license is defined as a license issued to a specific business owner at a specific location. Change in either business ownership and/or business location requires another application for an original alcoholic beverage license. An alcoholic beverage license is nontransferable.
Premises means the definite closed or partitioned-in locality, including attached patios, porches, or cook-out areas, whether room, shop or building, wherein distilled spirits or alcoholic beverages are sold by the drink.
Recreational venue is defined as an establishment that includes facilities for recreational activities (bowling, billiard, etc.). For purposes of this chapter, the recreational component in connection with alcoholic sales has to be approved by mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 1, 5-25-1977; Ord. No. 2011-01, 10-11-2011)
Sec. 10-2. - Lewd, immoral, etc., conduct prohibited.
(a)
All premises shall be kept clean and in proper sanitary condition and in full compliance with the provisions and regulations governing the conditions of premises used for storage and sale of food for human consumption. It shall be unlawful to permit any disturbance of the peace or obscenity or any lewd, immoral or improper entertainment, conduct or practices.
(b)
Lewd, immoral or improper entertainment, conduct or practices, as mentioned in subsection (a) of this section, shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1)
Nude, topless or bottomless dancing.
(2)
Nude, topless or bottomless waiters or waitresses.
(3)
Mud wrestling.
(4)
The showing of pornographic or obscene films.
(5)
Any entertainment with explicit sexual actions.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 2, 5-25-1977; Ord. of 3-28-1988, § 2)
Sec. 10-3. - Sales to minors or incapacitated persons.
Sale to minors or incapacitated persons is prohibited. No licensee shall sell or give away, or permit the sale or gift to, or the procuring for, any such distilled spirits or alcoholic beverages to any minor, to any person who is mentally incompetent, or to any person who is physically or mentally incapacitated due to the consumption of distilled spirits or alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 3, 5-25-1977)
Sec. 10-4. - Minors prohibited on licensed premises; consumption by minors.
(a)
Minors are prohibited on licensed premises unless accompanied by a parent or guardian. No licensee shall allow any minors to be in, frequent or loiter about the licensed premises, unless such minors are accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any minor to drink or possess any distilled spirits or alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 4, 5-25-1977)
Sec. 10-5. - Sunday sales.
(a)
Sunday sales prohibited. No alcoholic beverages shall be sold, offered for sale, dispensed, or given away in any place of business on Sunday, except as provided in subsection (b) of this section. Every person operating a place of business solely and exclusively for the purpose of selling or dealing in alcoholic beverages shall keep such business closed on Sunday.
(b)
Affidavit required. The licensee of any eating establishment desiring the privilege to sell or otherwise dispense distilled spirits, malt beverages, or wine on Sunday in accordance with this subsection shall, before dispensing such beverages on Sunday, file an affidavit with the city clerk, certifying under oath that:
(1)
Such establishment holds or has applied for a current city business license to operate a restaurant, and for a current alcoholic beverage license; and
(2)
Such establishment, if an existing business, derived at least 70 percent of its total annual gross food and beverage sales income from the sale of prepared meals or food during the preceding calendar year or, if a new business, fully intends and expects to derive at least 70 percent of its total annual gross food and beverage sales income from the sale of prepared meals or food during the remainder of the current calendar year.
Such affidavit may be submitted at any time that the conditions stated in this subsection (b) are met, and must be submitted annually with such establishment's alcoholic beverage license renewal application if Sunday sales authorization is to be continued.
(c)
Authorization. The alcoholic beverage license of an establishment which has properly filed such affidavit will be marked to indicate authorization to dispense alcoholic beverages between the hours of 12:30 p.m. Sunday and 1:00 a.m. Sunday. Any establishment not complying with this section is hereby specifically prohibited from dispensing alcoholic beverages on Sunday.
(d)
Qualifications. To qualify for a Sunday sales permit, any licensed restaurant, in addition to the requirements of this section, shall:
(1)
Be a bona fide public eating place which actually and regularly prepares and serves food on the premises;
(2)
Have a full kitchen facility open and operating to prepare food on the premises for consumption in the establishment, such kitchen to include at a minimum one cooking stove and/or oven or equivalent apparatus (this requirement is not met by a microwave over and/or food rotisserie), one standard-size food refrigerator and freezer, kitchen sink, and any and all food service requirements of the county health department;
(3)
Have a specific area of the establishment set aside, set up, and operating to serve prepared food on the premises;
(4)
Have a printed or posted menu from which selections for prepared food can be made; and
(5)
Provide its full food service to the public on any Sunday when alcoholic beverages are dispensed.
This subsection shall not be applicable to any recognized festival event sponsored by a nonprofit community organization.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 11, 5-25-1977; Ord. of 12-13-2005, § I; Ord. No. 2022-02, § I, 4-22-2022)
Sec. 10-6. - Misrepresentation of quantity, brand name, etc.
It shall be illegal for licensees hereunder to add to the contents of a bottle or to refill empty bottles or in any other manner to misrepresent the quantity, quality or brand name of any alcoholic beverage.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 12, 5-25-1977)
Sec. 10-7. - Display of prices.
All licensees hereunder shall display in prominent places on the premises their current prices of spirituous liquors, wines, champagnes or malt beverages by the drink.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 13, 5-25-1977)
Sec. 10-8. - Off-premises sales.
It shall be unlawful for any sales to be made outside of the building, premises or place of business licensed for such sale.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 15, 5-25-1977)
Sec. 10-9. - Violation.
Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter by the holder of a license hereunder shall subject the holder of such license to revocation of said license.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 32, 5-25-1977)
Secs. 10-10—10-36. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LICENSES

Sec. 10-37. - Factors considered in issuing licenses.
In determining whether or not any license applied for hereunder shall be granted, in addition to all provisions of this chapter, the following shall be considered in the public interest and welfare:
(1)
The applicant's reputation, character, mental and physical capacity to conduct this business.
(2)
If the applicant is a previous holder of a license to sell distilled spirits or alcoholic beverages, whether or not he/she has violated any law, regulation or ordinance relating to such business.
(3)
If the applicant is a previous holder of a license to sell distilled spirits or alcoholic beverages, the manner in which he/she conducted the business thereunder as to the necessity for unusual police observation and inspection in order to prevent the violation of any law, regulation or ordinance relating to such business.
(4)
The location for which the license is sought as to traffic congestion, general character of neighborhood, and the effect such an establishment would have on the adjacent and surrounding property values.
(5)
The number of licenses already granted for similar businesses in the trading area of the place for which the license is sought.
(6)
A person whose license issued under the police powers of any governmental entity has been previously suspended or revoked.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 5, 5-25-1977)
Sec. 10-38. - Disqualification for conviction.
No original license shall be issued to any person, partnership or corporation organized for pecuniary gain where any individual having an interest either as owner, partner, principal stockholder, directly or indirectly beneficial or absolute, or his/her spouse, shall have been convicted or shall have taken a plea of nolo contendere within ten years immediately prior to the filing of said application for any felony or misdemeanor of any state or of the United States or any municipal ordinance except traffic violations. The term "conviction" shall include an adjudication of guilt or a plea of guilty or nolo contendere or the forfeiture of a bond when charged with a crime; where the violation is for misdemeanor, forfeiture of bond or municipal ordinance, the city council, after investigation, may waive same as disqualification.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 6, 5-25-1977)
Sec. 10-39. - Citizenship required.
No license hereunder shall be granted to any applicant who is not a citizen of the United States. Where the applicant is a corporation, the principal stockholder must meet the requirements of this section and the license shall be issued to the corporation and the principal stockholder. If the applicant is a partnership, the requirements of this section shall apply to all partners.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 7, 5-25-1977)
Sec. 10-40. - License fee.
An annual license fee as specified in the fee schedule shall be charged for the initial license issued to any licensee hereunder, and an amount as specified in the fee schedule for each renewal license. License fees shall be paid in advance on or before December 31 of each year for an annual license and any new license granted hereunder during a calendar year shall pay the full license fee without proration.
License fees for authorized catered functions and events shall be paid in the amount as specified in the fee schedule at least a week prior to the event.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 8, 5-25-1977; Amd. of 7-13-2004(2); Ord. No. 2011-01, 10-11-2011)
Editor's note— It should be noted that the city fee schedule is not set out at length herein but is on file and available for inspection in the office of the city clerk.
Sec. 10-41. - Wholesale purchases, container size.
The holders of said licenses may purchase alcoholic beverages from wholesalers licensed by the state in sizes of one-fifth of a gallon or larger containers unless a particular brand is not packaged in these size contents, and then said license holders may purchase said brand in the nearest size to said minimum size containers.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 9, 5-25-1977)
Sec. 10-42. - Per-bottle or per-package sales prohibited; exception.
Licensees hereunder shall not permit the sale of distilled spirits or alcoholic beverages by the bottle or package, except that wines, champagnes and malt beverages may be sold by the bottle or package for consumption on the premises.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 10, 5-25-1977)
Sec. 10-43. - Term of license; refund.
No license shall issue for less than a calendar year period, or the remainder thereof, and in case of the revocation or surrender of such license before the expiration of such calendar year period, the holder thereof shall not be entitled to receive any refund whatsoever.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 16, 5-25-1977)
Sec. 10-44. - Hours of operations and sales.
The sale of alcoholic beverages shall be lawful during the polling hours of any election; provided, however, nothing herein shall authorize the sale of alcoholic beverages within 250 feet of a polling place during such time as the polls are opened.
Hours of operation and sale. It shall be unlawful for any establishment, licensed alcoholic beverage caterer, or bona fide nonprofit civic organization engaged in the sale of alcoholic beverages in conformance with section 10-48 to remain open and/or engage in the sale or disbursement of alcoholic beverages to sell, serve, barter, trade or give away any such beverages from and after the hour of 1:00 a.m. Monday through Sunday. Such establishments, licensed alcoholic beverage caterers, or bona fide nonprofit civic organizations that engage in the sale or disbursement of alcoholic beverages are to remain closed until 8:00 a.m. each day except Sunday; Sunday opening time shall be no sooner than 12:30 p.m.
(Ord. No. 2022-02, § I, 4-22-2022)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2022-02, § I, adopted April 22, 2022, amended § 10-44 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former § 10-44, pertained to sales hours, and derived from Ord. No. 77-2, § 17, adopted May 25, 1977; and Ord. of 10-31-1988, § I.
Sec. 10-45. - Certain convictions to bar employment.
It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the sale of distilled spirits or alcoholic beverages by the drink hereunder any person in any capacity whatsoever, including performers, entertainers and musicians, who have been convicted in this or any other state or by the United States or any other country of soliciting for prostitution, pandering, letting premises for prostitution, keeping a disorderly place, illegally dealing in narcotics, sex offenses, or any charge relating to the manufacture or sale of intoxicating liquors.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 18, 5-25-1977)
Sec. 10-46. - Employee alcohol cards.
(a)
Every person, 18 years of age or older, working or serving alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises in a place of business shall have an employee alcohol card signed by the deputy sheriff of the city setting forth thereon the name of the employer and the location of the place of employment. It shall be unlawful for the holder of any retail license hereunder for consumption on the premises of alcoholic beverages to permit any person to work or serve in or about such place of business unless such person has such a card. This shall not include performers, entertainers and musicians engaged in temporary work.
(b)
Applications for an alcohol card will be made at the city hall. An alcohol card application must be completed, returned and approved prior to employment. The permanent alcohol card will be issued within three business days from the date of receipt of application.
(c)
All alcohol cards will stay on file with management during the term of employment. The cards will be returned, by management, to the city hall when the applicant is no longer employed by the establishment. Management is required to produce on request by local law enforcement any alcohol cards for inspection.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 20, 5-25-1977)
Sec. 10-47. - Timeframe for obtaining license.
All licenses must be obtained and fees paid not later than two weeks from the date of the approval of the application and if not so obtained, the permit shall be void.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 21, 5-25-1977)
Sec. 10-48. - Conditions for six different classifications of alcoholic beverage licenses.
(1)
Classification 1 is for on-premise consumption in hotels. No original license for consumption of alcohol on premises shall be issued hereunder for any location in the city unless the business is licensed by the city as a hotel in good standing with the city, and which has a minimum of 60 rooms available for occupancy, and also has a maximum of one on-site social gathering area totaling less than 1,200 square feet to serve all alcohol beverage related products; the building/hotel shall not be within 25 feet of any library, school/educational building, school grounds, college campus, licensed commercial child care center, church building, and shall not be within 25 feet of any area zoned residential. The hours of operation permitted for one social gathering area with alcohol sales shall be from 4:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m., with no Sunday sales allowed.
(2)
Classification 2 is for on-premise consumption in restaurants. No original alcoholic beverage license shall be issued unless the applicant files an affidavit with the city clerk that the business shall derive at least (60 percent of revenue) from food and non-alcoholic drinks. This business shall also have a full-service kitchen and meet the qualification of subsection 10-5(d) of this chapter. The distance from libraries, schools/educational buildings, college campuses, licensed commercial child care centers, and churches shall be 100 feet to the building for which the alcoholic beverage license is applied and shall be 100 feet from any area zoned residential to the building for which the alcoholic beverage license is applied.
(3)
Classification 3 is for on-premise consumption in establishments with recreational facilities or venues also serving food. The compatibility of a recreational facility or venue in combination with alcohol sales shall be approved by mayor and council. The alcoholic beverage license shall be for beer and wine only. No original license shall be issued unless the applicant files an affidavit with the city clerk that the business shall derive at least 65 percent from a combination of revenue from food sales and revenue from the recreational venue. Notwithstanding foregoing, the revenue from food sales alone shall be a minimum of 15 percent.
The distance from libraries, schools/educational buildings, school grounds, college campuses, licensed commercial child care centers, and churches shall be 300 feet to the building for which the alcoholic beverage license is applied and shall be 300 feet from any area zoned residential to the building for which the alcoholic beverage license is applied.
(4)
Classification 4 is for on-premise consumption in clubs, lounges, and bars and other similar establishments. The distance from libraries, schools/educational buildings, school grounds, college campuses, licensed commercial child care centers, and churches shall be 500 feet to the building for which the alcoholic beverage license is applied and shall be 500 feet from any area zoned residential to the building for which the alcoholic beverage license is applied.
Required parking for classification 4 establishments shall be one parking space per three maximum occupancy of the building for which the license has been applied and approved.
This subsection (referring to classification 4 requirements) shall not apply to any location for which a license has been issued at least 12 months prior to October 11, 2011.
(5)
Classification 5 is for off-premise consumption in retail stores and package stores. For an off-premise alcoholic beverage license including distilled spirits, the distance from the building in which the business is located for which the license is being sought to schools/educational buildings, school grounds, licensed commercial child care centers, libraries, and college campuses shall be 600 feet; the distance to churches from the building in which the business is located for which the license is being sought shall be 300 feet; and the distance from the building in which the business is located for which the license is being sought to any area zoned residential shall be 300 feet.
For an off-premise alcoholic beverage license including wine and beer, the distance from the building in which the business is located for which the license is being sought to churches, schools/educational buildings, school grounds, college campuses, libraries, and licensed commercial child care centers, shall be 300 feet; and the distance from the building in which the business is located for which the license is being sought to any area zoned residential shall be 300 feet.
(6)
Classification 6 is for on-premise consumption for events. In order to distribute or sell alcoholic beverages at an authorized catered function or a temporary nonprofit function held by a nonprofit organization, an applicant shall be required to:
a.
Apply to the city for an event permit. The application shall include the name of the applicant; the date, address and time of the event; and a copy of the applicant's alcoholic beverage license.
b.
Provide satisfactory reports as required to the State of Georgia on forms provided by the state, stating the quantity of any and all alcoholic beverages transported from the applicant's primary premises to the location of the authorized catered function and such other information as may be required by the state.
c.
Maintain original event permits and documents in the vehicle transporting the alcoholic beverage to the catered function at all times.
d.
For nonprofit or not-for-profit organizations, providing documents evidencing the organization's proof of existence and good standing as a nonprofit or not-for-profit organization with approval by the organization of the applicant's authority to act on the organization's behalf.
Eligibility to cater functions.
a.
Any applicant who holds an alcohol beverage license issued by any jurisdiction in the state to sell alcoholic beverages on the premises may be issued an off-premises license which authorizes such applicant to sell alcoholic beverages by the drink off-premises in connection with an authorized catered function. For purposes of this section an "authorized catered function" may include a function held on publicly or privately owned property.
b.
Any applicant validly existing and operating pursuant to the laws of the state as a nonprofit (not-for-profit) organization may be issued a temporary license to sell alcoholic beverages by the drink in connection with an authorized temporary nonprofit function. For purposes of this section an "authorized temporary nonprofit function" may include a function held on publicly or privately owned property.
c.
An event permit may be approved for beer, wine, and distilled spirits for an authorized catered or an authorized temporary non-profit function.
d.
The applicant shall furnish at least one uniformed law enforcement officer to be present for the duration of the event.
Reporting for verification of percentage. The license holder of a classification 2 (restaurant) or classification 3 alcoholic beverage license (classification 3: establishments with recreational facilities or venues also serving food) shall file a gross income report with the city clerk. It is the option of the license holder to file either monthly or quarterly. If filed on a monthly basis, the report shall not be filed later than the 20th day of the subsequent month. If filed on a quarterly basis, the report shall not be filed later than 20th day following the end of each calendar quarter. The manner of filing the gross income report with the city clerk shall be consistent within a 12-month period.
This report shall be filed on a form designated by the city clerk and must be accompanied by a certified copy of the identified license outlet sales tax report for the applicable month or quarter. Alternatively, in lieu of filing the report on a form designated by the city clerk, the license holder may file a certification signed by a certified public accountant attesting that the establishment is meeting the applicable percentage of food, and if applicable, recreational venue sales requirement(s) in relationship to the establishment's reported gross income. If the business with a classification 2 or 3 alcoholic beverage license cannot meet the required percentage ratios for two consecutive reporting periods, or for two nonconsecutive reporting periods in any 12-month period, the license might be revoked or put on probationary status after a hearing pursuant to section 10-49 of this chapter. All alcohol beverage license fees are set out in the city's fee schedule.
Alcohol sales in adult entertainment clubs are prohibited. As provided for in section 6-3 of this Code, an adult entertainment establishment is prohibited from having and applying for an alcoholic beverage license.
Brown-bagging is prohibited. It shall be unlawful for a licensee or any other commercial establishment to allow customers to bring with them their own alcoholic beverages, which is known as "bring your own bottle" or brown-bagging.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 22, 5-25-1977; Ord. No. 2010-02, 11-9-2010; Ord. No. 2011-01, 10-11-2011)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2011-01, adopted Oct. 11, 2011, changed the title of § 10-48 from conditions prohibiting license issuance to conditions for six different classifications of alcoholic beverage licenses.
State Law reference— Sales of alcoholic beverages near church, school, or housing authority property, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-21.
Sec. 10-49. - Suspension or revocation.
No license which has been issued or which may hereafter be issued by the city hereunder shall be suspended or revoked, except for due cause as hereinafter defined, and after a hearing and upon the prior three-day written notice to the holder of such license of the time, place and purpose of such hearing and a statement of the charge upon which such hearing shall be held. Due cause for the suspension or revocation of such license shall consist of the violation of any laws or ordinances regulating such businesses, or violation of regulations made pursuant to authority granted for the purpose of regulating such businesses, or for the violation of any state or federal law, or for the violation of any city ordinance other than the traffic ordinances.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 23, 5-25-1977)
Sec. 10-50. - Renewal.
All licensees hereunder shall be required to renew their licenses annually on forms prescribed by the city council.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 24, 5-25-1977)
Sec. 10-51. - Authority to approve or deny license applications.
Licenses hereunder shall be mere grants or privileges and the city council shall have the discretion to approve or deny any application for a license to sell spirituous liquors by the drink.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 25, 5-25-1977)
Sec. 10-52. - Nontransferability.
(a)
Licenses hereunder shall not be transferable, except as otherwise provided herein. In case of the death of any person holding such a license, or any interest therein, the same may be transferred to the administrator, executor or the lawful heirs of the deceased person, if otherwise qualified.
(b)
Nothing in this section, however, shall prohibit one or more of the partners in a partnership holding a license to withdraw from the partnership in favor of one or more of the partners who were partners at the time of the issuance of the license. Such a withdrawal shall not, however, serve to bring any new ownership into the partnership.
(c)
Should a transfer of a location be approved, there shall be no pro rata return of any license fee and the new location shall be considered as a new license hereunder.
(d)
A licensee may take in partners or additional stockholders where it is determined that the additional capital furnished is to be used exclusively for additional inventory or expanding the facilities of the business or for building new facilities and where it appears that the licensee himself/herself receives directly none of the additional capital invested. Under this section an additional partner or new principal stockholder must be approved by the city council.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 26, 5-25-1977)
Sec. 10-53. - Timeframe for opening establishment.
All applicants for licenses hereunder must, within six months after the approval of said license, open for business the establishment referred to in the license and begin the sale of the products authorized by said license. Failure to open the establishment and begin the sale as referred to in this section within the six-month period shall serve as automatic forfeiture and cancellation of the unused license and no refund of license fees shall be made to the license holder.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 27, 5-25-1977)
Sec. 10-54. - Cessation of business.
Any holder of a license hereunder who shall begin the operation of the business and sale of the product or products as authorized in the said license, but who shall, for a period of three consecutive months thereafter, cease to operate the business and sale of the products authorized in the said license, shall, after said three-month period, automatically forfeit his/her license, which license shall, by virtue of said failure to operate, be cancelled without the necessity of any further action.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 28, 5-25-1977)
Sec. 10-55. - City to prescribe license application forms.
The city council shall prescribe forms for new or renewal applications hereunder. All applicants shall furnish all data, information and records requested of them by the city council and failure to furnish such data, information and records within 30 days from the date of such request shall automatically serve to dismiss, with prejudice, the application. Applicants by filing an application agree to produce for oral interrogation any person requested by the city council. Failure to produce such person within 30 days after being requested to do so shall result in the automatic dismissal of such application.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 29, 5-25-1977)
Sec. 10-56. - Omission of application information.
Any untrue or misleading information contained in or material omission left out of an original, renewal or transfer application for a license hereunder shall be cause for the denial thereof, and if any license has been granted under these circumstances, same shall be cause for the revocation of the license.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 30, 5-25-1977)
Sec. 10-57. - Advertising regulations.
No licensee hereunder shall advertise in any news media or by any other means the fact that distilled spirits or alcoholic beverages by the drink may be purchased at such establishment; provided that the licensees hereunder shall be permitted to use the words "your favorite beverages served."
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 31, 5-25-1977)
Sec. 10-58. - Display of licensing regulations.
It shall be the duty of the management of premises licensed hereunder to maintain a copy of the licensing regulations on such premises and to instruct each and every employee of the terms thereof.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 33, 5-25-1977)
Sec. 10-59. - License required for sale.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell distilled spirits or alcoholic beverages for use or consumption on the premises without the license required herein.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 34, 5-25-1977)
Sec. 10-60. - License fee to accompany application; refund of fee.
Each application for license under this chapter shall be accompanied by a certified check or cash for the full amount of the license fee, together with a separate fee payable by check or cash in an amount as set by council to defray the cost of investigation and report. If the application is denied and the license refused, the deposit representing the license fee shall be refunded, but the separate payment shall be retained as the cost of filing and processing the application.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 35, 5-25-1977)
Sec. 10-61. - Compliance with state law.
All applicable state laws, rules and regulations governing the sale of distilled spirits or alcoholic beverages must be complied with by any applicant for a license hereunder.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 36, 5-25-1977)
Sec. 10-62. - Certification of acceptance.
No person shall be approved for a license hereunder, or approved for employment by a licensee, unless such person shall have read these regulations in full text and certify in writing the fact of such reading and knowledge thereof.
(Ord. No. 77-2, § 37, 5-25-1977)
Secs. 10-63—10-86. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - EXCISE TAX ON LIQUOR BY THE DRINK

Sec. 10-87. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
City means the City of Flemington and, variously, the incorporated territory of the city wherein the City of Flemington is empowered to impose this tax by O.C.G.A. § 3-4-130.
Drink means any alcoholic beverage served for consumption on the premises which may or may not be diluted by any other liquid.
Due date means the 20th day after the close of the monthly period for which the tax is to be computed.
Licensee means any person who holds a license from the city to dispense liquor by the drink for consumption on the premises.
Liquor or distilled spirits means any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume, including, but not limited to, all fortified wines.
Monthly period means the calendar months of the year.
Person means an individual, firm, partnership, joint adventure, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, cooperative, estate, trust, receiver, trustee, nonprofit corporation, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit, the plural as well as the singular number, excepting the United States of America, the state and any political subdivision of either thereof upon which the city is without power to impose the tax herein provided.
Purchase price means the consideration received for the sale of liquor or distilled spirits by the drink valued in money, whether received in cash or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property or services of any kind or nature and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the licensee to the purchaser, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
Purchaser means any person who orders and gives present or future consideration for any liquor or distilled spirits dispensed by the drink.
Return means any return filed or required to be filed by this article.
Tax means any tax imposed by this article.
(Ord. of 2-14-2006, § 1)
Sec. 10-88. - Imposition and rate of tax.
There is hereby imposed, and there shall be paid, a tax of three percent on the sale of liquor by the drink in the city.
(Ord. of 2-14-2006, § 2)
Sec. 10-89. - Collection of tax.
Every licensee holding a license to dispense liquor or distilled spirits for consumption on the premises is authorized and required to collect the tax imposed under this article from the purchaser of liquor sold by the drink within his/her licensed premises.
(Ord. of 2-14-2006, § 3)
Sec. 10-90. - Due date; returns; payments.
(a)
Due date of taxes. All amounts of such taxes collected by the licensee shall be due and payable to the revenue department of the city on or before the 20th day of every month next succeeding each respective monthly period.
(b)
Return, persons required to file, contents. The remittance of the taxes collected under this article shall be made and a return shall be filed with the revenue director by every licensee showing the gross sales of liquor by the drink and the amount of tax collected or otherwise due for the period, along with such other information as may be required by the revenue director.
(c)
Collection fee allowed licensees. Licensees collecting the tax shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting and paying the amount due, if the amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of the deduction shall be the same rate authorized for deductions from state sales and use tax as provided for in O.C.G.A. § 48-8-50, the Georgia Retailers' and Consumers' Sales and Use Tax Act.
(d)
Penalty and interest for failure to pay tax by due date. A penalty of 15 percent is imposed for failure to pay any amount of tax when due and payable to the city with a minimum amount of penalty due of $25.00. Delinquent amounts shall bear interest at the rate of one percent per month, or fraction thereof, until paid.
(Ord. of 2-14-2006, § 4)
Sec. 10-91. - Deficiency determinations.
(a)
Recomputation of tax, authority to make; basis of recomputation. If the revenue director is not satisfied with the return of the tax or the amount of the tax required to be paid to the city by any person, he/she may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon the basis of any information within his/her possession or that may come into his/her possession. One or more deficiency determinations may be made of the amount due for one or more monthly periods.
(b)
Penalty and interest for failure to pay tax. A specific penalty of 15 percent is imposed upon the amount of any determination Additionally, the amount of any determination shall bear interest at the rate of one percent per month, or fraction thereof, from the due date of taxes until the date of payment.
(c)
Notice of determination, service of. The revenue director shall give to the licensee written notice of his/her determination. The notice may be served personally or by mail; if by mail such service shall be addressed to the licensee at his/her business address as it appears in the records of the city. Service by mail is complete when it delivered by certified mail with a receipt signed by addressee.
(d)
Time within which notice of deficiency determination to be mailed. Except in case of failure to make a return, every notice of deficiency determination shall be mailed within three years after the 20th day of the calendar month following the monthly period for which the amount is proposed to be determined or within three years after the return is filed, whatever shall last expire.
(Ord. of 2-14-2006, § 5)
Sec. 10-92. - Determination if no return is made.
If any person fails to make a return, the revenue director shall make an estimate of the amount of the gross receipts of the licensee from the sale of liquor by the drink, or as the case may be, of the amount of total such receipts in the city which are subject to the tax. The estimate shall be made for the period or periods in respect to which the person failed to make the return and shall be based upon any information which is or may come into the possession of the revenue director. Written notice shall be given in the manner prescribed in section 10-91(c).
(Ord. of 2-14-2006, § 6)
Sec. 10-93. - Collection of unpaid tax.
(a)
Alcohol license to dispense by the drink conditioned upon payment and drink remittance of tax. As a condition for holding a license to dispense liquor by the drink, a licensee must comply with this article and collect and remit the tax imposed in the manner prescribed. Failure to comply will subject the licensee to suspension of alcohol dispensing privileges and other actions as set out herein and within this Code.
(b)
Action for delinquent tax. At any time within three years after any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected becomes due and payable and at any time within three years after the delinquency of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected, the revenue director may bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction in the name of the city to collect the amount delinquent together with penalty, interest, court fees, filing fees, and other legal fees incident thereto.
(c)
Duty of successors of assignees of licensee to withhold tax from purchase price. If any licensee liable for any amount under this article sells out his/her business or quits the business, his/her successors or assigns shall withhold sufficiently from the purchase price to cover such amount until the former owner produces a receipt issued by the revenue department reflecting payment in full of the amount due or a certificate stating that no amount is due.
(d)
Liability for failure to withhold. If the purchaser of a business fails to withhold from the purchase price as required, he/she shall be personally liable for the payment of the amount required to be withheld by him/her to the extent of the purchase price.
(Ord. of 2-14-2006, § 7)
Sec. 10-94. - Credits for overpayments.
If is determined that a licensee has overpaid the tax imposed under this article, overpaid penalties or interest, or has paid the tax more than once, the revenue director may, upon the filing of a claim by the licensee and audit of the claim, authorize credit of the overpayment toward the current amount of tax due and payable from the licensee. All claims for overpayments must be made by the licensee, his/her administrators or executors, and must be made in writing within three years from the date of payment stating the specific ground upon which the claim is founded.
(Ord. of 2-14-2006, § 8)
Sec. 10-95. - Administration generally; record- keeping.
(a)
Authority of revenue director. The revenue director or his/her authorized representative shall administer and enforce the provisions of this article for the levy and collection of the tax herein imposed. The revenue director shall have the authority to make and publish reasonable rules and regulations not inconsistent with this article or other laws of the city and the state, for the administration and enforcement of the provision of this article and the collection of the taxes provided herein.
(b)
Records required. Every licensee for the sale of liquor by the drink in the city shall preserve, for a minimum of three years, all records, receipts, invoices and other pertinent papers as the revenue director may require and in such form as the revenue director may require.
(c)
Examination of records, audits. The revenue director or any person authorized in writing by him/her may examine the books, papers, records, financial reports, inventory, equipment and other facilities of any licensee liable for the tax, in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid.
(d)
Authority to require reports; contents. In administering the provisions of this article, the revenue director may require the filing of reports by any person or class of persons having in their possession or custody information relating to the sale of liquor by the drink. The reports shall be filed with the revenue director when required and shall set for the gross sales from the sale of liquor by the drink, the amount of tax collected thereon, or such other information as the revenue director may require.
(Ord. of 2-14-2006, § 9)
