Chapter 50 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 50-1. - Cargo shipping containers.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Cargo shipping containers means those containers, commonly rectangular in shape, enclosed on all sides, including top and bottom, usually with one or two side hinged doors or one uplift (garage-type) door on one or both ends, built in various sizes ranging from approximately eight feet wide, nine feet in height, and from eight to 60 feet in length, designed for and commonly used for containment of goods, articles or things while being moved or shipped by sea, air, rail and/or motor vehicle.
(b)
Restriction of use.
(1)
Metal, wood or any other of type shipping containers, such as those designed for and used for sea, air, rail and truck cargo shipments, shall not be used as a principal or accessory building, as defined in the city's zoning ordinance, in any zoning district within the city limits.
(2)
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or agent to locate, place or maintain or to allow anyone to locate, place or maintain shipping containers designed for sea, air, rail or truck cargo shipments on any property, i.e., lot (commercial or residential), shopping center complex, apartment complex, mobile home park, etc., in the city regardless of the zoning district classification, for the purpose of using it for any purpose other than loading it with cargo goods for prompt and immediate shipment out of the city.
(3)
A cargo shipping container may be used in any construction area. In such situations where the cargo shipping containers are not being used for prompt and immediate shipment out of the city, a permit must be obtained through the mayor or city clerk for utilizing a cargo shipping container. As used in this section, the term "prompt and immediate" shall be defined to be within a reasonable period of time allowing for the loading and securing of shipment cargo, but in no event shall such time period exceed one week. Within the permit, to be submitted to the city clerk, the applicant shall state the intended use and duration of use of all such shipping containers. The permit fee shall be $100.00. If the permit is refused, the city clerk shall give the applicant a written explanation of the reason for refusal. The permit shall allow for utilization of the cargo shipping container for, at most, 60 days from the issuance date of said permit.
(Ord. of 4-11-2006(2), §§ 1, 2)
