Chapter 70 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; businesses, ch. 18; environment, ch. 34; historic preservation, ch. 42; manufactured homes and trailers, ch. 46; signs, ch. 62; subdivisions, ch. 74; utilities, ch. 82.
State Law reference— Power to construct and maintain roads, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3; probate court's jurisdiction involving the removal of obstructions from roads, O.C.G.A. § 15-9-30.1; Georgia Code of Public Transportation, O.C.G.A. § 32-1-1 et seq.; authorization by any county or municipality for construction or maintenance of any private road unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 32-1-8; obstructing, encroaching on, or injuring public roads, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-1; inspection of and reports on roads and bridges by county police, O.C.G.A. § 36-8-6; construction and maintenance of county roads, O.C.G.A. § 36-17-20 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 70-1—70-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - STREET NAMES AND PROPERTY NUMBERS

Sec. 70-26. - Penalty for violation of article.
Violation of this article shall be a misdemeanor and may be punished, upon conviction, as provided in section 1-13. Each separate day such violation is continued shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. of 10-4-89, § 4)
Sec. 70-27. - System for street names established.
(a)
There is hereby established an official system of street names in the county to be shown on a map to be entitled, "Base Map - McDuffie County, Georgia," to be produced by the CSRA Regional Development Center, which is to be adopted by the county board of commissioners by ordinance upon its completion.
(b)
The names of streets and roads in the county shall remain as shown on such map unless officially changed by ordinance.
(c)
No new streets or roads shall be accepted by the county, and no county improvements shall be made therein, until such street or roads have been named. If they are extensions of existing streets or roads, the existing names shall be continued. If not an extension, names recorded may not duplicate or closely approximate street or road names already assigned. Any name assigned to a private street or road which is used for address or house number purposes must be approved by the county planning commission to avoid duplication and confusion.
(d)
The county planning commission shall be responsible for the maintenance of the system of street and road names. Its designee shall maintain a copy of the map adopted by the ordinance from which this article is derived and shall record thereon all changes made by ordinance or new assignments accepted by subdivision platting or other legal means. Such designee shall cause to be made revisions to the official map to include all official changes made up to the date of revision which is also to be clearly recorded thereon.
(Ord. of 10-4-89, § 1)
Sec. 70-28. - Adoption of uniform system for numbering properties.
(a)
A uniform system of numbering properties and buildings as described by a map and material filed in the office of the county planning commission is hereby adopted. The map and system description, as filed, is hereby adopted and made a part of this article.
(b)
All numbers will be assigned by the county planning commission and will be assigned to any new subdivision by lot or tract by such commission.
(c)
Each principal building shall bear the number assigned to it by the county planning commission as provided in this section and where more than one business or family dwelling unit occupies a single structure, the structure shall bear, in addition to the basic number assigned to the structure, the supplementary numerals or letters assigned to them.
(d)
Numerals and letters indicating the official property number designation shall be posted by the owner or occupant on the building or at the entrance for which the designated number has been assigned in such a manner as to provide a visible and unobstructed sighting from the street on which the building is located.
(e)
No person, agency or business shall adopt, assign, display or cite any number other than that assigned, as provided in this section for the purpose of property identification or for the purpose of designating location of property.
(f)
The numbering system starts at the city limits of Thomson, Georgia, on each street or road, with numbers increasing as the distance from the city limits increases.
(g)
Numbers are to be assigned to or reserved for each 20 feet of distance.
(h)
All properties on the south of east-west streets and east of north-south streets shall be assigned even numbers, and all properties on the north of east-west streets and west of north-south streets shall be assigned odd numbers.
(Ord. of 10-4-89, § 2)
Sec. 70-29. - Administration of numbering system.
(a)
The county planning commission shall be responsible for implementing and maintaining the numbering system, as adopted by this article, including any modifications which are duly enacted.
(b)
The county planning commission shall assign and maintain a record of all property numbers for the county.
(c)
The county planning commission may make available to public agencies such as those responsible for emergency services, tax officials, and post office, such part of the records of property number assignments as may be required to accomplish a public purpose.
(d)
The owner or occupant of property and structures described in this section shall be responsible for purchasing any and all numerals required and shall likewise be responsible for all maintenance of the numbers.
(Ord. of 10-4-89, § 3)
