ARTICLE IV. - NONPROFIT FOOD SALES AND FOOD SERVICE

Sec. 26-130. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
(1)
Nonprofit food sales and food service means the temporary sale or service of food items by an organization at an event sponsored by an organization and an authority.
(2)
Organization means an organization exempt from taxes under paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of O.C.G.A. Section 48-7-25 and under Section 501(d) or paragraphs (1) through (8) or paragraph (10) of Section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code, as that code is defined in O.C.G.A. Section 48-1-2.
(3)
Authority means an authority established by general or local legislation for the City of Douglasville, Georgia.
(Ord. No. O-97-28, § 5, 3-17-97)
Sec. 26-131. - Permits, duration, subsequent permits.
Upon proper application and payment of a permit fee, the finance director shall issue to any organization a permit for nonprofit food sales and food service. A permit shall be valid for a period of 48 hours or less, and another permit shall not be issued to the organization holding such permit until five days have elapsed from the date of expiration of the permit.
(Ord. No. O-97-28, § 5, 3-17-97; Ord. No. O-2013-53, § 10, 12-16-13)
Sec. 26-132. - Health standards.
(a)
Food shall be in sound condition, free from spoilage, filth, or other contamination and shall be safe for human consumption. Food shall be obtained from sources that comply with all laws relating to food and food labeling. The use of food in hermetically sealed containers that was not prepared in a licensed food processing establishment is prohibited.
(b)
At all times, including while being stored, prepared, displayed, served, or transported, food shall be protected from potential contamination, including dust, insects, rodents, unclean equipment and utensils, unnecessary handling, flooding, drainage, and overhead leakage or overhead drippage from condensation. The temperature of potentially hazardous food shall be either 45 degrees Fahrenheit or below or 140 degrees Fahrenheit or above at all times.
(c)
The preparation of the following potentially hazardous foods is prohibited:
(1)
Pastries filled with cream or synthetic cream;
(2)
Custards;
(3)
Products similar to the products listed in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection: or
(4)
Salads containing meat, poultry, eggs, or fish.
(d)
Frozen desserts shall only be produced using commercially pasteurized mixes or ingredients. Suitable utensils must be provided to eliminate hand contact with the cooked product. All utensils and equipment shall be cleaned periodically as necessary to prevent a buildup of food.
(e)
Ice that is consumed or that contacts food shall be from an approved source and protected from contamination until used. Ice used for cooling stored food shall not be used for human consumption. Food shall be served in an individual meal type of container and handed to the customer. Food items shall not be transported for sale at any other location or sold, held, or reused at another event.
(f)
A convenient handwashing facility shall be available for employee handwashing. This facility shall consist of, at least, warm running water and individual paper towels.
(g)
This Code section shall in no way be construed to allow the sale of food items which have been packaged, bottled, or canned in facilities not approved by the law.
(Ord. No. O-97-28, § 5, 3-17-97)
Sec. 26-133. - Penalties for violation of article.
Violations of this article are declared to be unlawful, and violations shall be punished as provided in section 1-3 of the Code of the City of Douglasville.
(Ord. No. O-97-28, § 5, 3-17-97)
Secs. 26-134—26-150. - Reserved.
