ARTICLE II. - TEMPORARY BUSINESS REGISTRATION

Sec. 26-51. - General provisions.
A person, firm, or corporation desiring to open a business at a location not properly zoned for the business may make application to the city council for temporary registration under the terms and conditions of this section.
(Ord. No. 95-39, § 1, 12-18-95)
Sec. 26-52. - Application.
An applicant desiring temporary registration of a business for a location not properly zoned shall make an application to the finance director for said registration. Such application shall state the name and address of the applicant, the location and legal description of the location at which such temporary business registration is sought, and the current zoning classification of the location. As a part of the application, the applicant shall submit satisfactory evidence that a rezoning application or application for a land use permit regarding such location has been properly filed with the proper public officials and that all required fees regarding zoning application have been paid.
(Ord. No. 95-39, § 1, 12-18-95; Ord. No. O-2013-53, § 9, 12-16-13)
Sec. 26-53. - Action by city council.
Upon receipt of an application for temporary registration under this division, the city clerk shall forward such application to city council for action. The council shall consider the nature of the business sought to be conducted, the location and characterization of the location at which such business is sought to be conducted, the merits of the application in general, and other factors and information as the council deems relevant. The grant of temporary registration shall be considered on a case-by-case basis and shall be solely within the discretion of the council.
(Ord. No. 95-39, § 1, 12-18-95)
Sec. 26-54. - Fee and duration.
(a)
Any temporary registration granted by the council shall be for a period not to exceed 90 days. Temporary registrations shall not be subject to renewal by the city council. At the expiration of a temporary business registration, the holder thereof shall immediately make application for a regular registration as elsewhere provided by this chapter.
(b)
The fee for temporary business registration shall be $50.00 and this cost of processing said application shall not apply as partial payment or credit towards the regular, full term occupation tax.
(Ord. No. 95-39, § 1, 12-18-95)
Sec. 26-55. - No vested rights.
No applicant under this section who applies for temporary registration shall, as a result of being granted a temporary registration and/or as a result of invested time, labor, materials, and funds in the establishment of a business at a requested location or in improvements or modifications regarding such location, acquire any vested rights to a rezoning of such location or the grant of a land use permit at such location. Any such investment of time, labor, materials, and funds are made at the risk of the applicant, and shall not obligate the council to take any further favorable action regarding the rezoning of such locations.
(Ord. No. 95-39, § 1, 12-18-95)
Secs. 26-56—26-110. - Reserved.
