ARTICLE V. - BAIL BONDSMEN[4]
Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. O-97-28, § 1, adopted March 17, 1997, renumbered Art. IV as Art. V. See the Code Comparative Table for a detailed analysis of inclusion of said ordinance O-97-28.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 26-151. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Professional bondsmen means all persons who hold themselves out as signers or sureties of bail bonds for compensation, and who are licensed as provided in this article.
(Code 1977, § 7-1)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 26-152. - Persons prohibited from signing bonds.
No attorney-at-law and no official authorized to admit to bail, nor any city, or county official, shall become surety on any bond.
(Code 1977, § 7-2)
Sec. 26-153. - Power of attorney.
All professional bondsmen must attach to each bail bond a duly executed power of attorney in an amount of at least the penal sum of the bond. This section shall not apply to any card or certificate of membership of any automobile club.
(Code 1977, § 7-3)
Sec. 26-154. - Fees of sureties.
Professional bondsmen shall not, when receiving compensation, charge or receive more than ten percent of the first $500.00 of the principal amount of the bond and five percent of the principal of such bond over $500.00 from the defendant or from anyone acting for the defendant.
(Code 1977, § 7-4)
Sec. 26-155. - Prenumbered receipt as evidence of payment.
(a)
All professional bondsmen engaged in the bail bond business, who accept money or any other consideration for any bail bond which they execute, must for each and every payment received, give to the person paying the money or giving the consideration, a prenumbered receipt as evidence of payment, which receipt shall state the date, name of the principal, amount of money or consideration received and purpose for which received, number of the power of attorney form attached to the bond, penal sum of the bond, and name of person making payment or giving consideration.
(b)
All professional bondsmen must retain a duplicate copy of each receipt issued as part of their records.
(Code 1977, § 7-5)
Sec. 26-156. - Suggesting employment of attorney.
Professional bondsmen shall not suggest or advise the employment or name for employment any attorney or attorneys to represent the defendant, during the negotiations for the bondsmen to sign the bond or subsequent thereto.
(Code 1977, § 7-6)
Sec. 26-157. - Soliciting business.
Professional bondsmen shall not solicit business as such bondsmen, nor shall they lounge about or around the city jail, for the purpose of engaging in or soliciting business as such bondsmen. No officer or personnel of the city jail shall suggest to or advise in any manner whatever any prisoner of the city, the employment of the services of any professional bondsman to sign bonds for appearance in court at any time.
(Code 1977, § 7-7)
Sec. 26-158. - Participation in defense prohibited.
Professional bondsmen shall not advise defendants, principals in bonds signed by them, or give any directions in the defense or disposition of the cases in which bonds are signed.
(Code 1977, § 7-8)
Sec. 26-159. - Payments to and by.
No professional bondsman becoming surety on a bond and receiving the compensation in the case for signing such bond as surety, shall thereafter receive any other sum in the case to the final disposition of the same.
(Code 1977, § 7-9)
Sec. 26-160. - Forfeiture of bond, surrender of custody of defendant.
(a)
Upon a forfeiture of the bond, the surety shall have the right to surrender into custody the defendant or the principal in such bond without the return of any money paid for the signing of such bond.
(b)
The nonappearance of defendant on first call of docket shall be declared as bail forfeited. The forfeiture shall be paid within 30 days of the date of forfeiture, however, at any time within 30 days from the date of forfeiture, the city recorder may upon proper showing:
(1)
Of a satisfactory explanation of the breach of the bond;
(2)
That the defendant was at the time of required appearance adjudicated insane and confined in an institution or hospital; or
(3)
That the defendant was at the time of required appearance confined in a jail or prison within the state for a felony;
direct that the forfeiture of the bond be discharged, or if the forfeiture has been paid, shall direct that remission of the forfeiture be made to the surety; provided that the court may require, as a condition to discharge or remission, the payment of costs and expenses incurred.
(Code 1977, § 7-10)
Sec. 26-161. - Condition of the bond.
If a person is admitted to bail for his appearance in recorder's court, the condition of the bail bond shall be that he will appear for such hearing, at the time and date specified on copy of charges to answer the charge, or at such other time or times set by the court, to answer the charge, and will submit himself to the orders and processes of the city recorder trying the case, and will not depart without leave of same.
(Code 1977, § 7-11)
Sec. 26-162. - Judgment absolute.
(a)
The city recorder shall issue an order of judgment absolute 30 days after date of forfeiture. The professional bondsman, as surety on the bond, shall then and there pay to the court the penal sum of the bond.
(b)
This judgment absolute becomes a final disposition and relieves surety and defendant of any further obligation to the city.
(Code 1977, § 7-12)
Sec. 26-163. - Canceling the bond.
When the condition of the bond is satisfied or the forfeiture of the bond has been discharged or remitted, the city recorder shall make an order canceling the bond. Conviction or acquittal of the defendant shall satisfy the terms of the bond written by any bail bondsman.
(Code 1977, § 7-13)
Sec. 26-164. - To have equal access.
All professional bondsmen who hold a currently effective license issued by the finance director shall be entitled to equal access to the jail of this city for the purpose of making bond.
(Code 1977, § 7-14; Ord. No. O-01-81, § 6, 12-3-01)
Sec. 26-165. - Employee termination.
Any professional bondsman who terminates the appointment of any employee authorized to sign bonds, shall immediately file written notice thereof with the chief of police and the city clerk, together with a statement that he has given or mailed notice to the employee. Such notice filed shall state the reasons, if any, for such termination. Information so furnished shall be privileged and shall not be used as evidence in any action against the professional bondsman. All bonds signed by a terminated employee prior to such notification shall be binding upon the professional bondsman.
(Code 1977, § 7-15)
Sec. 26-166. - Prohibited activities.
It shall be unlawful for any professional bondsman to:
(1)
Pay a fee or rebate or give or promise anything of value to a jailer, policeman, peace officer, city recorder, or any other person who has power to arrest or to hold in custody; or to any city official or city employee in order to secure a settlement, compromise, remission or reduction of the amount of any bail bond thereof.
(2)
Pay a fee or rebate or give anything of value to an attorney in bail bond matters, except in defense of any action of a bond.
(3)
Pay a fee or rebate or give or promise anything of value to the principal or anyone in his behalf.
(4)
Sign nor countersign in blank any bond, nor shall be given a power of attorney to, or otherwise authorize, anyone to countersign his name to bonds unless the person so authorized is directly employed by the bondsman giving such power of attorney.
(Code 1977, § 7-16)
Sec. 26-167. - Officer taking insufficient bail.
Any person authorized to take bail, who takes bail which he knows to be insufficient, or accepts as surety any professional bondsman who is not qualified to act as surety, shall be guilty of an act of misconduct and shall be subject to disciplinary action by the department head or mayor and council.
(Code 1977, § 7-17)
Sec. 26-168. - Display of signs.
(a)
Each professional bondsman duly licensed by the city shall be allowed to display a sign of his own making in a place designated by the chief of police, at or near the book in/book out section of the city jail.
(b)
One sign per licensee shall be permitted and shall be limited to lettering and numbering of no more than three inches high and 1½ inches in width for each letter or numeral.
(c)
Signs shall be limited to two lines to allow name of business at top and phone number at bottom.
(d)
Signs shall be restricted to black and white in coloring, shall be of such overall dimensions as determined by the chief of police or mayor and council, and shall be hung in a place so designated on a first come first served priority.
(Code 1977, § 7-18)
Secs. 26-169—26-185. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 26-186. - Required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in business as a professional bondsman within this city without first obtaining a license therefor.
(Code 1977, § 7-31)
Sec. 26-187. - Issuance regulations.
Every license required by the provisions of this article shall be issued under the provisions of this chapter.
(Code 1977, § 7-32)
Sec. 26-188. - Qualifications.
To qualify for license as a professional bondsman in the city, it must affirmatively appear that the:
(1)
Applicant is a natural person who has reached the age of 18 years.
(2)
Applicant is a citizen of the United States, has been a bona fide resident of this state for one year last past.
(3)
Place of business of the applicant will be located in this state and that such applicant will be actively engaged in the bail bond business and maintain a place of business accessible to the public.
(4)
Applicant is a person of high character and approved integrity and shall be vouched for by two other reputable citizens who are residents of this county.
(5)
Applicant shall furnish with his application, a complete set of his fingerprints and a recent credential-size full face photograph of himself. The applicant's fingerprints shall be certified by the chief of police.
(6)
Applicant can justify the sufficiency of his bonding ability by affidavit that he possesses the qualifications and sufficiency to become a surety, and in such affidavit shall describe his property, to which he proposes to justify as to his sufficiency, stating the encumbrances thereon, according to the standards as promulgated by the county sheriff.
(Code 1977, § 7-33)
Sec. 26-189. - Application fee.
A fee of $10.00 shall be submitted with each application for a license required by the provisions of this article. Such fee shall be to defray the costs of conducting a character investigation of the applicant.
(Code 1977, § 7-34)
Sec. 26-190. - Termination.
Any professional bondsman who discontinues writing bail bonds during the period for which he is licensed shall notify the chief of police and the city clerk and immediately return his license.
(Code 1977, § 7-35)
Sec. 26-191. - Denial, suspension, revocation.
In addition to any other provision of this Code, the mayor and council may deny, suspend, revoke or refuse to renew any license issued in accordance with this division for any of the following causes:
(1)
For any cause for which issuance of the license could have been refused had it then existed and been known to the mayor and council.
(2)
Material misstatement, misrepresentation or fraud in obtaining the license.
(3)
Misappropriation, conversion or unlawful withholding of money belonging to others and received in the conduct of business under the license.
(4)
Conviction of a felony.
(5)
Fraudulent or dishonest practices in the conduct of business under the license.
(6)
Willful failure to comply with the provisions of this article.
(7)
Willful failure to return collateral security to the principal when the principal is entitled thereto.
(8)
When, in the judgment of the mayor and council, the licensee has in the conduct of affairs under the license, demonstrated incompetency or untrustworthiness, or conduct or practices rendering him unfit to carry on the bail bond business, or making his continuance in such business detrimental to the public interest, or that he is no longer in good faith carrying on the bail bond business, or that he is guilty of rebating or offering to rebate, or offering to divide his compensation, and for any or all such reasons is found by the mayor and council to be a source of detriment, injury or loss to the public.
(Code 1977, § 7-36)
Secs. 26-192—26-215. - Reserved.
