Chapter 6 - ADVERTISING[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 10; amusements and entertainments, ch. 14; businesses, ch. 26; human relations, ch. 50; manufactured homes and trailers, ch. 54; signs, ch. 66; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 74; vehicles for hire, ch. 90; subdivision regulations, app. B.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Posting generally.
It shall be unlawful for any person to post, tack, nail, attach or in any other manner fasten signs, bills, circulars, posters, notices, papers, or other advertising matter of any description to any pole, tree, structure or any other property, public or private, without the permission of the owner of such property.
(Code 1977, § 3-1)
Sec. 6-2. - Removing posters.
It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, tear down, deface or destroy any poster, handbill or other kind of advertisement when the same has been lawfully posted while the same is still of value.
(Code 1977, § 3-2)
Secs. 6-3—6-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - HANDBILLS

Sec. 6-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Handbill means any printed or written matter, any sample or device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature.
Newspaper means any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law, any newspaper duly entered with the post office department of the United States, in accordance with federal statute or regulation, and any newspaper filed and recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law; and in addition thereto, shall mean and include any periodical or current magazine regularly published with not less than four issues per year, and sold to the public, and shall mean and include any other copyrighted material.
Vehicle means every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Code 1977, § 3-16)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 6-32. - Distributing in public places.
No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any sidewalk, street or other public place within the city. No person shall hand out, distribute or sell any commercial handbill in any public place; provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful on any sidewalk, street, or other public place within the city for any person to hand out or distribute without charge to the receiver thereof, any noncommercial handbill to any person willing to accept it.
(Code 1977, §§ 3-22, 14-61)
Sec. 6-33. - Placing on vehicles.
No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any vehicle; provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful in any public place for a person to hand out or distribute without charge to the receiver thereof, a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is willing to accept it.
(Code 1977, §§ 3-21, 14-62)
Cross reference— Traffic and vehicles, ch. 82.
Sec. 6-34. - Depositing on uninhabited or vacant premises.
No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any private premises which are temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant.
(Code 1977, §§ 3-20, 14-63)
Sec. 6-35. - Distributing where properly posted.
No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial handbill upon any private premises, if requested by anyone thereon not to do so, or if there is placed on such premises in a conspicuous position near the entrance thereof, a sign bearing the words: "No Trespassing," "No Peddlers or Agent," "No Advertisement," or any similar notice, indicating in any manner that the occupants of the premises do not desire to be molested or have their right of privacy disturbed, or to have any such handbills left upon such premises.
(Code 1977, §§ 3-19, 14-64)
Sec. 6-36. - Distributing at inhabited private premises.
(a)
No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited, except by handing or transmitting any such handbill directly to the owner, occupant, or other person then present in or upon such private premises. In case of inhabited private premises which are not posted as provided in this section, such person, unless requested by anyone upon such premises not to do so, may place or deposit any such handbill in or upon such inhabited private premises if such handbill is so placed or deposited as to secure or prevent such handbill from being blown or drifted about such premises or sidewalks, streets or other public places, and except that mailboxes may not be so used when so prohibited by federal postal law or regulations.
(b)
The provisions of this section shall not apply to the distribution of mail by the United States Postal Service nor to newspapers, except that newspapers shall be placed on private property in such a manner as to prevent their being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or upon private property.
(Code 1977, §§ 3-17, 3-18, 14-65)
