ARTICLE V. - BOARDS, AUTHORITIES, ETC.[6]
Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Cross reference— Barnesville-Lamar County industrial development authority, § 2-2-136 et seq.; Barnesville-Lamar recreation commission, § 2-14-26 et seq.; Barnesville-Lamar County planning commission, § 2-15-26 et seq.; board of zoning appeals, App. B, § 11.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 1-2-241—1-2-250. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CITY OF BARNESVILLE AND COUNTY OF LAMAR DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

Sec. 1-2-251. - Created; membership; term; powers, etc.
A.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the "City of Barnesville and County of Lamar development authority," which in this amendment is hereafter referred to as the "authority" and which shall be deemed a creature of the State of Georgia and an instrumentality of the County of Lamar and a public corporation. The name of said authority may be changed from time to time by an act of the General Assembly. The scope and jurisdiction of the authority is restricted to the territorial limits of Lamar County, Georgia. The County of Lamar and any municipality located therein may contract with the authority as a public corporation as provided by the Constitution of Georgia.
B.
The authority shall consist of seven (7) members as follows:
Two (2) members shall be appointed by the mayor and council of the City of Barnesville; two (2) members shall be appointed by the commissioners of roads and revenues of Lamar County and the fifth member shall be the duly elected president of the Barnesville Chamber of Commerce and in the event said chamber of commerce is dissolved as a corporation then and in that event the fifth member shall be appointed by the mayor and council of the City of Barnesville. The respective terms of the members shall be as follows:
(1)
The first member appointed by the mayor and council of the City of Barnesville shall be appointed for a term of five (5) years.
(2)
The first member appointed by the commissioners of roads and revenues of Lamar County shall be appointed for a term of four (4) years.
(3)
The second member appointed by the mayor and council of the City of Barnesville shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years.
(4)
The second member appointed by the commissioners of roads and revenues of Lamar County shall be appointed for a term of two (2) years.
(5)
The president of the Barnesville Chamber of Commerce shall serve for a term of one (1) year.
Thereafter upon the expiration of the said designated terms, the successors shall be appointed for a term of five (5) years by the political body or bodies who appointed the member whose term is expiring with the exception of the president of the Barnesville Chamber of Commerce or the person appointed in his stead whose term shall remain at one (1) year.
All members who have served on said authority shall be eligible for reappointment to succeed themselves if they are reappointed by said political body or bodies designated by this amendment to appoint them or reelected to the office of president of the Barnesville Chamber of Commerce as the case might be. Should any member resign or be unable to serve or move beyond the territorial limits of Lamar County, as it is now situated or may thereafter to serve the remaining term by the political body or bodies who originally appointed such member or elected him in the case of the president of the Barnesville Chamber of Commerce.
Prior to taking office, the members shall subscribe to the following oath, to wit: "I do solemnly swear that I will fully and fairly perform the duties as a member of the Barnesville-Lamar County development authority, So Help Me God."
The members of said authority shall be entitled to no compensation.
C.
Any three (3) members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of ordinary business of the authority; however, any action with respect to any project of the authority must be approved by not less than three (3) affirmative votes.
D.
As used herein, the following words and terms shall have the following meaning unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
(1)
The word "authority" shall mean the City of Barnesville and County of Lamar development authority, created hereby.
(2)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include property, real and personal, acquired or held by the authority for the assistance, promotion, establishment or development of a new industry or industries, or the assistance, promotion or expansion of existing industry, trade or commerce in Lamar County, or any combination thereof; the acquisition of any such property for any such purpose or purposes; the improvement of any such property or properties; or the construction, installation or expansion of one or more buildings, plants or articles of equipment of the purpose of using, selling, donating, leasing or renting such land, properties, improvements, structures or equipment to public or private person, firms, corporations or associations for such purposes.
(3)
The term "cost of project" shall embrace the following: the cost of lands, buildings, improvements, machinery, equipment, properties, easements, rights, franchises, materials, labor and services acquired or contracted for; the cost of financing charges or contracted for; the cost of financing charges or of interest prior to and during construction; architectural, accounting, engineering, inspection, fiscal or legal expenses; cost of plans or specifications; or any other expenses necessary or incident to construction or improvements, or to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, or the acquisition, construction, equipping or operating of any project or any part thereof.
E.
The powers of the authority herein created shall include, but are not limited to, the power, for its corporate purposes:
(1)
To have a corporate seal and alter the same at pleasure.
(2)
To contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead or be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity, to contract with the State of Georgia and any instrumentality thereof, any county or municipality thereof, and any other political subdivisions, and with private persons, firms, corporations, and associations.
(3)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts.
(4)
To buy, acquire, receive as gifts, own, improve, expand, develop, operate, maintain, sell, donate, lease as lessor or lessee, mortgage, pledge, convey to secure debt, or otherwise encumber or dispose of land, buildings, equipment, furnishings, or property of all kinds, real and personal, within Lamar County, Georgia, and to make a contract or contracts or execute any instrument or document for the accomplishment thereof, or other purposes.
(5)
To make contracts, and to execute any and all instruments necessary or convenient to, or in aid of, the accomplishment of any of the purposes of said authority, or the exercise of any power or powers of said authority.
(6)
To enter into any contract or contracts for any period of time not exceeding fifty (50) years.
(7)
To appoint and select officers, agents, and employees, including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and to fix their compensation.
(8)
To construct, erect, buy, receive as a gift, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, equip, furnish, extend, expand, add to, develop, improve, donate, sell, lease as lessor or lessee, equip, operate and manage projects and to pay the costs of any such project from any income of the authority, from the proceeds of revenue bonds issued and sold by the authority or others, from any taxes levied for the purpose by the State of Georgia, Lamar County, or any of the municipalities therein, or from any contributions or loans by political subdivisions or instrumentalities, persons, firms, or corporations, all of which the authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use.
(9)
To elect its own officers from the membership of the authority; to elect and employ an executive director who is not required to be a member of the authority; and to authorize and empower such officers to act for the authority generally or in any specific matter.
(10)
To borrow money and to execute debentures, bonds, notes, mortgages, deeds or bills of sale to secure debt, trust deeds or other such instruments as may be necessary or convenient to evidence and secure such borrowing.
(11)
To issue and sell revenue bonds for the purpose of raising funds for the payment, in whole or in part, of the cost of any project of the authority; to secure the payment of the obligations of such bonds by, but not limited to, selling, conveying, mortgaging, pledging or assigning any or all of its funds, income or property; and to exercise all the rights, powers and privileges, and to be subject to all the duties and liabilities, which a municipality may exercise or be subject to under the provisions of the Revenue Bond Law (chapter 87-8 of the Code of Georgia) [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.], as the same now is, or hereafter may be, amended. The rights, powers and privileges of the authority are not limited to those of such municipality, however.
(12)
To use public funds made available to it, the rents, profits and proceeds from the projects erected, leased or sold, and other funds and income of the authority, to provide for the operation and maintenance of such projects or other projects, to discharge the principal, interest and expenses of bonds, revenue bonds, and notes issued by the authority, to pay other debts of the authority, and to further and promote the objectives of the authority.
(13)
To exercise any power granted by the laws of the State of Georgia to public corporations or authorities performing similar functions.
(14)
To accumulate its fund from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested.
(15)
To adopt, alter, amend or repeal its own by-laws, rules and regulations governing the manner in which its business may be transacted and in which the powers granted to it may be enjoyed, as the authority may deem necessary or expedient in facilitating its business.
(16)
To do all things necessary and convenient to carry out the powers expressly conferred by the amendment upon the authority.
F.
The acquisition, construction, improvement, betterment, expansion or extension of any undertaking or project of the authority, and the issuance in anticipation of the collection of revenues of such undertaking or project, of bonds to provide funds to pay he whole or a part of the costs thereof, may be authorized by resolution or resolutions of the authority which may be adopted at a regular or special meeting by a majority of the members of the authority. Unless otherwise provided therein, such resolution or resolutions shall take effect immediately and need not be laid over or published or posted. The authority in determining the cost of any undertaking or project for which revenue bonds are to be issued may include all costs as hereinbefore defined. Such bonds shall bear such date or dates, mature at such time or times, not exceeding thirty (30) years from their respective dates, bear interest at such rate or rates not exceeding seven (7) percent per annum, and may be in such denominations and may carry such registration privileges and be subject to redemption and may contain such terms, covenants, assignments and conditions as the resolution or resolutions authorizing the issuance of such bonds may provide. Except as herein provided to the contrary, such bonds shall be issued and validated in the Superior Court of Lamar County, Georgia, in the same manner as revenue bonds of municipalities are issued and validated under the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. Laws 1937, p. 761—774; chapter 87-8 of the Code of Georgia [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.]), as now and hereafter amended. In the proceedings to validate such bonds, the City of Barnesville and County of Lamar development authority shall be named as party defendant. In event no bill of exceptions is filed within the time prescribed by law, or if filed, the judgment validating the bonds shall be affirmed by the Supreme Court of Georgia, such judgment shall be forever conclusive as to the validity of said bonds and the security therefor against said authority.
G.
All property, real and personal, the title to which is vested in the authority, and all debentures, notes, bonds, and revenue bonds issued by the authority, and interest thereon and income therefrom, shall be exempt from state, county, city and local taxation for any purpose.
H.
It shall be the duty of the authority to have all persons handling funds of the authority fully and adequately bonded for their faithful accounting for such funds.
I.
The authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability or obligation, against the State of Georgia, Lamar County, or any municipality therein. No debt, liability or obligation of the authority shall be considered a pledge or loan of the credit of the State of Georgia, or any county, city or other subdivision thereof.
J.
If the authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project or use any project already constructed on lands, the titles to which shall be in the County of Lamar or any incorporated city or town in said county, the governing authorities of the County of Lamar and of said municipalities, respectively, are authorized in their discretion to convey title to such lands, including any improvements thereon, without cost, to the authority. Said county or municipalities may donate to said authority, real estate, personal property and services for any such project. Any such land, improvements, or personal property so conveyed or donated to the authority may be mortgaged, conveyed, or pledged to secure obligations of the authority.
K. [Repealed, see Acts 1975, p. 1565]
L. The books and records of the authority shall be audited at least annually, at the expense of the authority, by a competent independent auditor; and the minutes and records of the same shall be filed in the office of the authority and shall be available for public inspection.
M. The authority shall exist and have all of said powers, and the right to exercise the same for its corporate purposes, regardless of whether or not it shall issue revenue anticipation obligations thereunder.
N. In addition to the purposes for which revenue anticipation obligations may be issued by counties, municipal corporations and political subdivisions as provided in article VII, section VII, paragraph V of the Constitution, the City of Barnesville and County of Lamar development authority is hereby authorized to issue revenue obligations to provide funds to be used by said authority in assisting, promoting, establishing and developing new industries, and assisting, promoting and expanding existing industry, agriculture, trade and commerce within the territorial limits of Lamar County, Georgia, as hereinafter provided. Said purposes are hereby found, determined and declared to be for the benefit of the citizens and residents of said county and to be an essential governmental function in relieving unemployment, improving the economy, limiting poor relief assistance, developing natural resources, and otherwise promoting the general welfare.
O. The said authority is created for the purpose of assisting, promoting, establishing and developing new industry, and assisting, promoting and expanding existing industry, agriculture, trade and commerce within the territorial limits of Lamar County, Georgia, both within and without the limits of municipalities therein, for the public good and general welfare of said county and its citizens. The authority shall not be operated for profit, is an institution of purely public charity, and is an industrial development agency qualified to receive loans and other assistance from the industrial development commission of the State of Georgia, or other governmental agencies.
P. In carrying out the foregoing objectives, the authority shall be deemed to be engaging in such functions of government, activities and transactions as the County of Lamar and the City of Barnesville are by law authorized to undertake.
Q. This amendment shall be self-executing and effective immediately upon proclamation of its ratification by the Governor and the first members of the authority shall be appointed within thirty (30) days after such proclamation.
(Acts 1964, Extra. Sess., p. 224; Res. of 4-4-80)
Editor's note— The above section is a local constitutional amendment to article VII, section V, paragraph I of the Georgia Constitution of 1945. Such amendment will be repealed on July 1, 1987, unless specifically carried forward pursuant to article 11, section 1, paragraph 4 of the Georgia Constitution of 1983.
Cross reference— Barnesville-Lamar County industrial development authority, § 2-2-136 et seq.
Secs. 1-2-252—1-2-260. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - WATER AND SEWER AUTHORITY

Sec. 1-2-261. - Short title.
This Act [division] shall be known and may be cited as the "Lamar County Water and Sewer Authority Act."
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 1)
Sec. 1-2-262. - Creation of authority; composition; appointment of members.
(a)
There is created a public body corporation to be called the Lamar County Water and Sewer Authority and by such name, style, and title, such body may contract and be contracted with, bring and defend actions, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity, except that the authority or the trustee acting under any trust indenture shall in no event be liable for any torts committed by any of its officers, agents, or employees.
(b)
The authority shall consist of five (5) members to be appointed by the governing authority of Lamar County. Three (3) members shall be appointed for initial terms of three (3) years and two (2) members shall be appointed for initial terms of two (2) years. Thereafter, all appointments shall be made for terms of three (3) years and until the successor is appointed and qualified.
(c)
Immediately after the passage of this Act and the appointment of the members by the governing body of Lamar County, the members of the authority shall enter upon their duties, and as soon as it is practicable thereafter, they shall hold an organizational meeting. The members of the authority shall elect one of their number as chairman and another as vice chairman. The chairman of the Lamar County Board of Commissioners shall not be authorized to serve as chairman or vice chairman of the authority. The members shall also elect a secretary and a treasurer, or a secretary-treasurer, who need not be members of the authority. Three (3) members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the authority of the quorum to exercise all of the rights and powers of and perform all of the duties and obligations of the authority. The appointing governing authority may provide for compensation for the services of the members it appoints in such amounts as it may deem appropriate; provided, however, that such members shall be reimbursed for their actual expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties. The authority may make rules and regulations and adopt bylaws for its own government. The authority shall have perpetual existence.
(d)
The county board of commissioners hereby authorizes that the chairman of the water and sewer authority shall be compensated in an amount as determined from time to time by the authority. The board further authorizes that the remaining members of the authority shall be compensated in an amount as determined from time to time by the authority.
(e)
The compensation payable to the chairman and members of the authority shall be paid from the funds of the authority.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 2; Res. of 8-26-03)
Sec. 1-2-263. - Vacancies in membership.
Any vacancy in the membership of the authority shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term by the governing authority of the county or municipality which appointed the member who has vacated his or her membership on the authority.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 3)
Sec. 1-2-264. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the term:
(1)
Authority means the Lamar County Water and Sewer Authority created by section 1-2-262.
(2)
Cost of the project means and embraces the cost of construction; the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements, and franchises acquired; the cost of all machinery and equipment; financing charges, interest prior to and during construction, and for one (1) year after completion of construction, the cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal, and legal expenses, and of plans and specifications, and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project; administrative expense; and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing authorized in this Act, the construction of the project, the placing of the same in operation, and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. The cost of any project may also include a fund or funds for the creation of a debt service reserve, a renewal and replacement reserve, and such other reserves as may be reasonably required by the authority with respect to the financing and operating of its projects and as may be authorized by any bond resolution or trust agreement or indenture pursuant to the provisions of which the issuance of any bonds may be authorized. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act for such project.
(3)
Project means and includes the acquisition and construction of systems, plants, works, instrumentalities, and properties: (A) used or useful in connection with the obtaining of a water supply and the conservation, treatment, distribution, and sale of water for public and private uses; or (B) used or useful in connection with the collection, treatment, and disposal of sewage and waste; together with all parts of any such system, plant, work, instrumentality, and property and all appurtenances thereto, including lands, easements, rights in land, water rights, contract rights, franchises, approaches, dams, reservoirs, generating stations, sewage disposal plants, intercepting sewers, trunk-connecting and other sewers and water mains, filtration works, pumping stations, and equipment.
(4)
Revenue bonds and bonds means revenue bonds authorized to be issued pursuant to this Act, and revenue bonds may be issued by the authority as authorized in this Act without any other actions or proceedings.
(5)
Self-liquidating means any project which, in the sole judgment of the authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom, including but not limited to any contractual payments, and all properties used, leased, and sold in connection therewith, together with any grants, will be sufficient to pay the cost of operating, maintaining, repairing, improving, and extending the project and to pay the principal and interest of the revenue bonds which may be issued for the cost of such project or projects.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 4)
Sec. 1-2-265. - Powers.
The authority shall have the power:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at its pleasure;
(2)
To acquire by purchase, lease, gift, or otherwise, and to hold, lease, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(3)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real property or rights of easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue, and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority, the authority being under no obligation to accept and pay for any property condemned under this Act except from the funds provided under the authority of this Act; and in any proceedings to condemn, such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the action or proceedings as may be just to the authority and to the owners of the property to be condemned, provided no property shall be acquired under the provisions of this Act upon which any lien or other encumbrance exists, unless at the time such property is so acquired a sufficient sum of money be deposited in trust to pay and redeem the fair value of such lien or encumbrance;
(4)
To enter into an agreement with Lamar County or with any other political subdivision or municipal corporation of the state with respect to acquiring a source of water supply; providing sewerage service, preparing engineering data, plans, and specifications for a water and sewerage system; extending water mains; apportioning the costs of constructing, extending, and maintaining a water or sewerage system, or both; providing for the testing and inspection of facilities constructed; providing for rates to be charged for water and sewerage services furnished to users of such system; providing for the reading of meters and keeping of pertinent records; or apportioning or designating the responsibility for any functions normally maintained by a water and sewerage system at the most reasonable cost possible;
(5)
To appoint, select, and employ officers, agents, and employees, including engineering, architectural, and construction experts, fiscal agents, and attorneys, and fix their respective compensations;
(6)
To make contracts and leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient thereto, including contracts for construction of projects and leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired, and any and all persons, firms, and corporations and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions, or agencies of the state and all special districts and all municipal corporations located in Lamar County are authorized to enter into contracts, leases, or agreements with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable; and without limiting the generality of this paragraph, authority is specifically granted to municipal corporations, special districts, and counties and to the authority to enter into contracts, lease agreements, or other undertakings relative to the furnishing of water and sewerage service and facilities or either of them by the authority to such municipal corporations, special districts, and counties to the authority for a term not exceeding fifty (50) years. As to any political subdivision, department, institution, or agency of this state and all special districts and municipal corporations located in Lamar County which shall enter into an agreement under the authority granted in this paragraph or in paragraph (4) of this section, the obligation to perform and fulfill such agreement shall constitute a general obligation of such entity for which its full faith and credit shall be and is pledged;
(7)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate, and manage projects, as defined in this Act, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the authority or from such proceeds and any grant from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof or from the State of Georgia or any agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision thereof;
(8)
To make loans with, and accept grants or loans of money or materials or property of any kind from, the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may impose;
(9)
To make loans with, and accept grants or loans of money, materials, or property of any kind from, the State of Georgia or any agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or such agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision may impose;
(10)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes, to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(11)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, including the power to make short-term loans and to approve, execute, and deliver appropriate evidence of any such indebtedness, provided no such power is in conflict with the Constitution or general laws of this state; and
(12)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this Act.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 5)
Sec. 1-2-266. - Financing projects.
The authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties, and liabilities vested in the authority created in this Act, shall have power and is authorized at one (1) time, or from time to time, to borrow money for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost, as defined in this Act, of any one (1) or more projects and to provide by resolution for issuance of negotiable revenue bonds for that purpose. The principal and interest of such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund provided in this Act for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding thirty (30) years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority, and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds. The interest rate or rates to be borne by any bonds and the time of payment of such interest shall be fixed, and with respect to any interest rate which floats in response to a variable, the method of calculation shall be fixed by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of all bonds. Any bonds issued by the authority shall be exempt from all laws of the State of Georgia governing usury or prescribing or limiting interest rates to be borne by bonds or other obligations.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 6)
Sec. 1-2-267. - Revenue bonds—Form; denominations; registration; place of payment.
The authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company inside or outside the state. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the authority may determine, and provision may be made for registration, conversion, and exchangeability privileges and for rights of redemption and may contain such other terms, covenants, assignments, and conditions as the resolution or resolutions authorizing the issuance of such bonds may provide.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 7)
Sec. 1-2-268. - Same—Signatures; seals.
All such bonds shall bear the manual or facsimile signature of the chairman or vice chairman of the authority and the attesting manual or facsimile signature of the secretary, assistant secretary, or secretary-treasurer of the authority, and the official seal of the authority shall be affixed thereto, either manually or by facsimile. The signature of one of such officers shall be placed manually on each bond. Any coupons attached thereto shall bear the manual or facsimile signatures of the chairman or vice chairman and the secretary, assistant secretary, or secretary-treasurer of the authority. Any coupon may bear the facsimile signature of and may be manually signed, sealed, and attested on behalf of the authority by those persons who at the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of issuance of such bonds such persons may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office. In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bond or on any coupon shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes, the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 8)
Sec. 1-2-269. - Same—Negotiability; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall have and are declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the laws of the State of Georgia pertaining to negotiable instruments. Such bonds are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose and the said bonds, their transfer, and the income therefrom shall be exempt from all taxation within the state.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 9)
Sec. 1-2-270. - Same—Sale; price.
The authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be in the best interest of the authority.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 10)
Sec. 1-2-271. - Same—Proceeds of bonds.
The proceeds of such bonds shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of the project or projects, and unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in any trust indenture, additional bonds may in like manner be issued to provide the amount of any deficit, which, unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in any trust indenture, shall be deemed to be of the same issue and shall be entitled to pay from the same fund without preference or priority of the bonds first issued for the same purpose. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which such bonds are issued, the surplus shall be used for paying the principal of and the interest on such bonds.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 11)
Sec. 1-2-272. - Same—Interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim certificates, or temporary bonds, with or without coupons, exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 12)
Sec. 1-2-273. - Same—Replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The authority may also provide for the replacement of any bond which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 13)
Sec. 1-2-274. - Same—Conditions precedent to issuance; object of issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any conditions or things other than those proceedings, conditions, and things which are specified or required by this Act. In the discretion of the authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this Act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular, special, or adjourned meeting of the authority by a majority of the quorum as provided in this Act.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 14)
Sec. 1-2-275. - Same—Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of the State of Georgia or Lamar County nor a pledge of the faith and credit of such state or county, but such bonds shall be payable solely from the fund provided for in this Act, and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently obligate such state or county to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for their payment, and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the provisions enumerated in this section.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 15)
Sec. 1-2-276. - Same—Trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the authority, any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank inside or outside the state having the powers of a trust company. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, charges, revenues, and earnings to be received by the authority. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bond or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair, and insurance of the project, and the custody, safeguarding, and application of all moneys; may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the authority and shall be satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefor; may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depositary of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other moneys be satisfactory to such purchasers; and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state or act as such depositary and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee, and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of private corporations. In addition, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation, and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 16)
Sec. 1-2-277. - Same—To whom proceeds of bond shall be paid.
The authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in any trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who or any agency, bank, or trust company which shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes of this Act, subject to such regulations as this Act and such resolution or trust indenture may provide.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 17)
Sec. 1-2-278. - Same—Sinking fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls, charges, and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, tolls, charges, earnings, and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued, unless otherwise pledged and allocated together with any grant funds, may be pledged and allocated by the authority to the payment of the principal of and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or the trust indenture may provide, and such funds so pledged from whatever source received, which pledge may include funds received from one (1) or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture, into a sinking fund which shall be pledged to and charged with the payment of: (1) the interest on such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due; (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due; (3) the necessary charges of paying agents for paying principal and interest; and (4) any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as hereinabove provided. The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in any trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be a fund for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or of any trust indenture, surplus moneys in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds, and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall immediately be canceled and shall not again be issued.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 18)
Sec. 1-2-279. - Same—Remedies of bondholders.
Any holders of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights given in this Act may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by any trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia or granted under this Act or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this Act or by such resolution or trust indenture, to be performed by the authority or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 19)
Sec. 1-2-280. - Same—Refunding bonds.
The authority is authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of refunding bonds of the authority for the purpose of refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon, and to refund any revenue bonds issued by any city, county, or authority with respect to any facilities to be acquired by the authority from any such city, county, or authority. The issuance of such revenue refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the authority in respect to the same shall be governed by the provisions of this Act insofar as such provisions may be applicable.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 20)
Sec. 1-2-281. - Same—Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act or any action against such authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Lamar County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall likewise be brought in such court, which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 21)
Sec. 1-2-282. - Same—Validation.
Bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure provided for in Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., the "Revenue Bond Law," as now or hereafter amended. The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action any municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality of the State of Georgia or any other party which has contracted with the authority to furnish or receive the services and facilities of the water and sewerage system for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated, and such municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality or other party shall be required to show cause, if any exists, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts adjudicated as security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The bonds when validated and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds, against the authority issuing the same, and any municipality, county, authority, subdivision, instrumentality, or other party contracting with the authority.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 22)
Sec. 1-2-283. - Same—Interest of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence of the authority or of its officers, employees, or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency, or authority will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds. The provisions of this Act shall be for the benefit of the authority and the holders of any such bonds, and upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions of this Act shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 23)
Sec. 1-2-284. - Moneys received considered trust funds.
All moneys received pursuant to the authority of this Act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as proceeds of short-term loans, as grants or other contributions, or as revenues, fees, and earnings shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this Act.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 24)
Sec. 1-2-285. - Purpose of the authority.
Without limiting the generality of any provisions of this Act, the general purpose of the authority is declared to be that of acquiring, equipping, constructing, maintaining, and operating adequate water supply, treatment, and distribution facilities and sewerage collection, treatment, and distribution facilities; making such facilities and the services thereof available to public and private consumers and users located in Lamar County and its environs, including municipalities inside or outside such county, and to adjoining counties; extending and improving such facilities; and doing all things deemed by the authority necessary, convenient, and desirable for and incident to the efficient and proper development and operation for such type of undertakings.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 25)
Sec. 1-2-286. - Rates, charges, and revenues; use.
The authority is authorized to prescribe, fix, and collect rates, fees, tolls, or charges and to revise from time to time and collect such rates, fees, tolls, or charges for the services, facilities, or commodities furnished, and in anticipation of the collection of the revenues of such undertaking or project, to issue revenue bonds as provided in this Act to finance in whole or in part the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, betterment, or extension of the water and sewerage system, and to pledge to the punctual payment of such bonds and interest thereon all or any part of the revenues of such undertaking or project, including the revenues of improvements, betterments, or extensions thereto thereafter made.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 26)
Sec. 1-2-287. - Tax-exempt status of authority.
The properties of the authority, both real and personal, are declared to be public properties used for the benefit and welfare of the people of the State of Georgia and not for purposes of private or corporate benefit and income, and such properties and the authority shall be exempt from all taxes and special assessments of any city, county, or the state or any political subdivision thereof.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 27)
Sec. 1-2-288. - Rules and regulations for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed under the provisions of this Act.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 28)
Sec. 1-2-289. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The provisions of this Act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized by this Act and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 29)
Sec. 1-2-290. - Liberal construction of Act.
This Act, being for the welfare of various political subdivisions of this state and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes of this Act.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 30)
Sec. 1-2-291. - Effect of partial invalidity of Act.
The provisions of this Act are severable, and if any of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of any competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 31)
Sec. 1-2-292. - Other existing powers and authority.
This Act does not in any way take from Lamar County or any municipality located therein or in any adjoining county the authority to own, operate, and maintain water systems or issue revenue bonds as is provided by Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., the "Revenue Bond Law."
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 32)
Sec. 1-2-293. - Effective date.
This Act shall become effective upon its approval by the Governor or upon its becoming law without such approval.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 32[.1])
Sec. 1-2-294. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
(Acts 1989, Act. No. 81, § 33)
