Chapter 2-1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 2-1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances, resolutions and other enactments embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated, the Lamar County Code and may be so cited.
Sec. 2-1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
The following definitions and rules of construction shall apply to all ordinances and resolutions of the board of commissioners unless the context requires otherwise:
Generally. The ordinary signification shall be applied to all words, except words of art, or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter, when they shall have the signification attached to them by experts in such trade, or with reference to such subject matter. In all interpretations the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the board of commissioners, keeping in view, at all times, the old law, the evil, and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(a), (b).
Adequate. The word "adequate" means equal to what is required, suitable to the case or occasion, fully sufficient, proportionate, satisfactory.
Aforesaid. The word "aforesaid" usually means next before, unless the context requires a different signification.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(4).
All. The word "all" means every one, or the whole number of particulars.
Also. The word "also" means "in like manner," "likewise," "in addition," "besides," "as well," "further," "too."
As soon as possible. The term "as soon as possible" means within a reasonable time, having due regard to all the circumstances.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(5).
At. The term "at" may mean "in," "near," "within," or "about." Its primary idea is nearness, and it is less definite than "in" or "on."
Board of commissioners. The words "board of commissioners" shall mean the board of commissioners of Lamar County, Georgia.
Code. The term "code" means the Lamar County Code as designated in section 2-1-1 above.
Computation of time. When a number of days is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege, or the discharge of any duty, only the first or last day shall be counted; and if the last day shall fall on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise such privilege or to discharge such duty. When the last day prescribed for such action shall fall on a public or legal holiday as set forth in state law, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following day to exercise such privilege or to discharge such duty; however, when said following day shall be a Saturday or Sunday, the party shall have through the following Monday to exercise such privilege or to discharge such duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven (7) days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(3).
County. The words "the county" or "this county" shall mean Lamar County, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department of the county to do some act or make certain inspections it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Following. The word "following" usually means next after, unless the context requires a different signification.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(8).
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(4).
Joint authority. A joint authority given to any number of persons, or officers, may be executed by a majority of them, unless it is otherwise declared.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(5).
May. The word "may" is permissive.
State Law reference— Definition of "may," O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(10).
Month. The word "month" means a calendar month.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(11).
Must. The word "must" is mandatory.
Number. The singular and plural number shall include the other, unless expressly excluded.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(6).
Oath. An "oath" includes an affirmation.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(12).
Or, and. "Or" may be read "and" and "and" may be read "or" if the sense required it.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
State Law reference— Definition of "person," O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(14).
Preceding. The word "preceding" usually means next before, unless the context requires a different signification.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(15).
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(16).
Shall. The word "shall" is mandatory.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature or subscription. A "signature" or "subscription" includes the mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(19).
State. The words "state" or "the state" shall mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public highways in the county.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
State Law reference— Tense of words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(7).
Until a certain day. The term "until a certain day" includes all of such day.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(21).
Week. The word "week" shall be construed to mean seven (7) days.
Whereas. The term "whereas" means "considering that."
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(22).
Writing. The term "writing" includes printing and all numerals.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(23).
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(24).
Sec. 2-1-3. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as those of legislation existing of the adoption date of this Code shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 2-1-4. - Matters not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any legislation promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the county, or any evidence of the county's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the county;
(3)
Any right or franchise granted by the county to any person;
(4)
Any legislation dedicating, naming, defining, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the county;
(5)
Any appropriation or legislation authorizing appropriations or gifts;
(6)
Any legislation providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor;
(7)
Any legislation establishing subdivision regulations or dedicating or accepting plat or subdivision in the county;
(8)
Any zoning ordinance or resolution;
(9)
Any legislation which is temporary, although general in nature;
(10)
Any legislation which is special, although permanent in nature;
(11)
Any legislation levying or otherwise relating to taxes;
(12)
Any legislation establishing fees.
Sec. 2-1-5. - Code does not affect prior offenses, rights, etc.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or permitting any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any law in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
Sec. 2-1-6. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of the section, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
Sec. 2-1-7. - Effective date of ordinances and resolutions.
Ordinances and resolutions which do not provide for their taking effect at a different time, take effect immediately after their passage, or as otherwise provided by law.
Sec. 2-1-8. - Effect of repeal of ordinances and resolutions.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance or resolution shall not revive any ordinances or resolutions in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance or resolution shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance or resolution repealed.
Sec. 2-1-9. - Amendments; effect of new ordinances and resolutions; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances and resolutions passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances and resolutions, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances and resolutions as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances and resolutions until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted anew by the board of commissioners.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of the Lamar County Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:..." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That the Lamar County Code, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which said section reads as follows:..." The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
Sec. 2-1-10. - Severability.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the board of commissioners that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the board of commissioners without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
Sec. 2-1-11. - Violations.
(a)
Whenever in this Code any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in this Code the doing of an act is declared to be unlawful or a misdemeanor, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision shall be punished to the maximum extent allowed in O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60.
(b)
Each day any violation of this Code shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(c)
In addition to the penalties provided in section or elsewhere in this Code, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any ordinance shall be deemed a public nuisance, and may be abated by the county as provided by law or ordinance. Each day that such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
Cross reference— Magistrate court, § 1-3-26 et seq.
