ARTICLE VII. - CODE OF ETHICS

Sec. 2-2-308. - Purpose and intent.
The purpose of this code of ethics is to establish ethical standards of conduct for all officials and employees of Lamar County by identifying acts or actions that are incompatible with the best interests of the community and the organization and by requiring disclosure by such officials and employees of private financial, or other interests, in matters affecting the county.
Those covered officials and employees are bound to observe in their official acts the highest standards of behavior and to faithfully discharge the duties and responsibilities of their office, regardless of personal considerations, recognizing that the public interest must be their primary concern.
Covered officials and employees shall not exceed their authority or breach the law, or ask others to do so, and they shall work in full cooperation with other public officials and employees unless prohibited from doing so by law or by officially recognized confidentiality of their work.
(Ord. of 3-15-99, § I(1); Ord. of 10-2-01, § I(1))
Sec. 2-2-309. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in the Code of Ethics of Lamar County, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
(1)
Code of ethics means the Code of Ethics of Lamar County.
(2)
County means Lamar County, Georgia.
(3)
Covered official means any member of the Board of Commissioners of Lamar County and any person who has been appointed to a position by the Board of Commissioners of Lamar County including, but not limited to, the county administrator, department heads, and any member of the planning commission, the board of appeals, or any other appointed board. The county attorney is subject to the ethical considerations and disciplinary rules enacted by the State Bar of Georgia, and is also considered a covered official insofar as the application of the division. However, enforcement shall be through procedures established by the State Bar of Georgia.
(4)
Gift means the transfer of anything of economic value, regardless of form, without adequate and lawful consideration. Gift also means a subscription, membership, loan, forgiveness of debt, advance or deposit of money or anything of value, conveyed or transferred.
(5)
Immediate family means parents, spouse, and children.
(Ord. of 3-15-99, § I(2); Ord. of 10-2-01, § I(2))
Sec. 2-2-310. - Ethical considerations.
Notwithstanding any provisions of law to the contrary, each covered official and employee of Lamar County shall:
(1)
Uphold the Constitution, laws and regulations of the United States, the State of Georgia, and all governments herein and never be a party to their evasion;
(2)
Never discriminate by the dispensing of special favors or privileges to anyone, whether or not for compensation;
(3)
Not engage in any business with the government, or allow any member of his/her immediate family to engage in any business with the government, either directly or indirectly, which is inconsistent with the conscientious performance of his/her governmental duties;
(4)
Never use any information coming to him/her confidentially in the performance of governmental duties as a means for making private profit;
(5)
Expose corruption wherever discovered;
(6)
Never solicit, accept, or agree to accept gifts, loans, gratuities, discounts, favors, hospitality, or services from any person, association, or corporation for himself/herself, or any member of his/her immediate family, under circumstances from which it could reasonably be inferred that a major purpose of the donor is to influence the performance or failure to perform any of the official's/employees official duties. For gifts, loans, gratuities, discounts, favors, hospitality, or services solicited, accepted, or agreed to accept under circumstances from which it cannot be reasonably inferred that a major purpose of the donor was to influence the performance of the official's/employee's official duties, the following rules shall apply: A covered official shall publicly disclose, prior to discussing or taking any official action on any matter involving the donor, any gift or campaign contribution (cash or in kind) received by him/her, or any member of his/her immediate family, greater than one hundred dollars ($100.00). Receipt of gifts and campaign contributions valued at five hundred dollars ($500.00) or more by a covered official, or member of his/her immediate family, will prohibit the covered official from participating or taking official action on any matter involving the donor;
(7)
Never accept any economic opportunity for himself/herself, or any member of his/her immediate family, under circumstance where he/she knows or should know that there is a substantial possibility that the opportunity is being afforded with intent to influence his/her conduct in the performance or failure to perform his/her official duties. All business relationships, regardless of the dollar amount involved, between a covered official, or a member of his/her immediate family, and anyone having business with the county shall be publicly disclosed prior to any discussion or official action being taken on the matter. Should the business relationship provide a covered official, or a member of his/her immediate family, with at least three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) on an annual basis, such covered official shall be prohibited from participating or taking official action on any matter involving the person with whom such business relationship exists; and
(8)
Never engage in other conduct which is unbecoming to an official/employee or which constitutes a breach of public trust.
(9)
Nothing in the above list is meant to limit or replace in any way other federal, state and county ethical requirements for covered officials and employees, including but not limited to the goals, requirements and proscriptions of the United States and Georgia Constitutions, the prohibitions set forth in Title 16 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, and regulations set forth in Lamar County Code section 1-2-7(b) as to oaths of office, and section 2-2-33 as to nepotism. Such other ethical requirements are considered to be a part of this division and failure to abide by same will subject violators to consequences set forth herein.
(Ord. of 3-15-99, § I(3); Ord. of 10-2-01, § I(3))
Sec. 2-2-311. - Procedure for alleged violations.
(a)
Alleged violations of this code of ethics must be submitted via written, sworn complaint to the chief administrative officer of the Board of Commissioners of Lamar County. Consistent with the open meetings laws, the board of commissioners shall review all complaints against covered officials and employees except those complaints filed against a member of the board of commissioners. A majority of the full board of commissioners must agree that a sufficient basis has been given to warrant a public hearing. Certain violations alleged against employees may, at the board's discretion, be referred to be handled through disciplinary procedures established by the employee or officer's department, or pursuant to any present or future county personnel policy.
(b)
The board of commissioners shall conduct the public hearing to determine whether, based upon clear and convincing evidence, the covered official or employee violated the code of ethics. Any such public hearings shall allow basic due process rights to the accused, including but not limited to the right to counsel and to present evidence, and shall be conducted in accordance with the Georgia Administrative Procedure Act, O.C.G.A. § 50-13-13 et seq., or such other method agreed upon by the commissioners and reasonably calculated to provide a full and fair hearing to the accused. Covered officials and employees are subject to the following penalties and action for violations of this code of ethics:
(1)
Written reprimand or public censure;
(2)
Recovery of value transferred or received by the county;
(3)
Cancellation of the contract or rejection of the bid or offer;
(4)
A monetary fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00); and
(5)
Demotion or termination.
(c)
If a complaint is received by the administrator of the board of commissioners which alleges a violation of the code of ethics by a member of the board of commissioners, an independent review board will be formed if the complaint alleges sufficient facts which, if proven to be true, would be a violation of the code of ethics. The chief superior court judge of the judicial circuit in which Lamar County lies shall make the determination of whether or not a review board should be impaneled. If a review board is needed, three (3) county attorneys within reasonably close geographical proximity to the county and chosen by the chief judge will be requested to conduct a public hearing based upon the complaint. A majority vote, based on clear and convincing evidence, will determine the existence of violation.
(Ord. of 3-15-99, § I(4); Ord. of 10-2-01, § I(4))
Secs. 2-2-312—2-2-329. - Reserved.
