ARTICLE VIII. - SHERIFF[9]

Footnotes:
--- (9) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1966 Ga. Laws, page 2029, relating to the county sheriff. Amendments to the Act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Section 1. - Abolishing fee system compensation; annual salary established.
The present mode of compensating the sheriff of Early County, known as the fee system, is hereby abolished, and in lieu thereof, an annual salary for such officer is prescribed as hereinafter provided.
Section 2. - [Reserved.]
Editor's note— Section 2 of 1966 Ga. Laws, page 2029, provided for the salary of the county sheriff. Minimum annual salaries for sheriffs in this state are now determined by O.C.G.A. § 15-16-20.
Section 3. - Collection of fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, penalties and all other funds; statement.
After the effective date of this Act, said officer shall diligently and faithfully undertake to collect all fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, allowances, penalties, funds, moneys and all other emoluments and perquisites formerly allowed him as compensation for services in any capacity, including those for his services as ex officio sheriff of the City Court of Blakely, and shall receive and hold the same in trust for said county as public moneys, and shall pay the same into the county treasury on or before the 10th day of each month next following the month in which they were collected or received. At the time of each such monthly payment into the county treasury, the sheriff shall furnish the governing authority of the county a detailed, itemized statement, under oath, of all such funds received during the preceding month by such officer and paid into the county treasury. The statement shall show the respective amounts of moneys collected and the sources thereof.
Section 4. - Personnel; appointment; compensation; duties and assignments; removal.
The sheriff shall have the authority to appoint such deputies, clerks, assistants and other personnel as he shall deem necessary to efficiently and effectively discharge the official duties of his office; provided, however, that the aggregate sum of all such personnel's compensation shall not exceed a figure to be fixed annually by the governing authority of Early County within such budgetary limits as the governing authority shall annually determine. It shall be within the sole power and authority of the sheriff, during his term of office, to designate and name the person or persons who shall be employed as such deputies, clerks, assistants or other employees, and to prescribe their duties and assignments, and to remove or replace any of such employees at will and within his sole discretion. The compensation to be received by each employee of the sheriff's office, other than the sheriff's compensation, shall be fixed and determined by the sheriff within the above budgetary constraints provided for herein.
(1970 Ga. Laws, page 2308; 1974 Ga. Laws, page 2185; 1977 Ga. Laws, page 2505)
Section 5. - Operational expenses of county jail.
The expenses of operating the county jail shall be met from the funds of Early County, including the method and manner of feeding prisoners confined therein. All expenses connected with the operation of the sheriff's office and the county jail, including out-of-county travel expenses and the purchase, operation and maintenance of all motor vehicles, shall be provided for by Early County as is provided for in section 7 of this Act.
(1977 Ga. Laws, page 2505)
Section 6. - Entitled to receive fees and commissions prior to effective date; rewards.
The sheriff shall be entitled to receive all fees and commissions which have been earned and which have accrued to him prior to the effective date of this Act but which are collected subsequent thereto. The sheriff shall be authorized to retain as his own compensation all rewards which he shall earn and be entitled to receive after the effective date of this Act.
Section 7. - Operating expenses of sheriff's office; including compensation of personnel.
The necessary operating expenses of the sheriff's office, expressly including the compensation of all personnel and employees, shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. All supplies, materials, surety bonds, furnishings, furniture, utilities, weapons, ammunition, vehicles and equipment, and the repair, replacement and maintenance thereof, as may be reasonably required in discharging the official duties of said office, shall be furnished by the county and shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. The determination of such requirements shall be at the sole discretion of the governing authority of Early County.
Section 8. - Bookkeeping; annual audit.
The sheriff shall maintain a complete and accurate set of books in which the fiscal affairs of his office shall be recorded. The governing authority of Early County shall, at least once each calendar year, cause the books of the sheriff's office to be audited by an approved accountant selected by the governing authority.
