ARTICLE III. - CONSTRUCTION CODES AND REGULATIONS[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Adoption and continuation of state minimum standard codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-21; state-wide application of minimum standard codes, codes requiring adoption by municipality or county, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25; enforcement of codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 10-239—10-269. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CONSTRUCTION CODES

Sec. 10-270. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to provide certain minimum standards and requirements in all matters relating to buildings and structures and the uses thereof. In every case where no standards or requirements are prescribed by the statutes of the state, by regulations issued under the statutes of the state, by regulations of the state statutes, by this chapter or by subsequent ordinances enacted by the county, compliance with the codes in this division shall be considered prima facia evidence of meeting such minimum standards and requirements.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. II, § 6.2-1)
Sec. 10-271. - Codes declared prima facie minimum requirements.
(a)
Enumeration. The following codes, the latest edition as adopted and amended by the state department of community affairs, shall be enforced by the county:
(1)
International Building Code (ICC);
(2)
National Electrical Code (NFPA);
(3)
International Fuel Gas Code (ICC);
(4)
International Mechanical Code (ICC);
(5)
International Plumbing Code (ICC);
(6)
International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings (ICC);
(7)
International Energy Conservation Code (ICC);
(8)
International Fire Code (ICC);
(9)
International Existing Building Code (ICC);
(10)
International Property Maintenance Code (ICC); and
(11)
Any other codes deemed appropriate by the board of commissioners for the safety and welfare of the county's citizens.
(b)
Additional codes. The latest edition of the following codes, as adopted and amended by the state department of community affairs, are hereby adopted by references as though they were copied fully in the subsection:
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code (ICC).
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), § 6.2-2; Res. of 11-2-2009, § 1)
State Law reference— Adoption and continuation of state minimum standard codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-21; state-wide application of minimum standard codes, codes requiring adoption by municipality or county, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25; enforcement of codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26; authority to adopt technical codes, O.C.G.A. § 36-13-1.
Secs. 10-272—10-290. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS

Sec. 10-291. - New construction or restoration.
(a)
All new construction, whether newly platted property or subdivided lots of record must comply with applicable development standard, i.e., setback regulations, etc.
(b)
Restoration of structures which do not meet the development standards, i.e., setback requirements, etc. which have been destroyed or damaged by fire, explosion, act of God or by public enemy to the extent of 75 percent of its market value shall thereafter be made to conform to the provisions of this regulation unless there is the granting of a variance. Variances as outlined in section 34-50 are related to topographical or other peculiarities of the land, not any action of the landowner. If such damage is less than 75 percent, then the structure may be restored to the same use and site as before. No further reduction in standards will be allowed. Building permits to initiate restoration of such structures shall be obtained within one year of the occurrence of the damages, otherwise no substandard restoration shall be allowed.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. II, § 6.2-3)
Sec. 10-292. - Flood zone regulations.
Any person having intent to place any building or structure in an area designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) as being a floodprone area must first complete an elevation certificate, which may be obtained from the building department. All construction in these areas must conform to FEMA's flood zone construction regulations. A flood elevation certificate must be provided prior to permit issuance and another submitted after the floor is in place and an actual floor elevation can be obtained.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. II, § 6.2-4)
Sec. 10-293. - Manufactured home requirements.
No manufactured home shall be occupied or connected to electrical service until the manufactured home is placed in accordance with the state rules and regulations for manufactured housing and the following requirements have been met:
(1)
Sewage disposal and potable water supply. The sewage disposal system and the potable water system must be connected and approved by the proper regulating authority.
(2)
Mobile homes set up in flood zones. Any mobile home set up in an area designated by Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) as being in a floodprone area must be set up on poured concrete foundation pads of no less than eight inches by 24 inches by 24 inches, with anchors set into the concrete for the purpose of attaching tie-downs from mobile home. The home must also be elevated to a height of no less than one foot above the base flood elevation. A flood elevation pre-certification must be completed before any permits will be issued to set up the mobile home. All mobile homes being set up in floodprone areas must meet FEMA regulations. Prior to approval, a certificate of the actual floor elevation must be submitted.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. II, § 6.2-5)
Secs. 10-294—10-319. - Reserved.
