ARTICLE X. - STATE COURT[11]
An Act to establish the city court of Blakely in and for the county of Early, in the State of Georgia; to define its jurisdiction, powers, procedure and practice; to provide for the appointment of officers therefor; and for other purposes.

Footnotes:
--- (11) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is Ga. Laws 1906, page 161, as amended by Ga. Laws 1920, page 316, Ga. Laws 1929, page 377-378; Ga. Laws 1937, page 1166, Ga. Laws 1979, page 3611, Ga. Laws 1983, page 4205, Ga. Laws 2001, page 4511 and Ga. Laws 2003, page 4350, regarding the State Court of Early County. Amendments to the Acts are indicated by parenthetical history notes following the amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act, as amended. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— State courts of counties, O.C.G.A. § 15-7-1 et seq.; authority to create state courts by local law, O.C.G.A. § 15-7-2.

Section 1. -
From and after the passage of this Act, the city court of Blakely be, and the same is, hereby created and established, to be organized, located and held in the county site of said county, with jurisdiction, civil and criminal, over said county of Early, save where exclusive jurisdiction is vested in the superior court; provided, said court shall not have jurisdiction to correct errors in inferior courts by writ of certiorari nor to issue writs of mandamus, prohibition, quo warranto, or to foreclose mortgages on real estate; provided, further, the civil jurisdiction of said court shall not extend outside the militia district of the county site of said county where the principal sum claimed shall be fifty dollars or less; provided, further, that said court shall have jurisdiction in trover suits over the entire county without reference to the amount of damages claimed.
Section 2. -
The present judge and solicitor of the city court of Early county shall be the judge and solicitor, respectively, of the city court of Blakely until such time as their present terms as judge and solicitor of the city court of Early county would expire. The successors to said judge and solicitor shall be elected by the qualified voters of Early county at the same time and under the same rules and regulations as members of the General Assembly are elected, and shall hold their offices for four years and until their successors are elected and qualified. Vacancies in either of said offices shall be filled by appointment of the Governor, the appointees to hold office until the next regular election.
Section 3. -
No person shall be judge of said court who is less than twenty-seven years of age, who has not been a resident of Early county for at least one year prior to his appointment, and who has not been a practicing attorney at least five years preceding his appointment. The person appointed judge of said court shall, before entering upon the discharge of the duties of his office, take and subscribe the following oath: "I solemnly swear that I will faithfully and impartially administer justice without respect to persons, and do equal rights to the rich and poor, and so discharge and perform all of the duties which may be required of me as judge of the city court of Blakely, according to the best of my ability and understanding, agreeable to the Constitution and the laws of this State and the Constitution of the United States; so help me God." Said oath shall be forwarded to the Governor and filed in the executive department. The judge of said court shall receive as compensation a salary of one thousand eight hundred dollars per annum, such one thousand eight hundred dollars to be paid in monthly installments or payments of one hundred fifty dollars each, payable monthly out of the treasury of Early county, by the treasurer of said county, the first monthly payment of salary to become due thirty days after the approval of this Act by the Governor, and payment shall be made in succeeding months on dates corresponding to that of the first payment. The judge of said court may practice law in all courts except the city court of Blakely. He shall have authority to issue criminal warrants, returnable before himself or other magistrate having jurisdiction in the premises, warrants to dispossess tenants holding over and intruders, distress warrants, to issue, hear and dispose of writs of habeas corpus, to foreclose mortgages on personalty, to bind over defendants to the superior court of said county whenever during the progress of a trial the evidence tends to show that the defendant is guilty of a felony, and generally to do all the acts which judges of the city court of this State are authorized to do, unless otherwise provided in this Act.
(Ga. Laws 1920, page 316; Ga. Laws 1953, page 3067)
Section 3A. -
The annual salary of the judge of the State Court of Early County shall be fixed and determined by the governing authority of Early County. The judge's salary may not be reduced during his term of office and is payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of Early County.
(Ga. Laws 1975, page 2530; Ga. Laws 1979, page 3611; Ga. Laws 1983, page 4205)
Section 4. -
The solicitor of said court shall be at least twenty-one years of age, must be a resident of the county and a practicing attorney for three years preceding his appointment or election. In addition to his duties as prosecuting attorney in said court, he shall represent the State in all criminal cases carried to the superior court by certiorari, and from thence to the Supreme Court by bill of exceptions, and in cases carried direct to the Supreme Court by writ of error. Before entering upon the duties of his office, he shall give bond and security, to be approved by the judge of said court, in the sum of five hundred dollars, and take and subscribe an oath to faithfully and impartially perform the duties of his office. The judge of said court shall have authority to appoint a solicitor pro tem to act whenever the solicitor of said court is absent or disqualified.
(Ga. Laws 1911, page 229; Ga. Laws 1917, page 220; Ga. Laws 1920, page 316; Ga. Laws 1953, page 3067; Ga. Laws 1983, page 4205)
Section 4A. -
(a)
The annual salary of the solicitor of the State Court of Early County shall be fixed and determined by the governing authority of Early County. The solicitor's salary may not be reduced during his term of office and is payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of Early County.
(b)
The solicitor shall be authorized and empowered to appoint such assistants as he may deem necessary; provided, however, that unless prior approval is obtained from the governing authority of Early County, the compensation of any such assistant solicitor shall be the responsibility of the solicitor.
(Ga. Laws 1983, page 4205)
Section 4. - 1.
As authorized by paragraph (1) of subsection (c) of O.C.G.A. § 15-18-60, on and after January 1, 2005, the district attorney of the judicial circuit within which Early County is located shall represent the state in all criminal prosecutions brought in the State Court of Early County and shall perform the duties of the office of solicitor-general of the state court. The governing authority of Early County will contract annually with the district attorney to set a reasonable fee for this service. No election shall be held for the office of solicitor-general of the State Court of Early County for any term of office beginning on or after January 1, 2005. On and after January 1, 2005, any reference in this Act or in any other law of this state to the solicitor-general of the State Court of Early County shall be deemed to mean and to refer to the district attorney of the judicial circuit within which Early County is located.
(2001 Ga. Laws, page 4511)
Section 5. -
The clerk of the superior court of Early county shall be the clerk of the city court of Blakely, and he shall discharge all of the duties of said office.
Section 6. -
The sheriff of Early county shall be ex officio sheriff of the said city court of Blakely. Said sheriff shall be required to file an oath for the faithful performance of his duties as sheriff, said oath to be entered upon the minutes of said court. Before entering upon the discharge of his duties, said sheriff shall execute a bond with good security, to be approved by the judge of said court, in the sum of two thousand dollars, for the faithful discharge of the duties of his office. All the duties attaching to the office of the clerk of the superior court and to the office of sheriff of Early county shall attach to the office of clerk and sheriff of the city court of Blakely, respectively, and the judge of the city court is empowered to exercise the same authority over the clerk and sheriff as is now exercised by the judge of the superior courts over the clerks and sheriffs of the superior courts of this State.
Section 7. -
The fees of the clerk of said court shall be as follows: In all criminal cases tried, or where a plea of guilty is filed, three dollars, which shall include his whole fees, exclusive of subpoenas. In all civil cases, he shall be allowed, where suits are for $500.00 or less, for filing declaration and docketing cases, fifty cents; for issuing writs and making copies, one dollar; each additional copy, fifty cents; each subpoena, fifteen cents; subpoena duces tecum, twenty-five cents; each commission to take testimony, fifty cents; recording judgment proceedings, fifty cents; each claim case, one dollar; issuing and docketing fi. fa., fifty cents; each lien foreclosure, one dollar; filing proceedings in possessory warrants, one dollar; docketing distress or other warrants not provided for, fifty cents; provided, further, that where the amount sued for or involved is one hundred dollars or less, the entire cost of the clerk shall not exceed two dollars; for amounts over five hundred dollars, the clerk shall be entitled to the same costs as clerks of the superior courts. For attendance per diem upon said court, the clerk shall receive one-half the fees allowed for the same service in the superior court, the same to be paid to him out of the county treasury.
Section 8. -
The sheriff of said court shall receive as cost in criminal cases the same fees as are allowed him for said service in the superior court. In civil cases where the amount claimed exceeds one hundred dollars, the same fees as allowed the sheriff of the superior court; where the amount claimed or involved is less than one hundred dollars, the said sheriff shall receive for his services one-half the fees received for the same services in the superior court. The fees per diem of said sheriff for attendance upon said court in session and for summoning jury in said court shall be one-half of the fees allowed for similar service in the superior court, the same to be paid him out of the county treasury.
Section 9. -
Where a petition shall have been filed as much as twenty days and service perfected as much as fifteen days prior to any regular or quarterly term of the court, and the defendant shall fail, on or before the first day of such term, to file any answer or plea, or any other sufficient defense, the court shall grant judgment immediately without intervention of a jury in favor of the plaintiff; but in the discretion of the court, such default judgment may be opened during the same term and the defendant allowed to plead. This shall not operate to relieve the plaintiff from the necessity of proving the amount of his claim in cases of unliquidated damages. Where a plea or answer is filed at the first term of the court, and a jury is demanded, the case shall be continued until the next regular quarterly term of the court, unless, by consent of both parties, it be tried at the first term of the court. The court may, at the first term, hear and determine demurrers, and if all the defendant's pleas or answer be stricken, the court shall proceed to enter up judgment as in cases of default as above provided.
Section 10. -
Where a defendant in a criminal case has been arrested and has not given bail, the case may be tried at any monthly or special term, if no jury be demanded, or at any quarterly term, if a jury be demanded, subject only to the ordinary law of continuances. Where a defendant in a criminal case has been arrested and has given bail, the case may be tried at any term with his consent, but he may, as a matter of right, by entering a demand for a jury, cause the case to be continued until the next quarterly term of the court which shall convene within not less than three months from the date on which the accusation is filed against him. Defendants in criminal cases shall not have the right, in any case, to demand an indictment by the grand jury.
Section 11. -
The State Court of Early County shall be open always, as required by Chapter 7 of Title 15 of the O.C.G.A., but shall conduct trials at four regular terms commencing on the third Monday in the months of February, May, August and November of each year in the county site of Early County. If the date fixed for the convening of any term is a legal holiday, then that term shall begin on the next day thereafter which is not a legal holiday.
(Ga. Laws 1937, page 1166; 2003 Ga. Laws, page 4350)
Section 12. -
Suits in said city court shall, in all respects, be conformable to the mode of procedure in the superior court, except as herein provided, but the process and writs shall be annexed by the clerk of said court and attested in the name of the judge thereof, and be directed to and served by the sheriff of the city court of Blakely, or his deputies, or in cases of defendants living in counties of this State other than the said county of Early, to the sheriff or his deputies of the county of such non-resident defendants.
Section 13. -
In all matters pertaining to service, pleadings and practice, the law governing the superior court not in conflict with this Act shall apply to the city court.
Section 14. -
The judge of the city court of Blakely shall have power and authority to hear and determine all civil cases of which said court has jurisdiction, and to give judgment thereon; provided, that any party in any case shall be entitled to a trial by jury by entering a demand therefor by himself or attorney on or before the call of the docket of the term of said court to which said case is made returnable in all cases where such party is entitled to a jury trial under the Constitution and laws of this State. If such demand shall be made at a monthly term of the court, the case shall stand continued until the next quarterly term of the court unless the judge should, in his discretion, see fit to summon the jury which had been drawn for the last preceding quarterly term of the court.
Section 15. -
All judgments obtained in said city court shall be a lien upon all the property belonging to the defendant or defendants throughout the State, in the same manner as judgments of the superior courts are, and all executions issued by said city court shall be attested in the name of the judge and signed by the clerk and directed to the sheriff or his deputy of the city court of Blakely, and to all and singular the sheriffs and deputies of this State.
Section 16. -
Said city court shall have jurisdiction of all claim cases where personal property is levied on under execution or other process from the city court, and such claim shall be tried in the same manner as claims are tried in the superior courts of this State.
Section 17. -
Claims to real property levied on under execution or other process from the city court of Blakely shall be returned to the superior court of the county where such real property is situated, and then proceed as other claims in such superior court.
Section 18. -
All laws upon the subject of attachment and garnishment, second originals as to any matter whatever in the superior courts of this State, shall apply to the city court of Blakely, so far as the nature of the city court shall admit. Attachments in said court shall be directed to the sheriff or his deputy of said city court of Blakely, and to all and singular the sheriffs and constables of this State, and the judge of the city court or any justice of the peace may issue attachments returnable to the city court of Blakely under the same laws that govern the issuance of attachments returnable to the superior courts of this State.
Section 19. -
The general laws of this State in regard to the commencement of suits in the superior courts, defenses, set-offs, affidavits of illegality, arbitration, examination of parties to suits or witnesses by interrogatories or under subpoena, witnesses and their attendance, continuance or any other matters of judicial nature within the jurisdiction of said city court, shall be applicable to said city court.
Section 20. -
The judge of the said city court shall have power to cause testimony to be taken and used, de bene esse, and for the purpose of perpetuating testimony within his jurisdiction in all cases according to the general laws of this State, and the judge and all other officers of said city court shall have power, respectively, to administer oaths pertaining to their offices, respectively, as the judge and other officers of the superior court do in like cases. And said judge shall also have power to attest deeds and other papers, and to administer oaths in all cases anywhere in this State in which, by existing laws, such papers may be attested and oaths administered by the judges of the superior court. And the judge of the city court shall have the same power and authority throughout his jurisdiction as the judges of the superior court, except where, by law, exclusive power is vested in the judge of the superior court, and all laws relating to and governing judges of the superior court shall apply to the judges of the said city court, so far as the same may be applicable.
Section 21. -
Said city court of Blakely shall be a court of record, and shall have a seal, and the minutes, records, orders and other books and files that are required by law and rules to be kept for the superior court shall be kept in and for said city court in the same manner, and all laws applicable to the duties of the clerk and sheriff in the superior courts of this State shall apply to them in said city court, except where they conflict with the provisions of this Act.
Section 22. -
All laws regulating the enforcement of judgments of the superior court shall apply to said city court, and executions shall issue and be levied and sales had thereunder under the same rules and laws regulating the same in the superior court.
Section 23. -
The judge of the said city court shall have the same power to enforce his orders to preserve order, punish for contempt, and to enforce all his judgments as is vested in the judges of the superior courts of this State.
Section 24. -
The Clerk of said court shall prepare and file in his office a complete list of those persons liable to serve as traverse jurors in the Superior Court of Early County, as provided from time to time for such Superior Court. From said list so made, traverse jurors for said City Court shall be drawn in the following manner: The clerk of the City Court shall write upon separate tickets the name of each traverse juror and place the name in a box for that purpose, and the judge of said City Court, together with the clerk and sheriff, at the close of each term, or any time thereafter, shall draw thirty-six jurors from said box, who shall serve as jurors in said City Court at its next regular term; provided, however, the Judge of the City Court of Blakely shall have the power to secure the attendance of and use additional panels of jurors, and additional talis jurors, and to excuse any or all of the jurors, whenever in his judgment, it is best for the public interest or the expediting of the business of the Court that he shall do so.
(Ga. Laws 1920, page 316; Ga. Laws 1983, page 4205)
Section 24A. -
All cases in the State Court of Early County will be tried before a jury of six persons, with the plaintiff and defendant in all civil cases each having three peremptory challenges and the state and the defendant in all criminal cases each having three peremptory challenges.
(Ga. Laws 1983, page 4205)
Section 25. -
All laws in reference to drawing, summoning and selecting traverse jurors and talis jurors in the superior courts of this State shall apply to said city court, except when inconsistent with this Act.
Section 26. -
The judge of said city court is authorized to appoint at each term of said court not exceeding two bailiffs as officers of said court; and he may also appoint special bailiffs in vacation to execute the processes of said court and warrants issued by said judge, whenever he may deem the same necessary.
Section 27. -
The defendants in criminal cases in said city court shall be tried on written accusation setting forth plainly the offense charged, founded on affidavit made by the prosecutor. Said accusation shall be signed by the prosecuting officer of said court, and have endorsed thereon the name of the prosecutor. Upon such affidavit and accusation being made and filed in the clerk's office of said court, the defendant shall, upon arraignment, be asked by the judge whether he waives trial by jury. If he answers "yes," the judge shall proceed to try and determine said case; if defendant shall answer "no," or stand mute, then the judge shall commit him for trial at the next regular term, or special term, in all cases allowing bail to the defendant, to be fixed by said judge. The defendant shall not be allowed to demand indictment by the grand jury as a condition precedent to trial.
Section 28. -
The judge of the superior court may send down and transfer from the superior court of Early county all presentments and bills of indictment for misdemeanors to said city court for trial, the order so transferring said cases to be entered upon the minutes of both courts.
Section 29. -
It shall be the duty of all the justices of the peace and notaries public of Early county to bind over to said city court all persons charged with offenses committed within said county over which said city court has jurisdiction to answer for said offenses.
Section 30. -
A writ of error shall be direct from said city court to the Supreme Court of this State upon a bill of exceptions filed under the same rules and regulations as govern and control the issuing of writs of error and filing of bills of exceptions in the superior courts of the State.
Section 31. -
All cases now pending in the present city court of Early county, civil or criminal, shall be, and are, transferred to the city court of Blakely, created under this Act, and the same shall be tried and disposed of as other cases in said city court of Blakely, and all final and other processes now in the hands of the sheriff, bailiff or other officer, and which are returnable to the city court of Early county, are hereby made returnable to the city court of Blakely, created under this Act. The judge and other officers of the city court of Blakely shall have power and authority to issue and enforce, in the name of said city court of Blakely, any and all processes in any case from the old city court of Early county, necessary to the final disposition of the same, which from any cause have not been issued and enforced by the officers of the old city court of Early county. All records, books and papers disposed of and on file in said city court of Early county shall be filed and deposited with the clerk of the city court of Blakely, created under this Act.
Section 32. -
The judge of the said city court of Blakely shall have power to grant new trials in any case, civil or criminal, in said court upon the same terms and conditions and under the same laws and regulations in every respect governing the granting of new trials in the superior courts. All rules of pleading, practice and procedure governing motions, rules nisi and other proceedings in new trials in the superior courts shall apply to and govern the same in the said city court.
Section 33. -
All jurors in said city court of Blakely shall receive for their services for every day in actual attendance the same pay as is allowed jurors in the superior courts of Early county, in the same manner and under the same rules.
Section 34. -
The solicitor of said court, for his services in the Supreme Court, shall receive the same fees as are allowed solicitors-general, and be paid out of the treasury of the State by warrant drawn by the Governor, upon certificate of the clerk of the Supreme Court as to the performance of such service, and a certificate of the clerk of said city court as to the insolvency or acquittal of the defendant.
Section 35. -
When the judge of said city court is absent, disabled or disqualified from presiding, the judge of the superior court may preside in his stead, or upon the consent of the parties or upon their failure or refusal to agree, any case shall be tried by a judge pro hac vice, selected in the same manner as now provided in the superior courts, or any judge of the superior court or of any other city court in this State may preside in said city court of Blakely in any and all cases, whether said judge of the city court of Blakely is disqualified or not.
Section 36. -
The judge of said city court of Early county shall distribute the moneys arising from fines and forfeitures and the hire of convicts to the costs due officers in said court, including justices of the peace and constables, and to the jury, fees as hereinbefore provided, the moneys arising from each conviction first to be applied to the costs in that case, and should there be any left, the remainder to be prorated to insolvent costs, and the balance to be paid into the county treasury. The said judge, for the purposes aforesaid, shall be paid over all moneys arising from the hire of convicts convicted in said court. Should the county authorities desire to employ said convicts on the public works of the county, then an amount for each convict shall be paid to said judge equal in amount to the highest offer made for the hire of said convict lodged with said authorities in good faith; provided, the said amount so paid by the authorities shall in no event exceed $10.00 per month for each month said convict may be sentenced to the chain gang.
Section 37. -
The solicitor of said court shall have the power and authority to hire out to any legally constituted chain gang under and subject to the laws governing the hiring out of misdemeanor convicts of this State, and the moneys arising from said fund shall be appropriated in the same manner and for the same purposes as other funds coming into said court from fines and forfeitures.
Section 38. -
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act be, and the same are, hereby repealed.
Approval Date: Approved August 21, 1906.
