CODE OF ORDINANCES CITY OF WOODBURY, GEORGIA
____________
Published in 2019 by Order of the Mayor and City Council
____________
CURRENT CITY OFFICIALS
____________
Tonya L. Moody
Mayor
____________
Amanda Hardnett, Post 1
Bobby Jones Jr., Post 2
L.C. Gates, Post 3
Jada Holmes, Post 4
City Council
____________
Alonza Whitaker
Alfonza Whitaker
City Attorney's
____________
Deondra Stevenson
City Clerk
PREFACE
This Code constitutes a recodification of the general and permanent ordinances of the City of Woodbury, Georgia.
Source materials used in the preparation of the Code were the 2001 Code, as updated through February 18, 2019, and ordinances subsequently adopted by the mayor and city council. The source of each section is included in the history note appearing in parentheses at the end thereof. The absence of such a note indicates that the section is new and was adopted for the first time with the adoption of the Code. By use of the comparative tables appearing in the back of this Code, the reader can locate any section of the 2001 Code, as updated by subsequent ordinances included herein.
The chapters of the Code have been conveniently arranged in alphabetical order, and the various sections within each chapter have been catchlined to facilitate usage. Notes which tie related sections of the Code together and which refer to relevant state law have been included. A table listing the state law citations and setting forth their location within the Code is included at the back of this Code.
Chapter and Section Numbering System
The chapter and section numbering system used in this Code is the same system used in many state and local government codes. Each section number consists of two parts separated by a dash. The figure before the dash refers to the chapter number, and the figure after the dash refers to the position of the section within the chapter. Thus, the second section of chapter 1 is numbered 1-2, and the first section of chapter 6 is 6-1. Under this system, each section is identified with its chapter, and at the same time new sections can be inserted in their proper place by using the decimal system for amendments. For example, if new material consisting of one section that would logically come between sections 6-1 and 6-2 is desired to be added, such new section would be numbered 6-1.5. New articles and new divisions may be included in the same way or, in the case of articles, may be placed at the end of the chapter embracing the subject, and, in the case of divisions, may be placed at the end of the article embracing the subject. The next successive number shall be assigned to the new article or division. New chapters may be included by using one of the reserved chapter numbers. Care should be taken that the alphabetical arrangement of chapters is maintained when including new chapters.
Page Numbering System
The page numbering system used in this Code is a prefix system. The letters to the left of the colon are an abbreviation which represents a certain portion of the volume. The number to the right of the colon represents the number of the page in that portion. In the case of a chapter of the Code, the number to the left of the colon indicates the number of the chapter. In the case of an appendix to the Code, the letter immediately to the left of the colon indicates the letter of the appendix. The following are typical parts of codes of ordinances, which may or may not appear in this Code at this time, and their corresponding prefixes:
EXPAND
CHARTER CHT:1
RELATED LAWS RL:1
SPECIAL ACTS SA:1
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE CHTCT:1
RELATED LAWS COMPARATIVE TABLE RLCT:1
SPECIAL ACTS COMPARATIVE TABLE SACT:1
CODE CD1:1
CODE APPENDIX CDA:1
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLES CCT:1
STATE LAW REFERENCE TABLE SLT:1
CHARTER INDEX CHTi:1
CODE INDEX CDi:1
  Indexes
The indexes have been prepared with the greatest of care. Each particular item has been placed under several headings, some of which are couched in lay phraseology, others in legal terminology, and still others in language generally used by local government officials and employees. There are numerous cross references within the indexes themselves which stand as guideposts to direct the user to the particular item in which the user is interested.
Looseleaf Supplements
A special feature of this publication is the looseleaf system of binding and supplemental servicing of the publication. With this system, the publication will be kept up to date. Subsequent amendatory legislation will be properly edited, and the affected page or pages will be reprinted. These new pages will be distributed to holders of copies of the publication, with instructions for the manner of inserting the new pages and deleting the obsolete pages.
Keeping this publication up to date at all times will depend largely upon the holder of the publication. As revised pages are received, it will then become the responsibility of the holder to have the amendments inserted according to the attached instructions. It is strongly recommended by the publisher that all such amendments be inserted immediately upon receipt to avoid misplacing them and, in addition, that all deleted pages be saved and filed for historical reference purposes.
Acknowledgments
This publication was under the direct supervision of Jim C. Jenkins, Senior Code Attorney, and Andrea Palmieri, Editor, of the Municipal Code Corporation, Tallahassee, Florida. Credit is gratefully given to the other members of the publisher's staff for their sincere interest and able assistance throughout the project.
The publisher is most grateful to Ms. Angel Fowler, City Clerk, for her cooperation and assistance during the progress of the work on this publication. It is hoped that her efforts and those of the publisher have resulted in a Code of Ordinances which will make the active law of the city readily accessible to all citizens and which will be a valuable tool in the day-to-day administration of the city's affairs.
Copyright
All editorial enhancements of this Code are copyrighted by Municipal Code Corporation and the City of Woodbury, Georgia. Editorial enhancements include, but are not limited to: organization; table of contents; section catchlines; prechapter section analyses; editor's notes; cross references; state law references; numbering system; code comparative table; state law reference table; and index. Such material may not be used or reproduced for commercial purposes without the express written consent of Municipal Code Corporation and the City of Woodbury, Georgia.
© Copyrighted material.
Municipal Code Corporation and the City of Woodbury, Georgia. 2019.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO.
AN ORDINANCE
ADOPTING AND ENACTING a new Code for Woodbury, Georgia; establishing the same; providing for the repeal of certain ordinances not included therein, except as herein expressly provided; providing for the manner of amending such code; providing when this ordinance shall become effective; providing certain penalties; and for other purposes.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WOODBURY, GEORGIA THAT: the document entitled the "Code of Woodbury, Georgia" is hereby amended as follows:
Section 1 The document entitled the "Code of Woodbury, Georgia," a copy whereof accompanies this ordinance and is incorporated herein and made a part hereof, is hereby adopted and shall be treated and considered as a new and original comprehensive ordinance.
Section 2 All ordinances and resolutions of a general and permanent nature of Woodbury, Georgia, enacted on final passage on or before ___________, and not in the code or recognized and continued in force by reference therein are hereby repealed from and after the effective date of this ordinance, except as hereinafter provided.
Section 3 The repeal provided for in Section 2 hereof shall not affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this ordinance; nor shall this repeal affect any ordinance or resolution of the city promising or guaranteeing the payment of money by or to the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city, or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city; nor shall this repeal affect any rights or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution of the city to any person, firm or corporation; nor shall this repeal affect any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city; nor shall this repeal affect the present annual appropriation of the city, nor shall this repeal affect any ordinance or resolution levying or imposing charges, fees, or taxes now due or accrued; nor shall this repeal be construed to revive any ordinance or resolution or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance or resolution which is repealed by this ordinance.
Section 4 The provisions appearing in the code, so far as they are the same as provisions of ordinances and resolutions existing at the time of the effective date of this code are intended and shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Section 5 Any and all additions or amendments to the code, when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the board of aldermen to make the same a part thereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated into the code so that reference to the "Code of Woodbury, Georgia," shall be understood and intended to include such additions and amendments.
Section 6 A copy of the code shall be kept on file in the office of the city clerk, and preserved in loose-leaf form, or in such other form as the city clerk may consider most expedient. It shall be the express duty of the city clerk or someone authorized by the city clerk, to insert in their designated places all amendments, ordinances or resolutions which indicate the intention of the mayor and council to make those provisions a part of the code, when those provisions have been reprinted in page form, and to extract from the code all provisions which may be from time to time repealed by the mayor and council. A copy of the code shall be available for all persons desiring to examine it and shall be considered the official Code of Woodbury, Georgia.
Section 7. As pages of the code are replaced because the matter contained on them shall have been repealed, amended, or otherwise shall have been superseded or rendered obsolete or inoperative, the city clerk shall retain copies of the pages of the code so superseded, rendered obsolete or otherwise rendered inoperative in a file so that the former provisions of the code may be readily available and easily found. The purpose of this section is to permit anyone desiring to do so to ascertain the precise status of any sections of the code as of any given date.
Section 8 In case of the amendment of any section of the code for which a penalty is not provided, the general penalty as provided in the city charter of the code shall apply to the section as amended; or in case such amendment contains provisions for which a penalty, other than the aforementioned general penalty, is provided in another section in the same chapter, the penalty so provided in such section shall be held to relate to the section so amended, unless such penalty is specifically repealed herein.
Section 9 It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of the code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with the code in any manner whatsoever which may cause the law of Woodbury, Georgia to be misrepresented thereby.
Section 10 It is hereby declared to be the intention of this ordinance that its sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases are severable, and if any section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance is declared unconstitutional or invalid, it shall not affect any of the remaining sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or phrases of this ordinance.
Section 11 All ordinances or part of ordinances in conflict with this ordinance are hereby repealed.
Section 12 This ordinance shall become effective on October 22, 2019.
DATE:
APPROVED:
CITY OF WOODBURY, GEORGIA
By:
EXPAND
      Mayor
    EXPAND
      Council Member
    EXPAND
      Council Member
    EXPAND
      Council Member
    EXPAND
      Council Member
    EXPAND
      City Clerk
