ARTICLE II. - MAYOR AND COUNCIL[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Code of ethics for government service, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-1; requirement to prescribe the time, place and dates of regular meetings of governing authority, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d); meetings to be open to public, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1; exemptions from open meeting requirements, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-3.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-23. - Exercise of governmental authority.
The corporate governmental powers of the city shall be exercised by the mayor and council in the manner provided by the Charter and by the provisions of this Code.
(Code 1980, § 3-101; Code 2001, § 2-31)
Sec. 2-24. - Election.
The mayor and council shall be elected as provided by the election laws of the state.
(Code 1980, § 3-201; Code 2001, § 2-32; Ord. of 4-23-2018(1))
Sec. 2-25. - Qualifications for office.
Candidates for the office of mayor or councilmember shall be qualified pursuant to state law.
(Code 1980, § 3-202; Code 2001, § 2-33)
Sec. 2-26. - Vacancies.
In case of a vacancy in the office of mayor or councilmember, from failure to elect, death, removal or any other cause whatsoever, such vacancy shall be filled by a special election ordered by the city council to take place not more than 60 days from the time such vacancy occurs, under the same rules and regulations that govern other elections in the city, providing, as required by the Charter, a notice of the election at least 20 days before the election is to be held. The city clerk shall cause notice of the holding of such election, including the time and purpose of the election, to be published once a week for two weeks prior to such election in a newspaper of general circulation in the county. The council shall further determine a qualifying period for candidates wishing to qualify for the vacancy, such period to be not less than 20 days nor more than 30 days prior to the date of the election.
(Code 1980, § 3-203; Code 2001, § 2-34)
Sec. 2-27. - Chair.
The mayor shall act as chair of the city council and is responsible for the orderly conduct of the meeting. In order to fulfill this duty, the mayor shall enforce the rules of procedure that are adopted by the city council. The chair shall be impartial and conduct the meetings in a fair manner.
(Code 2001, § 2-35)
Sec. 2-28. - Committees.
The mayor, with the concurrence of the city council, may create committees of members of the city council to study any issue before the city council. Any such committees may make recommendations to the city council, but no committee shall be empowered to make any final decision on any matter before it for consideration. In addition to city councilmembers, committees may include other city officials, staff or citizens at-large. Whenever a committee is created, its duties, any litigation on the scope of its duties, and the times, places and periods of time for which the committee may operate shall be determined by the mayor with the concurrence of the city council. The mayor shall serve as an ex officio member of all committees.
(Code 1980, §§ 3-205, 3-206(6); Code 2001, § 2-36)
Sec. 2-29. - Open meetings.
All meetings of the city council shall be held in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq. The public shall at all times be afforded access to all meetings other than executive sessions.
(Code 2001, § 2-37)
Sec. 2-30. - Quorum.
A quorum must be present for conducting meetings of the city council. A quorum is the mayor or mayor pro tem and a majority of all of the councilmembers then in office. It is the duty of the mayor to enforce this rule. Any councilmember may raise a point of order directed to the mayor if he believes that a quorum is not present. If, during the course of a meeting, a councilmember leaves and a quorum no longer exists, the meeting cannot continue. If a quorum is not attained within 30 minutes, the meeting will be rescheduled by the mayor with the approval of the councilmembers present.
(Code 1980, § 3-206(3); Code 2001, § 2-43)
Sec. 2-31. - Voting; majority.
In order to transact any business, it shall require the affirmative vote of three councilmembers, or, in the event of a tie, the affirmative vote of the mayor and two councilmembers. Unless otherwise specified in these procedures, a majority shall mean more than half of the councilmembers present excluding abstentions. Where a two-thirds majority is specified, a majority vote shall mean at least two-thirds of the councilmembers present excluding abstentions. In the event of a tie vote, the mayor shall vote to break the tie.
(Code 2001, § 2-44)
Sec. 2-32. - Abstentions.
A councilmember shall vote on all motions unless he has a conflict of interest that would prevent him from making a decision in a fair and legal manner. If a conflict of interest does exist, the councilmember shall explain for the record his decision to abstain on any vote.
(Code 2001, § 2-45)
Sec. 2-33. - Agenda.
(a)
The city clerk, with the advice of the mayor and the councilmembers, shall prepare an agenda of subjects to be acted on for each meeting. An agenda work session shall be held by the city clerk to finalize the agenda. The mayor and all councilmembers may participate in the work session. Whenever a quorum of the councilmembers is present for an agenda work session, the meeting shall be open to the public; and all notice and recordkeeping requirements applicable to an open meeting must be met. The agenda shall be made available to the councilmembers at least one business day before every city council meeting.
(b)
Members of the public may request that a particular subject be placed on the agenda for the following meeting. To be considered, this request must be submitted in writing to the city clerk and received at least three business days before the meeting.
(c)
The order of the agenda may be changed during a meeting by a majority vote of the city council. A new subject that requires urgent attention may be added to the agenda during a meeting by a two-thirds vote of the city council.
(d)
A copy of the agenda and a list of those councilmembers present shall be made available to the public for inspection within two business days of the adjournment of any meeting.
(Code 2001, § 2-46)
Sec. 2-34. - Consent agenda.
(a)
A consent agenda may be prepared by the city clerk for the city council to unanimously adopt motions on routine items. Any items of business that are expected to receive unanimous approval and where no debate is expected may be placed on a consent agenda.
(b)
At the appropriate time of the meeting, the mayor shall read all of the items on the consent agenda. If a councilmember objects to an item being on the consent agenda, the mayor shall move that particular item to the regular agenda. Following the reading of the consent agenda, the mayor will ask for unanimous approval of the items on the consent agenda. If there are no objections, all the items on the consent agenda will be adopted by unanimous consent.
(Code 2001, § 2-47)
Sec. 2-35. - Minutes.
(a)
The city clerk shall promptly record the minutes for each city council meeting. The minutes serve as the official written record of the city council meeting and shall be open for public inspection once approved as official by the city council, but in no case later than immediately following the next regular meeting of the city council. The minutes shall specify the names of councilmembers present at the meeting, a description of each motion or other proposal made at the meeting, the councilmember who proposed each motion, the councilmember who seconded each motion, and a record of all votes. In the case of a roll-call vote, the name of each councilmember voting for or against a proposal shall be recorded. It shall be presumed that a councilmember has voted in the affirmative unless the minutes show otherwise. More detailed information may be included in the minutes at the request of the city council.
(b)
The city council must approve the minutes before they can be considered as an official record of the city council. A copy of the minutes from the previous meeting shall be distributed to the councilmembers at least one business day before the following meeting. The minutes of the previous meeting shall be corrected and approved by the city council at the beginning of each meeting. A majority vote is required for approval. Conflicts about the content of the minutes shall be decided by majority vote. Upon being approved, the minutes shall be signed by the mayor and attested to by the city clerk.
(Code 1980, § 3-206(5); Code 2001, § 2-48)
Sec. 2-36. - Order of business.
All regular city council meetings shall follow an established order of business. The order is as follows:
(1)
Call to order.
(2)
Roll call.
(3)
Approval of minutes of previous meeting.
(4)
Petitions and communications.
(5)
Special committees.
(6)
Unfinished business.
(7)
New business.
(8)
Adjournment.
(Code 1980, § 3-206(1), (2), (4); Code 2001, § 2-49)
Sec. 2-37. - Decorum.
(a)
All councilmembers must conduct themselves in a professional and respectful manner. All remarks should be directed to the mayor and not to individual councilmembers, staff or citizens in attendance. Personal remarks are inappropriate. A councilmember is not allowed to speak at a meeting until he has been recognized by the mayor. All comments made by a councilmember shall address the motion that is being discussed.
(b)
The mayor shall enforce these rules of decorum. If a councilmember believes that a rule has been broken, he can raise a point of order. A second is not required. The mayor can rule on the question or he may allow the city council to debate the issue and decide the issue by majority vote.
(Code 2001, § 2-50)
Sec. 2-38. - Public participation.
Public participation in meetings of the city council shall be permitted in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(1)
Public comments. The final agenda item of the meeting shall be reserved for comments from the public. All members of the public who wish to address the city council must submit their name and the topic of their comments to the city clerk at least three business days before the city council meeting. These individuals will be allotted ten minutes to make their comments and their comments must be limited to their chosen topic. These limits can be waived by a majority vote of the city council.
(2)
Public participation on agenda items. By a majority vote, the city council may allow public comment on an agenda item at the time the item is being considered by the city council. These comments must be limited to the subject that is being debated. Members of the public may speak for ten minutes and may only speak once. These limits may be waived by a majority vote of the city council. Anyone wishing to speak at any city council meeting must be recognized by the mayor before addressing the city council.
(3)
Decorum. Members of the public shall not make inappropriate or offensive comments at a city council meeting and are expected to comply with the rules of decorum that are established for councilmembers. Individuals who violate any rules of the city council may be ruled out of order by the mayor or on a point of order made by a councilmember. A majority vote of the councilmembers will rule on the point of order. An individual who violates the rules of decorum with the intention of disturbing the city council meeting may be removed from the meeting at the direction of the mayor.
(4)
Public hearings. The mayor may schedule public hearings for the purpose of soliciting public comment on any subject of interest to the city council. Hearings may be held immediately prior to or following a meeting of the city council or at such other places and times as the mayor may determine. No official action shall be taken at any such public hearing.
(Code 1980, § 3-206(7); Code 2001, § 2-51)
Sec. 2-39. - Amendments to rules.
Any amendments to the rules of order must be submitted by a councilmember in writing to the city clerk three business days before a regular meeting of the city council. The proposed amendment shall be included in the agenda for that meeting and distributed to all councilmembers. All amendments require a two-thirds vote of the city council to be adopted.
(Code 2001, § 2-52)
Sec. 2-40. - Suspending the rules of order.
Rules of order may be suspended in the case of an emergency. A motion to suspend the rules requires a second, is debatable and requires a two-thirds vote of the city council. Rules governing quorum, voting methods and requirements, the notification to councilmembers of meetings, and rules necessary for compliance with state law cannot be suspended.
(Code 2001, § 2-53)
Sec. 2-41. - Visual and sound recordings.
Visual, sound, and visual and sound recordings shall be permitted for all public meetings.
(Code 2001, § 2-54)
Sec. 2-42. - Compensation.
Pursuant to the provisions of article I, section 8 of the Charter, the monthly compensation of the mayor and each member of the city council shall be in amounts as established by the mayor and city council from time to time.
(Ord. of 2-18-2008, § 1(2-55))
Secs. 2-43—2-72. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE

Sec. 2-73. - Rules of procedure.
Unless otherwise provided in this Code, procedures for meetings of the city council shall follow the most recent edition of Robert's Rules of Order prescribed by the mayor.
(Code 1980, § 3-206; Code 2001, § 2-81)
Sec. 2-74. - Parliamentarian.
The city attorney shall serve as the parliamentarian for city council meetings.
(Code 2001, § 2-82)
Secs. 2-75—2-107. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - LEGISLATION[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Ordinances of a city council not to bind succeeding councils, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-3; authority to adopt municipal ordinances, resolutions or regulations, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3.

Sec. 2-108. - Legislative authority.
The city council shall exercise the legislative functions of the city and may pass any ordinance or resolution that it deems best for the government of the city; however, such ordinance or resolution must not be in conflict with the Charter, the constitution or laws of the state, or the Constitution or laws of the United States.
(Code 1980, § 3-207; Code 2001, § 2-111)
Sec. 2-109. - Ordinances, resolutions, contracts and interlocal agreements.
Unless otherwise specified by a majority vote of the council as prescribed in section 2-31, all ordinances shall become effective upon adoption.
(Code 2001, § 2-112)
Secs. 2-110—2-145. - Reserved.
