ARTICLE IV. - CODE OF ETHICS[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Code of ethics for government service, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-1; code of ethics for members of boards, commissions and authorities, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-3.

Sec. 2-230. - Preamble.
(a)
The public judges its government by the way public officials and employees conduct themselves in the posts to which they are elected or appointed.
(b)
All government, of right, originates with the people, is founded upon their will only, and is instituted solely for the good of the whole. Public officers are the trustees and servants of the people and are at all times amenable to them. See Georgia Constitution article 1, § 2, ¶ 1.
(c)
The people of this state have the inherent right of regulating their internal government. Government is instituted for the protection, security and benefit of the people; and at all times they have the right to alter or reform the government whenever the public good may require it. See Georgia Constitution article 1, § 2, ¶ 2.
(d)
The people have a right to expect that every public official will conduct himself in a manner that will tend to preserve public confidence in and respect for the government he represents.
(e)
Such confidence and respect can best be promoted if every public official, whether paid or unpaid, and whether elected or appointed, will uniformly treat all citizens with courtesy, impartiality, fairness and equality under the law and avoid conflicts between their private self-interest and the public interest.
(Code 2001, § 2-251; Res. of 12-21-1999, § 3-102)
Sec. 2-231. - Policy; purposes.
(a)
It is the policy of the city that the proper operation of democratic government requires that public officials be independent, impartial and responsible to the people; that government decisions and policy be made in proper channels of the governmental structure; that public office not be used for personal gain; and that the public have confidence in the integrity of its government. In recognition of these goals, a code of ethics for all city officials is adopted.
(b)
This code of ethics has the following purposes:
(1)
To encourage high ethical standards in official conduct by city officials;
(2)
To establish guidelines for ethical standards of conduct for all such officials by setting forth those acts or actions that are compatible with the best interest of the city;
(3)
To require disclosure by such officials of private financial or other interest in matters that affect the city; and
(4)
To serve as a basis for disciplining those who refuse to abide by its terms.
(c)
The provisions of this article shall not apply to political contributions, loans, expenditures, reports or regulation of political campaigns or the conduct of candidates in such campaigns.
(Code 2001, § 2-252; Res. of 12-21-1999, § 3-102(1))
Sec. 2-232. - Scope of coverage.
The provisions of this code of ethics shall be applicable to all members of the city council, planning and zoning commission, board of zoning appeals, all advisory commissions, and committee members.
(Code 2001, § 2-253; Res. of 12-21-1999, § 3-102(2))
Sec. 2-233. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
City official or official, unless otherwise expressly defined, means the mayor, members of the city council, municipal court judges (including substitute judges), city manager, assistant city managers, city clerk, assistant city clerks, whether such person is salaried, hired or elected, and all other persons holding positions designated by the Charter, as it may be amended from time to time. The term "city official," unless otherwise expressly defined, includes individuals appointed by the mayor and city council to all city commissions, committees, boards, task forces or other city bodies unless specifically exempted from this article by the city council.
Decision means any ordinance, resolution, contract, franchise, formal action or other matter voted on by the city council or other city board or commission, as well as the discussions or deliberations of the council, board or commission which can or may lead to a vote or formal action by that body.
Discretional authority means the power to exercise any judgment in a decision or action.
Entity means a sole proprietorship, partnership, limited partnership, firm, corporation, professional corporation, holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust or any other entity recognized by law through which business may be conducted.
Immediate family means the spouse, mother, father, brother, sister, son or daughter of any city official.
Incidental interest means an interest in a person, entity or property which is not a substantial interest and which has insignificant value.
Remote interest means an interest of a person or entity, including a city official, who would be affected in the same way as the general public. The interest of a councilmember in the property tax rate, general city fees, city utility charges, or a comprehensive zoning ordinance or similar decisions incidental to the extent that the councilmember would be affected in common with the general public.
Substantial interest means a known interest, either directly or through a member of the immediate family, in another person or entity:
(1)
The interest is ownership of five percent or more of the voting stock, shares or equity of the entity or ownership of $5,000.00 or more of the equity market value of the entity;
(2)
Funds received by the person from the other person or entity either during the previous 12 months or the previous calendar year equaled or exceeding $5,000.00 in salary, bonuses, commissions or professional fees or $5,000.00 in payment for goods, products or nonprofessional services, or ten percent of the recipient's gross income during that period, whichever is less;
(3)
The person serves as a corporate officer or member of the board of directors of other governing board of the for-profit entity other than a corporate entity owned or created by the city council; or
(4)
The person is a creditor, debtor, or guarantor of the other person or entity in an amount of $5,000.00 or more.
Substantial interest in real property means an interest in real property which is an equitable or legal ownership with a market value of $5,000.00 or more.
(Code 2001, § 2-254; Res. of 12-21-1999, § 3-102(3))
Sec. 2-234. - Standards of conduct.
(a)
No councilmember or member of any board or commission shall use such position to secure special privileges or exemptions for such person or others, or to secure confidential information for any purpose other than official responsibilities.
(b)
No councilmember or member of a board or commission, in any matter before the council, board or commission in which he has a substantial interest, shall fail to disclose for the common good for the record such interest prior to any discussion or vote.
(c)
No councilmember or member of a board or commission shall act as an agent or attorney for another in any matter before the city council or any board or commission.
(d)
No councilmember shall directly or indirectly receive, or agree to receive, any compensation, gift, reward or gratuity in any matter or proceeding connected with or related to the duties of his office except as may be provided by law.
(e)
No councilmember or member of any board or commission shall enter into any contract with the city except as specifically authorized by state statutes. Any councilmember or member of a board or commission who has a proprietary interest in an agency doing business with the city shall make known that interest in writing to the city council and the city clerk.
(f)
All public funds shall be used for the general welfare of the people and not for personal economic gain.
(g)
Public property shall be disposed of in accordance with state law.
(h)
No city official shall solicit or accept other employment to be performed or compensation to be received while still a city official or employee if the employment or compensation could reasonably be expected to impair in judgment or performance of city duties.
(i)
If a city official accepts or is soliciting a promise of future employment from any person or entity who has a substantial interest in a person, entity or property which would be affected by any decision upon which the official might reasonably be expected to act, investigate, advise or make a recommendation, the official shall disclose the fact to the board or commission on which he serves or to his supervisor and shall take no further action on matters regarding the potential future employer. No city official shall use city facilities, personnel, equipment or supplies for private purposes, except to the extent such are lawfully available to the public.
(j)
No city official or employee shall grant or make available to any person any consideration, treatment, advantage or favor beyond that which it is the general practice to grant or make available to the public at large.
(Code 2001, § 2-255; Res. of 12-21-1999, § 3-102(4))
Sec. 2-235. - Conflict of interest.
A city official may not participate in a vote or decision on a matter affecting a person, entity or property in which the official or employee has a substantial interest; in addition, a city official or employee who serves as a corporate officer or member of the board of directors of a nonprofit entity may not participate in a vote or decision regarding funding by or through the city of the entity. Where the interest of a city official or employee in the subject matter of a vote or decision is remote or incidental, the city official or employee may participate in the vote or decision and need not disclose the interest.
(Code 2001, § 2-256; Res. of 12-21-1999, § 3-102(5))
Sec. 2-236. - Exemption.
This article shall not be construed to require the filing of any information relating to any person's connection with or interest in any professional society or any charitable, religious, social, fraternal, educational, recreational, public service, civil or political organization, or any similar organization not conducted as a business enterprise or government agency, and which is not engaged in the ownership or conduct of a business enterprise or governmental agency.
(Code 2001, § 2-257; Res. of 12-21-1999, § 3-102(6))
Sec. 2-237. - Penalty.
Any person violating any provision of this article is subject to:
(1)
Written and oral reprimand by the council, board, commission or committee of which such violator is a member;
(2)
A fine as provided by section 1-11 to be imposed by the council, commission, board or committee of which the violator is a member;
(3)
Request for resignation by the council, board, committee or commission of which the violator is a member.
(Code 2001, § 2-258; Res. of 12-21-1999, § 3-102(8))
Secs. 2-238—2-267. - Reserved.
