PART I - CHARTER AND RELATED LAWS
ARTICLE I. - CHARTER OF 1913[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1913 Ga. Laws (Act No. 150), page 1264, as adopted by the Georgia General Assembly. Amendments to this act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Home rule for municipalities, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ II; creation, dissolution, merger, boundary changes, and deannexation of municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-2; municipal annexations, O.C.G.A. § 36-36-1 et seq.; home rule for municipalities and authority for amendment of local charter by ordinance, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3; limitations on home rule for municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6; requirement for filing and publication of charter, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-5; incorporation of municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-31-1 et seq.; terms city, town, and municipality declared synonymous, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-1.

Sec. 1. - Woodbury, town of, name changed, city of, charter powers.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by authority of the same, that the name of the municipal corporation heretofore existing in the County of Meriwether said state, under the name of the Town of Woodbury, be and the same is, hereby changed to the City of Woodbury; and said municipal corporation is hereby reincorporated and made and continued as a body corporate and politic under said name of the City of Woodbury without any break in the continuity of its existence, it being the same corporation under a new name; and under said name said city shall have perpetual succession, and the right to contract and be contracted with, to sue and be sued, to plead and be impleaded, and to have and use a common seal, to do such things as may be needful for the government, good order and welfare of said city and its inhabitants, to exercise such rights, powers, functions, privileges and immunities as belong to municipal corporations generally under the law, as well as those hereinafter specially enumerated, and to do all other acts and things relating to its corporate capacity; and also under said name to purchase, hold, lease, receive, enjoy, possess and retain for the use and benefit of said city, any property, real or personal, of whatever kind or nature whatsoever within the limits or without the limits of said city, for corporate purposes, and to hold all property and effects now belonging to said municipal corporation for the purposes and intents for which the same were granted or dedicated; and to use, manage, improve, sell, convey, rent or lease, or otherwise deal with any and all property at present owned or which may be hereinafter acquired by said city.
Sec. 2. - Corporate limits.
The corporate limits of said city shall extend three-quarters of a mile in every direction from the middle of Greenville Street where Depot Street intersects said Greenville Street.
Sec. 3. - Corporate rights of Town of Woodbury preserved.
All corporate rights, powers and privileges now possessed by and all duties imposed by law upon said municipal corporation of the Town of Woodbury are hereby preserved unto said city under its new name of the City of Woodbury. All acts and parts of acts of the general assembly of the state relating to said town and all resolutions, regulations and ordinances heretofore adopted by the authorities of said town and in force therein at the time of the approval of this act, and all parts of same, shall remain in force save such of each as are in conflict with the provisions of this act. Such ordinances, regulations and resolutions may be hereafter amended or repealed by the mayor and aldermen of said city. All property and property rights now held, owned or possessed by said city, and all obligations of every kind and character due to or by said municipal corporation shall remain unchanged and of full force. All pending suits or claims by or against said city are preserved intact and unaltered. The present mayor and aldermen and the present officers and employees of the Town of Woodbury shall continue to discharge the duties of their respective offices and positions until their successors are elected and qualified, or appointed, as the case may be, or until they are removed in accordance with the provisions of this charter or the ordinances of the city.
Sec. 4. - Elections.
[The municipal general election shall be held at a time and date pursuant to state law. The results of the municipal general election shall be canvassed pursuant to state law.] For the purpose of electing councilmen, positions on the council shall be numbered council posts 1 through 4, respectively. In all future elections, candidates for councilman shall designate by number the position on the council for which he offers as a candidate. Thereafter, the mayor and councilmen shall be elected for terms of office of two years each and until their successors are elected and qualified. No person shall be eligible to vote or serve as mayor or councilman who is not qualified to vote for members of the general assembly of this state. Elections shall be held and conducted in the same manner as elections for officers in this state and a certificate of the managers shall be sufficient authority for the persons elected to enter into the discharge of the duties of the office to which they had been elected. In the event that the office of the mayor or any councilman shall become vacant by death, resignation, or removal or other cause, the mayor, or in case his seat is vacant, the majority of the councilmen shall order a new election, notice of which shall be given at least twenty days before said election is held, the same to be conducted as provided in this act.
(1966 Ga. Laws, p. 3318, § 1)
Editor's note— The Georgia Municipal Election Code (O.C.G.A. § 21-3-1 et seq.) upon which certain text in this provision was based, has been repealed by 1998 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 697), page 295 and replaced with a general election requirement pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq. (Georgia Election Code). The following text from this provision was not reprinted as a result of the enactment of O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1:
On the first Wednesday in December 1966 and annually thereafter, an election shall be conducted in the council chamber of the City of Woodbury for the purpose of electing candidates whose terms shall expire on the first Wednesday in January of the following year. In order to be elected, a candidate shall receive a majority of the votes cast for the office for which he offers as a candidate. In the event no candidate receives a majority of the votes cast, there shall be a runoff election between the two candidates receiving the highest number of votes cast for the office. The runoff election shall be held fourteen days after the regular municipal election under the same laws, rules and regulations governing regular city elections. The mayor and two councilmen elected to council posts 1 and 2 in December 1966, shall serve for terms of office of two years each and until their successors are elected and qualified. The two councilmen elected to council posts 3 and 4 in December 1966 shall serve for terms of office of one year each and until their successors are elected and qualified.
Sec. 5. - Oath of mayor and councilmen.
Before entering on the discharge of their duties the mayor and the councilmen shall subscribe to an oath to faithfully discharge such duties as shall devolve upon them as officials of the City of Woodbury. The following oath shall be administered to and taken by the mayor and councilmen, before some officer authorized by the laws of Georgia to administer oaths, to-wit: "I do solemnly swear that I will well and truly demean myself as mayor (or councilman, as the case may be) of the City of Woodbury for the ensuing term, and that I will faithfully enforce the Charter and ordinances of said city to the best of my ability without fear or favor, so help me God." Should the mayor or any councilman be absent when the officers qualify, he or they shall take the oath of office as soon as possible thereafter.
Sec. 6. - Mayor pro tem.
There shall be a mayor pro tem of said City of Woodbury who shall be elected by the council of the said City of Woodbury, who shall preside and act as mayor of said city during the absence or disqualification of the mayor of said city.
Sec. 7. - Quorum; mayor votes, when.
The mayor or mayor pro tem and a majority of said council shall, for all purposes under this Charter, constitute a quorum for the transaction of any and all business, whether legislative or judicial, and it shall require at least three affirmative votes to pass any resolution or ordinance; and the mayor shall only be allowed to vote on any question or ordinance that may arise before the mayor and council only when there is a tie.
Sec. 8. - Salaries.
The salary of the mayor and council shall be determined by ordinance and in conformity with the requirements of the laws of the State of Georgia.
(1966 Ga. Laws, p. 3318, § 2; Ord. of 8-30-2004, § 1)
Sec. 9. - Powers of mayor and council.
Said mayor and council shall have power to pass all such ordinances, bylaws, rules and regulations as may in their discretion be necessary to enforce all of the laws of the State of Georgia applicable to municipal corporations, and which laws in so far as they are not in conflict with this act are made a part thereof, and to provide penalties for their violation. They shall have power and authority to lay off, open, close, alter, vacate, curb, pave and keep in good order, repave all streets, alleys, sidewalks, crosswalks, drains and gutters for the use of the public or any of the citizens thereof and to improve and light the same and have them kept free from obstructions on or over them; and to regulate the width of sidewalks on the streets, and to order the sidewalks, footways, crosswalks, drains and gutters to be curbed and paved and kept in good order, free and clean, by the owners and occupants thereof, or the owners or occupants of the real property next adjacent thereto; to establish and regulate the markets; to prescribe the time of holding same; to prevent injury or annoyance to the public or individuals from anything dangerous, offensive or unwholesome; to prevent hogs, cattle and other animals or fowls of all kinds from going at large in said town; to protect places of divine worship in and about the premises; to abate or cause to be abated anything which in the opinion of the mayor and council shall be a nuisance; to regulate the keeping of dynamite and other combustibles; to abate or cause to be abated nuisances in the form of lewd or bawdy houses or houses suspected of being such, and places keeping or suspected of keeping for unlawful sale any liquors, wines, beers or other intoxicating alcoholic drinks by whatever name or names the same may be called; to provide in or near said city places for the burial of the dead, and to regulate interments therein; to provide for the regular building of houses or other structures and for the making of division fences by the owner of adjacent premises, and a drainage of lots by proper drains and ditches, to make regulations against danger by fire and to provide limits in which no wooden buildings shall be erected; to protect the property and person of the citizens of said town; to preserve peace and order therein, and for this purpose the said mayor or mayor pro tem shall appoint, when necessary, a police force to assist the marshal or chief of police in the discharge of such duties; to provide the powers and define the duties of all officers appointed or elected by the mayor and council and to fix their terms of office and compensation, require and take from them bonds, when necessary, payable to the City of Woodbury in its incorporate name, with such security and with such penalty as the mayor and council may see fit, conditioned for the faithful discharge of their duty; to erect or authorize or prohibit the erection of waterworks, gas works, or electric lights in said town; to prevent injury to or pollution of same or to the same, or to the water or healthfulness of said city; to make such rules and regulations as they may deem proper regulating the running of locomotives or cars, whether run by steam, electricity or other power; to enact ordinances preventing the delivery within the incorporate limits of said city of wine, beer, whiskey or other intoxicating liquors, by any corporation, company, partnership or by any other person or persons directly or indirectly, and to enact ordinances providing for penalty for so doing. Said city is further authorized and empowered to enact ordinances to provide for the seizure and forfeiture to city of such intoxicants within the corporate limits of said city, and for the disposition of same by sale or otherwise in the hands of any corporation, company or person whatsoever. Said city is further authorized and empowered in the exercise of its police powers to provide for and enact any other ordinance looking to the regulation, restriction, suppression or prohibition of liquor traffic, legal or otherwise, within the corporate limits of said city; provided, however, that the provisions of this act shall be held and construed to apply to domestic commerce and intrastate shipments as distinguished from shipments from beyond state and interstate commerce; to regulate and provide for the weighing of hay, coal and other articles sold, or for sale, in said city, and to provide a revenue for said city, and to appropriate same for expenses of said city; to pass all laws, ordinances and regulations for the protection of inhabitants of said city against smallpox and other contagious or infectious diseases, or for the care of those who may have such diseases or [are] suspected of having them.
Sec. 10. - Ad valorem tax.
For the purpose of raising revenues to defray the ordinary expenses incident to the proper support and maintenance of city government said mayor and council of City of Woodbury shall, commencing with the calendar year 1964, have full power and authority to levy and collect an ad valorem tax upon all property, both real and personal, in the corporate limits of said city, not to exceed twelve mills upon each dollar of valuation. In addition thereto the said mayor and council shall have the authority to levy and collect an ad valorem tax not to exceed four mills for macadamizing, capital improvements and bond payments.
(1964 Ga. Laws (Act 689), p. 2412, § 1)
Sec. 11. - Commutation tax; defaulters.
Every male person between the ages of twenty-one and fifty years, who has resided in said city thirty days, shall be liable and subject to work on the streets of said city, not to exceed fifteen days in each year, at such time or times as the mayor and council may require, or to pay a commutation tax in lieu thereof, not to exceed five dollars in any one year, as said mayor and council may determine. Should any person unable to work the streets under this section fail or refuse to do so, or to pay said tax assessed in lieu thereof, having received due notice to do so, as said mayor and council may require, shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this section, and on conviction in the police court of said city shall be fined in a sum not exceeding five dollars nor less than the amount of street tax so assessed, or by imprisonment in the guard house, or by labor in a chaingang of said city, not exceeding thirty days. Said mayor and council may pass such ordinance as they may deem proper for the enforcing of this section.
Sec. 12. - Guard house and work gang.
The mayor and council of the City of Woodbury shall have power to establish a guard house and work gang in said city and to confine at labor therein any persons who have been sentenced by the court of said city, to work upon the streets, sidewalks or other public works of said city, and shall have power to make all rules and regulations that may seem necessary for the control or government of such work gang and enforce the same through its proper authorities.
Sec. 13. - Licenses, regulations.
The mayor and council of said city shall have full power and authority to license, regulate and control by ordinance all taverns, hotels, boardinghouses, cafes, saloons for the sale of ice cream and other ices, etc., livery stables and lots, hacks, drays and other vehicles, auctioneers, vendue masters, itinerant traders, theatres and theatrical performances, dummy or street railroads, oil mills, ice works, laundries, waterworks, shows, circuses, exhibitions of all kinds; itinerant lightning-rod dealers, emigrant dealers, peddlers of clocks, stoves, machines or any other article of merchandise whatsoever; itinerant vendors of any and all kinds of goods, wares, merchandise or other things; pool and bagatelle tables kept for public playing, every table, device or stand or place for the performance of any game or play, whether played with sticks, balls, rings; upon flying horses or contrivances; bicycles, vehicles or skating rinks; insurance agents, life, fire, accident or other insurance companies; loan agents for any and all kinds of business; real estate agents, banks and bankers, brokers and commission merchants of all kinds; keepers of slaughterhouses, beef markets, green grocers; dealers in fresh oysters, or fish, vegetables, fruits, breads and other articles of food; contractors and builders and all machinists or artisans; barbershops, junk shops, pawnbrokers and upon all and every other establishment, business, calling, trade or avocation not heretofore mentioned, and which, under the constitution and laws of Georgia, in the amount fixed by ordinance, as a condition precedent to beginning or continuing in any business, trade, profession or calling in said city, for which a license is required. Should any person engage or continue in any business, trade, profession or calling for which any specific tax or license is required by said city, by ordinance, and shall fail or refuse to pay the same on demand of the proper authority of said city, he shall be liable to prosecution in a police court of said city, and may be fined or imprisoned in the discretion of the court. The provisions of this section shall apply to all persons, natural or artificial.
Sec. 14. - Fiscal year from which licenses shall date.
The mayor and council of said city shall have power and authority to make and establish, by ordinance, a fiscal year from which and to which all license shall date. Should any person apply for license in said city for any business for which license is required, at any time after the fiscal year has begun, the mayor and council shall have authority to require of such person the same amount as required for license for the whole year; provided, that no change in the fiscal year shall operate to the injury of any person who has once paid the amount of license required of him.
Sec. 15. - Executions and sales.
The mayor and council shall have full power and authority to enforce by execution the collection of any debt or claim due said city for taxes, licenses, rents, impounding fees, forfeitures for laying sewers or drains, for cleaning or repairing privies, for abating nuisances and for any and all levies, assessments, debts and demands due said city. Said executions to be issued by the clerk of said city and to bear test in the name of the mayor against the property, person, corporation or firm against which or from whom any such debt or demand is owing, such execution to be directed to all and singular, the marshal, deputy marshal, and policeman of the City of Woodbury, who are authorized to levy the same upon the property against whom it is issued, or on the property of the person against whom such execution shall have been issued, and the same shall be sold in the following manner, to wit: The property levied upon shall be sold by the marshal or his deputy at public outcry, under the laws for sheriffs' sales, to the highest bidder, before the council chamber or at such other place as the mayor may determine, notice of which place shall be stated in the advertisement of the sale of such property.
If said property so levied on shall be personal, it shall be advertised by posting notices at two or more public and conspicuous places in said city for ten days before the day of sale, and if the property levied upon shall be real estate, he shall advertise the same once a week for four weeks in public gazette wherein the sheriffs' sales are advertised for the County of Meriwether or in some newspaper published in the City of Woodbury, before selling the same. All sales as above provided shall be sold at public outcry, to the highest bidder, for cash. Said marshal or deputy marshal making such sale shall execute title to the purchaser and shall have the same power to place the purchaser in possession as sheriffs of state have.
Sec. 16. - Tax assessors, election of; vacancies, how filled; oath.
The mayor and council of the City of Woodbury shall elect, at their first or second meeting in each calendar year, three upright, discreet and intelligent persons, who shall be freeholders and residents of said city, as tax assessors, who shall hold their office one year, or until their successors are elected and qualified. Said tax assessors may be elected from among the members of the city council, or from among other persons, and should any vacancy occur in said board or [of] assessors by death, resignation, removal or refusal to serve, such vacancy shall be immediately filled by said mayor and council. Said mayor and council shall be exclusive judges of the necessity of declaring a vacancy in said board of assessors. Before entering upon the duties of the office of assessors, each assessor shall take and subscribe the following: "I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully perform the duties of tax assessor of the City of Woodbury and make a true and just valuation of all property therein subject to taxation according to fair market value, so help me God." Said assessors shall receive such pay for their services as the mayor and council may fix.
Sec. 17. - Appeal from assessments.
The tax assessors may hear during the progress of their investigation such evidence as to value of property in said city as they may deem advisable. If any person is dissatisfied with the valuation of his or her property, as fixed by the assessors, he shall have a right to appeal to a full board of assessors and then to the mayor and council. Said appeal shall be entered within four days from the date upon which the written or printed notice hereafter provided for has been mailed by the clerk of said city. Said appeal shall be substantially as follows, to wit: "The undersigned being dissatisfied with the action of the city tax assessors with reference to the valuation of his or her property subject to taxation in said city, comes within ten days from date on which notice of action of said assessors was mailed to him and demands an investigation of said property by the mayor and council of the said city."
Upon the filing of said appeal with the clerk of said city, it shall be the duty of the mayor to fix a day upon which said hearing will be had and give the appellant five days' notice in writing of said hearing; notice to the agent or attorney at law of said appellant shall be sufficient. At said hearing said mayor and council shall hear all legal and competent testimony, and enter judgment accordingly. The appeal hearing hereinbefore provided for shall be signed by the tax payer, his agent or attorney at law.
Sec. 18. - Notice of raising assessment.
Immediately after report of said assessors is filed with the city clerk, it shall be his duty to mail a written or printed notice to each and every person the value of whose property, as returned for taxation, has been raised by the assessors, advising such person of the action of the assessors and specifying the property the valuation of which has been increased.
Sec. 19. - Keeping intoxicating liquors for unlawful sale, prohibition of.
The said mayor and council shall have power to prohibit, by ordinance, the keeping for unlawful sales any amount of whiskey, beer or intoxicating drinks, by whatever name or names the same shall be called; the keeping and maintaining of lewd women, or lewd houses; the keeping of any room or rooms for gambling; the having of any whiskey, beer or other intoxicating drinks for the purpose of sale or giving away on election day; the pursuing of one's ordinary avocation or labor on the Sabbath; from loitering or idling within the jurisdiction of said city. Police court of said city shall have jurisdiction to try persons for the commission of any of said offenses committed within the limits of said city, and upon conviction, punish offenders as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 20. - Police court.
There shall be in the City of Woodbury a court known as police court of the City of Woodbury. Jurisdiction of said court shall extend to all offenses herein provided for, and all others of which municipalities are allowed jurisdiction under the laws of the State of Georgia, whenever said offenses are committed within the corporate limits of said city. Said police court shall be held by the mayor at such time and places in said city as in his judgment may be necessary. Said police court, upon conviction of any person or persons, may punish offenders by a fine of not more than one hundred dollars, by confinement in a guard house or chaingang of said city for a term of not more than sixty days, either or all, in the discretion of said police court.
Sec. 21. - Arrests.
The marshal or marshals or police of said City of Woodbury shall have the power to make arrests as are now provided by the laws of this state for sheriffs and constables making arrests.
Sec. 22. - Presiding officers of police court.
All trials in the police courts of said City of Woodbury shall be presided over by the mayor or the mayor pro tem, who shall keep a docket upon which shall be placed each case which is for trial by him.
Sec. 23. - Powers of police court.
Said police court shall have power to punish for contempt against its lawful authority, whether in its presence or otherwise; to issue summons to witnesses, books, papers, in as full and complete a manner as the courts in this state may now do; to punish as for contempt failure to obey its legal summons; to grant continuances under rules of law; to take bonds and recognizances for appearances at its session, and to forfeit the same under rules and regulations as are now applicable in like procedure in superior courts of this state, and to do all other acts and things necessary for the proper enforcement of its authority as a court; provided, that no fine for contempt shall exceed the sum of ten ($10.00) dollars or imprisonment in a guard house for more than five days.
Sec. 24. - Appeal.
Any persons convicted in the police courts of said city for a violation of the ordinances or bylaws thereof, shall have the right to appeal to the mayor and council of said city if said mayor and council shall see fit by ordinance to provide for such appeal.
Sec. 25. - Commitments.
The mayor and mayor pro tem of said city shall have, in addition to the jurisdiction of justices of the peace over all, the territory embraced in their jurisdiction or municipal offices. Whenever it shall appear that an offense against the laws of the state has been committed within the limits of said city's police jurisdiction, the mayor or mayor pro tem, as the case may be, after investigation, in his discretion may commit the offender or offenders to jail, or bail, to answer to the court having jurisdiction of the offense.
Sec. 26. - Board of health.
Said mayor and council shall have authority, in their discretion, to establish and put into operation a board of health, and to pass all ordinances and regulations, prescribing penalties for violation of the same necessary for purposes of maintaining such board of health, and providing penalties for such violation, to prevent the spread of any contagious or infectious diseases; also to have complete control of persons who have been exposed to contagious or infectious diseases; and to make any and all necessary arrangements for their protection and protection of inhabitants of said city.
Sec. 27. - Building regulations.
Said mayor and council shall have the right to exercise supervision over all buildings within the corporate limits of said city, and they shall have power to prevent the erection of any building within said city without the person or persons wishing to build first appealing to the mayor and council and obtaining a special permit; said permit shall specify the kind of building to be erected, the kind of material to be used in its construction, and the place where same shall be erected; this applies to all buildings or structures, however small the cost of erecting the same may be, or however insignificant the value of the building or structure may be when completed, and whenever in the judgment of the mayor and council any structure or building is dangerous to the life or health of the citizens, on proper case made in terms of the laws of the State of Georgia, they shall have the right to condemn such building as a nuisance, and call on the owner or tenant in possession to immediately abate the same; and in the event the owner or tenant in possession fails or refuses to abate such nuisance within a reasonable time, such a time to be determined by the mayor and council, then said mayor and council may cause the same to be done, and issue execution against said premises for the cost of abating such nuisance. Said mayor and council may likewise pass and enforce an ordinance fixing a penalty to be assessed against any party failing or refusing to abate a nuisance after such party has had notice to abate same.
Sec. 28. - Public utilities; bonds, issuance of.
The mayor and council shall have power to build, maintain and operate, should they see proper, street railways, waterworks, gas works, electric light wires, lines or systems or they shall have the power to grant right-of-way to railroads, street railways, waterworks, gas works, electric lights, telephone lines or wires throughout the streets and alleys of said city upon such terms, conditions and restrictions as said mayor and council may prescribe.
Said mayor and council shall have power to issue bonds for the purpose of erecting, maintaining and operating any of said public utilities in the manner hereinafter provided, and whenever said mayor and council shall, in the exercise of their authority conferred in this Charter, find it necessary to take private property as they cannot agree with the owner or owners thereof as to compensation to be paid they may take such properties upon the following terms.
Sec. 29. - Condemnation of property.
Said mayor and council shall cause to be served such owner or owners, or his or their agents, written notice of their intention to condemn such property which notice must describe the property sought to be used, the time and place, when and where the proceedings to condemn such property will be held, which shall not be less than five days from the date of the service of such notice.
Sec. 30. - Proceedings to condemn property.
It shall be the duty of the mayor and council to appoint one freeholder in said city, and the owner or owners of the property sought to be condemned, or his or their agents, shall appoint another freeholder; provided, that if said owner, or owners, or his or their agents, shall fail or refuse such freeholders, then the mayor and council shall appoint a second freeholder and the freeholders appointed in either of the above ways shall elect the third freeholder, and the three freeholders shall, after taking an oath to faithfully discharge their duties, hear all legal evidence offered by the parties and assess the damage or compensation to be paid to the owner or owners of such land, and under their award, which must be signed by at least two of such freeholders. Said award shall then be filed with the city clerk; should the first two freeholders, as above provided for, be unable to agree upon a third, then said mayor and council shall likewise appoint the third freeholder.
Sec. 31. - Appeal from award of assessors.
Provided that either party dissatisfied with the award of the assessors may, within four days after the same filed, enter an appeal to the Superior Court of Meriwether County. The mayor and council may, after payment to owner or owners, or his or their agent, of the sum found by the assessors, proceed to appoint, lay off, straighten, or otherwise change said street, ward, alley or lane, and take said land pending an appeal by the owner or owners of any land sought to be condemned for such purposes.
Sec. 32. - Quarantine regulations.
Said mayor and council shall have authority to establish and maintain such quarantine and other regulations as in their judgment may be necessary to prevent the introduction or spread of any and all contagious or infectious diseases in said city.
Sec. 33. - Fugitives from justice.
Should any person violating any of the ordinances of said city flee from the jurisdiction thereof, he may be apprehended whenever he may be found in this state, and the warrant of the mayor or mayor pro tem of said city shall be sufficient authority for his return and trial upon the charge resting, and all persons escaping from custody of said city may be tried again for such escape, and punished not exceeding penalties hereinbefore provided.
Sec. 34. - Election of subordinate officers.
Said mayor and council shall have power and authority to elect the city marshal, who shall be the chief of police of the city and as many policemen as in their judgment, they may see proper; street overseers, attorney, city physician, and such other officers as the necessities of the city may demand; they may, by ordinance, prescribe the term of office and the duty of such officers and fix their salaries.
Sec. 35. - Sanitary regulations.
Said mayor and council shall have full power and authority to require the owner of any improved property, his agent or tenant in possession, to provide suitable privy or water closet accommodation upon such premises as may be prescribed by ordinance by the said mayor and council.
Sec. 36. - Sanitation.
Said mayor and council shall have power and authority, by ordinance, to provide suitable regulations on the subject of drainage, sewers and plumbing and all and everything else that may be necessary for improving of the sanitary condition of said city. Said mayor and council are authorized to lay down sewerage through private property in said city, or outside corporate limits of said city, if such be necessary for the public welfare; provided, before so doing, they shall regularly condemn such private property by the method hereinbefore laid down for the taking of private property by the state.
Sec. 37. - Bonds, issuance of, for public utilities.
Said mayor and council may have power and authority to issue bonds of said city in such sums and at such times as they shall see proper, not to exceed in the aggregate at any time the sum of five thousand ($5,000.00) dollars, and of such denominations and in such amount as they see fit; said bonds are not to bear interest at a rate in excess of five per centum per annum and to run for a greater period than thirty years from their date of issue, but may bear a less rate of interest and run for a shorter period from their date of issue, in the discretion of the mayor and council. Said bonds to be issued, hypothecated and sold for the purpose of maintaining and operating a system of water works, system of sanitary sewerage, system of street railways, a system of public schools and the erection and furnishing of the necessary buildings for such school and for street paving. Said bonds shall be signed by the mayor and countersigned by the clerk under the corporate seal of the town, and shall be negotiable in such manner as said mayor and council may determine to be for the best interest of the town; provided, however, that said bonds shall not be issued for the above said purposes until the same shall have been submitted to a vote of the qualified voters of said city and approved by two-thirds majority of the qualified voters of said town voting in such election.
Sec. 38. - Election for bonds, when.
Whenever it is deemed expedient by the mayor and council, they shall order an election to be held in said city for the purpose of determining whether or not there shall be an issue of bonds for any purposes hereinbefore provided, of which election there shall be given thirty days' notice by a publication in the organ in which legal advertisements of Meriwether County are published, and in some paper published in the City of Woodbury, and also by publishing a written or printed notice in three public or conspicuous places in said city, stating the day of election, the amount of bonds to be issued, for what purpose they are to be issued, what rate of interest they are to bear, whether the interest is to be paid annually or semiannually, and when bonds shall be finally paid off. Said election shall be held on the day published in said notice, at such place as may be determined by the mayor and council, which place must be designated in the notice of said election, and shall be held by the same person and in the same manner and under same rules and regulations as for mayor and council; same qualifications of voters of said elections shall be required at said election for mayor and council. That the ballots cast at said election shall contain the words "For Bonds" or "Against Bonds," and unless "For Bonds" shall receive a two-thirds majority of all the voters voting at said election, said bonds shall not be issued; but if "For Bonds" shall receive a two-thirds majority, said bonds may be issued.
Sec. 39. - Free schools.
The mayor and council of said city shall provide, by ordinance, such rules and regulations as to them may be proper in order to establish and maintain a system of free schools in said City of Woodbury, that all fees, forfeitures and costs arising from the police court of said city be used for school purposes.
Sec. 40. - Grading, paving, assessments; lien of assessments; enforcement of collection of assessments.
[The] mayor and council of said city shall have power and authority to grade, pave, macadamize, cove, or otherwise improve the streets and sidewalks, squares, public roads, lanes or alleys in said city with rock, brick, asphalt, or such other material as in the judgment of the mayor and council is most economical and durable. In order to carry into effect the above, said mayor and council shall have the power and authority to assess not more than two-thirds of the cost of paving or otherwise improving the streets and sidewalks, including two-thirds of the cost of curbing necessary on the real estate abutting on such a street or sidewalk. Said mayor and council shall have full power and authority to equalize by an ordinance passed for that purpose, the assessments against all real estate for the above purposes as to them seem just and proper, estimating the total cost of each improvement made and prorating the cost thereon on the real estate according to its frontage on the street or portion of the street so improved, or according to the area of said property, either or all, as may be determined by ordinance passed for that purpose. The amount of assessment on each piece of real estate shall be a lien on said real estate from the date of the passage of the ordinance providing for the work and making the assessments. The mayor and council shall have power and authority to enforce collection for the amount of an assessment so made for work, either upon the streets or sidewalks, by execution issued by the city clerk against the real estate improved and assessed for the amount assessed against the owner at the date of the ordinance making such assessments, which execution may be levied by the marshal or any policeman of said city on such real estate, and after advertising and other proceedings, as in case of tax sales, the same shall be sold at public outcry to the highest bidder. Such sale shall vest absolute title in the purchaser. Said city marshal, or policeman acting for him, shall have authority to eject occupants and put purchaser in possession; provided, the owner of such real estate shall have the right to file his affidavit denying the whole or any part of the amount for which execution is issued, and stating the amount which he admits to be due, which amount admitted to be due, together with all cost, shall be paid before the affidavit shall be received and the affidavit shall be returned to the Superior Court of Meriwether County and there tried and the issue determined, as in cases of illegality filed for the purposes of delay only. The mayor and council shall have power and authority to pave the whole surface of the streets, without giving any railroad or street railroad company, or other property holder occupant of the street the option of having the space to be paved by themselves or by contract at his or her instance, the object being to prevent delay and secure uniformity. The lien for assessments on abutting and on street railroads and other railroad companies for street or sidewalk paving, curbing, macadamizing, grading or draining shall have rank and priority of payment next in point of dignity to liens for taxes, such liens to date from the passage of the ordinance authorizing the work in each instance. Said mayor and council shall have power and authority to prescribe, by ordinance, such other rules as they, in their discretion, think necessary to grade, pave, drain, macadamize or curb the streets, sidewalks and alleys of said city and to collect the cost thereof by execution against the adjacent property owner and railroad companies or other occupants of the streets or alleys of said city.
Sec. 41. - Tax to pay interest on bonds and create a sinking fund.
Should the mayor and council determine, in accordance with the provision hereinbefore made, to issue bonds for any of the purposes hereinbefore set out, then they shall have power and authority in addition to all other taxes hereinbefore authorized, to levy and collect an additional tax not to exceed one per centum per annum sufficient to pay off said bonds, with all interest and charges on the same within the period which said bonds have to run, and it shall be the duty of said mayor and council, in the published notice of any election for the issuance of any bonds for any of the purposes herein provided, to state the amount of annual tax it will be necessary to levy and collect to pay the same.
Sec. 42. - Officer sued for official act may plead justification.
Any officer of the said corporation of the City of Woodbury who may be sued for any act or thing done in his official capacity may be justified under this Charter, and that the provision of this Charter may be pleaded and shall be a full defense to any action brought against the mayor and council of said city, or either of them, for any act or acts done by them, under and in accordance with its provisions and in accordance with the ordinances passed in pursuance thereof.
ARTICLE II. - RELATED LAWS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1919 Ga. Laws, page 1391, as adopted by the Georgia General Assembly. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets. Section numbers have been arbitrarily assigned to the provisions of this article, and history notes have been provided indicating the source of each section.

Sec. 201. - Authority generally.
The mayor and council of the City of Woodbury, in the County of Meriwether, and State of Georgia, in addition to the powers and authority already granted under the present Charter of said city, shall have full power and authority to construct, equip, maintain a system of electric lights or lighting plant, a system of waterworks, and a system of sewerage for said city, and to that end shall have full power and authority to acquire by purchase, gift or condemnation proceedings, all necessary lands, easements, water supplies and franchises.
Sec. 202. - Condemnation of property.
In the event said City of Woodbury cannot procure, by purchase, the necessary lands, rights of way of water ways for the construction of the system of lights, waterworks and sewerage, then the mayor and council of said city shall have the right to exercise the power of eminent domain, and to condemn such lands, easements, rights of way of water ways, and franchises, in manner and form as provided in chapter 9 of volume 1 of the Code of 1910 of the State of Georgia, and the amendments thereto.
Sec. 203. - Purchase of land for water supply.
Said mayor and council of the City of Woodbury shall have full power and authority to acquire by gift, purchase or condemnation in the manner aforesaid, all lands, easements and franchises necessary for water basin and watershed from which the public water supply may be obtained.
Sec. 204. - Right to lay mains, erect poles.
The mayor and council of the City of Woodbury shall have the right of laying the necessary mains, pipes, conduits and drains for waterworks and sewer purposes, and the right to erect post poles and wires for the purpose of conveying electricity and lighting said city, said rights to apply to the public highways of the County of Meriwether, and over and across and under the land of persons and corporations upon payment of just compensation that may be agreed upon or assessed as provided in said chapter 9 of volume 1 of Code of 1910 of this State.
Sec. 205. - Election to authorize bond issue.
The mayor and council of said City of Woodbury are hereby authorized and empowered to order and have held an election by the qualified voters of said city at such times as said mayor and council may designate to determine whether or not bonds shall be issued by the said City of Woodbury in a sum not to exceed the constitutional limitations to be sold for the purpose of establishing, constructing, equipping and maintaining a lighting plant, a system of waterworks and a system of sewerage for said City of Woodbury. Said election shall be held in accordance with the provisions of sections 440—444, inclusive, of the Code of Georgia of 1910, and at said election the ballots used shall be "For bonds for lights" and "Against bonds for lights," "For bonds for waterworks," "Against bonds for waterworks," "For bonds for sewerage," "Against bonds for sewerage." Said mayor and council shall have the power and authority to order an election for either lights, waterworks or sewerage bonds, or for either two or all of said purposes. Said mayor and council shall be required to advertise said election in a newspaper published in said city for a term of thirty days prior to said election, which notice shall specify in detail the amount of bonds to be voted on and the purpose of same.
Sec. 206. - Bond issue.
If said election herein provided for be in favor of bonds for all of said purposes or for either of said purposes, then the mayor and council of said City of Woodbury shall be and are hereby authorized to issue the amount of bonds, of the City of Woodbury so voted on, in a sum equal to the amount fixed by the mayor and council, for said purpose or purposes, which total sum shall not exceed the limit provided for in the constitution of this state. Said bonds shall be designated "lighting," "waterworks" and "sewerage" bonds of the City of Woodbury, as should result from the election so held and carried. Said bonds shall be issued in such denominations as may be fixed by the mayor and council of said city and for a term not to exceed thirty years, the rate of interest on said bonds shall be fixed by the mayor and council in such way as may seem most advantageous for said city after being advertised according to law.
Sec. 207. - Taxes to pay bonds; sinking fund.
The mayor and council of said City of Woodbury shall be and are hereby authorized and empowered to annually assess, levy and collect a tax on all property, both real and personal, corporate and franchise, in the corporate limits of said city; in such sums as may be right, proper and necessary for the specific purpose of paying the interest on said bonds, and also to create a sinking fund, sufficient to redeem and pay off such bonds at the maturity thereof, and the tax assessed, levied and collected shall be kept separate and distinct from all other taxes and moneys of said city and shall be used solely for the payment of the interest on said bonds as it may occur, and for the creation and accumulation of a sinking fund for the payment of the principal of the same.
Sec. 208. - Second election.
If the election herein provided for shall be against the issue of said bonds, that the mayor and council of said city may, at any time after the expiration of one year from the date of said election, order another election under the provisions of this act for either or all of said purposes.
Sec. 209. - Condemnation of property for streets.
The mayor and council of the City of Woodbury be and they are hereby empowered and authorized to condemn private and corporate property for the purpose of opening, laying out and establishing new streets in said city, and for the purpose of widening or changing any street already established in said city, said right of eminent domain to be exercised under the laws of this state as required in chapter nine of volume 1 of the Code of 1910 of this state.
Sec. 210. - Cemetery.
The mayor and council of said City of Woodbury shall have authority to acquire by purchase, gift or condemnation, land for the purpose of using same as a public burial ground or cemetery for the use of the citizens and the community. Said mayor and council shall have authority by ordinance to lay out said land so acquired into burial lots, and to fix the price therefor and to convey title to said lots to the purchasers for the purpose of a burial ground, and to provide by ordinance for the disposition of said funds and for the maintenance and control of said public cemetery.
Sec. 211. - Condemnation of property for cemetery.
In the event said City of Woodbury cannot procure by purchase the necessary lands to maintain a public cemetery or burial ground for said city and the rights-of-way thereto, then the mayor and council of said city shall have and are hereby empowered with the right to exercise the power of eminent domain and to condemn said land and rights-of-way thereto or passage to and from same in the manner and form as provided in chapter nine, Volume 1 of the Code of 1910 of the State of Georgia, and amendments thereto.
