ARTICLE 1. - GENERAL

Section 101. - Short title.
The following articles shall be known and may be cited as the Lilburn Zoning Ordinance.
Section 102. - Authority.
This Lilburn Zoning Ordinance is adopted pursuant to authority provided as follows:
1.
Article IX, Section II, Paragraph IV of the Constitution of the State of Georgia, effective July 1, 1983, which provides that the governing authority of a city may adopt plans and exercise the power of zoning; and
2.
Georgia Code Section 36-66-2, which recognizes and confirms the authority of local governments to exercise zoning powers, subject to minimum procedures governing the exercise of zoning powers; and
3.
Georgia Code Section 36-70-3, which authorizes governing bodies of municipalities to develop, establish, and implement land use regulations which are consistent with the comprehensive plan of the municipality or county; and
4.
Minimum Standards and Procedures for Local Comprehensive Planning (Chapter 110-3-2 of Rules of the Georgia Department of Community Affairs) to implement the Georgia Planning Act of 1989, which require local governments to describe regulatory measures and land development regulations needed to implement local Comprehensive Plans; and
5.
Article I of the Lilburn City Charter, which establishes powers of the city.
Section 103. - Jurisdiction.
The jurisdiction of this Zoning Ordinance shall be the city limits of Lilburn, as established by City Charter and including any such additions to the city limits as may have been made or may be made from time to time in the manner provided by local law and/or general State law.
Section 104. - Purposes.
This chapter serves the following purposes which shall not be considered exhaustive.
1.
To provide safe environments for the people of the City of Lilburn;
2.
To prevent air and water pollution;
3.
To regulate and/or to prohibit the keeping of animals and fowl;
4.
To regulate the erection and construction of buildings and all other structures, and to regulate the height, bulk, placement and the size of buildings and structures;
5.
To protect and preserve the natural resources, environment and vital areas of the City of Lilburn;
6.
To regulate the operation of motor vehicles and exercise control over all traffic, including parking upon or across the streets, roads, alleys, and walkways of the City of Lilburn;
7.
To establish a planning commission of the city; and to confer upon such commission the necessary and appropriate authority for carrying out all the powers conferred upon or delegated to the same;
8.
To provide for the preservation and protection of property of the City of Lilburn;
9.
To define and provide for the abatement of nuisances;
10.
To prohibit or regulate and control the erection, removal, and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings, and any and all other structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the rights-of-way of streets and roads or within view thereof, within the corporate limits of the city;
11.
To provide for the laying out, opening, extension, and widening of roads, alleys, and walkways within the City of Lilburn;
12.
To regulate or prohibit specific businesses and commercial activities which may be dangerous to persons or property; and
13.
To regulate the transportation, storage, and use of combustible, explosive, and flammable materials; and
14.
To protect and preserve trees; and
15.
To further the organization and implementation of an urban redevelopment program;
16.
To implement the City of Lilburn's adopted comprehensive plan; and
17.
To promote responsible growth, lessen congestion in the public thoroughfares, secure safety from fire and health dangers, and promote desirable living conditions; and
18.
To regulate the distribution of uses on the land to avoid both the undue concentration of population and the inappropriate dispersion of population, prevent the encroachment of incompatible land uses within residential areas, and preserve property values; and
19.
To provide procedures for the exercise of zoning powers pursuant to and consistent with the Zoning Procedures Law, O.C.G.A. ยง 36-66 et seq.; and
20.
To discourage sizes and types of development which would create excessive requirements and costs for public services; and
21.
To discourage or prohibit uses in certain locations which because of their size or type would generate an abnormal amount of traffic on minor streets; and
22.
To establish relationships between and among land uses that will ensure compatibility and maintain quality of life; and
23.
To protect and promote suitable environments for family and household residences, institutions, commercial and other employment centers, and other uses; and
24.
For the purpose of all other powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, or general welfare of the city and its inhabitants.
