ARTICLE 1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS
DIVISION 100. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 100-010. - Short title.
This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as "The Zoning Ordinance of Newton County, Georgia."
Sec. 100-020. - Purpose.
This ordinance is enacted by the board of commissioners in order to promote the public health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the residents of Newton County, Georgia, and to implement the Newton County Comprehensive Plan. To these ends, the ordinance is intended to achieve the following purposes:
A.
To guide and regulate the orderly growth, development, redevelopment, and preservation of Newton County in accordance with a well-considered comprehensive plan and with long-term objectives, principals, and standards deemed beneficial to the interest and welfare of the people.
B.
To protect the established character and the social and economic well-being of both private and public property.
C.
To promote, in the public interest, the efficient utilization of land.
D.
To promote the preservation of open space.
E.
To provide for adequate light, air, convenience of access and safety from fire, flood, and other dangers.
F.
To reduce or prevent congestion in the public streets.
G.
To facilitate the creation of a convenient, attractive, and harmonious community.
H.
To encourage an aesthetically attractive environment, both built and natural, and to provide for regulations that protect and enhance these aesthetic considerations.
I.
To expedite the provision of adequate police and fire protection, safety from crime, disaster evacuation, civil defense, transportation, water, sewage, flood protection, schools, parks, forests, playgrounds, recreational facilities, airports, and other public requirements.
J.
To protect against the destruction of, or encroachment upon, historic areas.
K.
To protect against overcrowding of land, undue density of population in relation to the community facilities existing or available, obstruction of light and air, danger and congestion in travel and transportation, and loss of life or health from fire, flood, or other danger.
L.
To encourage economic development activities that provide desirable employment and enlarge the tax base.
M.
To promote the preservation of the unique natural and physical resources of the county, including forested areas, riverbeds, streambeds, and archaeological sites.
N.
To achieve compliance with all applicable state and federal regulations.
O.
To provide for and promote housing for all income groups and all citizens within the county.
P.
To implement the authority, powers, and duties of the planning commission and the board of zoning appeals pursuant to state and local law, including but not limited to the Constitution of the State of Georgia, article 9, section 2, paragraph 4, and Ga. L. 1956, p. 3332 as amended.
Q.
To provide for protection of the constitutional rights and obligations of all citizens within the county.
Sec. 100-030. - Enactment clause.
This ordinance is enacted pursuant to Newton County's authority to adopt plans and exercise the power of zoning granted by the Constitution of the State of Georgia, article 9, section 2, paragraph 4; by Newton County's authority to enact regulations and exercise powers granted by the Constitution of the State of Georgia, article 9, section 2, paragraphs 1 and 3; by authority granted by the State of Georgia, including but not limited to 1956 Ga. Laws, p. 3332 et seq., as Amended; 1981 Ga. Laws p. 4304 et seq., as amended including but not limited to section 9(a)(10), and by O.C.G.A. § 36-66-2(b), by the county's general police powers, and by other powers and authority provided by federal, state, and local laws applicable hereto.
Sec. 100-035. - Interpretation.
The Newton County Planning Director shall interpret the provisions of this ordinance, and may utilize opinions of the county attorney and others in arriving at interpretations. Appeals from an interpretation of the planning director shall be in accordance with the provisions of article 6.
Sec. 100-040. - Application of ordinances.
Except as hereinafter provided:
A.
Use. No building, structure, premises or land shall hereafter be used or occupied and no building or part thereof shall be erected, remodeled, extended, enlarged, constructed, moved, or altered in a manner that increases the extent of non-conformity except in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is or is to be located. See division 530.
B.
Building heights. No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected, constructed, or altered so as to exceed the height limits of the applicable zoning district, unless otherwise specifically authorized.
C.
Lots. No lot, even though it may consist of one or more adjacent lots of record, shall be reduced in size so that lot width or depth, front, side, or rear yard, inner or outer courts, lot area per family or other requirements of this ordinance are not maintained. This section shall not apply when a portion of a lot is acquired for public use within Newton County.
D.
Pending application for building permits. Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans, construction, size or designed use of any building, structure or part thereof, for which a building permit has been granted prior to the adoption of this ordinance, provided construction shall start within 60 days after the granting of such permit, or for any construction which has commenced before the effective date of this ordinance provided said construction will be completed within one year of the effective date.
E.
Approval required to move building. No existing building or other structure shall be moved into any district unless in conformance with the provisions of this ordinance and until a permit therefore shall be granted by the building official. Any such relocated building shall meet the applicable standards of the building official.
F.
Dwelling to abut public street. No residential dwelling shall be erected on a lot which does not abut one public street for a minimum of 40 continuous feet. No private street or driveway shall serve more than two principal residential dwellings unless otherwise allowed under section 110-020 of the Newton County Development Regulations.
Sec. 100-050. - Interpretation of zoning district boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the districts as shown on the official zoning map of Newton County, the following rules shall apply:
A.
Unless otherwise indicated the district boundaries are indicated as approximately following property lines, land lot lines, centerlines of streets, highways, alleys, or railroads, shorelines of streams, reservoirs, or other bodies of water, or civil boundaries, and they shall be construed to follow such lines.
B.
Where district boundaries are approximately parallel to the centerlines of streets, highways, or railroads, right-of-way of the same, or the centerlines of streams, reservoirs, or other bodies of water, or said lines extended, such district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance therefrom as indicated on the official zoning maps. If no distance is given, such dimensions shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on the official zoning maps.
C.
Where a public road, street or alley is officially vacated or abandoned, the ordinances applicable to the property to which it is reverted shall apply to such vacated or abandoned road, street or alley.
D.
In the event that property is de-annexed from a municipality or a municipality loses its status, a six-month moratorium shall be placed on all rezoning applications and building permits for all properties affected.
E.
In case the exact location of a boundary cannot be determined by the foregoing methods, the board of commissioners shall, upon application, determine the location of the boundary pursuant to a regularly advertised public hearing.
Sec. 100-060. - Relationship to comprehensive plan.
A.
Relationship to comprehensive plan. The comprehensive plan is hereby established as the official policy of the county concerning designated land uses, under which the unincorporated areas of Newton County are divided into the following land use categories:
1.
Agriculture/forestry (AF).
2.
Rural/residential (RR).
3.
Residential (RES).
4.
High density residential (HDR).
5.
Commercial (COM).
6.
Mixed-use (MX).
7.
Development node (DN).
8.
Industrial (IND).
9.
Public/institutional (PI).
10.
Transportation/communications/utilities (TCU).
11.
Park/recreation/conservation (PRC).
12.
Road right-of-way (ROW).
B.
Relationship between land use categories and zoning districts.
The comprehensive plan does not alter or affect the existing zoning districts in the county, does not effectuate an amendment to the official zoning maps, and does not itself permit or prohibit any existing land uses.
The zoning districts that are permitted within each land use category shall be restricted to the following:
1.
Agriculture/forestry (AF): A.
2.
Rural residential (RR): A, RE, AR, MHS.
3.
Residential (RES): R1, R2, R3, MSR.
4.
High density residential (HDR): DR, RMF, MHP.
5.
Commercial (COM): OI, CN, CH, CG.
6.
Mixed-use (MX): All districts except M2.
7.
Development node (DN): All districts.
8.
Industrial (IND): M1, M2.
9.
Public/institutional (PI): All districts.
10.
Transportation/communications/utilities (TCU): All districts.
11.
Park/recreation/conservation (PRC): All districts.
12.
Road right-of-way (ROW): All districts.
C.
Changes and amendments. If a zoning district is not listed as permitted in a land use district, application must first be made to change the land use district prior to amending the zoning district. Such applications may be made prior to an application to amend the zoning district or may proceed simultaneously, following a schedule adopted by the board of commissioners, or as otherwise allowed by section 620-010. No property can be zoned to a classification inconsistent with its land use district, as reflected in paragraph B.
Sec. 100-070. - Establishment of zoning district map.
A.
Districts. The boundaries of the zoning districts established in this article are contained in a bound volume titled "Zoning District Map." This map, together with all notations, references, and other information thereon, is made a part of this division and has the same force and effect as fully set forth or described in this division. This map shall be maintained in the office of the zoning administrator and shall be accessible to the public at all times. The zoning district map covers the entire jurisdictional area of the county. It shall be the duty of the zoning administrator to maintain and keep the zoning district map at all times.
B.
Zoning map certification. The official copy of the zoning district map shall be identified by the signature of the chairman of the board of commissioners with the seal of Newton County affixed thereto, together with the effective date of this ordinance. The map shall be updated periodically by the zoning administrator to reflect rezonings.
C.
Zoning district map changes. If changes are made in district boundaries or other matters portrayed on the zoning district map, the zoning administrator shall enter such changes on the zoning district map. Changes made by the zoning administrator are administrative only, and do not comprise rezoning. If there is any dispute between the subsequent annotation by the zoning administrator and the action taken by the board, the action of the board as reflected in the minutes shall control.
D.
Unauthorized changes. No changes in district boundaries shall be made on the zoning district map, except in conformance with the procedures set forth in this division. Any unauthorized change shall be considered a violation of this division.
E.
Location of zoning district map. Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the zoning district map that may from time to time be made or published, the zoning district map shall be located in the planning department, or as described in subsection A. of this section, and shall be the final authority as to the current zoning of property within the jurisdiction. The planning department is authorized to use working copies of the map, including computerized GIS maps, and shall make same available to the public.
F.
Loss, damage, replacement. In the event that the zoning district map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost, or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and additions, the board of commissioners may, by ordinance, adopt a replacement zoning district map that shall supersede the prior zoning district map. Unless the prior zoning district map has been lost, or has been totally destroyed, the prior zoning district map or any significant remaining parts thereof shall be preserved, together with all available records pertaining to its adoption or amendment.
G.
Copies. The planning department may provide copies of maps to the general public in accordance with the Open Records Act and county fee schedule. In case of any dispute regarding such maps, the original maps maintained in accordance with this section shall be considered to be determinative.
Sec. 100-080. - Relationship to private agreements.
This ordinance is not intended to abrogate, annul, or otherwise interfere with any easement, covenant, or other private agreement or legal relationship provided that such easements, covenants, or other private agreements or legal relationships shall not supersede or enjoin the enforcement of the regulations of this ordinance.
Sec. 100-090. - Conflict with other regulations.
When the provisions of this ordinance impose more restrictive standards than are required in or under any statute or other legal document, the requirements of this ordinance shall govern. When the provisions of any statute require more restrictive standards than are required by this ordinance, the provisions of such statute shall govern.
Sec. 100-100. - Severability.
If any portion or provision of this ordinance is found to be unconstitutional, such invalidity shall not affect any other portion of this ordinance.
Sec. 100-110. - Effective date.
This ordinance shall take effect and shall be in force from and after the date of its adoption.
DIVISION 105. - DEFINITIONS

Sec. 105-010. - Rules for interpretation of language.
Except as otherwise provided herein, all words shall have the customary dictionary meaning. The present tense includes the future tense. The singular number includes the plural and the plural includes the singular. The word "person" includes a firm, corporation, association, organization, trust or partnership. The word "lot" includes "plot" or "parcel." The word "building" includes "structure." The word "shall" is always mandatory. The word "used" or "occupied" as applied to any land or building shall be construed to include the words, "intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied." The word "map" means the "Official Zoning District Maps for Newton County, Georgia."
Sec. 105-020. - Specific definitions.
When used in this ordinance, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning given in this section:
AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
Accessory use. A use of land or a building, or portion thereof, customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use of the land or building and located on the same lot with such principal use.
Administrative variance/approval. A variance or administrative approval that is routine or too insignificant to require board approval. For example: an administrative variance of ten percent or less can be approved at the discretion of the staff for such things as building set back requirements. Staff may administratively approve a telecommunication tower in industrial zones as per this ordinance. Decisions of the staff may be appealed as per this ordinance.
Adult entertainment business. An establishment that:
1)
Sells, rents, exhibits, or displays adult entertainment materials using a floor area that is more than ten percent of the total floor area for selling, renting, exhibiting, or displaying all materials;
2)
Features nude persons or adult entertainment performances; or
3)
Otherwise requires a county license as an adult entertainment business.
Adult entertainment material or performance. Material that is a book, magazine, periodical, or other printed matter, photograph, film, motion picture, video cassette, slide or other visual representation; sculpture or three-dimensional representation; recording or other sound representation; or sexual paraphernalia that depicts or describes, or a live performance that depicts, sadomasochistic abuse, sexual conduct, or sexual excitement as defined in the Newton County Adult Entertainment Ordinance.
Agriculture. See Farming.
Agricultural processing plant. Agricultural processing plant means a structure, building, facility, area, open or enclosed, or any other location for the refinement, treatment, or conversion of agricultural products where a physical, chemical or similar change of an agricultural product occurs. Examples of agricultural processing include, but are not limited to, coolers, dehydrators, cold storage houses, hulling operations, feed processing, and the sorting, cleaning, packing and storing of agricultural products preparatory to sale or shipment in their natural form, including all customarily incidental uses. Agricultural plants include wineries.
Airport. A transportation terminal facility where aircraft take off and land.
Airstrip, private. An area designated for the landing of private, non-commercial aircraft with no terminal facilities and no scheduled takeoffs and landings.
Alcoholic beverage plant/distillery. Any building or portion of a building engaged in the making, producing or bottling of an alcoholic beverage. This also means: in the case of distilled spirits, any building or portion of a building engaged in distilling, rectifying, or blending any distilled spirits; in the case of malt beverage, any brewing.
Alley. A service roadway providing a secondary means of public access to abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
Alteration. Any change, addition or modification in construction or type of occupancy; any change in the structural members of a building, such as walls, partitions, columns, beams, girders, or any change which may be referred to herein as "altered" or "reconstructed."
Alternative support structure. Clock support structures, bell support structures, church steeples, light/power poles, electric transmission support structures, signs, water storage tanks, and similar natural or man-made alternative-design mounting structures that camouflage or conceal the presence of antennas or support structures.
Ambulance/emergency services. Any service to citizens for injury or life threatening events, including but not limited to ambulance, paramedic, or rescue services provided by a privately-owned entity.
Amphitheater/stadium. An open lot or part thereof, with its appurtenant facilities, devoted primarily to the showing of moving pictures or theatrical productions, musical productions, live performances, or sports venues on a paid admission basis to patrons seated outdoors.
Animal hospital/vet clinic. A building or portion thereof designed and used to provide primary health services and medical or surgical care to domestic household pets generally with the overnight boarding facilities for pets in care but without kenneling of animals.
Antenna. Any exterior apparatus designed for wireless telecommunication, radio, or television communications through the sending and/or receiving of electromagnetic waves.
Antenna, amateur radio. A tower and antenna for radio transmission and reception which is maintained by a licensed amateur radio operator as an accessory structure.
Antenna, satellite television. An apparatus capable of receiving but not transmitting television, radio or cable communications from a central device transmitting said communications.
Apartment. See Dwelling, multi-family.
Applicant. A person seeking an action or approval under provisions of this ordinance.
Aquifer. Any stratum or zone of rock beneath the surface of the earth capable of containing or producing water.
Arcade, game room. A business or portion of a business wherein coin-operated video games and pinball games of a non-sex-oriented or gambling nature are available for amusement.
Art studio. A place designed to be used as a place of work as well as display and sale of work by an artist, artisan or craftsperson, including persons engaged in the application, teaching or performance of fine arts, such as, but not limited to, drawing, vocal or instrumental music, painting, sculpture and writing.
Asphalt plant. A facility for the mixing of asphalt components, including hot mix asphalt, for transfer to the job site.
Assembly plant or firm. A structure, firm or company, whether private or incorporated, that performs the fitting together, or assembling of pre-manufactured parts into a complete article, sub-assembly, or product.
Assisted living facility (ALF). A special combination of housing, supportive services, personalized assistance and health care designed to respond to the individual needs of those who need help with activities of daily living. A facility with a central or private kitchen, dining, recreational, and other facilities, with separate bedrooms and/or living quarters, where the emphasis of the facility remains residential.
Automobile auction. A facility that auctions motor vehicles to automobile dealers, and not to the general public.
Automobile parts store. An establishment that sells new automobile parts, tires, and accessories.
Automobile recovery. A use involving the recovery or repossession of automobiles and trucks, and temporary storage of said vehicles. Also includes wrecker service. Salvage, abandonment or demolition is not included in this use.
Automobile and equipment rental. The use of any building, land area, or other premises for the rental of cars, light trucks, and/or light equipment, and shall not include vehicle repair/services.
Automobile repair/body shop. This use includes major and minor categories. Generally, the use includes the repair, alteration, restoration, towing, painting, or finishing of automobiles, motorcycles, trucks, recreational vehicles, boats and other vehicles as a principal use, including the incidental wholesale and retail sale of vehicle parts as an accessory use. Major vehicle repair facilities deal with entire vehicles; minor facilities specialize in limited aspects of repair (e.g., muffler and radiator shops, quick-lube).
Automobile sales. The use of any building, land area, or other premises for the display and sale or lease of any new or used car or light truck, and including outside storage of inventory, any warranty repair work, and other repair service conducted as an accessory use.
Automobile service station. Any area of land, including structures thereon, used for the retail sales of gasoline or oil, automobile accessories or incidental services, including facilities for lubricating, washing and cleaning, or otherwise servicing automobiles, but excluding painting and major repair.
Bakery. A retail establishment engaged in the production of bakery goods for sale on site.
Bank or financial institution. Establishments engaged in deposit banking. Typical uses include commercial banks, savings institutions, and credit unions.
Bar. A commercial enterprise whose primary activity is the sale of alcoholic beverages to be consumed on the premises, as may be limited by zoning districts and other provisions of this zoning ordinance. The establishment must meet all local, state and federal requirements to sell alcohol. Bars include lounges, taverns, night clubs, and similar facilities serving alcoholic liquor as the core business.
Bed and breakfast. A building or group of buildings containing one or more guestrooms for an overnight stay which are rented at a daily rate and where breakfast is the only meal served to guests. See section 510-130.
Billiard/pool hall. Any commercial establishment that derives significant or substantial income from the operation of pool tables, billiard tables, or like or similar devices.
Block. A piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highways or streets, other than alleys.
Boarding house. A building, other than a hotel, where, for compensation and/or by pre-arrangement, meals or lodging and meals are provided for three or more persons, but not exceeding 20 persons.
Broadcast studio, radio/television. A place for radio (oral), television (visual), or musical broadcasting. Radio or television studio shall mean only that part of a radio or television station from which the signal originates and shall not include the transmitter or antenna part of the station.
Buffer. That portion of a lot set aside with adequate natural or planted vegetation to accomplish visual and sound screening, to separate zoning districts from other zoning districts, or to protect environmentally sensitive areas. In the event that insufficient existing vegetation or trees in the buffer zone, planting, fencing, or other supplemental screening shall be required, with a density or opacity to accomplish buffering as required by all approved ordinances. Roads, parking areas, above-ground stormwater retention facilities, recreational facilities, or other above-ground construction shall not be permitted within the required buffer area. Public rights-of-way and utility easements shall not be considered part of the buffer area.
Buffer, transitional. A natural, undeveloped portion of a lot or parcel of land set aside for visual screening purposes pursuant to applicable provisions of this ordinance for the purpose of separating different use districts, or to separate dissimilar uses on one property from uses on another property of the same use district. See division 520.
Building. Any structure attached to the ground which has a roof and which is designed for the shelter, housing, or enclosure of persons, animals, or property of any kind.
Building, accessory. A subordinate building, the use of which is incidental to that of the dominant use of the principal building or land. See section 510-020. An accessory structure attached to the principal building by a breezeway, shall be considered an accessory building.
Building, alterations of. Any change in the supporting members of a building (such as bearing walls, beams, columns, and girders) except such change as may be required for its safety; any addition to a building; any change in the location of a use within an existing building or on a developed site.
Building height. The vertical distance measured from the average finished yard grade at its parallel juncture with the structure, to the highest point of the roof surface if a flat roof; to the deck line of mansard roofs, and to the mean height level between eaves and ridge of gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
Building line. A line into which no foundation wall or part of the structure of any building projects, with the exception of roof overhang, steps, and the sub-surface projection of footing. Such a line may coincide with the building setback line.
Building, principal. A building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which it is situated. In any residential district any dwelling shall be deemed to be a principal building on the lot on which it is situated.
Bus terminal. Any premises for the transient housing or parking of motor-driven buses and the loading and unloading of passengers.
Business park. A special or exclusive type of planned mixed-use business office area designed and equipped to accommodate a community of businesses, providing them with all the necessary facilities and services in attractive surroundings among compatible neighbors. Business parks may be promoted or sponsored by private developers, community organizations, or government organizations.
Campground. A lot, or tract of land operated either as a commercial or non-commercial enterprise in which seasonal facilities are provided for all or any of the following: camping in tents, picnicking, boating, fishing, swimming, outdoor games and sports, and activities incidental and related to the foregoing, but not including golf, golf driving ranges, miniature golf, mechanical amusement devices or permanent housing facilities for guests. Campground does not mean recreational vehicle park nor manufactured home park as defined herein.
Car wash. An area of land and/or a permanent structure/facility with mechanical or hand-operated facilities used principally for the cleaning, washing, polishing, or waxing of motor vehicles.
Cemetery. A place used or to be used and dedicated or designated for earth interments of human remains.
Certificate of appropriateness. A document approving a proposal for a new construction or for a material change in the appearance of a property or of a structure, site, or work of art located within rural overlay district, except for existing single-family detached residential structures. The certificate of appropriateness must be obtained from the Newton County Planning Commission.
Chemical products manufacturing. Establishments that produce or use basic chemicals and establishments creating products predominantly by chemical processes.
Clinic. An establishment where patients, who are not lodged overnight, are admitted for examination and treatment.
Club, order or lodge. Buildings and facilities owned or operated by an incorporated or unincorporated association for civic, social, cultural, religious, fraternal, literary, political, recreational or similar activities, operated not primarily for profit or to render a service to the general public.
Co-location. The placement of the antennas of two or more service providers upon a single support structure or alternative support structure.
College or university. Any institution of higher learning, publicly or privately owned, for the education of students beyond the 12th grade. The term does not include business or trade schools.
Commercial nursery. A business which sells trees, shrubs, flowers and other plants for transplanting, and the retail sale of any related garden supplies such as chemical fertilizer, tools and other similar goods and/or equipment, or the retail sale of plants not grown on the property. Also known as "garden center."
Commercial vehicle. A duly licensed and registered vehicle used to transport passengers or property to further a commercial enterprise. A recreational vehicle, or a farm machine or a farm vehicle for agricultural use is not a commercial vehicle.
Commission. The Newton County Planning Commission.
Common driveway. A private driveway which provides vehicular access to two or more structures.
Common open space. Land and/or water areas within the site designated for development, not individually owned or dedicated for public use, which are designed and intended for the common use or enjoyment of the residents of the development but not including any lands occupied by streets, street rights-of-way, or off-street parking.
Composting facility, municipal solid waste. An establishment converting municipal solid waste to humus through a controlled process of degrading organic matter by microorganisms.
Composting facility, yard trimmings. An establishment converting yard trimmings to humus through a controlled process of degrading organic matter by microorganisms. This definition does not include composting conducted on a residential lot for home gardening purposes.
Concept plan. A drawing which shows the overall concept (e.g., a concept plan) of a proposed development, and which may include lots and streets in a subdivision or the general location of buildings and improvements for a multi-family or non-residential project.
Concrete plant. A facility for the mixing of concrete components for transfer to the job site.
Conditional use. A use listed in the zoning ordinance as being permitted if it meets stated conditions and is approved by the board of commissioners of Newton County.
Condominium. A form of property ownership whereby the owner gains ownership of an interior space within a building. The building structure, the land under the building, and all of the surrounding land is commonly owned by all the inhabitants on a proportional basis.
Confined feeding lot operation. Areas where more than the following number of livestock are fed in a concentrated area: 1,000 beef cattle; 750 dairy cattle; 2,500 hogs. See section 510-190.
Conservation area. Land including surface water bodies, wetlands designated by the National Wetlands Inventory, the 100-year floodplain as identified on federal insurance rate maps, steep slopes generally exceeding 25 percent, areas of exposed rock, private cemeteries and burial grounds. To the maximum extent, these areas shall be left in a natural and undisturbed state, but shall be accessible for enjoyment by all residents of the subdivision. See section 425-030.
Conservation development (subdivision). A contiguous area of land to be planned and developed as a single entity, in which housing units are accommodated under more flexible standards, such as building arrangements and setbacks, than those that would normally apply under residential district regulations, allowing for the flexible grouping of houses in order to conserve open space and existing natural resources.
Conservation easement. A conservation easement is a voluntary restriction placed by a landowner on the use of his or her property to protect resources such as wildlife habitat, agricultural lands, natural areas, scenic views, historic structures, or open spaces. The landowner retains title to the property, and the easement is donated to a qualified conservation organization, such as a land trust, or a government agency.
Conspicuous. Visible from the nearest public thoroughfare. Readily visible to the general public.
Convenience store. Any retail establishment offering for sale pre-packaged food products, household items, newspapers and magazines, and sandwiches and other freshly prepared foods for off-site or on-site consumption, including the sale and dispensing of motor fuel or other petroleum products directly into motor vehicles and the sale of accessories or equipment for motor vehicles. No vehicle repairs shall be permitted.
Country club. A land area and buildings containing recreational facilities, clubhouses and usual accessory uses, open to members and their guests which is privately operated. Uses at a country club frequently include golf courses, swimming pools (outdoors), and clubhouses. A country club may be developed as a freestanding entity or as part of a residential community or planned residential development.
Crematory. A building or structure operated in conjunction with a columbarium, mausoleum, cemetery, or mortuary containing one or more furnaces for the reduction of bodies of deceased persons to cremated remains.
Curb cut. The area of vehicular ingress and egress between property and an abutting public street.
Dance school/studio. Facilities for individual and group instruction and training in the art of dance; includes production rehearsal.
Day care center, adult. An establishment operated by any person with or without compensation for providing for the care, supervision, and oversight only during daytime hours of seven or more adults who are elderly, physically ill or infirm, physically handicapped or mentally handicapped.
Day care center, child. An establishment operated by a person, society, agency, corporation or institution, or any group, wherein are received with or without pay, seven or more children under 18 years of age for group care for less than 24 hours per day, without transfer of legal custody.
Day care facility, adult. Any place operated by any person with or without compensation for providing for the care, supervision, and oversight only during day-time hours of six or fewer adults who are elderly, physically ill or inform, physically handicapped, or mentally handicapped.
Day care facility, child. Any place operated by any person with or without compensation providing for the care, supervision, and protection of six or fewer children who are under 18 years of age for group care for less than 24 hours per day, without transfer of legal custody.
Day spa. An establishment offering a variety of personal health and beauty related services, including but not limited to weight reduction, massage therapy, hair styling, but expressly excluding any adult regulated uses.
Density. The total number of square feet, lots or dwelling units per acre of land unless specifically provided otherwise in this ordinance.
Department. The Newton County Planning and Development Department.
Department store. A retail store for the sale of many kinds of goods arranged in departments.
Development nodes. Development nodes seek to increase concentrations of population and employment within the nodes with the majority of commercial development concentrated at the center of the node. Development nodes encourage a mix of diverse and compatible land uses, and design development and public right-of-way improvements to be pedestrian oriented. Development nodes are activity centers that have a master plan for its development adopted by the board of commissioners. Fundamental characteristics of nodal development include:
1)
Pedestrian oriented. The emphasis is on walkability and alternate modes.
2)
Residential uses representing a mix of density and housing types, achieving overall density targets, including required minimum densities.
3)
Mixed uses so that services are available within walking distance (one-quarter mile).
4)
Public uses such as ample parks, open space and facilities which can be reached without driving.
5)
Design elements that support pedestrian environments that encourage walking and bicycling.
Nodal development is a positive and necessary strategy to fulfill the goals of the Newton County Comprehensive Plan. Refer to the Newton County Comprehensive Plan for guidance on development within nodes (pages IV-1 through IV-3 of the Community Agenda).
Development of community impact. A use of any building, land area, or other premises that qualifies as a large-scale development. See section 500-100.
Development, planned. The development and subdivision of a parcel of property into a number of lots, to contain a number of residences or businesses, such as a subdivision, office park, strip shopping center, industrial park, and the like.
Disability. A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of a person's major life activities, including a person having a record of such an impairment or being regarded as having such an impairment. A "disability" does not include current illegal use of, or addiction to, any federally controlled substance, as defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act, 21 USC 802 or successor law. "Major life activities" means functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working. "Has a record of such an impairment" means has a history of, or has been classified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.
Distribution and mailing facilities. Uses which constitute the temporary storage and/or shipping of goods, including mail order processing, package distribution and mailing.
District. A section of Newton County within which the zoning ordinance requirements are uniform.
DRASTIC. The standardized system for evaluating groundwater pollution potential using the hydrogeologic settings described in U.S. Environmental Protection Agency document EPA-600/2-87-035.
Drive-through/drive-in use. An establishment which by design, physical facilities, service, or packaging procedures encourages or permits customers to receive services, obtain goods, or be entertained while in their motor vehicles.
Drug store/pharmacy. A retail store which sells prescription drugs, patent medicines, and surgical and sickroom supplies.
Dry cleaning, institutional. A building, portion of a building, or premises used or intended to be used for cleaning fabrics, textiles, wearing apparel, or articles of any sort by immersion and agitation, or by immersions only, in volatile solvents, including, but not limited to, solvents of the petroleum distillate type, and/or the chlorinated hydrocarbon type, and the processes incidental thereto.
Dry cleaning, neighborhood. A facility where retail customers drop off or pick up laundry or dry cleaning, but where no processing of dry cleaning takes place.
Dwelling, attached. A dwelling that is separated from another dwelling by a common party wall, or party floor or ceiling. Attached dwellings include two-family, townhouses, and multi-family.
Dwelling, caretaker. An accessory residence located on an extensive property and occupied by an employee or the property owner for the purpose of property maintenance, security, or nighttime property management. (See section 510-390.)
Dwelling, multi-family. A building designed, constructed, altered or used for more than two adjoining dwelling units, with each dwelling unit having a party wall or walls and/or party floor or ceiling connecting it with at least one other dwelling unit. (See section 510-410.)
Dwelling, single-family. A dwelling structure that is designed for the use of one family.
Dwelling, single-family attached. A dwelling unit on an individual lot attached to another dwelling unit on an adjoining lot by a common party wall.
Dwelling, single-family detached. A dwelling unit on an individual lot unattached to another dwelling unit.
Dwelling, single-family zero lot line. A single-family dwelling unit which is either: (1) erected in a row as part of a single building on adjoining lots, each being separated from the adjoining unit or units by an approved fire-resistant party wall or walls, extending from the basement or cellar floor to the roof along the dividing lot line (see Dwelling, townhouse) or (2) erected as a detached dwelling unit with side and/or front setback requirements relaxed so as to allow the dwelling unit to be built on the property line. (See section 510-680, Zero Lot Line Development.)
Dwelling, tenant. A residential structure located on a farm and occupied by non-transient farm workers and employed by the owner of the farm on a full-time basis.
Dwelling, townhouse. A dwelling unit in a row of at least three such units in which each unit has its own front and rear access to the outside, no unit is located over another unit, and each unit is separated from any other unit by a common party wall.
Dwelling, two-family (duplex). A building designed, constructed, altered or used for two adjoining dwelling units, with each dwelling unit having a party wall connecting it with one other dwelling unit.
Dwelling unit. One or more rooms, designed, occupied or intended for occupancy as a separate living quarter, with cooking, sleeping and sanitary facilities provided within the dwelling unit for the exclusive use of a single family maintaining a household.
Dwelling unit, permanent. Any dwelling unit erected on a site pursuant to building codes or other laws, intended for permanent residence, and permanently attached to a foundation, such as a single-family dwelling, duplex, multi-family dwelling, site-built home, apartment building, manufactured home or industrialized home. Excluded from this definition are vehicles, recreational vehicles, tents, boats, sheds, and other similar structures, even when an attempt is made to permanently affix them to a foundation.
Easement utility. A grant by a property owner for the use of real property for the specified purpose of constructing and maintaining utilities; including, but not limited to sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines, telephone lines, cable lines, storm sewer or storm drainage ways and gas lines.
Enhanced common area. An area designed and improved for use by people both for passive and active recreation. Improvements may range from gentle grading and grassing for leisure activities, playing of games or holding an event, up to provision of active amenities like swimming pools and tennis courts. See section 450-080.
Equipment sales and services. The use of any building, land area, or other premises for the display and sale or rental of light and/or heavy equipment (e.g., construction), including outside storage of inventory, any warranty repair work, and other repair service conducted as an accessory use.
Escort. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees to offer to privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another person.
Escort agency. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary businesses for a fee, tip or other consideration.
Extended stay hotel. Any building containing guest rooms rented or leased for sleeping purposes for periods of less than three weeks, but in excess of one week, and that contain kitchen facilities for food preparation, including, but not limited to, kitchen sink, stove/cook top and a refrigerator.
Exterior architectural features. The architectural style, general design, and general arrangement of the exterior of a building or other structure to which this section applies, including, but not limited to, the kind of texture of the building material; the type and style of all windows, doors, and signs; and other appurtenant architectural fixtures, features, details, or elements relative to the foregoing.
FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration.
FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
Fallout shelter. A structure or operation of a structure intended to provide protection to human life during periods of danger from nuclear fallout, air raids, storms or other emergencies.
Family. A group of individuals related by blood, marriage, adoption, or guardianship, or not more than four persons not so related, living together in a dwelling unit as a single housekeeping unit under a common housekeeping management plan based on an intentionally structured relationship providing organization and stability.
Farm equipment and machinery sales, rental, repair. The sale or leasing of new and used farm equipment and machinery displayed, stored, and sold or leased on site including repair work.
Farmers market. A retail market where agricultural produce is offered for sale to the general public, either within an enclosed building or outdoors.
Farming, commercial. Any primary use of a tract or parcel of land for the purpose of raising commercial agriculture products, including, but not limited to, soil crops, fish, fowl, timber or livestock, regardless of the quantity or value of production. This includes the sale of products grown/produced on the land. (See section 510-270.)
Farming, general. A use of a tract or parcel of land devoted to agricultural purposes, but specifically excluding the following activities and/or uses (see section 510-280):
1)
Feed lots, as defined herein.
2)
Poultry houses.
3)
Turkey ranges.
4)
Hog parlors.
5)
Dairy barns.
6)
Commercial slaughtering of livestock, poultry and/or fowl.
7)
Any other agricultural activity or use which is objectionable by reason of odor, noise, dust or sanitary conditions.
This use includes the selling of products grown/produced on the land.
Feedlot. See Confined feeding lot operation.
Feed, seed store (farm supply store). An establishment where feed, seed, animal and agricultural supplies are primarily sold.
Fenestration. The façade of a building establishes a wall surface or plane. The degree to which that plane is visually segmented by bays and punctured by entrances and windows is fenestration. Faux entrances and windows are also considered fenestration.
Flea market. An occasional or periodic market held in an open area or structure where groups of individual sellers offer goods for sale to the public.
Floodplain. That area within the intermediate regional flood contour elevations subject to periodic flooding as designated in the Newton County Water Resources Management.
Floor area. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the total number of floors of a building measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the centerline of walls separating two buildings; excluding unusable basement or cellar space, uncovered steps or fire escape, open porches, accessory off-street parking spaces, accessory off-street loading berths, and any space where the floor-to-ceiling height is less than six feet.
Flower/florist shop. A business whose principal activity is the selling of plants which are not grown on the site and conducting business within an enclosed building.
Food processing. Manufacturing establishments producing or processing foods for human consumption and certain related products. Includes:
1)
Bakery products, sugar and confectionery products (except facilities that produce goods only for on-site sales with no wider distribution are included under "Retail stores, general merchandise."
2)
Dairy products processing.
3)
Fats and oil products.
4)
Fruit and vegetable canning, preserving, and related processing.
5)
Grain mill products and byproducts.
6)
Meat, poultry, and seafood canning, curing and byproduct processing (not including facilities that also slaughter animals).
7)
Miscellaneous food preparation from raw products, including catering services that are independent from food stores or restaurants.
Frontage, building. The width in linear feet of each exterior wall of a business which faces a street or public way.
Frontage, lot. The distance on which a parcel of land adjoins a public street or right-of-way or easement, including proposed streets within a subdivision of land approved by Newton County.
Funeral home. A building used for the preparation of the deceased for burial or cremation, for the display of the deceased, and/or for ceremonies or services related hereto, including cremation and the storage of caskets, funeral urns, funeral vehicles, and other funeral supplies and services.
Furniture, furnishings and equipment store. Stores primarily selling home furnishings, including furniture, floor coverings, draperies, glass and chinaware, stoves, refrigerators, other household electrical and gas appliances, including televisions and outdoor furniture including lawn furniture.
Furniture, cabinet, woodworking shops. Facilities producing primarily wood household and office furniture, cabinets and other such products.
Garage apartment. A dwelling unit for one family erected above a private garage detached from the principal dwelling.
Garage, parking. A structure or portion thereof, other than a private customer and employee garage or private residence garage, used primarily for the parking and storage of vehicles and available to the general public.
Garage, private. An accessory building or a portion of a principal building used for the parking or storage of automobiles of the occupants of the principal building. A carport shall not be considered a private garage.
Garage, repair. A building or portion thereof, other than a private or parking garage, designed or used for the storage, servicing, repairing, equipping and/or hiring of motor-driven vehicles.
Geographic antenna placement area. The general vicinity within which the placement of an antenna is necessary to meet the engineering requirements of an applicant's cellular network or other broadcasting need.
Go kart. A miniature, self-propelled, four-wheel vehicle designed to be independently operated by the person riding therein and shall include the terms "cart," "go cart" or "kart."
Go kart facility. Any place of business, whether open to the public or operated on a private or semi-private basis, whether or not operated for a profit, wherein the use of go karts on tracks for rides, rentals, demonstrations, and racing is the principal use of such business.
Golf course. A tract of land for playing golf, improved with trees, fairways, hazards and which may include clubhouses, shelters, pro-shops and golf cart storage facilities.
Governing authority. The board of commissioners of Newton County, Georgia.
Government facilities, administrative offices, and services. Lands and buildings owned or operated by a local, state, or federal entity to provide legislative, judicial, administrative, or regulatory services for the public, but not including the underground and overhead distribution and collection systems providing water, gas, electric, telephone, cable TV service, or sanitary or storm sewage drainage.
Grade. A reference plan representing the average of finished ground level adjoining the building at all exterior walls. When the finished ground level slopes away from the exterior walls, the reference plane shall be established by the lowest points within the area between the building and the lot line or between the building and a point of six feet from the building, whichever is closer.
Greenhouse. Retail business, whose principal activity is the selling of plants grown on the site and having outside storage, growing or display.
Group residence for persons 18 years of age or over with a disability, congregate. A residence in which five or more unrelated persons with a disability protected under the Fair Housing Act reside and which is licensed by the state department of community health as a personal care home or community living arrangement. The Fair Housing Act affords no protections to individuals with or without disabilities who present a direct threat to the persons or property of others. Determining whether someone poses such a direct threat must be made on an individualized basis, however, and cannot be based on general assumptions or speculation about the nature of a disability.
Group residence for persons 18 years of age and over with a disability, home occupation. A residence in which a resident manager (who is a member of the family residing in the residence) and up to three unrelated persons with a disability protected under the Fair Housing Act reside and which is licensed by the state department of community health as a personal care home or community living arrangement. The Fair Housing Act affords no protections to individuals with or without disabilities who present a direct threat to the persons or property of others. Determining whether someone poses such a direct threat must be made on an individualized basis, however, and cannot be based on general assumptions or speculation about the nature of a disability.
Group residence for persons up to the age of 18 years old with or without a disability, congregate. Any dwelling, whether operated for profit or not, which undertakes, through its ownership or management, to provide full-time care for minors up to the age of 18 years old outside of their homes. Full-time care shall include, but is not limited to, the provision of room, board, health care, counseling, and other related services. Group residences congregate is for seven or more children. This use is also known as a group home or child care institution (CCI) and requires licensure by the State of Georgia Department of Human Services Residential Child Care Licensing Unit. This use shall not include foster care homes.
Group residence for persons up to the age of 18 years old with or without a disability, home occupation. Any dwelling, whether operated for profit or not, which undertakes, through its ownership or management, to provide full-time care for minors up to the age of 18 years old outside of their homes. Full-time care shall include, but is not limited to, the provision of room, board, health care, counseling, and other related services. Group residences for children are allowed in all residential zoning districts with up to six children. This use is also known as a group home or child care institution (CCI) and requires licensure by the State of Georgia Department of Human Services Residential Child Care Licensing Unit. This use shall not include foster care homes.
Guest house. A secondary building incidental to the principal residence, which is used only for the non-commercial boarding of guests or full-time on-premises workers.
Gunsmith shop. A facility where guns are made or repaired. No retail sales of guns permitted.
Hazardous waste. Any solid waste which has been defined as hazardous waste in regulations, promulgated by the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to the federal act, which are in force and effect on February 1, 1988, codified as 40 CFR § 261.3.
Heavy equipment. Any vehicles that have a gross vehicle weight (GVW) of at least 13 tons, or any construction equipment, or any farm equipment.
Height. The vertical distance measured from grade to the highest finished roof surface in the case of flat roofs or to a point at the average height of the highest roof having a pitch.
Height, support structure. When referring to a support structure or other structure, means the distance measured from ground level to the highest point on the support structure or appurtenance.
Historic and/or architectural significance structure. A building or structure that has a special historic or aesthetic interest or value as part of the development, heritage, or cultural character of the city, county, region, state or nation.
Home occupation. An occupation for gain or support conducted only by members of a family residing on the premises and subject to conditions specified in section 510-310.
Home office. A home occupation in which the residents operate the administrative function of a business only.
Homeless shelter. A building or buildings in which is provided overnight housing and sleeping accommodations for three or more persons who have no permanent residence and are in need of temporary, short-term housing assistance, and in which may also be provided meals and social services including counseling services.
Hospice care facility. A facility certified by the State of Georgia as a hospice, housing two to eight non-related persons which provides an organized, medically directed, interdisciplinary program designed to provide palliative care to terminally ill patients. The purpose of such facilities is to provide palliative and supportive care to patients and their families to meet the special needs arising out of physical, emotional, spiritual, social and economic stresses which are experienced during the final stages of illness, death and bereavement.
Hospital. A building or portion thereof designed and used to provide primary health services and medical or surgical care to persons designated as inpatients, suffering from illness, disease, injury, deformity and other abnormal physical or mental conditions. This shall include related facilities, such as laboratories, outpatient clinics and medical offices.
Hotel. A building in which lodging or board and lodging is provided for more than 20 persons and offered to the public for compensation and in which ingress and egress to and from each sleeping room in generally made through the interior of the building.
Hotel/motel. A building in which lodging or board and lodging is provided to the public for compensation and in which ingress and egress to and from each sleeping room is made through the interior of the building.
Impervious surface. Areas which do not permit natural infiltration of rainfall, including but not limited to rooftops, paved parking lots, driveways, paved roads and streets, patios, paved sidewalks, swimming pools, paved tennis courts and basketball courts, and any other exposed area surfaced in concrete or asphalt, except for gravel and pervious or porous paving materials.
Indoor recreational facilities, commercial. A facility whose main purpose is to provide the general public with indoor activities for recreational activities and where tickets are sold or fees are collected for participation in the activities. Such uses include arcades, game rooms, bowling alleys, billiard parlors, indoor skating rinks, sports instructional schools, dance studios, gymnastic facilities and martial arts academies.
Industry. A use engaged in the processing of raw materials or the manufacture or materials or products.
Industry, heavy. A use engaged in the basic processing and manufacture of materials or products predominately from extracted or raw materials, or a use engaged in storage of, or manufacturing processes using flammable or explosive materials, or storage or manufacturing processes that potentially involve hazardous or commonly recognized offensive conditions.
Industry, light. The manufacture, service, repair or testing of products taking place in a totally enclosed building. There is no outside storage. Noise, odor, glare or emissions from the industrial activity are not detectable off the property.
Industrial park. A defined geographic area planned and coordinated for the development of various industrial uses and associated activities. An industrial park is designed, constructed, and managed on an integrated basis with particular attention given to vehicular circulation, parking, utilities, stormwater management, building design, signage and landscaping.
Industrialized building (factory-built housing). Any structure or component thereof which is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation on a building site and has been manufactured in such a manner that all parts or processes cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof.
Industrialized home. A dwelling unit manufactured in accordance with the Georgia Industrialized Building Act (O.C.G.A. § 8-2-110 et seq.), and the Rules of the Commissioners of the Georgia Department of Community Affairs issued pursuant thereto, and meeting the following developmental standards:
1)
A minimum width in excess of 28 feet.
2)
A minimum roof pitch of 5:12, which means having a pitch equal to at least five inches of vertical height for every 12 inches of horizontal run. Any dwelling unit for which a building permit was obtained prior to the adoption of this ordinance may be extended, enlarged, or repaired as otherwise provided by this ordinance with the same roof pitch as that allowed by the previous building permit.
3)
A minimum roof overhang of 12 inches is required. All roof surfaces exposed to view shall be covered with asphalt or fiberglass shingles, wood shakes or shingles, standing seam (non-corrugated tin or steel), clay tiles, slate, or similar materials.
4)
Exterior siding consisting of wood, hardboard, vinyl, brick, masonry, stone or aluminum (vinyl covered or painted, but in no case exceeding the reflectivity of gloss white paint) comparable in composition, appearance, and durability to the exterior siding commonly used in site dwellings.
5)
A curtain wall, un-pierced except for required ventilation and access, must be installed so that it encloses the area located under the home to the ground level. Such a wall shall have a minimum thickness of four inches and shall be constructed of masonry or similar material as approved by the zoning administrator.
6)
The dwelling must be placed on a permanent foundation, either slab or pier, which meets the requirement of the International Residential Code (IRC) and Georgia State Amendments. In addition, the dwelling shall be completely underpinned with masonry, stone or similar materials for the purpose of underpinning as approved by the zoning administrator.
7)
Utility meters must be mounted to the structure rather than on a utility pole, and all axles, tongues, and transporting and towing apparatus must be removed before occupancy.
8)
A landing must be installed at each doorway. The minimum size of the landing shall be four feet by six feet (excluding steps) at each doorway. The structure must include steps which led to ground level, and both landing and steps must meet the requirements of the International Residential Code (IRC) and Georgia State Amendments.
9)
The dwelling must be installed in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 8-2-110 et seq., and the rules promulgated thereunder.
Institution. A non-profit corporation or a non-profit establishment.
Intermodal freight terminal/facility. An industrial establishment in which freight is transferred in containerized form from truck to railroad cars for transportation.
Junked vehicle. Any wrecked or non-operable automobile, truck or other vehicle which does not bear a current license plate.
Kennel. An establishment for the raising, breeding, caring for and/or keeping of, more than three dogs (except litters of animals of not more than six months of age). Similar facilities may include boarding of other domestic animals.
Kindergarten. A school for pre-elementary school children ranging in age from four through six years.
Laboratories. A place where scientific studies are conducted, including testing, research, or analysis of a medical, chemical, physical, biological, mechanical or electronic nature.
Laboratory, medical. An establishment devoted to experimental study such as testing and analyzing. Manufacturing of product or products is not to be permitted within this definition.
Laboratory, dental. An establishment devoted to the small-scale manufacturing of dental products.
Land disturbing activity. Any use of land by any person in residential, industrial, educational, institutional or commercial development and in highway and road construction and maintenance that results in a change in the natural cover or topography and that may cause or contribute to sedimentation. This includes borrow and waste disposal activity not regulated by the provisions of the Mining Act of 1971 or the department of human resources, division of health services. Land disturbing activity shall not include agriculture or forestry activities conducted in conformance with best management practices.
Land trust. A non-profit, tax-exempt entity whose primary purpose includes the preservation of open space, natural land, rural land, or agricultural land, and which is permitted to hold conservation easements.
Land uses, existing prior to river corridor protection overlay. Any land use or land disturbing activity, including all human endeavors directly associated with such use or activity, which, prior to the promulgation of the river corridor protection overlay district falls within one of the following categories:
1)
Is completed and in use;
2)
Is under construction;
3)
Is fully approved by the governing authority;
4)
All materials have been submitted for approval by the governing authority; or
5)
Is zoned for such use and expenditures in excess of $2,500.00 have been made in preparation for construction in accordance with such zoning.
Landfill. A method of disposing of waste on land by placing an earth cover thereon. The term "landfill" shall include construction and demolition debris landfill, hazardous waste landfill, industrial waste landfill, inert waste landfill, monofill, municipal solid waste landfill and private industry landfill. The term "landfill" shall not include approved on-site disposal of inert waste at a building, land disturbing, or development site.
Landfill construction and demolition waste. A landfill in which construction/demolition waste is disposed. Construction/demolition waste means waste building materials and rubble resulting from construction, remodeling, repair and demolition operations on pavements, houses, commercial waste, wood, bricks, metal, concrete, wallboard, paper, cardboard, inert waste landfill material and other non-putrescible wastes which have a low potential for groundwater contamination.
Landfill, hazardous waste. A landfill in which hazardous waste is disposed. Hazardous waste means any solid waste which has been defined as a hazardous waste in regulations promulgated by U.S. EPA pursuant to the federal act codified as 40 CFR § 261.3 or by the Georgia Hazardous Waste Management Act.
Landfill, private. A privately owned and operated landfill for the purpose of profit. This may be each or all of the above types of landfills.
Landing area. The area of an airport or private airstrip used for landing, taking-off, or taxiing of aircraft.
Landscape business. A business whose primary operation is the sale and/or installation of organic and inorganic material, plants, pine straw, and other limited accessory products for the landscape industry, and the storage and use of associated landscape vehicles and equipment.
Large-scale development. A large-scale development is a development on a large zoning lot (as defined based on the use of the lot) or several zoning lots planned as a unit that are contiguous or only separated by a street.
Large-scale development, commercial. A use of any building, land area, other premises, or any combination of for commercial development of ten acres or greater or a structure greater than 10,000 square feet.
Large-scale development, public assembly. A use of any building, land area, other premises, or any combination of for places of public assembly development of ten acres or greater or a structure greater than 10,000 square feet. (See Place of public assembly.)
Large-scale development, residential. A use of any building, land area, other premises, or any combination of for residential development of 50 acres or greater or 100 or more dwelling units.
Laundromat. A business that provides self-service, coin-operated washing, drying and/or ironing machines for clothing and similar laundry.
Library. A public or private facility for the use, but not the sale, of literary, reference, artistic and musical materials.
Livestock. The term "livestock" as used herein shall mean and include cattle, horses, goats, sheep, swine, and other hoofed animals; poultry, ducks, geese and other species of the aviary family; and rabbits, mink, foxes, and other fur- or hide-bearing animals customarily bred or raised in captivity for the harvesting of their skins; whether owned or kept for pleasure, utility or sale. See section 510-380.
Livestock quarters and enclosures. Any structure which surrounds or is used to shelter, care for, house, feed, exercise, train, exhibit, display or show any livestock, other than fenced pasture land for grazing. See section 510-380.
Loading space. A space within the principal building or on the same lot, providing for the standing, loading, or unloading of trucks, and other carriers.
Lot. A portion, plot, or parcel of land separated from other portions, plots, or parcels by description as on a subdivision plat, record, survey map, or as described by metes and bounds, and intended for transfer of ownership, or for building development.
Lot, corner. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
Lot, double frontage. A lot other than a corner lot abutting two streets.
Lot, frontage. See Frontage, lot.
Lot, reverse frontage. A double frontage lot which is designed to be developed with the rear yard abutting a major street and with the primary means of ingress and egress provided on a minor street.
Lot of record. A lot which is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has been recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of Newton County, Georgia, or a parcel of land described by metes and bounds, the plat or description of which has been recorded in said office.
Lot remnant. Any portion or portions of a lot not suitable for building upon because of size or topography and remaining after the transfer of other portions of said lot to adjoining lots.
Lot width. The width of the lot at the building line specified for each district, parallel to the lot frontage, or in case of a curvilinear street, parallel to the chord of the arc between the intersection of the side lot lines and the street right-of-way line.
Manufactured home, Class A. A dwelling unit, meeting the definition of "manufactured home" contained in O.C.G.A. § 8-2-160, fabricated in an off-site facility for installation or assembly at the building site, bearing a label certifying it is constructed in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act, 42 USC 5401 et seq., and meeting the following development standards:
1)
A minimum width in excess of 28 feet.
2)
A minimum roof pitch of 5:12, which means having a pitch equal to at least five inches of vertical height for every 12 inches of horizontal run. Any dwelling unit for which a building permit was obtained prior to the adoption of this ordinance may be extended, enlarged, or repaired as otherwise provided by this ordinance with the same roof pitch as that allowed by the previous building permit.
3)
A minimum roof overhang of 12 inches is required. All roof surfaces exposed to view shall be covered with asphalt or fiberglass shingles, wood shakes or shingles, standing seam (non-corrugated tin or steel), clay tiles, slate, or similar materials.
4)
Exterior siding consisting of wood, hardboard, vinyl, brick, masonry, stone or aluminum (vinyl covered or painted, but in no case exceeding the reflectivity of gloss white paint) comparable in composition, appearance, and durability to the exterior siding commonly used in site dwellings.
5)
A curtain wall, unpierced except for required ventilation and access, must be installed so that it encloses the area located under the home to the ground level. Such a wall shall have a minimum thickness of four inches and shall be constructed of masonry or similar material as approved by the zoning administrator.
6)
The dwelling must be placed on a permanent foundation, either slab or pier, which meets the requirement of the International Residential Code (IRC) and Georgia State Amendments. In addition, the dwelling shall be completely underpinned with masonry, stone or similar materials for the purpose of underpinning as approved by the zoning administrator.
7)
Utility meters must be mounted to the structure rather than on a utility pole, and all axles, tongues, and transporting and towing apparatus must be removed before occupancy.
8)
A landing must be installed at each doorway if door opens outward. The minimum size of the landing shall be four feet by six feet (excluding steps) at each doorway. The structure must include steps which lead to ground level, and both landing and steps must meet the requirements of the International Residential Code (IRC) and Georgia State Amendments.
9)
The dwelling must be installed in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 8-2-160 et seq., and the rules promulgated thereunder.
Manufactured home, Class B. A dwelling unit, meeting the definition of "manufactured home" contained in O.C.G.A. § 8-2-160, fabricated in an off-site facility for installation or assembly at the building site, bearing a label certifying it is constructed in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act, 42 USC 5401 et seq., but which does not meet the criteria of a Class A manufactured home. The dwelling must be installed in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 8-2-160 et seq., and the rules promulgated thereunder.
Manufactured home, Class C. A manufactured home or mobile home that does not meet the criteria of Class A or Class B manufactured homes.
Manufactured home sales, rental, repair. The sale or leasing of new and used manufactured homes displayed, stored, and sold or leased on site excluding repair work except minor incidental repair.
Manufactured housing development. A development or subdivision intended for use as a residential area occupied by multiple manufactured homes.
Manufacturing. The process of making wares by hand, by machinery or by other agency, often with the provision of labor and the use of machinery.
Manufacturing, heavy. The processing of raw materials such as lumber, metals, food products or petroleum; or the assembly, fabrication or processing of goods that have impacts on adjacent properties; or uses that require large amounts of outside storage or equipment.
Manufacturing, light. Manufacturing including the production, processing, cleaning, testing and distribution of materials, goods, foodstuffs and products which by the nature of the materials, equipment and process utilized is to a considerable measure clean, quiet, and free of any objectionable or hazardous element.
Manufacturing, outdoors. A manufacturing establishment or operation which is not housed within a building.
Manufacturing, research related. The assembly or fabrication of products where scientific research comprises a significant component of the value added by manufacture for each unit of product. This definition includes, but is not limited to, electronic products, pharmaceuticals, computer equipment, scientific equipment, optical equipment, precision instruments, medical equipment, and communications equipment. Heavy manufacturing is not included in this definition.
Manufacturing, selected. The assembly or fabrication of products having few off-site impacts and generally taking place in an enclosed building.
Massage school. Any place or establishment or facility which provides instruction in the theory and practice of massage, unless such instruction is provided by a medical practitioner, chiropractor, acupuncturist, physical therapist, osteopath or similar professional person licensed by the State of Georgia or offered as part of a curriculum of a public or other school licensed by the State of Georgia.
Massage studio/parlor. A studio or other location where a massage therapist qualified to practice massage therapy under state law practices massage therapy. This excludes any adult regulated uses.
Massage therapy. The profession regulated by the State of Georgia in which the practitioner applies massage techniques (not sexual in orientation) with the intent of positively affecting the health and well-being of the client, and may adjunctively:
1)
Apply allied modalities, heat, cold, water and topical preparations not classified as prescription drugs;
2)
Use hand held tools or devices designed as t-bars or knobbies; and
3)
Instruct self-care and stress management.
Material change in appearance. A change that will affect only the exterior architectural features of a property or of any structure, site or work of art within the rural village overlay district, except for existing single-family detached residential structures. Ordinary maintenance or repair of any exterior architectural feature in or on a structure that does not involved a change in design is expressly excluded from the definition of the term "material change in appearance." Material change in appearance includes any one or more of the following:
1)
A reconstruction or alteration of the size, shape, or façade of a property, including relocation of any doors or windows or removal or alteration of any architectural features, details, or elements, except for a single-family detached residence;
2)
Demolition of a structure, except for a single-family detached residence;
3)
Relocation of a building or a structure, except for the reconstruction or alteration of a single-family detached residence, within the rural village overlay district or from a location outside the district to a location within the district;
4)
Commencement of excavation, except for reconstruction or alteration of a single-family detached residence;
5)
A change in the location of advertising visible from the public way on the property; or
6)
The erection, alteration, restoration, or removal of any building or other structures within the rural village overlay district, except for existing single-family detached residences, including walls, fences, steps, and pavements, or other appurtenant features.
Metal smelting. A process of melting or fusing so as to separate impurities from pure metal.
Metal forging works. The process of forming metal into a shape, by heating, hammering, by smithing or wroughting.
Modular home. See Industrialized home.
Monofill. A method of solid waste disposal that involves the land filling of one waste type or wastes having very similar characteristics in a segregated trench or area which is physically separated from dissimilar or incompatible waste. Solid waste means any garbage or refuse, sludge from wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility, and other discarded material including solid, semi-solid, or contained gaseous material resulting from industrial, commercial, mining and agricultural operations and community activities, but does not include recovered materials; solid dissolved materials in domestic sewage; solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or industrial discharges that are point sources subject to permit under 33 USC § 1342; or source, special nuclear, or byproduct material as defined by the Federal Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
Motel. A building or group of buildings containing sleeping accommodations for short-term rental primarily to the motoring [public], and which does not include eating or bar facilities.
Museum. A building, room, etc., for preserving and exhibiting artistic, historical or scientific objects.
Natural slope. The average slope of a building lot in any direction prior to any land disturbance. This is to be measured from the edges of the total area requiring land disturbance for the placement of all structures but not less than the structure pad area plus 20 feet on all sides of the structure pad area.
Night club. See Bar definition.
Node. A place where activity and routes are concentrated. Also called a junction.
Non-conforming use. A use of land or building structure existing at the time of the enactment of this ordinance, or at the time of any subsequent amendments and which does not conform with the ordinances of the use district in which it is located. See division 530.
Nursing home, nursing care facility. An establishment providing inpatient nursing and rehabilitative services to patients who require health care but not hospital services. Care must be ordered by and under the direction of a physician. The facility must meet all state, local and federal requirements.
Office, home. A home occupation in which the residents operate the administrative function of a business only.
Office, mixed-use. Intensively developed office and mixed-use centers where office uses represent 50 percent or more of the intended use. Mixed commercial, entertainment, recreation, and residential land uses may be located in lesser amounts within this category.
Office, professional. Includes the less intensive office and professional center uses including low-rise office parks, single freestanding office buildings, banks and similar financial institutions, and residential structures converted to office use.
Open space. Areas of a development that allow for light, air, wildlife habitat, and for scenic and recreational use. Also included are areas designed to enhance the privacy or general appearance of a development. Private open space is open space that is owned by a corporation, individual, or homeowners' association. Public open space is open space owned by a governmental jurisdiction.
Orientation. The direction a building's primary elevation (aka façade) faces.
Outdoor recreation. This category includes greenways, trails, bikeways, paths, tennis courts, ball fields, playfields, courts, swimming pools, clubhouses, toilets, dressing rooms, lockers, bicycle facilities, equestrian facilities, beaches, docks, seating areas, amphitheaters, stages, bandshells, community buildings, fountains, plazas, patios, decks, lawns, picnic shelters and picnic areas, landscaping and other land containing outdoor recreation structures and facilities.
Outdoor recreation facilities, commercial. Any establishment whose main purpose is to provide the general public with facilities for active, outdoor recreational activities and where tickets are sold or fees are collected for participation in the activity. Outdoor commercial recreation facilities include, but are not limited to: water slides and parks, golf courses and miniature golf courses, driving ranges, and baseball batting cages. The following uses are excluded from this definition: tracks for motor sports and firing ranges. See section 510-430.
Outside storage. Storage of incidental equipment, merchandise, refuse, recyclable material. Also to include outside work areas or service yards.
Overlay district/zone. A zoning district that encompasses one or more underlying zones and that imposes additional requirements above that required by the underlying zone.
Paper/pulp mill. The manufacture of paper and paperboard, from both raw and recycled materials.
Park. A public or private area of land, with or without buildings, intended for outdoor active or passive recreational uses.
Parking garage. A structure or portion thereof composed of one or more levels or floors used exclusively for the parking or storage of motor vehicles. A parking garage may be totally below grade or either partially or totally above grade with those levels being either open or enclosed.
Parking lot. A ground level open area that is used for the temporary parking of vehicles.
Parking spaces, off-street. A temporary storage area for a motor vehicle that is directly accessible to an access aisle and that is not located on a dedicated street right-of-way.
Pavement. An all-weather surface treatment, including gravel, which is applied to and maintained so as to prevent erosion, and to prevent vehicle wheels from making direct contact with soil, sod or mud; and which effectively prevents the depositing of soil, sod or mud onto streets.
Pawnshop. An establishment engaged in the business of lending money on the deposit or pledge of tangible personal property or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property on the condition of reselling the property to the seller at a stipulated price, where any of the income received by the establishment is generated through these activities.
Pay day loan, title loans, check cashing. A facility engaged in the business of making loans in exchange for possession of the certificate of title to property or a security interest in titled property. Also includes pay day loans which is a business that makes small consumer loans, usually by a postdated check or authorization to make an electronic debit against an existing financial account, where the check or debit is held for an agreed-upon term, or until the applicant's next pay day, and then cashed unless the applicant repays the loan to reclaim such person's check. Also includes check-cashing, which is a business other than a bank or savings and loan or similar financial institution that cashes checks for a fee as a business activity.
Perennial river. A river or section of a river that flows continuously throughout the year.
Perennial stream. A stream which flows throughout the whole year as indicated on USGS quad map.
Personal services. Provision of services, on a daily basis, that include, but are not limited to, ambulation and transfer, and essential activities of daily living such as eating, bathing, grooming, dressing, and toileting.
Personal service establishments. An establishment where the primary purpose is providing for the care of physical components of a person or personal apparel. Examples are: beauty shops, cleaners, and shoe repair shops. This definition does not include such services as tattoo/body piercing shops, adult book/video stores.
Place of public assembly. A building, structure, grounds, or any combination thereof, including, but not limited to, amphitheaters, auditoriums, convention space, stadiums, theatres, cinemas, sports arenas, concert halls, lecture halls and other similar facilities intended for commercial or non-commercial entertainment, instruction, or similar activities involving assembled groups of people. A place of public assembly shall also be defined as a parcel of land, building or other premises or a combination of any, developed with the intention or ability to accommodate large gatherings, functions, recreation events or other such activities.
Place of worship. A lot or building wherein persons assemble for religious worship and which is maintained and controlled by a non-profit body organized to sustain public worship. The term shall also include any of the following: cathedral, chapel, church, synagogue, temple, mosque, tabernacle and other similar terms. See section 510-480.
Planned commercial center. The development and subdivision of a parcel of property into a number of lots, to contain a number of commercial businesses.
Planned industrial center. The development and subdivision of a parcel of property into a number of lots, to contain a number of businesses, such as an industrial park, and the like.
Planned office center. The development and subdivision of a parcel of property into a number of lots, to contain a number of businesses, such as an office park, and the like.
Planned retail center. The development and subdivision of a parcel of property into a number of lots, to contain a number of businesses, such as a strip shopping center, and the like.
Plant nursery, greenhouse, wholesale. An establishment primarily engaged in the sale and/or cultivation for sale of horticultural specialties such as flowers, shrubs, and trees, intended for ornamental or landscaping purposes.
Playschool. A school for pre-kindergarten children ranging in age from three to four years.
Plat. A map, plan or layout of a county, city, town, section or subdivision indicating the location and boundaries of properties.
Pollution susceptibility. The relative vulnerability of an aquifer to being polluted from spills, discharges, leaks, impoundments, applications of chemicals, injections and other human activities in the recharge area.
Pollution susceptibility maps. Maps of relative vulnerability to pollution prepared by the department of natural resources, using the DRASTIC methodology. Pollution susceptibility maps categorize the land areas of the state into areas having high, medium, and low groundwater pollution potential.
Pre-existing support structure and antennas. Structures as set forth in subsection C.5 of section 510-630 of these regulations.
Print shop. Establishment engaged in printing by letterpress, lithography, gravure, screen, offset or other common processes, including electrostatic (xerographic) copying and other "quick printing" services.
Professional. When used in connection with "use" and "occupancy" a use or occupancy by persons generally engaged in rendering personal, executive, sales or administrative services or activities, including accountants, architects, professional engineers and land surveyors, doctors, lawyers, insurance offices, real estate offices, religious organizations, stock brokers, and administrative agencies considered professional in character. The term, however, does not include repairs or sales of tangible personal property stored or located within the structure nor any use which would create any loud noise or noxious odors within Newton County.
Produce stand. A temporary structure designed or used for the display or sale of agricultural and related products.
Protected river. Any perennial river or watercourse with an average annual flow of 400 cubic feet per second as determined by appropriate U.S. Geological Survey documents. However, those segments of rivers covered by the Metropolitan River Protection Act or the Coastal Marshland Protection Act are specifically excluded from the definition of a protected river. In coastal areas, the seaward limit of any protected river shall be the inland limit of the jurisdiction of the Coastal Marshlands Protection Act.
Public facilities. Transportation systems or facilities, water systems or facilities, waste water systems or facilities, storm drainage systems or facilities, fire, police and emergency systems or facilities, electric utilities, gas utilities, cable facilities, and other public utilities.
Public use. Use intended to be conducted in a facility or upon land which is owned by and operated for public use by school districts or by city, county, state or federal governments.
Public utility. A common carrier supplying electricity, telephones, natural gas, water, sewage disposal, but shall not include mass transit or railroad depots or terminals or any similar traffic-generating activity, or any person or entity that provides wireless telecommunication services to the public.
Quadrangle map. The most recently published U.S. Geological Survey 7.5 minute topographic map prepared at a scale of 1:24,000.
Quarry. A mine where rock, ore, stone, and similar materials are excavated for sale or for off-site use. Quarry includes rock crushing, the production of dimension stone, and similar activities.
Recharge area. Any portion of the earth's surface where water infiltrates into the ground to replenish an aquifer. See division 410.
Recovered materials processing facility, recycling station. Any facility utilized for the purpose of collecting, sorting, processing, and shipping materials to be recycled, including, but not limited to, plastics, glass, paper, and aluminum, whenever such use is principal to the site. See section 510-530.
Recreation, active. Leisure activities usually of an organized nature, often performed with others and often requiring equipment, taking place at prescribed places, sites or fields.
Recreation area. An improved area designed, sized and intended for the playing of a game or event, and/or an area including structures for activities, such as play grounds, picnic tables, pavilions, or walking trails.
Recreation center, neighborhood. A facility located within a residential area, dedicated for recreational purposes, to primarily serve the residents of a development. May include club house, pool, tennis courts, playgrounds, etc. Also known as "amenity area."
Recreation, passive. Recreational activities that generally do not require a developed site. This generally includes such activities as hiking, horseback riding, and picnicking.
Recreational vehicle (RV). A camper, camp trailer, travel trailer, house car, motor home, trailer bus, trailer coach or similar vehicle, with or without motive power, designed for human habitation for recreational or emergency occupancy. Where a recreational vehicle is on or attached to a trailer used to carry or tow said vehicle, they shall together be considered one recreational vehicle. A recreational vehicle shall not include a pickup truck used for transportation to which a camper shell has been attached.
Recreational vehicle park. Any lot on which are temporarily parked two or more recreational vehicles for a period of less than 90 days.
Recycling center/station. A use of land and/or structures for the receipt, sorting, packaging and forwarding of reusable waste products, including but not limited to glass, aluminum, bimetal cans, newspapers, plastic and motor oil.
Rehabilitation center. A facility operated for the purpose of assisting in the rehabilitation of disabled persons which provides one or more of the following types of services:
1)
Testing, fitting, or training in the use of prosthetic devices;
2)
Prevocational or conditioning therapy;
3)
Physical, corrective, or occupational therapy; or
4)
Adjustment training or evaluation or control of special disabilities; or a facility in which a coordinated approach is made to the physical, mental, and vocational evaluation of disabled persons and an integrated program of physical restoration and prevocational training is provided under competent professional supervision and direction.
Repair services. An establishment primarily engaged in the provision of repair services to individual, or other businesses, but excluding automotive or other vehicle repair and farm machinery and tractor repair. Typical uses include appliance repair shops, furniture repair and reupholster shops, watch or jewelry repair shops, and musical instrument repair shops.
Research activities (facility). The conduct of research, development, and testing in various fields of service, such as, but not limited to, chemistry, pharmacy, medicine, electricity, transportation and engineering.
Research and development facility. A facility for scientific laboratory research in technology-intensive fields, including, but not limited to, biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, genetics, plastics, polymers, resins, coatings, fibers, fabrics, films, heat transfer, and radiation research facilities, computer software, information systems communication systems, transportation, geographic information systems, and multi-media and video technology. Also included in this definition are facilities devoted to the analysis of natural resources, medical resources, and manufactured materials including: environmental laboratories for the analysis of air, water, and soil; medical or veterinary laboratories for the analysis of blood, tissue or other human medical or animal products; and forensic laboratories for analysis of evidence in support of law enforcement agencies.
Reservoir boundary. The edge of a water supply reservoir defined by its normal pool level.
Reservoir watershed. The entire drainage basin which contributes to a reservoir intended to be a source of public drinking water.
Residential appearance. An outward visual appearance or façade of a non-residential building with architectural features similar to a single-family residence. Some features may include dormers, pitched roofs, and typical residential building materials.
Residential district. A term which applies to all single-family dwelling districts, including RE, AR, R1, R2, R3 and MSR, two-family districts, DR, multi-family districts, RMF, mobile home districts, MHP and MHS, and any residential portion of CORD.
Residential dwelling. Living in a fixed location, whether on a permanent or temporary basis; indicated by actions such as spending significant time at the location on more than one day, repeated eating and sleeping at the location, and performing other life activities at the location repeatedly.
Resident manager. A person who lives in a group residence and is responsible for daily operation of the residence and care given to residents on a 24-hour per day basis. In group home residences for persons under the age of 18 years old regulated by the state department of human services or state department of community health the resident manager may include the adequate child care staff worker(s) in accordance with the Official Code of Georgia (O.C.G.A.) § 49-5-1 et seq. (Rule 290-2-5-.08 Administration and Organization Part 6).
Restaurant. An establishment where food and drink are prepared, served, and consumed primarily within the principal building or on an adjacent patio area.
Restaurant, drive-through/in. An eating and/or drinking establishment which caters to motor-driven vehicle business where the person being served receives food and/or drink, while sitting in a motor-driven vehicle, as opposed to a restaurant serving exclusively inside an enclosed building.
Retail. The sale of commodities and service directly to consumers.
Retail stores, general merchandise. Retail trade establishment selling many lines of merchandise.
Right-of-way. A strip of land designated, reserved, dedicated, or purchased for the purpose of pedestrian or vehicular access or utility line installation.
Right-of-way line. The dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a contiguous right-of-way.
Riparian buffer. An undisturbed natural area maintained alongside a lake, river, stream, or like water body that is shown on the most current U.S. Geological Survey documents. See section 520-010.
River bank. The rising ground, bordering a river, which serves to confine the water to the natural channel during the normal course of flow.
River corridor. All land, inclusive of islands, not regulated under the Metropolitan River Protection Act (O.C.G.A. §§ 12-5-440 through 12-5-457), or the Coastal Marshland Protection Act (O.C.G.A. §§ 12-5-280 through 12-5-293), in areas of a protected river and being within 100 feet horizontally on both sides of the river as measured from the river banks. The 100-foot buffer shall be measured horizontally from the uppermost part of the river bank, usually marked by a break in slope. Although not within the measured 100-foot-wide buffer, the area between the top of the bank and the edge of the river shall be treated by local governments in the same manner as the river corridor and shall be included within the river corridor protection plan. Because stream channels move due to natural processes such as meandering, river bank erosion, and jumping of channels, the river corridor may shift with time. For the purposes of these standards, the river corridor shall be considered to be fixed at its position at the beginning of each review period for local comprehensive plans. Any shift in the location of the protected river after the start of the review period will require a revision of the boundaries of the river corridor at the time of the next review by the department of community affairs.
Rooming house. A building other than a hotel where lodging for three but not more than 20 persons and with no meals served.
Salvage operation and/or junk yard. Property used for outdoor storage, keeping, abandonment, sale or resale of junk, including scrap metal, rags, paper or other scrap materials, used lumber, tires, batteries, salvage building wrecking and structural steel materials and equipment, or for the dismantling, demolition, or abandonment of automobiles or other vehicles or machinery or parts thereof.
Sawmill. Manufacturing, processing and sales uses involving milling of forest products to produce rough and finished lumber and other wood materials for use in other manufacturing, craft or construction processes.
Scale of development. The relationship of a particular project or development to the land, in terms of size, height, bulk, intensity and aesthetics.
School, business. Public or private schools offering instruction in accounting, secretarial work, business administration, illustrative arts, information technology and similar subjects.
School, private. Any building or group of buildings the use in which meets state requirements for elementary, secondary, or higher education and which does not secure the major part of its funding from a governmental agency.
School, private, residential. A private school or similar institution that may include residential facilities and accessory kitchen, dining, and recreational facilities for program participants.
School, public. Any building or group of buildings the use in which meets state requirements for elementary, secondary, or higher education and which secures the major part of its funding from a governmental agency.
School, trade or industrial. Any public or private secondary or higher education facility primarily teaching skills that prepare students for jobs in a trade, and meets the state requirements for a vocational facility.
Scenic views. Those geographic areas containing visually significant or unique natural features as identified in the Newton County Comprehensive Plan.
Setback line. The shortest distance between the right-of-way line of a street or an adjacent property line and the nearest wall of the principal building or structure on a lot abutting thereon.
Shopping center. A complex of three or more businesses and commercial establishments, the whole planned, and developed and managed as a unit, sharing common parking facilities.
Showrooms and salesrooms. An establishment whose principal business is the display and sale of manufactured products, supplies, and equipment, and which may include accessory offices.
Sign. Any display of words, shapes or images designed to convey a message to the viewer, located on the exterior of any dwelling, building or structure or anywhere on a lot upon a dedicated supporting structure or device, including poles, banners, windows and similar devices.
Sign, area of. The area of a sign shall be computed as including the entire area within a regular geometric form or combinations of regular geometric forms, comprising all of the display area of the sign and including all of the elements of the matter displayed. Structural frames and members not bearing advertising matter shall not be included in computation of surface area.
Sign, canopy. A sign affixed to, superimposed upon or painted on any roof-like structure either permanently or temporarily extended over a sidewalk or walkway.
1)
Flush: mounted in such a manner that a continuous plane with the canopy is formed.
2)
Hanging: suspended from beneath the canopy.
Sign, double-faced. A sign which has two display areas against each other or where the interior angle formed by the display areas is 60 degrees or less, where one face is designed to be seen from one direction and the other face from another direction.
Sign face. The part of a sign that is or can be used for advertising purposes.
Sign, freestanding. See Sign, ground.
Sign, ground. A sign that is anchored to the ground and is wholly independent of a building for support. Freestanding signs are included in this definition, as are signs on poles, frames, or other mounting structures other than buildings.
Sign, ground, height. The distance in vertical feet from the elevation of the adjacent dedicated public street, edge of pavement, to the highest point of the sign structure. For property with elevation higher than the adjacent public street, the height shall be measured from ground level at base of sign to the highest point of the sign structure. The ground shall not be altered for the sole purpose of providing additional sign height.
Sign, illuminated, direct. A sign illuminated by an internal light source.
Sign, illuminated, indirect. A sign illuminated by an external light source directed primarily toward such sign.
Sign, monument-style. A sign permanently constructed, not on a pole, but rather with a base dressed with brick, stone, masonry or equal architectural material (excluding wood), designed to be placed at the entrance to a subdivision or commercial development. The base shall be at least two feet high, two feet wide and four feet long and shall be covered in brick, stone, masonry or similar permanent materials (excluding wood), with the sign resting on the base.
Sign, political campaign. A sign that can be erected under the special provisions of section 525-025 of this division.
Sign, portable. Signs which are attached to vehicles, trailers, movable structures, or attached to sign structures which are not permanently anchored into the ground, or any sign which may be transported or is designed to be transported. Such signs include, but are not limited to, "A" and "T" type, sidewalk, sandwich, trailer signs, curb-type signs, banners or other commercial advertisement attached to vehicles and trailers. Inflatable figures and objects (e.g., creatures, beer cans) fall into this category.
Sign, projecting. A sign projecting more than six inches from the outside wall or walls of any building upon which it is located.
Sign, public purpose and safety. A sign erected by a municipal, county, state or federal government agency or office in a furtherance of official business, public purposes or public safety.
Sign, roof. A sign projecting over the coping of a flat roof, or over the ridge of a gable, hip or gambrel roof, and supported by or attached to said roof.
Sign structure. Poles, beams, columns, posts, foundations, and the like, which provide structural support of the sign surface area to which the sign is affixed.
Sign, wall. A sign applied to or mounted to the wall or surface of a building or structure, the display surface of which does not project more than six inches from the outside wall of such a building or structure. The total lettering on one side of a building or structure shall constitute one wall sign.
Sign, weekend. A sign erected after 1:00 p.m. on Friday and taken down by 11:59 p.m. the following Sunday. Such signs are subject to the regulations of section 525-065 of this division.
Sign, window. A sign placed in a window of a residential or non-residential structure, covering less than 25 percent of the area of the window.
Site-built home. A dwelling unit constructed on the building site from basic materials delivered to the site, and which is constructed in accordance with the International Residential Code (IRC) and Georgia State Amendments and meet the following developmental standards:
1)
A minimum width in excess of 28 feet.
2)
A minimum roof pitch of 5:12, which means having a pitch equal to at least five inches of vertical height for every 12 inches of horizontal run. Any dwelling unit for which a building permit was obtained prior to the adoption of this ordinance may be extended, enlarged or repaired as otherwise provided by this ordinance with the same roof pitch as that allowed by the previous building permit. Minimum pitch does not apply to architectural features such as porches, bay windows, etc.
3)
A minimum roof overhang of 12 inches is required. All roof surfaces exposed to view shall be covered with asphalt or fiberglass shingles, wood shakes or shingles, standing seam (non-corrugated tin or steel), clay tiles, slate, or similar materials.
4)
Exterior siding consisting of wood, hardboard, vinyl, brick, masonry, stone, or aluminum (vinyl covered or painted, but in no case exceeding the reflectivity of gloss white paint), or similar material as approved by the zoning administrator.
Site-built home, zero lot line. A site-built home that meets the requirements of this ordinance thereof, that is located on a lot in such a manner that one or more of its sides rest directly on a lot line.
Soft drink beverage bottling/distribution plant. Any building or portion of a building engaged in the making, producing, bottling or distribution of non-alcoholic beverages.
Solid waste. Any garbage, refuse, sludge from a waste treatment plant, water supply treatment plant or air pollution control facility and other discarded material, including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous material resulting from industrial, commercial, mining and agricultural operations, and from residential and community activities, but does not include solid or dissolved material in domestic sewage, or solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or industrial discharges that are point sources subject to permits under section 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (86 Stat. 880), or source, special nuclear or byproduct material as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954.
Solid waste transfer station. A site that has been approved by local, state, and federal entities for the transfer of solid waste as defined in this division.
Special events facility. An establishment that is rented by individuals or groups to accommodate private functions including banquets, fundraisers, weddings, parties, other celebrations, and which may include an on-site kitchen or catering facility.
Storage tank, bulk. An above-ground container used for the storage of large volumes of liquids, which may or may not include such flammable materials as petroleum. See section 510-600.
Story. That portion of a building, other than the cellar, included between the surface of the floor and the ceiling above it.
Street. A public or private thoroughfare which affords the principal means of access to abutting property. For a more detailed definition of street, please refer to the Newton County Development Regulations.
Street, arterial. A street whose principal function is to carry large volumes of traffic at higher speeds through the county or from one part of the county to another or to circulate traffic into, out of, or around the municipalities within the county.
Street, arterial access. A street that is parallel and adjacent to an arterial street and that is designed to provide access to abutting properties so that these properties are somewhat sheltered from the effects of the through traffic on the arterial street and so that the flow of traffic on the arterial street is not impeded by direct driveway access from a large number of abutting properties.
Street, collector. A through street having the primary function of connecting subdivisions or other areas to other collector streets or arterials or functioning as a central route within a subdivision channeling traffic from the local streets to an abutting thoroughfare.
Street, frontage. A street adjacent to a freeway, expressway, or arterial street separated there by a dividing strip and providing access to abutting properties.
Street, half. A street or road adjacent to a subdivision tract boundary where only half the required right-of-way and road improvements are provided within the proposed subdivision and the responsibility for the other half is undecided or is left to the adjacent property owner.
Street, local, residential. A surface street intended primarily to provide local access to adjacent residential development and not for through traffic.
Street, local, non-residential. A street that serves as access for predominantly abutting commercial, industrial or other non-residential properties or development and not for through traffic.
Street, paved. A created surface, such as brick, stone, concrete, or asphalt, placed on the land to facilitate passage; that part of a street having an improved surface.
Street, private. An access way similar to and having the same function as a public street, providing access to more than one property but held in private ownership.
Street, public (county). A right-of-way purchased or dedicated to and accepted by Newton County for vehicular traffic or over which Newton County may hold a prescriptive easement for public access, including designated and numbered U.S. and state highways.
Street, split level. Streets which are constructed so as to have two separate traffic ways, each at a different level within the same right-of-way.
Street, stub. An extension of a street in a subdivision extending to the property boundary of the tract being developed and intended to provide continuity of the street pattern between subdivisions or between the individual phases of the same subdivision.
Structure. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to something on the ground, including, but not limited to, walled or roofed buildings such as manufactured homes or infrastructure such as storage tanks.
Subdivider. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, co-partnership, corporation, trust or other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide the same under this ordinance.
Subdivision, residential/commercial/industrial/office. The division, for residential, commercial or industrial development, of a lot of record into two or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, legacy, or building development and includes all division of land involving a new street or a change in existing streets, and includes resubdivision.
Suite hotel. Any hotel in which lodging is provided to the public and for which more than 35 percent of the units include kitchenettes or kitchen facilities within the suite. For the purposes of this section, kitchenettes or kitchen facilities are defined as a kitchen sink, a stove/cook top and a refrigerator.
Support structure. Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including self-support lattice support structures, guy wired support structures, or monopole support structures. The term includes radio and television transmission support structures, cellular telecommunication support structures, man-made trees (with accessory buildings/structures) and other similar structures.
Swimming pool. A structure whether in-ground, or above ground, for the containment of water in excess of 18 inches in depth or greater than 100 square feet in the surface area for private, public, semi-public, or commercial use.
Tattoo and body piercing parlor/studio. An establishment that specifically provides the service of body piercing and/or tattooing.
Taxidermy. The preparation, stuffing and mounting of the skins of animals. May not include the processing of carcasses for meat.
Temporary building. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls and intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals or personal property that will be used for a temporary period of time with the intent to discontinue such use upon expiration of the time period.
Temporary commercial use. A commercial use established for a temporary period of time with the intent to discontinue such use upon the expiration of the time period.
Theater/cinema drive-through. An open lot or part thereof, with its appurtenant facilities, devoted primarily to the showing of moving pictures or theatrical productions on a paid admission basis to patrons seated in automobiles.
Townhouse. See Dwelling, townhouse.
Trailer, travel or camp. See Recreational vehicle.
Transitional housing facility. A building or buildings in which is provided long-term but not permanent living accommodations for more than six persons who have no permanent residence and are in need of long-term housing assistance.
Tree service. A business whose primary operation is the trimming or removal of trees and the storage and use of associated equipment and vehicles. Does not include stockpiling of byproduct for more than 30 days.
Truck parking, dispatch. A business where the primary use of the property is where truck/trailers are temporarily stored, maintained or based.
Truck stop. Any building, premises or land in which or upon which a business, service or industry involving the maintenance, servicing, storage or repair of commercial vehicles is conducted or rendered, including the dispensing of motor fuel or other petroleum products directly into motor vehicles and the sale of accessories or equipment for truck and similar commercial vehicles. A truck stop also may include overnight accommodations and restaurant facilities primarily for the use of truck crews.
Use, principal. The main use of land or buildings as opposed to a secondary or accessory use.
Utility. Public or private water or sewer piping systems, water or sewer pumping stations, electric power lines, fuel pipelines, telephone lines, roads, driveways, bridges, river/lake access facilities, stormwater systems, railroads, and all equipment and structures necessary to provide such services for utilities licensed or authorized to serve Newton County.
Variance. A relaxation of the terms of this ordinance that will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property (and not the applicant), a literal enforcement of the regulations would result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
Visual quality. The appropriate design, arrangement and location of support structures in relation to the built or natural environment to avoid abrupt or severe differences.
Warehouse. An establishment conducted within a completely enclosed building, that is engaged in the storage of materials, equipment or products that will be distributed to wholesalers or retailers.
Warehousing, distribution and enclosed storage. A use engaged in enclosed storage, wholesale, and/or distribution of manufactured products, supplies, and equipment, including accessory offices and showrooms, and including incidental retail sales. Bulk storage of materials that are flammable or explosive or that create hazardous or commonly recognized offensive conditions must meet all federal, state and local requirements.
Warehouse, mini. A building or portion thereof used for storage, mainly the excess personal property of an individual or family, but also of small amounts of goods or merchandise for businesses or individuals. Mini-warehouses shall not include retail sales on the premises, commercial repair or other services, manufacturing or any other commercial use.
Waterfront lot. A lot that adjoins the shorelines of a lake or the bank of river or a perennial stream identified on the U.S. Geological Survey 7.5 minute quadrangle map.
Water supply reservoir. A governmentally owned impoundment of water for the primary purpose of providing water to one or more governmentally owned public drinking water systems. This excludes the multipurpose reservoirs owned by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
Water supply watershed. The area of land upstream of a governmentally-owned public drinking water intake.
Wetlands. Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. See division 425. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs and similar areas (33 CFR 32.93). The ecological parameters for designating wetlands include hydric soils, hydrophytic vegetation, and hydrological conditions that involve a temporary or permanent source of water to cause soil saturation. Freshwater wetlands do not include any areas defined as "coastal marshlands" by the State Coastal Marshlands Protection Act.
Wholesale establishment. A firm involved in the storage, movement or sale of goods for themselves or other firms, usually to retailers for resale to consumers, in relatively large quantities and usually at lower prices than retail.
Winery. A facility for processing grapes or other fruit into wine for sale on site or through wholesale or retail outlets.
Workshop and custom small industry. A facility wherein goods are produced or repaired by hand, using hand tools or small scale equipment, including small engine repair, furniture making and restoring, upholstering, custom car or motorcycle restoring, and other similar uses.
Yard. An area between a lot line and a principal building.
Yard, front. An area extending across the full width of the parcel between the front lot line and the building. On corner, reverse or double frontage lots the same yard applies to the area between the building and the lot lines abutting any street, except as allowed in section 500-020 of the zoning ordinance.
Yard, minimum. An area between a building or specified structure and a lot line, as specified by the district regulations.
Yard, rear. An area extending the full width of the parcel between a rear lot line and the building.
Yard, side. An area extending from the front yard to the rear yard between the nearest side line and the building.
Zero lot line development. The location of a building on a lot in such a manner that one or more of the building's sides rests directly on a lot line.
Zoning administrator. The person, official or authorized representative designated by the Newton County Board of Commissioners as its agent for the administration of these regulations.
(Res. No. R031610, exh. B(amd. 1), 3-16-2010; Ord. No. O-071911, § 5, 7-19-2011; Ord. No. O-071911, § 9, 7-19-2011; Ord. No. O-122011a, §§ 1, 2, 12-20-2011; Ord. No. O-071712, § 2, 3, 7-17-2012; Ord. No. O-082013, § 1, 8-20-2013; Ord. No. O-052014, § 1, 5-20-2014; Ord. No. O-071514, § 1, 7-15-2014; Ord. No. O-102114, § 1, 10-21-2014; Ord. No. 081616b. § 1, 8-16-2016; Ord. No. O-090616, § 1, 9-6-2016; Ord. No. O-101816, § 1, 10-18-2016; Ord. No. O-111516A, § 1, 11-15-2016; Ord. No. O-100317, § 1, 10-3-2017)
