DIVISION 225. - R2 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 225-010. - Purpose and intent.
The R2 Single-Family Residential District is mainly comprised of medium-density single-family subdivision development, including diverse types of single-family dwellings, and smaller dwelling units, where surrounding land uses are compatible with high density development and such development would not have an adverse impact on the surrounding areas. Appropriate areas should have adequate public facilities including significant community or public water and/or sewer systems. Since lot requirements are reduced and density is increased, it is critical that all factors relating to drainage, topography, and other environmental factors be examined carefully to ensure suitability.
Sec. 225-020. - Principal uses and structures.
Principal uses and structures shall be allowed in the R2 Single-Family Residential District in accordance with division 505 of this ordinance.
Sec. 225-030. - Accessory uses and structures.
Accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in the R2 Single-Family Residential District in accordance with section 510-020(C) of this ordinance.
Sec. 225-040. - Conditional uses.
Conditional uses shall be permitted in the R2 Single-Family Residential District in accordance with division 505 of this ordinance. Conditional uses shall be subject to the additional use standards established in division 510 of this ordinance.
Sec. 225-050. - Property development standards.
A.
Architectural standards.
1.
Accents. Houses constructed with vinyl siding on all sides shall have front accents of brick, stone, masonry or stucco.
2.
Fences.
a.
Front yard: Wood or vinyl fencing in front yards is acceptable provided the fencing does not exceed four feet in height. Chain link fences are not allowed in front yards.
b.
Rear and side yards: Chain link, wood or vinyl fencing in rear and/or side yards is acceptable provided the fencing does not exceed eight feet in height and does not include anti-climbing devices.
c.
Corner lots: For corner lots, fencing is permitted in the side yard abutting the street as follows: Wood or vinyl fencing is acceptable up to the rear building line provided the fencing does not exceed four feet in height. This requirement also applies behind the rear building line if the fence is within the side yard setback. Chain link fencing is not allowed in this area.
B.
Minimum lot area. The minimum lot area shall be:
1.
25,500 square feet where public or community water and individual septic tanks are used.
2.
25,000 square feet where public or community water and sewer are used.
C.
Minimum lot width at building line.
1.
100 feet where public or community water and individual septic tank are used;
2.
85 feet where both public or community water and sewer are used.
D.
Minimum yard requirements.
1.
Front: 60 feet from right-of-way line of a major or minor arterial or collector street as defined in the Newton County Comprehensive Land Use Plan; or 30 feet from right-of-way line of any other street.
2.
Side: Ten feet.
3.
Rear: 25 feet.
E.
Minimum road frontage, unless otherwise allowed under section 110-020 of the Newton County Development Regulations.
1.
The minimum road frontage shall be 75 feet.
2.
The minimum road frontage in cul-de-sacs shall be 40 feet.
F.
Minimum house size. The minimum floor area of the primary dwelling shall be 1,800 square feet (heated floor area).
G.
Maximum height. The maximum height of the building shall be 40 feet.
H.
Maximum impervious surface coverage. The maximum impervious surface shall be 40 percent of the lot.
