DIVISION 270. - CG GENERAL COMMERCIAL

Sec. 270-010. - Purpose and intent.
The CG General Commercial District is primarily composed of heavy commercial and light industrial uses usually located near population centers and which may generate increased traffic and congestion. The intent of this district is to provide for special areas which, due to their location or current land use, have been set aside to allow uses which may not be allowed in the lighter commercial districts, but are not generally objectionable by reason of dust, odor, bright lights, noise or vibration. This district should generally be utilized as a buffer between heavier industrial and lighter commercial zones, and uses within this district should, when possible, be carried on within a completely enclosed building. Individual development of such uses should be allowed subject to the following conditions:
A.
Such proposed use is not inconsistent with neighboring zoning and current land use, and will, when necessary, provide adequate buffer between adjoining heavier industrial and lighter commercial, residential or agricultural districts;
B.
The site plan for the proposed use provides for adequate ingress and egress of vehicular traffic and will not cause safety, health or unreasonable traffic problems in the area; and
C.
The proposed use is justified based on facts presented to indicate the need for such use, as called for in the Newton County Comprehensive Land Use Plan.
Sec. 270-020. - Principal uses and structures.
Principal uses and structures shall be allowed in the CG General Commercial District in accordance with division 505 of this ordinance.
Sec. 270-030. - Accessory uses and structures.
Accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in the CG General Commercial District in accordance with section 510-020(D) of this ordinance.
Sec. 270-040. - Conditional uses.
Conditional uses shall be permitted in the CG General Commercial District in accordance with division 505 of this ordinance. Conditional uses shall be subject to the additional use standards established in division 510 of this ordinance and the additional standards of section 270-010.
Sec. 270-050. - Property development standards.
A.
Minimum lot frontage. The minimum lot frontage shall be 100 feet.
B.
Minimum setback requirements.
1.
Front: 25 feet.
2.
Side: Zero feet with party walls; ten feet from property line and no less than 20 feet between buildings.
3.
Rear: 15 feet.
C.
Minimum floor area. None.
D.
Maximum impervious surface coverage. The maximum impervious surface area for property within a designated development node within this district is limited to 75 percent. The maximum impervious surface area for property outside a designated development node within this district is limited to 60 percent.
E.
Maximum height. The maximum height of buildings shall be 35 feet.
F.
Buffer requirements. Where abutting any residential district, screening is required in conformance with section 520-020.
G.
Parking requirements. Off-street parking and loading space shall be provided in accordance with division 515 of this ordinance.
