Chapter 50 - WATER RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 50-1—50-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ILLICIT DISCHARGE AND ILLEGAL CONNECTION

Sec. 50-19. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to protect the public health, safety, environment and general welfare through the regulation of non-stormwater discharges to the county municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) to the maximum extent practicable as required by state and federal law. This article establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the county MS4 in order to comply with requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Phase II stormwater general permit. The objectives of this article are to:
(1)
Regulate the contribution of pollutants to the county MS4 by any person, property owner, site operator, etc.;
(2)
Prohibit illicit discharges and illegal connections to the county MS4;
(3)
Prevent non-stormwater discharges, generated as a result of spills, inappropriate dumping or disposal, to the county MS4; and
(4)
To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance, monitoring and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this article.
(Ord. No. O-090506, § 500-010, 9-5-2006)
Sec. 50-20. - Prohibitions.
(a)
Prohibition of illicit discharges. No person shall dispose, discard, drain, or otherwise discharge, cause, or allow others under its control to dispose, discard, drain, or otherwise discharge into the county MS4 any contaminated or polluted water, liquids, materials, waste products, etc., other than stormwater. The following discharges to the MS4 are exempt from the prohibition provision above:
(1)
Water line flushing performed by a government agency, other potable water sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, non-commercial car wash water, diverted stream flows, rising groundwater, groundwater infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped groundwater, foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs, natural riparian habitat or wetland flows, and any other water source not containing pollutants;
(2)
Discharges or flows from firefighting, and other discharges specified in writing by the county as being necessary to protect public health and safety;
(3)
The prohibition provision above shall not apply to any non-stormwater discharge permitted under an approved NPDES permit or order issued to the discharger and administered under the authority of the state environmental protection division (EPD) and the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA), provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any discharge to the county MS4.
(b)
Prohibition of illegal connections. The construction, connection, use, maintenance or continued existence of any illegal connection to the county MS4 is prohibited.
(1)
This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illegal connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of connection.
(2)
A person violates this article if the person connects a line conveying sewage to the county MS4, or allows such a connection to continue.
(3)
Improper connections in violation of this article must be abated, disconnected and redirected, if necessary, to an approved onsite wastewater management system or the sanitary sewer system with approval of the county water and sewerage authority.
(4)
Any drain or conveyance that has not been documented in plans, maps or equivalent, and which may be connected to the storm sewer system, shall be located by the owner or occupant of that property upon receipt of written notice of violation from the county requiring that such locating be completed. Such notice will specify a reasonable time period within which the location of the drain or conveyance is to be completed, that the drain or conveyance be identified as storm sewer, sanitary sewer or other, and that the outfall location or point of connection to the storm sewer system, sanitary sewer system or other discharge point be identified. Results of these investigations are to be documented and provided to the county.
(Ord. No. O-090506, § 500-020, 9-5-2006)
Sec. 50-21. - Industrial or construction activity discharges.
Any person subject to an NPDES industrial stormwater permit or NPDES construction activity permit administered by the state EPD shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the county prior to allowing discharges to the county MS4.
(Ord. No. O-090506, § 500-030, 9-5-2006)
Sec. 50-22. - Access and inspection of properties and facilities.
Duly authorized representatives of the county shall be permitted to enter and inspect properties and facilities at reasonable times as often as may be necessary to determine compliance with this article. Prior to entering private property, a county representative shall obtain the consent of the property owner or, if such consent is withheld, a duly issued search warrant.
(1)
If a property or facility has security measures in force which require proper identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the owner or operator shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access to representatives of the county.
(2)
The property owner or operator shall allow the county ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, photography, videotaping, examination and copying of any records that are required under the conditions of an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater.
(3)
The county shall have the right to set up on any property or facility such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the county to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of flow discharges.
(4)
The county may require the owner or operator to install monitoring equipment and perform monitoring as necessary, and make the monitoring data available to the county. This sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the owner or operator at his/her/their own expense. All devices used to measure flow and water quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
(5)
Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the property or facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the owner or operator at the written or oral request of the county and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the owner or operator.
(6)
Unreasonable delays in allowing the county access to a facility is a violation of this article.
(7)
If the county has been refused access to any part of the premises from which stormwater is discharged, and the county is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this article, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this article or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety, environment and welfare of the community, then the county may seek issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. O-090506, § 500-040, 9-5-2006)
Sec. 50-23. - Notification of accidental discharges and spills.
(a)
Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible for a facility, activity or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a facility, activity or operation has information of any known or suspected release of pollutants or non-stormwater discharges from that facility or operation which are resulting or may result in illicit discharges or pollutants discharging into stormwater, the county MS4, state waters, or waters of the United States, said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release so as to minimize the effects of the discharge.
(b)
Said person shall notify the county and other appropriate agencies (state, federal, etc.) in person or by phone, facsimile no later than 24 hours after the discharge, quantity and time of occurrence of the discharge. Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to the county engineer's office within three business days of the initial notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment, the property owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three years. Said person shall also take immediate steps to ensure no recurrence of the discharge or spill.
(c)
In the event of such a release of hazardous materials, emergency response agencies and/or other appropriate agencies shall be immediately notified.
(d)
Failure to provide notification of a release as provided above is a violation of this article.
(Ord. No. O-090506, § 500-050, 9-5-2006)
Sec. 50-24. - Violations, enforcement and penalties.
(a)
Violations.
(1)
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this article. Any person who has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this article, may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in this section or may be restrained by injunction or otherwise abated in a manner provided by law.
(2)
In the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, the county is authorized to enter upon the subject private property, without giving prior notice, to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property. The county is authorized to seek costs of the abatement as outlined in subsection (b)(5) of this section.
(b)
Notice of violation (NOV). Whenever the county finds that a violation of this article has occurred, the county may order compliance by a written NOV.
(1)
The NOV shall contain:
a.
The name and address of the alleged violator;
b.
The address when available or a description of the building, structure or land upon which the violation is occurring, or has occurred;
c.
A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
d.
A description of the remedial measures necessary to restore compliance with this article and a time schedule for the completion of such remedial action;
e.
A statement of the penalty or penalties that shall or may be assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed; and
f.
A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed to the county by filing a written notice of appeal within ten days of service of notice of violation.
(2)
Such notice may require without limitation:
a.
The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
b.
The elimination of illicit discharges and illegal connections;
c.
That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and desist;
d.
The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
e.
Payment of costs to cover administrative and abatement costs; and
f.
The implementation of pollution prevention practices.
(3)
Appeal of NOV. Any person receiving a NOV may appeal the determination of the county. The notice of appeal must be received within ten days from the date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the director shall take place within 15 days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The decision of the director shall be final.
(4)
Enforcement measures after appeal. If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth in the NOV, or, in the event of an appeal, within 30 days of the decision of the county engineer upholding the decision of the county, then representatives of the county may enter upon the subject private property and are authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the government agency or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth above.
(5)
Costs of abatement of the violation.
a.
Within 30 days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the property will be notified by the county of the cost of abatement, including administrative costs. The property owner may file a written protest objecting to the assessment or to the amount of the assessment within ten days of such notice. If the amount due is not paid within 30 days after receipt of the notice, or if an appeal is taken, within 30 days after a decision on said appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the assessment.
b.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall become liable to the county by reason of such violation.
(6)
Civil penalties. In the event the alleged violator fails to take the remedial measures set forth in the NOV or otherwise fails to cure the violations described therein within ten days, or such greater period as the county shall deem appropriate, after the county has taken one or more of the actions described above, the county may impose a penalty not to exceed $1,000.00 (depending on the severity of the violation) for each day the violation remains unremedied after receipt of the notice of violation.
(7)
Criminal penalties. For intentional and flagrant violations of this article, the county may issue a citation to the alleged violator requiring such person to appear in court to answer charges for such violation. Upon conviction, such person shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or imprisonment for 60 days or both. Each act of violation and each day upon which any violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense.
(8)
Violations deemed a public nuisance. In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this article is a threat to public health, safety, welfare, and environment and is declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief as provided by applicable law.
(9)
Remedies not exclusive.
a.
The remedies listed in this article are not exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable federal, state or local law and the county may seek cumulative remedies.
b.
The county may recover attorney's fees, court costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement of this article, including sampling and monitoring expenses.
(Ord. No. O-090506, § 500-060, 9-5-2006)
Secs. 50-25—50-51. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
DIVISION 1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 50-52. - Short title.
This article shall be known as the "Newton County Water Resources Management Ordinance."
(Ord. No. O-090506, § 100-010, 9-5-2006)
Sec. 50-53. - Compatibility with other regulations.
This article is not intended to modify or repeal any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law. The requirements of this article are in addition to the requirements of any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law, and where any provision of this article imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law, whichever provision is more restrictive or imposes higher protective standards for human health or the environment shall control.
(Ord. No. O-090506, § 100-020, 9-5-2006)
Sec. 50-54. - Severability.
If the provisions of any section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision or clause of this article shall be adjudged invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall not affect or invalidate the remainder of any section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision or clause of this article.
(Ord. No. O-090506, § 100-030, 9-5-2006)
Secs. 50-55—50-81. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - DEFINITIONS

Sec. 50-82. - Interpretation of certain terms and words.
For the purpose of this division, certain words or terms used herein are interpreted as follows:
(1)
Words used in the present tense include the future tense. Words used in the singular include the plural; and words in the plural include the singular.
(2)
The term "shall" is always mandatory, and the term "may" is permissive.
(3)
The term "used" or "occupied," as applied to any land or building, shall be construed to include the terms "intended," "arranged," or "designed to be used or occupied."
(Ord. No. O-090506, § 200-010, 9-5-2006)
Sec. 50-83. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Access means a way or means of approach or entrance by which pedestrians, vehicles, or both shall have a safe, adequate, and usable ingress/egress to a property or use. A private access is an access not in public ownership and controlled by means of deed, dedication, or easement.
Accessory structure means a structure having minimal value and used for parking, storage and other non-habitable uses, such as garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, hay sheds and the like.
Accidental discharge means a discharge prohibited by this division which occurs by chance and without planning or thought prior to occurrence.
Addition (to an existing building) means any walled and roofed expansion to the perimeter of a building in which the addition is connected by a common load-bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is connected by a firewall or is separated by an independent perimeter load-bearing wall, shall be considered new construction.
Administrative variance/approval means a variance or administrative approval that is routine or too insignificant to require board of commissioner approval. Decisions of the staff may be appealed as per this article.
Appeal means a request for a review of an administrative official's interpretation of any provision of this article.
Applicant means a person submitting a post-development stormwater management application and plan for approval.
Area of shallow flooding means a designated AO or AH Zone on a community's flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet, and/or where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident.
Area of special flood hazard means the land in the floodplain within a community subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. In the absence of official designation by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, areas of special flood hazard shall be those designated by the local community and referenced in section 26-6.
Base flood means the flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
Base flood elevation (BFE) means the elevation shown on the flood insurance rate map for Zones AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, AR/AO, V1-V30, and VE that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that has a one percent chance of equaling or exceeding that level in any given year.
Basement means that portion of a building having its floor sub grade (below ground level) on all sides.
Best management practices (BMPs) include sound conservation and engineering practices to prevent and minimize erosion and resultant sedimentation, which are consistent with, and no less stringent than, those practices contained in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia published by the commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted.
Buffer means that portion of a lot set aside with adequate natural or planted vegetation to accomplish visual and sound screening to separate residential zoning districts from other zoning districts, or to protect environmentally sensitive areas. In the event that insufficient existing vegetation or trees exist in the buffer zone, planting, fencing, or other supplemental screening shall be required, with a density or opacity to accomplish buffering as required by all approved ordinances. Roads, parking areas, above ground stormwater retention facilities, recreational facilities, or other above ground construction shall not be permitted within the required buffer area. Public rights-of-way and utility easements shall not be considered part of the buffer area. Required buffer areas are in addition to required yard areas.
Building. See Structure.
Building official means the person designated by the director to be responsible for the administrative functions required in connection with the enforcement of this division.
Channel means a natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks that conducts continuously or periodically flowing water.
Clean Water Act means the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 USC § 1251 et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
Comprehensive plan means any part or element of the overall plan for development adopted by the planning commission and the board of commissioners.
Concept plan means a drawing which shows the overall concept (e.g., a concept plan) of a proposed development, and which may include lots and streets in a subdivision or the general location of buildings and improvements for a multifamily or non-residential project.
Conservation easement means an agreement between a land owner and the county or other government agency or land trust that permanently protects open space or greenspace on the owner's land by limiting the amount and type of development that can take place, but continues to leave the remainder of the fee interest in private ownership.
Construction activity means activities subject to the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act or NPDES general construction permits. These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance. Such activities include, but are not limited to, clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
County means Newton County, Georgia.
County separate storm sewer system means any facility designed or used for collecting and/or conveying stormwater, including, but not limited to, any roads with drainage systems, highways, county streets, curbs, gutters, inlets, catch basins, piped storm drains, pumping facilities, structural stormwater controls, ditches, swales, natural and manmade or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures, and which is:
(1)
Owned or maintained by the county;
(2)
Not a combined sewer; and
(3)
Not part of a publicly-owned treatment works.
Critical facility means any public or private facility, which, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the disaster or would increase the hazard to life and health. Critical facilities include:
(1)
Structures or facilities that produce, use, or store highly volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic, or water-reactive materials;
(2)
Hospitals and nursing homes, and housing for the elderly, which are likely to contain occupants who may not be sufficiently mobile to avoid the loss of life or injury during flood and storm events;
(3)
Emergency operation centers or data storage centers which contain records or services that may become lost or inoperative during flood and storm events; and
(4)
Generating plants, and other principal points of utility lines.
Cut means a portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation, the depth below original ground surface to excavated surface. The term "cut" is also known as excavation.
Dedication means a gift, by the owner, of a right to use land for a specified purpose. Because a transfer of property rights is entailed, dedication must be made by written instrument and is completed with an acceptance.
Department means the development services department of the county.
Design standards means the specifications to landowners or developers for the preparation of plats, both preliminary and final, indicating among other things, the optimum, minimum or maximum dimensions of such items as rights-of-way, blocks, easements, and lots.
Detention means the temporary storage of stormwater runoff in a stormwater management facility for the purpose of controlling the peak discharge.
Detention facility means a detention basin or structure designed for the detention of stormwater runoff and gradual release of stored water at controlled rates.
Developer means a person who undertakes land development activities.
Development means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, and storage of materials or equipment.
Development permit means an official authorization issued by the building official allowing grading or other alteration of the site that entails land disturbance related to construction activities.
Director means director of development services of the county or his/her/their designee.
Disturbed area means disturbed area is defined as the entire limits of the site project activity, outside of the buffer area.
Drainage area means that area contributing runoff to a single point; measured in a horizontal plane which is enclosed by a ridgeline.
Drainage easement means an easement appurtenant or attached to a tract or parcel of land allowing the owner of adjacent tracts or other persons to discharge stormwater runoff onto the tract or parcel of land subject to the drainage easement.
Drainage structure means a device composed of a virtually non-erodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water from one place to another by intercepting the flow and carrying it to a release point for stormwater management, drainage control or flood control purposes.
Drainage structure, roadway, means a device such as a bridge, culvert or ditch composed of virtually non-erodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water under a roadway by interception of the flow on one side of a traveled way consisting of one or more defined lanes, with or without shoulder areas, and carrying water to a release point on the other side.
Driveway means a vehicular access, other than a private street way, which is in private ownership and provides access primarily to one property.
Easement means a grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land for the specified purpose of constructing and maintaining utilities; including, but not limited to, sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines, telephone lines, storm sewer or storm drainage ways and gas lines.
Erosion means the process by which ground surface is worn away by the action of wind, water, ice or gravity.
Erosion and sedimentation control measures, structural, means practices for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purpose of either changing the surface of the land or storing, regulating, or disposing of runoff to prevent excessive sediment loss. Examples of structural erosion and sediment control practices are riprap, sediment basins, dikes, level spreaders, waterways or outlets, diversions, grade stabilization structures, sediment traps and land grading, etc.
Erosion and sedimentation control measures, vegetative, means measures for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by covering the soil with:
(1)
Permanent seeding, sprigging or planting, producing long-term vegetative cover;
(2)
Temporary seeding, producing short-term vegetative cover; or
(3)
Sodding, covering areas with a turf of perennial sod-forming grass.
Erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan means a plan required by the Erosion and Sedimentation Act, O.C.G.A. ch. 12-7, that includes, as a minimum, protections at least as stringent as the state general permit, best management practices, and requirements in section 22-22(c).
Elevated building means a non-basement building built to have the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area elevated above the ground level by means of solid foundation perimeter walls, pilings, columns, piers, or shear walls adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a base flood event.
Existing construction means for the purposes of determining rates, structures for which the start of construction commenced before March 17, 1987.
Existing manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before March 17, 1987.
Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision means the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads.
Extended detention means the detention of stormwater runoff for an extended period, typically 24-hours or greater.
Extreme flood protection means measures taken to prevent adverse impacts from large low-frequency storm events with a return frequency of 100 years or more.
Fill means a portion of land surface to which soil or other solid materials have been added; the depth above the original ground surface or an excavation.
Final plat means a finished drawing or map of a subdivision or development, meeting all of the requirements of this article and showing, completely and accurately, all legal design and engineering information, and certified as necessary for recording.
Finished grade means the final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting or filling and conforming to the proposed design.
Flood orflooding means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
(1)
The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
(2)
The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
Flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) means an official map of a community, issued by the Federal Insurance Administration, where the boundaries of areas of special flood hazard have been defined as Zone A.
Flood insurance rate map (FIRM) means an official map of a community, issued by the Federal Insurance Administration, delineating the areas of special flood hazard and/or risk premium zones applicable to the community.
Flood insurance study (FIS) means the official report by the Federal Emergency Management Agency evaluating flood hazards and containing flood profiles and water surface elevations of the base flood.
Floodplain means any land area susceptible to flooding.
Floodproofing means any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents.
Floodway means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated height.
Freeboard means a factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the watershed.
Grading means altering the shape of ground surfaces to a predetermined condition; this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling and shaping or any combination thereof and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
Greenspace oropen space means permanently protected areas of the site that are preserved in a natural state.
Ground elevation means the original elevation of the ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
Highest adjacent grade means the highest natural elevation of the ground surface, prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed walls of a structure.
Historic structure means any structure that is;
(1)
Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
(2)
Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
(3)
Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and determined as eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
(4)
Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and determined as eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either:
a.
By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior; or
b.
Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.
Hotspot means an area where the use of the land has the potential to generate highly contaminated runoff, with concentrations of pollutants in excess of those typically found in stormwater. Examples of hotspots include auto salvage operations, landfills or as may be listed in the county stormwater local design manual.
Hydrologic soil group (HSG) means a natural resource conservation service classification system in which soils are categorized into four runoff potential groups. The groups range from group A soils, with high permeability and little runoff produced, to group D soils, which have low permeability rates and produce much more runoff.
Illegal connection means either of the following:
(1)
Any pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which allows an illicit discharge to enter the storm drain system including, but not limited to, any conveyances which allow any non-stormwater discharge including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain system, regardless of whether such pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance has been previously allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency; or
(2)
Any pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance connected to the county separate storm sewer system which has not been documented in plans, maps, or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
Illicit discharge means any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the county separate storm sewer system, except as exempted in section 50-20.
Impervious cover means a surface composed of any material that significantly impedes or prevents the natural infiltration of water into soil. Impervious surfaces include, but are not limited to, rooftops, buildings, streets and roads, and any concrete or asphalt surface.
Impervious surface means areas which do not permit natural infiltration of rainfall, including, but not limited to, rooftops, paved parking lots, driveways, paved roads and streets, patios, paved sidewalks, swimming pools, paved tennis courts and basketball courts, and any other exposed area surfaced in concrete or asphalt, except for gravel and pervious or porous paving materials.
Industrial activity means activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as defined in 40 CFR 122.26 (b)(14).
Industrial stormwater permit means a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued to an industry or group of industries which regulates the pollutant levels associated with industrial stormwater discharges or specifies on-site pollution control strategies.
Infiltration means the process of percolating stormwater runoff into the subsoil.
Inspection and maintenance agreement means a written agreement providing for the long-term inspection and maintenance of stormwater management facilities and practices on a site or with respect to a land development project, which when properly recorded in the deed records constitutes a restriction on the title to a site or other land involved in a land development project.
Jurisdictional wetland means an area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation.
Land development means any land change, including, but not limited to, clearing, digging, grubbing, stripping, removal of vegetation, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land, construction, paving, and any other installation of impervious cover.
Land development activities means those actions or activities which comprise, facilitate or result in land development.
Land development project means a discrete land development undertaking.
Land-disturbance permit means a permit issued to authorize clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land.
Land-disturbing activity means any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land unless otherwise stated herein. For the purposes of chapter 22, the term "land-disturbing activity" shall not include agricultural practices as described in section 22-21(5).
Larger common plan of development or sale means a contiguous area where multiple separate and distinct construction activities are occurring under one plan of development or sale. For the purposes of this definition, the term "plan" means an announcement; piece of documentation such as a sign, public notice or hearing, sales pitch, advertisement, drawing, permit application, zoning request, or computer design; or physical demarcation such as boundary signs, lot stakes, or surveyor markings, indicating that construction activities may occur on a specific plot.
Local issuing authority means the governing authority of any county or municipality which is certified pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a).
Lot means a portion, plot, or parcel of land separated from other portions, plots, or parcels by description as on a subdivision plat or record or survey map or as described by metes and bounds, and intended for transfer of ownership or for building development.
Lowest floor means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other than a basement, is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of other provisions of this article.
Manufactured home means a building, transportable in one or more sections built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term "manufactured home" also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar transportable structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to be improved property.
Manufactured home park or subdivision means a parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
Mean sea level means the average height of the sea for all stages of the tide. Mean sea level is used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the term is synonymous with National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, or other datum, to which base flood elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate map are referenced.
Metropolitan River Protection Act (MRPA) means a state law referenced as O.C.G.A. § 12-5-440 et seq., which addresses environmental and development matters in certain metropolitan river corridors and their drainage basins.
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) means, as corrected in 1929, a vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain.
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) stormwater discharge permit means a permit issued by the state EPD under authority delegated pursuant to 33 USC 1342(b) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or general area-wide basis.
Natural ground surface means the ground surface in its original state before any grading, excavation or filling.
Nephelometric turbidity units (NTU) means numerical units of measure based upon photometric analytical techniques for measuring the light scattered by finely divided particles of a substance in suspension. This technique is used to estimate the extent of turbidity in water in which colloidally dispersed or suspended particles are present.
New construction. For the purposes of determining insurance rates, structures for which the start of construction commenced after March 17, 1987, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management purposes, the term "new construction" means structures for which the start of construction commenced after March 17, 1987, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
New development means a land development activity on a previously undeveloped site.
New manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed after March 17, 1987.
Nonpoint source pollution means a form of water pollution that does not originate from a discrete point such as a sewage treatment plant or industrial discharge, but involves the transport of pollutants such as sediment, fertilizers, pesticides, heavy metals, oil, grease, bacteria, organic materials and other contaminants from land to surface water and groundwater via mechanisms such as precipitation, stormwater runoff, and leaching. Nonpoint source pollution is a byproduct of land use practices such as agricultural, silvicultural, mining, construction, subsurface disposal and urban runoff sources.
Non-stormwater discharge means any discharge to the storm drain system that is not composed entirely of stormwater.
Nonstructural stormwater management practice or nonstructural practice means any natural or planted vegetation or other nonstructural component of the stormwater management plan that provides for or enhances stormwater quantity and/or quality control or other stormwater management benefits, and includes, but is not limited to, riparian buffers, open and greenspace areas, overland flow filtration areas, natural depressions, and vegetated channels.
North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) replaced the National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929, in existing and future FEMA flood modernization maps.
Off-site facility means a stormwater management facility located outside the boundaries of the site.
On-site facility means a stormwater management facility located within the boundaries of the site.
Operator means the party or parties that have:
(1)
Operational control of construction project plans and specifications, including the ability to make modifications to those plans and specifications; or
(2)
Day-to-day operational control of those activities that are necessary to ensure compliance with an erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan for the site or other permit conditions, such as a person authorized to direct workers at a site to carry out activities required by the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan or to comply with other permit conditions.
Overbank flood protection means measures taken to prevent an increase in the frequency and magnitude of out-of-bank flooding (i.e., flow events that exceed the capacity of the channel and enter the floodplain), and that are intended to protect downstream properties from flooding for the two-year through 25-year frequency storm events.
Owner means the legal or beneficial owner of a site, including, but not limited to, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, receiver, executor, trustee, lessee or other person, firm or corporation in control of the site.
Permit means the permit issued by the county to the applicant which is required for undertaking any land development activity.
Person means except to the extent exempted from this division, any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, city, county or other political subdivision of the state, any interstate body or any other legal entity.
Planning commission means the county planning commission.
Pollutant means anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may include, but are not limited to, paints, varnishes, and solvents; petroleum hydrocarbons; automotive fluids; cooking grease; detergents (biodegradable or otherwise); degreasers; cleaning chemicals; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; liquid and solid wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or structure; concrete and cement; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
Pollution means the contamination or other alteration of any water's physical, chemical or biological properties by the addition of any constituent and includes but is not limited to, a change in temperature, taste, color, turbidity, or odor of such waters, or the discharge of any liquid, gaseous, solid, radioactive, or other substance into any such waters as will or is likely to create a nuisance or render such waters harmful, detrimental or injurious to the public health, safety, welfare, or environment, or to domestic, commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational, or other legitimate beneficial uses, or to livestock, wild animals, birds, fish or other aquatic life.
Post-development means refers to the time period, or the conditions that may reasonably be expected or anticipated to exist, after completion of the land development activity on a site as the context may require.
Pre-development means refers to the time period, or the conditions that exist, on a site prior to the commencement of a land development project and at the time that plans for the land development of a site are approved by the plan approving authority. Where phased development or plan approval occurs (preliminary grading, roads and utilities, etc.), the existing conditions at the time prior to the first item being approved or permitted shall establish pre-development conditions.
Preliminary plat means a tentative drawing or map of a proposed subdivision or development meeting the specified requirements of this division and showing the layout in sufficient detail to allow an evaluation of the proposed project.
Premises means any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
Project means a land development project.
Recreational vehicle means a vehicle, which is:
(1)
Built on a single chassis;
(2)
400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection;
(3)
Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and
(4)
Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
Redevelopment means a land development project on a previously developed site, but excludes ordinary maintenance activities, remodeling of existing buildings, resurfacing of paved areas, and exterior changes or improvements which do not materially increase or concentrate stormwater runoff, or cause additional nonpoint source pollution.
Regional stormwater management facility or regional facility means stormwater management facilities designed to control stormwater runoff from multiple properties, where the owners or developers of the individual properties may assist in the financing of the facility, and the requirement for on-site controls is either eliminated or reduced.
Retention facility means a permanent facility that provides for the storage of runoff and is designed to maintain a permanent pool of water referred to as the normal pool.
Right-of-way means a strip of land designated, reserved, dedicated, or purchased for the purpose of pedestrian or vehicular access or utility line installation.
Roadway drainage structure means a device such as a bridge, culvert, or ditch, composed of a virtually non-erodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic, or other such material that conveys water under a roadway by intercepting the flow on one side of a traveled roadway consisting of one or more defined lanes, with or without shoulder areas, and carrying water to a release point on the other side.
Runoff means stormwater runoff.
Sediment means solid material, both organic and inorganic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water, ice or gravity as a product of erosion.
Sedimentation means the process by which eroded material is transported and deposited by the action of water, wind, ice or gravity.
Site means the parcel of land being developed, or the portion thereof on which the land development project is located.
Soil and water conservation district approved plan means an erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan approved in writing by the Upper Ocmulgee River Soil and Water Conservation District.
Special exception means the modification of the minimum requirements of this division when strict adherence to such requirements would result in unnecessary hardship.
Stabilization means the process of establishing an enduring soil cover of vegetation by the installation of temporary or permanent structures for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the erosion process and the resultant transport of sediment by wind, water, ice or gravity.
Start of construction means the date the development permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of the structure such as the pouring of slabs or footings, installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation, and includes the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. (Permanent construction does not include initial land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of buildings appurtenant to the permitted structure, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or part of the main structure. (Note: accessory structures are not exempt from any ordinance requirements) For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
State general permit means the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) general permit or permits for stormwater runoff from construction activities as is now in effect or as may be amended or reissued in the future pursuant to the state's authority to implement the same through federal delegation under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 USC 1251, et seq., and O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f).
State waters means any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface and subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the state which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single person.
Stormwater better site design means nonstructural site design approaches and techniques that can reduce a site's impact on the watershed and can provide for nonstructural stormwater management. Stormwater better site design includes conserving and protecting natural areas and greenspace, reducing impervious cover and using natural features for stormwater management.
Stormwater management means the collection, conveyance, storage, treatment and disposal of stormwater runoff in a manner intended to prevent increased flood damage, streambank channel erosion, habitat degradation and water quality degradation, and to enhance and promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
Stormwater management facility means any infrastructure that controls or conveys stormwater runoff.
Stormwater management facility, off-site, means any facility outside the project boundary that is or will be used for transporting and managing of stormwater runoff, including, but not limited to, culverts, detention ponds, storm drains, flumes, and headwater pools.
Stormwater management, on-site, means the design and construction of a facility necessary to control stormwater runoff within and for a single development.
Stormwater management facility, on-site, means any facility within the project boundary used for the purpose of transporting or managing stormwater runoff, including, but not limited to, culverts, detention ponds, storm drains, flumes, and headwater pools.
Stormwater management measure means any stormwater management facility or nonstructural stormwater practice.
Stormwater management plan means a document describing how existing runoff characteristics will be affected by a land development project and containing measures for complying with the provisions of this article.
Stormwater management, regional, means the design and construction of a facility necessary to control stormwater runoff; whether within or outside of a development, and serving one or more developments.
Stormwater management system means the entire set of structural and nonstructural stormwater management facilities and practices that are used to capture, convey and control the quantity and quality of the stormwater runoff from a site.
Stormwater retrofit means a stormwater management practice designed for a currently developed site that previously had either no stormwater management practice in place or a practice inadequate to meet the stormwater management requirements of the site.
Stormwater runoff orstormwater means any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation.
Street, public, means a right-of-way purchased or dedicated to and accepted by the county for vehicular traffic or over which the county may hold a prescriptive easement for public access, including designated and numbered U.S. and state highways.
Structure means a walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, a manufactured home, a gas or liquid storage tank.
Structural erosion and sedimentation control practices means practices for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purpose of either changing the surface of the land or storing, regulating or disposing of runoff to prevent excessive sediment loss. Examples of structural erosion and sediment control practices are riprap, sediment basins, dikes, level spreaders, waterways or outlets, diversions, grade stabilization structures, sediment traps and land grading, etc. Such practices can be found in the publication Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
Structural stormwater control means a structural stormwater management facility or device that controls stormwater runoff and changes the characteristics of that runoff including, but not limited to, the quantity and quality, the period of release or the velocity of flow of such runoff.
Subdivision means the division of a single lot into two or more lots for the purpose of sale or development.
Substantial damage means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
Substantial improvement means any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place during a five-year period, in which the cumulative cost equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure prior to the start of construction of the improvement. Note: The market value of the structure should be:
(1)
The appraised value of the structure prior to the start of the initial repair or improvement; or
(2)
In the case of damage, the value of the structure prior to the damage occurring.
The term "substantial improvement" includes structures, which have incurred substantial damage, regardless of the actual amount of repair work performed. For the purposes of this definition, the term "substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building. The term "substantial improvement" does not, however, include:
(3)
Those improvements of a structure required to comply with existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to ensure safe living conditions and which have been identified by the code enforcement official, and not solely triggered by an improvement or repair project; or
(4)
Any alteration of an historic structure, provided that the alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an historic structure.
Substantially improved existing manufactured home parks or subdivisions mean where the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets, utilities and pads equals or exceeds 50 percent of the value of the streets, utilities and pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
Trout streams mean all streams or portions of streams within the watershed as designated by the wildlife resources division of the state department of natural resources under the provisions of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20, in the Rules and Regulations for Water Quality Control, ch. 391-3-6 at www.gaepd.org. Streams designated as primary trout waters are defined as water supporting a self-sustaining population of rainbow, brown or brook trout. Streams designated as secondary trout waters are those in which there is no evidence of natural tout reproduction, but are capable of supporting trout throughout the year. First order trout waters are streams into which no other streams flow except springs.
Variance means a grant of relief from the requirements of this division, which permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this article.
Vegetative erosion and sedimentation control measures means measures for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by covering the soil with:
(1)
Permanent seeding, sprigging or planting, producing long-term vegetative cover;
(2)
Temporary seeding, producing short-term vegetative cover; or
(3)
Sodding, covering areas with a turf of perennial sod-forming grass.
Such measures can be found in the publication Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
Violation means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure or other development without the elevation certificate, or other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required by this article is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
Watercourse means any natural or artificial watercourse, stream, river, creek, channel, ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine, or washing in which water flows either continuously or intermittently and which has a definite channel, bed and banks, and including any area adjacent thereto subject to inundation by reason of overflow or floodwater.
Watershed means that area contributing runoff to a single surface watercourse or waterbody.
Wetlands means those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas. In case of conflict, wetlands are determined under the laws, rules and regulations promulgated by the federal government and administered by the United States Army Corps of Engineers and United States Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. No. O-090506, § 200-020, 9-5-2006; Ord. No. O-101607, § 1, exh. A, 10-16-2007; Ord. No. O-060110, § 1, exh. A, 6-1-2010; Ord. No. O-040114, exh. A(200-020), 4-2-2014)
Secs. 50-84—50-109. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 50-110. - General.
In addition to other responsibilities and authorities noted in other sections of this division, the duty of administering and enforcing the provisions of this division is hereby conferred upon the director acting on behalf of the county board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. O-090506, § 300-010, 9-5-2006)
Sec. 50-111. - Exemption from requirements.
The following development activities are exempt from division 4 of this article and the requirements of providing stormwater management, but are not exempted from state erosion control/forestry BMPs:
(1)
Agricultural and forestry land management activities.
(2)
Additions or modifications to existing detached single-family or duplex dwellings.
(3)
Construction of a detached single-family dwelling, which is not part of a larger development.
(4)
Repairs to any stormwater management facility or practice deemed necessary by the county.
(Ord. No. O-090506, § 300-020, 9-5-2006)
Sec. 50-112. - Special exceptions and variances procedures.
The county board of zoning appeals shall consider all special exception requests from the requirements of this division when due to extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to a particular piece of property, the strict application of such requirements may result in unnecessary hardship. A formal written application, along with any such fees as may be established by the board of commissioners, shall be filed with the director and submitted to the county board of zoning appeals. The following procedures shall apply to all applications:
(1)
The application for a special exception shall state the specific regulation from which exception is sought and the reasons the exception is needed. The application shall contain such information as the director deems necessary to evaluate the request.
(2)
It shall be the applicant's responsibility to provide sufficient justification for granting the exception variance.
(3)
The director and staff shall prepare an evaluation statement concerning each application for special exception. The evaluation shall consider the circumstances and supporting documents supplied by the applicant and other generally available technical information pertaining to the special exception request. The evaluation shall consider whether the request satisfies each criteria governing special exceptions, and the director shall make a recommendation as to grant, grant with conditions, or denial of the special exception.
(4)
No special exception shall be granted if the hardship has been created by the applicant (for example, by poor subdivision design). No special exception shall be granted to permit a use not otherwise authorized in the zoning district. No special exception shall be granted if it would result in increased threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, or conflict with the county zoning ordinance, development regulations, comprehensive plan or other applicable rules and regulations. No special exception shall be granted to any applicant currently in violation of any county ordinance or regulation.
(5)
The application shall be heard at a regularly scheduled board of zoning appeals meeting. At the hearing on a special exception application, the director or staff shall appear and present its analysis and findings to the board of zoning appeals. The board of zoning appeals shall only consider evidence presented with the application or at the hearing. Board members shall not accept any ex parte evidence, and all evidence submitted (including the staff analysis) shall be disclosed at or before the public hearing, to allow all sides the opportunity to review it. The board of zoning appeals shall make a decision to approve the special exception, approve with conditions, or deny the special exception, citing to the grounds relied upon, and/or to the staff evaluation comments.
(6)
In consideration a special exception request, the board of zoning appeals shall consider the following criteria, all of which must be satisfied:
a.
Whether there are extraordinary and exceptional circumstances or conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property because of its size, shape or topography, and through no fault of the applicant;
b.
Whether the strict application of this division to this particular piece of property would create severe practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship;
c.
Whether the exception requested is the minimum necessary; and
d.
Whether relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purposes and intent of this division.
(Ord. No. O-090506, § 300-030, 9-5-2006)
Sec. 50-113. - Administrative variance.
(a)
Administrative variances may be granted by the director. The director is authorized to vary the requirements of the ordinance up to ten percent, in circumstances where doing so would not impair the purposes of the ordinance, and is necessary because of a hardship on the applicant that was not created by the applicant. Administrative variances are to be granted as infrequently as possible.
(b)
The grant of an administrative variance may be appealed pursuant to section 50-114. The denial of an administrative variance may only be appealed by first applying for a special exception, under section 50-112.
(Ord. No. O-090506, § 300-040, 9-5-2006)
Sec. 50-114. - Appeals.
(a)
Appeal of planning and development department staff decisions. The county board of zoning appeals shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged that there is an error in any interpretation or determination made by the director or planning and development department staff in the administration of this division. Such appeals may be brought by the applicant, any member of the board of commissioners, or any aggrieved person, as defined below. Such appeals shall be taken within 30 days of the decision appealed by filing with the planning and development department and the board of zoning appeals a notice of appeal specifying the grounds for appeal.
(b)
Appeal of board of zoning appeals decisions. Any person severally or jointly aggrieved by any decision of the board of zoning appeals may take an appeal to the board of commissioners by filing a notice of appeal within ten days of the date of the decision of the board of zoning appeals. The secretary of the board of zoning appeals shall transmit the record to the board of commissioners, and the board of commissioners shall hear the appeal de novo within 45 days of the filing of the notice of appeal.
(c)
Aggrieved persons. A person is aggrieved only if he/she/they own the subject property, or he/she/they own nearby or adjacent property which is in danger of suffering special damages or injury not common to all property owners similarly situated as a result of the action.
(Ord. No. O-090506, § 300-050, 9-5-2006)
Sec. 50-115. - Violation and penalty.
(a)
It shall be the duty of the director to enforce this division. The director shall have the authority to revoke, suspend or void any development permit and shall have the authority to suspend all work on a site or portion thereof.
(b)
Any permit issued in conformance with this division shall be voided if its terms are violated.
(c)
Work which is not authorized by an approved permit, which is not in conformance with the approved plans for the project or which is not in compliance with the provisions of this division or any other adopted code, regulation or ordinance of the county, shall be subject to an immediate stop work order issued by the department. Work which proceeds without having received the necessary inspections of the department shall be halted until all inspections of intervening work are complete.
(d)
The filing or recording of a plat of a subdivision or development without the required approvals as established by this division is declared to be a misdemeanor.
(e)
Any responsible party or other persons convicted by a court of competent jurisdiction of violating any provision of this division shall be guilty of violating a duly adopted ordinance of the county and shall be punished either by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00. The owner of any lands or parts thereof, where anything in violation of this division shall be placed or shall exist and each responsible party or other person assisting in the commission of any such violation, shall be guilty of a separate offense.
(Ord. No. O-090506, § 300-060, 9-5-2006)
Secs. 50-116—50-143. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - POST-CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT

Sec. 50-144. - Purpose.
The purpose of this division is to protect, maintain and enhance the public health, safety, environment and general welfare by establishing minimum requirements and procedures to control the adverse effects of increased post-development stormwater runoff and non-point source pollution associated with new development and redevelopment. It has been determined that proper management of post-development stormwater runoff will minimize damage to public and private property and infrastructure; safeguard the public health, safety, environment and general welfare of the public; and protect water and aquatic resources. This division seeks to meet that purpose through the following objectives:
(1)
Establish decision-making processes surrounding land development activities that protect the integrity of the watershed and preserve the health of water resources;
(2)
Require that new development and redevelopment maintain the pre-development hydrologic response in their post-development state as nearly as practicable in order to reduce flooding, streambank erosion, non-point source pollution, and maintain the integrity of stream channels and aquatic habitats;
(3)
Establish minimum post-development stormwater management standards and design criteria for the regulation and control of stormwater runoff quantity and quality;
(4)
Establish design and application criteria for the construction and use of structural stormwater control facilities that can be used to meet the minimum post-development stormwater management standards;
(5)
Encourage the use of nonstructural stormwater management and stormwater better site design practices, such as the preservation of greenspace and other conservation areas, to the maximum extent practicable. Coordinate site design plans, which include greenspace, with the county's greenspace protection plan;
(6)
Establish provisions for the long-term responsibility for and maintenance of structural stormwater control facilities and nonstructural stormwater management practices to ensure that they continue to function as designed, are maintained, and pose no threat to public safety; and
(7)
Establish administrative procedures for the submission, review, approval and disapproval of stormwater management plans, and for the inspection of approved active projects, and long-term follow up.
(Ord. No. O-090506, § 400-010, 9-5-2006)
Sec. 50-145. - Applicability.
All persons proposing development and/or construction within the county shall submit a stormwater management plan and hydrology study to the director for review of conformity with this article, except as provided in section 50-111. These standards apply to any new development or redevelopment site that meets one or more of the following criteria:
(1)
New development that involves the creation of 5,000 square feet or more of impervious cover, or that involves other land development activities of one acre or more;
(2)
Redevelopment that includes the creation, addition or replacement of 5,000 square feet or more of impervious cover, or that involves other land development activity of one acre or more;
(3)
Any new development or redevelopment, regardless of size that is defined as a hotspot land use;
(4)
Land development activities that are smaller than the minimum applicability criteria set forth in subsections (1) and (2) of this section if such activities are part of a larger common plan of development, even though multiple, separate and distinct land development activities may take place at different times on different schedules; or,
(5)
Activities that lie within a special drainage district as defined in the county stormwater local design manual (LDM) and are regulated by the provisions of the special drainage district.
(Ord. No. O-090506, § 400-020, 9-5-2006)
Sec. 50-146. - Stormwater local design manual.
The county will utilize the policy, criteria and information including technical specifications and standards in the latest edition of the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual and the county stormwater LDM, for the proper implementation of the requirements of this division. The manual may be updated and expanded periodically, based on improvements in science, engineering, monitoring and local maintenance experience. The Georgia Stormwater Management Manual and county stormwater LDM are adopted by reference and declared to be part of this division.
(Ord. No. O-090506, § 400-030, 9-5-2006)
Sec. 50-147. - Requirements for stormwater management plan.
(a)
The stormwater management plan shall be prepared under the supervision of, and certified by, a professional engineer, professional land surveyor, or registered landscape architect with competency in hydrology and hydraulics, currently registered in the state. The plan shall conform with the requirements of this division.
(b)
Upon receipt of the stormwater management plan, the county shall perform appropriate reviews, and shall either approve the stormwater management plan or return comments and reasons for rejection.
(Ord. No. O-090506, § 400-040, 9-5-2006)
Sec. 50-148. - Permit procedures and requirements.
(a)
Permit application requirements. No owner or developer shall perform any land development activities without first meeting the requirements of this division prior to commencing the proposed activity. Unless otherwise exempted by this division, or granted a waiver to meeting the minimum requirements outlined in the county stormwater LDM, a land-disturbance permit application shall be accompanied by the following items in order to be considered:
(1)
Stormwater concept plan and consultation meeting certification if required by subsection (b) of this section;
(2)
Stormwater management plan;
(3)
Inspection and long-term maintenance agreement;
(4)
Stormwater tax assessment area, if applicable;
(5)
Performance bond, if applicable; and
(6)
Land-disturbance permit application and applicable review fees.
(b)
Stormwater concept plan and consultation meeting. Projects that are complex in nature may require a stormwater concept plan and consultation prior to submittal of design plans for review by the county. The stormwater concept plan shall meet the requirements outlined in the LDM. For the purposes of this section, any proposed development activity that meets any of the following criteria shall be required to prepare a stormwater concept plan and participate in a consultation meeting prior to submission of engineering plans for review.
(1)
Any residential subdivision with greater than 50 lots, unless such development contains two-acre or greater lots.
(2)
Any non-residential development with a disturbed area of ten acres or greater.
(3)
Any non-residential development regardless of size which has an impervious surface coverage that covers 50 percent or more of the property excluding those lands contained within undisturbed buffers including, but not limited to, floodplains, stream buffers and undisturbed buffers between dissimilar zonings.
(4)
Any non-residential development regardless of size, which is defined as a hot spot land use.
(c)
Stormwater management plan requirements. The stormwater management plan must be submitted in accordance with the LDM.
(d)
Inspection and maintenance agreement. The applicant or owner of the land involved in a land development project requiring a stormwater management facility or practice hereunder and for which the county requires ongoing maintenance must execute a stormwater management inspection and maintenance agreement that shall be binding on all subsequent owners of the site or any portion thereof.
(1)
Approval and recording of inspection and maintenance agreement. The inspection and maintenance agreement shall require approval by the director prior to final plat approval or final site plan approval. The agreement shall be recorded by the property owner in the land records of the county. A covenant running with the land will describe said agreement and the obligation of all present and future holders of any interest in the development or any portion thereof. Said covenant shall be recorded on the deed of every parcel of property and/or lot that is derived in any way from the land development activity. Thereafter, each deed shall be recorded in the county deed records.
(2)
Required contents.
a.
The stormwater management inspection and maintenance agreement shall identify by name and official title, if applicable, the person bound by said agreement to cause said inspection and maintenance. For residential developments, responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the stormwater management facility or practice shall remain that of the party which executed the stormwater management inspection and maintenance agreement unless and until such time as the duties hereunder are properly assumed by a homeowners' association which is created as specified in this section. Evidence of the assumption of such duties shall be in a writing executed by the party assigning said duties and the homeowners' association.
b.
The duties created under the inspection and maintenance agreement shall transfer to each and every subsequent owner/applicant, or homeowners' association (where one is established and duties are assigned thereto, in accordance with this division), or similar holders of interest in the development or any portion thereof. Upon transfer, each owner/applicant, homeowners' association, or similar interest holder shall cause the deed of transfer to be marked upon its face with notice of obligations of the inspection and maintenance agreement through use of a restrictive covenant, as previously described. Each successor in title shall be bound by the inspection and maintenance agreement to all the duties of his/her/their predecessor thereunder.
c.
The stormwater inspection and maintenance agreement shall incorporate by reference the project's operation and maintenance plan and account for all the work requirements specified in the plan.
d.
The inspection and maintenance agreement shall provide that preventive maintenance inspections of infiltration systems, retention, or detention structures may be made by the county, at its option. The county's inspection schedule shall be established on a frequency that meets the intent of this division and applicable regulatory compliance requirements bestowed on the county.
e.
Right-of-entry for inspection. The terms of the inspection and maintenance agreement shall provide for the director or his/her/their designee to enter the property at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner for the purpose of inspection. This includes the right to enter a property when there is a reasonable basis to believe that a violation of this division is occurring or has occurred and to enter when necessary for abatement of a public nuisance or correction of a violation of this division.
f.
The inspection and maintenance agreement shall provide that the county shall notify the property owner of the facility of any violation, deficiency or failure to comply with the agreement. The agreement shall also provide that upon a failure to correct violations requiring maintenance work or failure to provide an action plan for correcting such violation within ten business days after notice thereof, the county may provide for all necessary work to place the facility in proper working condition. The owner of the facility shall be assessed the costs of the work performed by the county, and there shall be a lien on every parcel of property and/or lot that is derived in any way from the land development activity. If a stormwater tax assessment area has been established, the costs of the work performed shall be collected as provided in subsection (e) of this section. Should such a lien be filed, portions of the affected property may be released by the county following the payments by the owner of such portion of the property of such owner's pro-rata share of the lien amount based upon the acreage to be released with such release amount to be determined by the county board of commissioners.
(3)
Additional requirements for residential subdivisions. In lieu of an inspection and maintenance agreement, the county board of commissioners may, at its discretion, accept dedication of any existing or future stormwater management facility for perpetual maintenance by the county, provided such facility meets all the requirements of this division, the LDM and includes adequate and perpetual access and sufficient area, by easement or otherwise, for inspection and regular structural maintenance by the county. In the event the county accepts dedication of any stormwater management facility for a residential subdivision, the resolution creating the stormwater tax assessment area for the subdivision required by subsection (e)(1) of this section, shall specify the fee for routine inspection, maintenance and repair activities to be performed by the county. In addition, the resolution creating the stormwater tax assessment area may specify a fee to offset potential non-routine maintenance and repair expenditures by the county. These funds shall be maintained in a designated account for the stormwater tax assessment area activities. Collection of the amount for non-routine maintenance and repair shall be suspended once the account contains an amount necessary, as determined by the director, to rebuild the stormwater facilities. The board of commissioners may revise said fees by resolution no earlier than 30 days after written notice to the participants in the stormwater tax assessment area.
(e)
Stormwater tax assessment area.
(1)
Establishment of a stormwater tax assessment area. Prior to final plat approval, the developer of any common development subject to the provisions of this article shall establish a stormwater tax assessment area that shall thereafter encompass the development, each subdivision thereof, and any other property that is alleged to be covered/served by the stormwater management plan. The stormwater tax assessment area shall be established within the county upon a petition presented to the board of commissioners by the developer of any new subdivision or any additional unit or phase of an existing large subdivision which has been approved for development in units or phases. The petition shall be accompanied by appropriate forms, to be promulgated by the county, which shall at least list thereon the legal description and the district, land lot, block and/or lot of each parcel or tract of land affected by the proposed stormwater tax assessment area. Approval of the petition shall be by majority vote of the board of commissioners. Upon approval, the board shall establish, by appropriate resolution, the particular stormwater tax assessment area for which the petition has been submitted. The establishing resolution shall state the charge or fee for such service or the basis for computation and adjustment of the charge or fee.
(2)
Determination and collection of charges and fees incident to the establishment of stormwater tax assessment area.
a.
At the time of the approval of the petition by the board of commissioners, a copy of the resolution establishing the stormwater tax assessment area shall be transmitted to the county tax commissioner. The tax commissioner shall be responsible for the collection of any and all charges and fees which are established by the board pursuant to subsection (e)(1) of this section. Said charges and fees may be imposed against any business, resident or other property served by the stormwater management plan.
b.
Property owners within a stormwater tax assessment area shall be billed annually through their regular ad valorem county tax bill for the cost to the county of county performance of inspection, maintenance and repair activities on privately-owned stormwater management facilities and practices during the 12 months proceeding the end of the county's fiscal year ending June 30 of the applicable tax year. The rate for stormwater tax assessment areas shall be determined based on the total cost incurred by the county in inspecting, maintaining and repairing these facilities in the applicable tax year divided by the number of non-exempt parcels which exist in all stormwater tax assessment areas in existence in the county in the applicable tax year.
c.
A parcel that exists in a stormwater tax assessment area shall be exempt from the stormwater tax assessment if all requirements set forth in the inspection and maintenance agreement have been met and all necessary documentation thereof has been submitted to and approved by the director. The determination of applicability of exemption shall be made on a yearly basis by the director. For residential subdivisions, individual lots shall not be exempt, all property owners shall be considered exempt or non-exempt based on the work performed for that subdivision.
(f)
Maintenance bonds.
(1)
Prior to final plat approval of all subdivision development projects, the developer shall submit to the director a bond or irrevocable letter of credit for the purpose of guaranteeing the materials and workmanship of all stormwater control measures associated with the development for a period of two years from the issuance of the final plat or until the issuance of 75 percent of the certificates of occupancy for the subdivision development, whichever is greater. The bond amount shall be calculated by the director and provided to the developer upon completion of field activities and submittal of the final plat to the county planning and development department.
(2)
If, during the bond period, the need for repairs to any of the stormwater control measures becomes evident then the developer will be notified in writing by the director and informed of the measures to be taken to repair the facilities. If the developer has not taken significant action, as determined by the director, within 30 days of said notification, the director shall take such steps as are necessary to claim an amount of the funds from the bond or letter of credit which, as estimated based upon no less than two bids secured by the director, will cover all costs and expenses the county will incur in causing the repairs to be made.
(g)
Modifications for off-site facilities.
(1)
The stormwater management plan for each land development project shall provide for stormwater management measures located on the site of the project, unless provisions are made with the director to manage stormwater by an off-site, or regional facility. The off-site or regional facility:
a.
Must be located on property legally dedicated for the purpose;
b.
Must be designed and adequately sized to provide a level of stormwater quantity and quality control that is equal to or greater than that which would be afforded by on-site practices; and
c.
There must be a county-approved, legally-obligated entity responsible for long-term operation and maintenance of the off-site or regional stormwater facility. In addition, on-site measures shall be implemented, where necessary, to address stormwater management issues upstream and downstream from the development site to the off-site or regional facility.
(2)
A stormwater management plan must be submitted to the county, which shows the adequacy of the off-site or regional facility.
(3)
To be eligible for a modification, the applicant must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the county that the use of an off-site or regional facility will not result in the following impacts to upstream or downstream areas:
a.
Increased threat of flood damage to public health, life, and property;
b.
Deterioration of existing culverts, bridges, dams, and other structures;
c.
Accelerated streambank or streambed erosion or siltation;
d.
Degradation of in-stream biological functions or habitat; or
e.
Water quality impairment in violation of state water quality standards, and/or violation of any state or federal regulations.
(Ord. No. O-090506, § 400-050, 9-5-2006)
Sec. 50-149. - Post-development stormwater management performance criteria.
The following performance criteria shall be applicable to all stormwater management plans, unless otherwise provided for in this division:
(1)
Water quality. Stormwater runoff generated from a site shall be adequately treated before discharge. It will be presumed that a stormwater management system complies with this requirement if:
a.
The system is sized to treat the prescribed water quality treatment volume from the site, as defined in the LDM;
b.
Appropriate structural stormwater controls or nonstructural practices are selected, designed, constructed or preserved, and maintained in accordance with the specific criteria in the LDM; and
c.
Runoff from hotspot land uses and activities identified in the LDM are adequately treated and addressed through the use of appropriate structural stormwater controls, nonstructural practices and pollution prevention practices.
(2)
Stream channel protection. Protection of stream channels from bank and bed erosion and degradation shall be provided by using all of the following three approaches:
a.
Preservation, restoration and/or reforestation (with native vegetation) of the applicable stream buffer;
b.
Twenty-four-hour extended detention storage of the one-year, 24-hour return frequency storm event;
c.
Erosion prevention measures such as energy dissipation and velocity control. All design and construction work that is undertaken proximate to stream channels (including the buffer areas) shall be in strict conformance with current local, state and federal regulations.
(3)
Flood protection. Flood and public safety protection shall be provided by controlling and safely conveying storm events such that flooding is not exacerbated for the storm events specified in the LDM and in accordance with applicable requirements in chapter 26.
(4)
Drainage system guidelines. Stormwater conveyance facilities, which may include, but are not limited to, culverts, stormwater drainage pipes, catch basins, drop inlets, junction boxes, headwalls, gutters, swales, channels, ditches, and energy dissipaters shall be provided when necessary for the protection of public and private properties adjoining project sites. Stormwater conveyance facilities that are designed to carry stormwater runoff from more than one parcel, existing or proposed, shall meet the following requirements:
a.
Methods to calculate stormwater flows shall be in accordance with the LDM;
b.
All culverts, pipe systems and open channel flow systems shall be sized in accordance with the stormwater management plan using the methods included in the LDM; and
c.
Design and construction of stormwater conveyance facilities shall be in accordance with the criteria and specifications found in the LDM.
(5)
Dam design guidelines. Any land-disturbing activity that involves a property, which is proposed to contain a dam, shall comply with the provisions of this section.
a.
New dams which become subject to the requirements of the Georgia Safe Dams Act and Rules for Dam Safety. Dams proposed to be 25 feet or more in height or proposed to have an impounding capacity of 100 acre-feet or more at maximum water storage elevation shall be subject to the following:
1.
If a development is located within the breach zone of a dam, then the dam shall be subject to the requirements of the Georgia Safe Dams Act and Rules for Dam Safety adopted by the state department of natural resources. The developer shall obtain necessary approvals and permits from the environmental protection division of the state department of natural resources for the project and the dam prior to securing a land-disturbance permit from the county. If the development is not located within the breach zone, the developer shall submit construction plans to the county prior to securing a land-disturbance permit from the county.
2.
If the developer elects to construct the dam in accordance with the design standards for new dams as contained in the rules for dam safety, then new development shall be permitted within the dam breach zone. However, the dam shall meet the design standards for new dams as contained in the rules for dam safety if development currently exists or is proposed in the dam breach zone.
3.
If the developer elects not to construct the new dam to the design standards for new dams as contained in the rules for dam safety, then a dam breach analysis for the dam shall be submitted along with the construction plans prior to securing a land-disturbance permit from the county. The dam breach analysis shall be certified by a professional engineer licensed in the state and approved by the state safe dams program. The design engineer shall utilize the computer models entitled "DAMBRK" or "HEC-RAS" for the dam breach analysis.
4.
Should the dam not meet the design standards for dams as contained in the rules for dam safety, then only the following uses and structures shall be permitted within the dam breach zone:
(i)
Agriculture which requires no structures for human habitation within the dam breach zone including forestry, livestock raising, and agricultural and forestry access roads.
(ii)
Fences.
(iii)
Outdoor advertising signs provided they are located no closer than 100 feet from any residence or place of business.
(iv)
Roads, driveways and parking areas.
(v)
Utility poles, towers, pipelines, water treatment outfalls and facilities, or other similar facilities and structures.
5.
For any dam that is proposed not to meet the design for new dams as contained in the rules for dam safety, the developer shall obtain a dam breach easement, recorded with the clerk of superior court, from any off-site property owner where it is proposed for the dam breach zone to extend off the property where the dam is being constructed. The developer shall also cause a dam breach easement to be recorded upon the property being developed.
6.
Prior to recording of a final plat or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, as appropriate, an as-built survey must be performed by a professional land surveyor and an as-built design certification must be performed by a professional engineer currently registered in the state. Both certifications must be submitted to the director. The certification shall state that the dam is constructed in accordance with the provisions of this article, as well as the approved construction plans. If the project is for the development of a subdivision, the developer shall also establish a legal entity, acceptable to the county, such as a mandatory homeowners' association (HOA) that will be responsible for the perpetual maintenance of the dam and its impoundment, prior to approval of the final plat.
b.
Dams subject to regulation by the county. Dams proposed to be nine feet or more in height, but less than 25 feet in height, in combination with an impounding capacity proposed to be 20 acre-feet or more at maximum water storage elevation, but less than 100 acre-feet, shall be subject to the following:
1.
If the developer elects not to construct the dam to the design standards for dams as contained in the rules for dam safety, then a dam breach analysis for the dam shall be submitted to the director with the construction plans prior to securing a land-disturbance permit from the county. The dam breach analysis shall be certified by a professional engineer licensed in the state and approved by the state safe dams program. The design engineer shall utilize the computer models entitled "DAMBRK" or "HEC-RAS" for the dam breach analysis.
2.
Should the dam not meet the design standards for dams as contained in the rules for dam safety, then only the following uses and structures shall be permitted within the dam breach zone:
(i)
Agriculture which requires no structures for human habitation within the dam breach zone including forestry, livestock raising, and agricultural and forestry access roads.
(ii)
Fences.
(iii)
Outdoor advertising signs provided they are located no closer than 100-feet from any residence or place of business.
(iv)
Roads, driveways and parking areas.
(v)
Utility poles, towers, pipelines, water treatment outfalls and facilities, or similar facilities and structures.
3.
If the developer elects to construct the dam in accordance with the design standards for dams as contained in the rules for dam safety, then new development shall be permitted within the dam breach zone. However, the dam shall meet the design standards for dams as contained in the rules for dam safety if development currently exists or is proposed in the dam breach zone.
4.
Construction plans for dams defined herein shall be submitted to the county prior to securing a land-disturbance permit from the county. The plans shall be certified by a professional engineer licensed in the state and approved by the state safe dams program.
5.
For any dam that is proposed not to meet the design standards for dams as contained in the rules for dam safety, the developer shall obtain a dam breach easement, recorded with the clerk of superior court, from any off-site property owner where it is proposed for the dam breach zone to extend off the property where the dam is being constructed. The developer shall also cause a dam breach easement to be recorded upon the property being developed.
6.
Prior to recording of a final plat or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, as appropriate, the required as-built certifications, as stated herein, shall be submitted to the director.
c.
Existing dams. Existing dams that are located on a project site and will remain after construction is complete, shall comply with the provisions of this division and all referenced divisions as if they were new dams.
d.
Existing category II dams. When an existing category II dam would be reclassified to a category I dam because of a proposed development downstream of the dam, the following shall be provided by the developer for review by the state safe dams program.
1.
Location of the category II dam and the proposed development;
2.
A surveyed cross-section of the stream valley at the location of the proposed development including finished floor elevations; and
3.
A dam breach analysis using the "DAMBRK" or "HEC-RAS" computer model to establish the height of the flood wave in the downstream floodplain. The "DAMBRK" or "HEC-RAS" modeling shall be completed in accordance with the safe dams program by a qualified registered engineer licensed in the state and approved by the state safe dams program.
(Ord. No. O-090506, § 400-060, 9-5-2006)
Sec. 50-150. - Construction inspections.
(a)
Periodic inspection of the development site shall be made by the director to ensure that the stormwater management plan is properly implemented.
(b)
Upon completion of the construction phase on the project, and prior to approval of the final plat or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, the developer shall provide an as-built survey and an as-built design certification for each stormwater management facility. The as-built survey shall be prepared by a land surveyor currently registered in the state. A certified record drawing of the facility shall be prepared based upon this as-built survey. Based on the actual parameters established on the record drawing, an addendum to the stormwater management plan shall be prepared which demonstrates that the facility, as constructed, complies with the requirements of the approved stormwater management plan. The certified record drawing shall be certified by a professional engineer currently registered in the state.
(Ord. No. O-090506, § 400-070, 9-5-2006)
Sec. 50-151. - Long-term inspection and maintenance.
(a)
Long-term inspection and maintenance of stormwater facilities and practices. Stormwater management facilities and practices included in a stormwater management plan that are subject to an inspection and maintenance agreement must undergo ongoing inspections to ensure compliance with the requirements of the agreement, the plan and this division. The responsible person, as designated in the approved inspection and maintenance agreement, shall inspect the stormwater management facilities or practices on a periodic basis.
(b)
County inspections. Inspection programs by the director may be established on any reasonable basis, including, but not limited to, routine inspections; random inspections; inspections based upon complaints or other notice of possible violations; and joint inspections with other agencies inspecting under environmental, safety laws, and to meet applicable regulatory requirements. Inspections may include, but are not limited to, reviewing maintenance and repair records; sampling discharges, surface water, groundwater, and material or water in stormwater management facilities; and evaluating the condition of stormwater management facilities and practices. Inspection reports, including documented deficiencies and needed maintenance requirements, shall be maintained by the director and provided to the responsible party to undertake appropriate action. Scanned or electronic copies of original documents may be maintained in lieu of said original documents.
(c)
Duty to maintain. Property owners are responsible for performing operation and maintenance activities for stormwater management facilities and practices located on their property in accordance with the operations and maintenance plan. Parties responsible for the operation and maintenance of a stormwater management facility shall provide records of all maintenance and repairs to the director.
(d)
Failure to maintain. In the event that the stormwater management facility has not been maintained and/or becomes a danger to public safety or public health, the director shall notify the person responsible for carrying out the maintenance plan by registered or certified mail to the person specified in the inspection and maintenance agreement. The notice shall specify the measures needed to comply with the agreement and the plan and shall specify the time within which such measures shall be completed.
(e)
Violation; abatement. If a responsible person fails or refuses to meet the requirements of the inspection and maintenance agreement, the director may correct a violation of the design standards or maintenance requirements by performing the necessary work to place the facility or practice in proper working condition. The owner of the facility shall be assessed the costs of the work performed by the county, and there shall be a lien on all property of the owner in which said property utilizes, or will utilize such facility in achieving stormwater management,. If a stormwater tax assessment area has been established, the costs of the work performed shall be collected as provided in section 50-148(e). Alternatively, the director may consult code enforcement to issue citations to help force compliance with the inspection and maintenance agreement.
(Ord. No. O-090506, § 400-080, 9-5-2006)
Sec. 50-152. - Maintenance of pre-existing stormwater facilities.
(a)
Pre-existing residential subdivisions. Any homeowners' association with a duty to maintain a pre-existing stormwater facility may establish a stormwater tax assessment area upon presentation of a petition to the board of commissioners by either or both of the following:
(1)
Owners whose cumulative holdings total 51 percent or more of the property affected within the proposed stormwater tax assessment area.
(2)
Fifty-one percent of the owners of the property affected within the proposed stormwater tax assessment area.
(b)
Approval of the petition shall be by majority vote of the board of commissioners. If approved, the board shall establish, by resolution, the particular stormwater tax assessment area for which the petition has been submitted. The establishing resolution shall state the charge or fee for such service, as well as the basis for computation and adjustment of the charge or fee. Establishment of the stormwater tax assessment area and collection of fees shall be in accordance with section 50-148(e).
(Ord. No. O-090506, § 400-090, 9-5-2006)
Sec. 50-153. - Violations, enforcement and penalties.
Any action or inaction which violates the provisions of this article or the requirements of an approved stormwater management plan or permit may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in this section. Any such action or inaction, which is continuous with respect to time, is deemed to be a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of any of the penalties described below shall not prevent such equitable relief.
(1)
Notice of violation. If the director determines that an applicant or other responsible person has failed to comply with the terms and conditions of a permit, an approved stormwater management plan or the provisions of this article, the director shall issue a written notice of violation to such applicant or other responsible person. Where a person is engaged in activity covered by this division without having first secured a permit, the notice of violation shall be served on the owner or the responsible person in charge of the activity being conducted on the site. The notice of violation shall contain:
a.
The name and address of the owner or the applicant or the responsible person;
b.
The address or other description of the site upon which the violation is occurring;
c.
A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
d.
A description of the remedial measures necessary to bring the action or inaction into compliance with the permit, the stormwater management plan or this division and the date for the completion of such remedial action;
e.
A statement of the penalty or penalties that may be assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed; and
f.
A statement on whether the violation must be corrected within ten business days or whether an action plan submitted within ten business days will be acceptable.
(2)
Penalties. In the event the remedial measures described in the notice of violation have not been completed by the date set forth for such completion in the notice of violation, any one or more of the following actions or penalties may be taken or assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation was directed. Before taking any of the following actions or imposing any of the following penalties, the director shall first notify the applicant or other responsible person in writing of its intended action, and shall provide a reasonable opportunity, of not less than ten business days (except, that in the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, 24-hours' notice shall be sufficient) to cure such violation or develop an action plan for curing such violation. In the event the applicant or other responsible person fails to cure such violation after such notice and cure period, the director may take any one or more of the following actions or impose any one or more of the following penalties:
a.
Stop work order. The director may issue a stop work order that shall be served on the applicant or other responsible person. The stop work order shall remain in effect until the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violation or violations described therein, provided the stop work order may be withdrawn or modified to enable the applicant or other responsible person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such violation or violations.
b.
Withhold certificate of occupancy. The director may refuse to issue a certificate of occupancy for any and all buildings or other improvements constructed or being constructed on the site until the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein.
c.
Suspension, revocation or modification of permit. The director may suspend, revoke or modify the permit authorizing the land development project. A suspended, revoked or modified permit may be reinstated after the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein, provided such permit may be reinstated (upon such conditions as the director may deem necessary) to enable the applicant or other responsible person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such violations.
d.
Citations. For intentional and flagrant violations of this article, or in the event the applicant or other responsible person fails to take the remedial measures set forth in previously issued notice of violation or otherwise fails to cure the violations or develop and action plan for curing such violation within ten business days, the director may issue a citation to the applicant or other responsible person, requiring such person to appear in magistrate court of the county to answer charges for such violation. Upon conviction, such person shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00. Each act of violation and each day upon which any violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. No. O-090506, § 400-100, 9-5-2006)
Sec. 50-154. - Soil erosion and sedimentation controls.
Developers shall be required to provide soil erosion and sedimentation control measures in conformance with state law and the county soil erosion and sedimentation control provisions of chapter 22.
(Ord. No. O-090506, § 400-110, 9-5-2006)
