Chapter 14 - CEMETERIES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 14-1—14-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ABANDONED CEMETERIES AND BURIAL GROUNDS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Abandoned cemeteries and burial grounds, O.C.G.A. § 36-72-1 et seq.

Sec. 14-19. - Purpose and intent.
(a)
The care accorded the remains of deceased persons reflects respect and regard for human dignity as well as cultural, spiritual, and religious values. The board of commissioners of the county declares that human remains and burial objects are not property to be owned by the person or entity which owns the land or water where the human remains and burial objects are interred or discovered, but human remains and burial objects are a part of the finite, irreplaceable, and nonrenewable cultural heritage of the people of the state and the county which should be protected.
(b)
It is the intent of the board of commissioners of the county that the provisions of this article be construed to require respectful treatment of human remains in accord with the equal and innate dignity of every human being and consistent with the identifiable ethnic, cultural, and religious affiliation of the deceased individual as indicated by the method of burial or other historical evidence or reliable information.
(Ord. No. O-111505, § 41-101, 11-15-2005)
Sec. 14-20. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Abandoned cemetery means a cemetery which shows signs of neglect including, without limitation, the unchecked growth of vegetation, repeated and unchecked acts of vandalism, or the disintegration of grave markers or boundaries and for which no person can be found who is legally responsible and financially capable of the upkeep of such cemetery.
Archeologist means any person who is:
(1)
A member of or meets the criteria for membership in the Society of Professional Archaeologists and can demonstrate experience in the excavation and interpretation of human graves; or
(2)
Employed on July 1, 1991, by the state or by any county or municipal governing authority as an archeologist.
Burial ground means an area dedicated to and used for interment of human remains. The term "burial ground" includes privately owned burial plots, individually and collectively, once human remains have been buried therein. The fact that the area was used for burial purposes shall be evidence that it was set aside for burial purposes.
Burial object means any item reasonably believed to have been intentionally placed with the human remains at the time of burial or interment or any memorial, tombstone, grave marker, or shrine which may have been added subsequent to interment. The term "burial object" also means any inscribed or uninscribed marker, coping, curbing, enclosure, fencing, pavement, shelter, wall, stoneware, pottery, or other grave object erected or deposited incident to or subsequent to interment.
Cemetery or cemeteries means any land or structure in the county dedicated to and used, for interment of human remains. It may be either a burial park for earth interments or a mausoleum for vault or crypt interments or a combination of one or more thereof.
Descendant means a person or group of persons related to a deceased human by blood or adoption in accordance with O.C.G.A. title 19.
Genealogist means a person who traces or studies the descent of persons or families and prepares a probative record of such descent.
Human remains means the bodies of deceased human beings in any state of decomposition, including cremated remains.
Preserve and protect means to keep safe from destruction, peril, or other adversity and may include the placement of signs, markers, fencing, or other such appropriate features so as to identify the site as a cemetery or burial ground and may also include the cleaning, maintenance, and upkeep of the site so as to aid in its preservation and protection.
(Ord. No. O-111505, § 41-102, 11-15-2005)
Sec. 14-21. - Permit required.
No known cemetery, burial ground, human remains, or burial object shall be knowingly disturbed by the owner or occupier of the land on which the cemetery or burial ground is located for the purposes of developing or changing the use of any part of such land unless a permit is first obtained from the board of commissioners of the county.
(Ord. No. O-111505, § 41-103, 11-15-2005)
Sec. 14-22. - Permit application.
All persons desiring to obtain a permit under the provisions of this article shall make an application on the form prescribed by the newton county department of planning and development. Each application shall include, at minimum, the information required by O.C.G.A. § 36-72-5. Completed applications shall be submitted to the department of planning and development and shall contain appropriate attachments setting forth the information required by the above-referenced code section and any other information required by the county.
(Ord. No. O-111505, § 41-104, 11-15-2005)
Sec. 14-23. - Identification of descendants.
The applicant shall implement a plan for identifying and locating the descendants of the person in the cemetery sought to be developed no later than the date the application is submitted. The applicant's plan for identifying and notifying the descendants of the deceased persons shall be reviewed, and it may be required as a condition for issuing a permit that the applicant implement additional reasonable attempts to identify and locate descendants. Notice to possible descendants shall include information on how to contact the board of commissioners and a summary of the rights of descendants under this article and under O.C.G.A. §§ 36-72-1 through 36-72-16. As a part of this process, the board of commissioners shall promptly inform any descendants who indicate an interest in the disposition of the human remains and burial objects regarding any proposals for mitigation, the terms of any permit issued, the time and place of any scheduled public hearings, and appeal procedures and events.
(Ord. No. O-111505, § 41-105, 11-15-2005)
Sec. 14-24. - Public hearing and decision.
(a)
Within 15 days after the county is satisfied that all reasonable effort has been made to notify descendants, the board of commissioners shall schedule a public hearing at which any interested party or citizen may appear and be given an opportunity to be heard. In addition to the notice required in section 14-23, notice of the public hearing shall be advertised in the legal organ of the county once a week for the two consecutive weeks immediately preceding the week in which any such hearing is held.
(b)
Within 30 days after the conclusion of the public hearing, the board of commissioners shall notify the applicant in writing of its decision. The board of commissioners shall have the authority to deny the application with written reasons therefor, to issue a permit adopting the application in whole or in part, or to issue a permit which may include additional requirements to mitigate the proposed activity's adverse effects on the cemetery or burial ground, including, but not limited to, relocation of the proposed project, preservation of the cemetery or burial ground as an undeveloped area within the proposed development or use of land, and respectful disinterment and proper disposition of the human remains. The board of commissioners may adopt the applicant's proposal for mitigation.
(Ord. No. O-111505, § 41-106, 11-15-2005)
Sec. 14-25. - Issues considered in decision on application.
The board of commissioners shall consider the following in making its determination:
(1)
The presumption in favor of leaving the cemetery or burial ground undisturbed;
(2)
The concerns and comments of any descendants of those buried in the burial ground or cemetery and any other interested parties;
(3)
The economic and other costs of mitigation;
(4)
The adequacy of the applicant's plans for disinterment and proper disposition of any human remains or burial objects;
(5)
The balancing of the applicant's interest in disinterment with the public's and any descendant's interest in the value of the undisturbed cultural and natural environment; and
(6)
Any other compelling factors which it deems relevant.
(Ord. No. O-111505, § 41-107, 11-15-2005)
Sec. 14-26. - Application fee.
An application fee shall be submitted by each applicant at the time of application in the amount set forth in the county's fee schedule to cover the cost of processing and reviewing the application. Should additional costs be incurred by the county in the form of the hiring of an independent archeologist and/or independent surveyor to assist in making recommendations regarding the applicant's plan, additional fees will be imposed upon the applicant to cover such costs. In no event, however, will the total application fee exceed the amount set forth in the county's fee schedule. All application fees incurred under the terms hereof, must be paid in full by the applicant prior to the final decision to be rendered upon the application by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. O-111505, § 41-108, 11-15-2005)
Sec. 14-27. - Appeal of decision.
Should any applicant or descendant be dissatisfied with the decision of the board of commissioners, he/she/they, within 30 days of such decision, may file an appeal in the superior court of the county in addition to the superior courts enumerated in O.C.G.A. § 50-13-19.
(Ord. No. O-111505, § 41-109, 11-15-2005)
Sec. 14-28. - Development activities pending appeal.
Until the expiration of the time for appeal as set forth in section 14-27, the applicant shall not begin or resume activities which comply with the permit issued by the governing authority. If an appeal is filed, the applicant may begin or resume activities which comply with the permit only upon consent of the board of commissioners and the party seeking judicial review or upon order of the reviewing court for good cause shown.
(Ord. No. O-111505, § 41-110, 11-15-2005)
Sec. 14-29. - Compliance inspections.
The county shall inspect as necessary to determine whether the applicant has complied with the provisions of this article requiring the cessation or limitation of any activity to determine whether the applicant has complied with the terms of the permit as issued or as modified by the superior court or reviewing court.
(Ord. No. O-111505, § 41-111, 11-15-2005)
Sec. 14-30. - Disinterment and disposition of remains.
Any disinterment and disposition of human remains or burial objects permitted under this article shall be supervised, monitored, or carried out by the applicant's archeologist and shall be done at the expense of the person or entity to whom the permit is issued.
(Ord. No. O-111505, § 41-112, 11-15-2005)
Sec. 14-31. - Penalties.
This article is patterned after O.C.G.A. ch. 72 of title 36. The requirements and procedures for application contained in this article are mandated by that chapter and title. As such, a violation of this article will constitute a violation of that chapter and title. The penalties for a violation of that chapter and title are set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-72-16.
(Ord. No. O-111505, § 41-113, 11-15-2005)
