CHAPTER 6. - TAXATION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL
ARTICLE II. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION

Sec. 6-201. - Homestead exemption for aged and disabled persons.
(a)
Homestead exemption for aged and disabled persons. This Act is passed pursuant to article VII, section II, paragraph II of the Constitution, authorizing the grant of homestead exemptions from ad valorem taxation levied by local taxing jurisdictions.
(b)
Definitions. As used in this Act, the term:
Disabled means that person is permanently mentally or physically incapacitated to the extent that he or she is unable to be gainfully employed.
Gross income means all income, from whatever source.
Homestead means homestead as defined and qualified in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-40.
Net income means net income for purposes of computing net taxable income under chapter 7 of title 48 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 48-7-1 et seq.], relating to income taxes, but does not include income received as retirement, survivor, or disability benefits under the federal Social Security Act or under any other public or private retirement, disability, or pension system, except that such income which is in excess of the maximum amount authorized to be paid to a person and that person's spouse under the federal Social Security Act shall be so included as net income.
(c)
Exemption.
(1)
The homestead of each resident of Newton County is exempted from Newton County ad valorem taxes and Newton County School District ad valorem taxes, except taxes levied to pay interest on and to retire bonded indebtedness of the county or the county school district, in the amount of $4,000.00.
(2)
The exemption granted by this section shall not apply to or affect any state or municipalities ad valorem taxes.
(d)
Age 65 or older. Each resident of Newton County who is 65 years of age or older or who is totally disabled is granted an exemption on that person's homestead form all Newton County ad valorem taxes and Newton County School District ad valorem taxes in the amount of $20,000.00, if that person's net income, together with the net income of that person's spouse who occupies and resides at such homestead, does not exceed $15,000.00 for the immediately preceding year for income tax purposes. The value of any homestead in excess of the amount exempted by this section shall remain subject to taxation. The exemption granted by this section shall not apply to or affect any state or municipalities' ad valorem taxes.
(e)
Age 62 or older. Each resident of Newton County who is 62 years of age or older is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from all Newton County ad valorem taxes and Newton County School District ad valorem taxes in the amount of $20,000.00, if that person's gross income, together with the gross income of that person's spouse who occupies and resides at such homestead, does not exceed $10,000.00 for the immediately preceding year from income tax purposes. The value of any homestead in excess of the amount exempted by this section shall remain subject to taxation. The exemption granted by this section shall not apply to or affect any state or municipal ad valorem taxes.
(f)
Qualifications; application. If the tax officials of Newton County have in their records on January 1, 1993, sufficient information to determine that a taxpayer qualifies for a homestead exemption granted by this section, the taxpayer shall be granted such exemption without filing an application. Otherwise a taxpayer shall apply for an exemption as provided by general law; but once a homestead exemption has been granted in one year it shall continue to be granted for future years without further application as long as the taxpayer qualifies.
(g)
Notice of ineligibility. It shall be the duty of any person to notify the Tax Commissioner of Newton County in the event such person becomes ineligible for any exemption granted by this Act.
(h)
Each exemption; in lieu of; not addition. Each exemption granted by this Act shall be in lieu of and not in addition to any other exemption from Newton County School District ad valorem taxes and Newton County ad valorem taxes which is lower in amount than such exemption granted by this Act. If the amount of any other exemption applicable to any resident is greater than or is increased to an amount greater than the amount of the applicable exemption granted by this Act, such other exemption shall apply.
(i)
Tax year. The exemptions granted by this Act shall apply to the tax year beginning on January 1, 1993, and all tax years thereafter.
(1991 Ga. Laws, p. 4328)
Sec. 6-202. - General assembly powers as to levy, etc.
(a)
General assembly powers as to levy, etc. Article VII of the Constitution of Georgia is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof a new section to be appropriately numbered and to read as follows:
"Paragraph I. The General Assembly of Georgia shall have the power, by general, local or special law applicable to Newton County, to:
A.
Prescribe the date or time when the fiscal authorities of said county shall make or fix the levy of ad valorem taxes and the amount of assessments and other charges to be made for any purpose against property or property owners;
B.
Prescribe the manner in which bills and notices converting taxes or assessments or other charges, including those due to the State of Georgia and Newton County, shall be prepared, the number of such bills or notices, and the information to be shown thereon, or to delegate authority to determine such matters;
C.
Provide when the payment of taxes or assessments or other charges, including those due to the State of Georgia and Newton County, shall be due, either in installments or in one sum, and when default in such payment shall occur; and
D.
Authorize payments or partial payments of taxes, assessments or other charges, or installments thereof to be apportioned between the State of Georgia and Newton County, in the same proportions that the taxes, assessments or other charges due each shall bear to the whole bill or bills reserving to the taxpayer the right to direct how money paid by taxpayer shall be applied."
(1975 Ga. Laws , p. 1684; 1986 Ga. Laws, p. 4568)
Sec. 6-203. - Homestead exemption for county purposes.
(a)
Ad valorem taxes. For the purposes of this Act, the term:
(1)
"Ad valorem taxes for county purposes" means all ad valorem taxes for county purposes levied by, for, or on behalf of Newton County, except taxes to retire school bond indebtedness and county school district taxes for educational purposes.
(2)
"Homestead" means homestead as defined and qualified in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-40 but only includes real property where the person who is the applicant holds real property subject to a written lease of not less than ten years in duration; the applicant has held the property subject to such a lease for not less than three years prior to the year for which application is made; and the applicant is the owner of all improvements located on the real property.
(b)
Exemption on homestead. Each resident of Newton County is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from all Newton County ad valorem taxes for county purposes in the amount of $4,000.00 of the assessed value of that homestead. The value of the homestead in excess of the amount exempted by this section shall remain subject to taxation.
(c)
Application forms. The tax commissioner of Newton County or the designee thereof shall provide application forms for the exemption granted by this Act and shall require such information as may be necessary to determine the eligibility of the owner for the exemption.
(d)
Exemption renewed. The exemption shall be claimed and returned as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-50.1. The exemption shall be automatically renewed from year to year as long as the owner occupies the residence as a homestead. It shall be the duty of any person granted the homestead exemption under this Act to notify the Tax Commissioner of Newton County or the designee thereof in the event that person for any reason becomes ineligible for that exemption.
(e)
Effect on taxes/residents.
(1)
The exemption granted by this Act shall not apply to or effect any state taxes, municipal taxes, or county school district taxes for educational purposes.
(2)
The exemption granted by this Act to certain lessees shall not affect the eligibility of residents of Newton County for any homestead exemption from Newton County ad valorem taxes for county purposes otherwise available and based upon their ownership of such property.
(3)
The exemption granted by this Act shall be in lieu of any other homestead exemption from Newton County ad valorem taxes for county purposes.
(f)
Effective date. The exemption granted by this Act shall apply to all taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1997.
(1996 Ga. Laws, p. 3823)
ARTICLE III. - TAX COMMISSIONER

Sec. 6-301. - Commissioner as treasurer.
All duties heretofore exercised by the treasurer of said county shall be assumed by the commissioner of roads and he shall be the disbursing office for Newton County and shall be required to make bond with a surety company doing business in the State of Georgia, in the sum of $10,000.00. The premium on said bond shall be paid by Newton County.
(1956 Ga. Laws, p. 2345)
Sec. 6-302. - Office created.
The offices of tax receiver and tax collector of Newton County are hereby consolidated and combined into the one office of tax commissioner of Newton County. The rights, duties and liabilities of said office of tax commissioner, except as otherwise provided herein, shall be the same as those imposed upon tax receivers and tax collectors by the laws of this state.
(1963 Ga. Laws, p. 2707)
Sec. 6-303. - Term, etc.
The first election for the office of tax commissioner created herein shall be held at the same time as the election for other county officers of Newton County as held in 1964, and the person so elected shall have office on January 1, 1965, for a term of four years and until his successor is elected and qualified. All future elections for tax commissioner shall likewise be held at the same time as elections for other county officers, and all future tax commissioners shall likewise have a term of office of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified. Nothing herein shall affect the term of office of the present tax collector and tax receiver of Newton County and the terms of such tax collector and tax receiver shall continue through December 31, 1964. Should any vacancy occur in the office of tax commissioner, such vacancy shall be filled as vacancies are filled in the office of tax collector.
(1963 Ga. Laws, p. 2707)
Sec. 6-304. - Taxes due.
All taxes due and payable to Newton County at the time the tax commissioner takes office shall continue to be due and payable until paid. All tax fi fas theretofore issued shall have full force and effect and be collectible as issued.
(1963 Ga. Laws, p. 2707)
Sec. 6-305. - Compensation.
(a)
"General law" means any of the following code sections of the O.C.G.A.:
(1)
O.C.G.A. § 48-5-183, providing a schedule of minimum salaries for tax collectors and tax commissioners of the various counties within the State of Georgia, as now or hereafter amended.
(b)
On and after the effective date of this Act, each Newton County officer who is elected for the first time after July 1, 1993, shall receive an annual base salary which shall be equal to the highest minimum annual salary established by any general law for any county officer of Newton County to which shall be added the following:
(1)
Five percent of the base salary for each four-year term of office served by the individual county officer, figured at the end of such period of service; and
a.
Cost-of-living increases, calculated in the following manner: on and after July 1, 1992, whenever the employees in the classified service of the state merit system receive a cost-of-living increase of a certain percentage or a certain amount, the sum of the base salary and the addition for longevity in paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be increased by the same percentage or same amount applicable to such state employees. If the cost-of-living increase received by state employees is in different percentages or different amounts as to certain categories of employees, the sum of the base salary and the addition for longevity in paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be increased by a percentage or amount not to exceed the average percentage or average amount of the general increase in salary granted to the state employees.
(2)
The compensation of any Newton County officer who was elected for the first time prior to July 1, 1993, shall not be decreased below the amount of the compensation that officer was receiving on June 1, 1993. On and after the effective date of this Act, each Newton County officer who was elected for the first time prior to July 1, 1993, shall receive an annual base salary which shall be equal to the highest minimum annual salary established by any general law for any county officer of Newton County, to which shall be added the following:
a.
For officers who have completed four four-year terms by July 1, 1993, longevity increases calculated as provided in paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of this section; or
b.
For officers who have not completed four four-year terms by July 1, 1993, longevity increases calculated as provided in paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of this section, as if the officer had served four complete four-year terms, provided that county officers subject to this subparagraph shall not be eligible for an additional longevity increase until such county officer has completed four four-year terms; and
(3)
For all officers elected for the first time prior to July 1, 1993, cost-of-living increases, calculated as provided in subsection (b) of this section.
(c)
The compensation set out in subsection (b) of this section shall be paid in equal monthly installments from the funds of Newton County.
(d)
Each Newton County officer shall also be entitled to any expenses other than salary provided by local law.
(1967 Ga. Laws, p. 2414; 1971 Ga. Laws, p. 3008; 1977 Ga. Laws, p. 3262)
Sec. 6-306. - Deputies, budget, etc.
The tax commissioner shall have the authority to appoint and fix the compensation of such deputies, clerks, assistants and other personnel as he shall deem necessary to discharge efficiently and effectively the official duties of his office. At least 30 days but no more than 60 days before January 1 each year, beginning with January 1968, the tax commissioner shall present to the governing authority of Newton County the number of such personnel needed by his office, together with the compensation to be paid each employee, and a proposed budget covering the costs of operating said office, including the costs for all personnel and expenses, for the next ensuing year. A copy of said budget shall also be submitted to the grand jury first convening in each calendar year. By not later than April 15, 1967, the tax commissioner shall submit to the governing authority of Newton County a budget which shall be prepared in accordance with the provisions of this section for the remainder of the calendar year 1967. Thereafter, all such budgets shall be submitted at the time and in the manner provided for in this section. It shall be within the sole power and authority of the tax commissioner during his respective term of office, to designate and name the person or persons who shall be employed as deputies, clerks, assistants or other employees, and to prescribe their duties and assignments, and to remove or replace any of such employees at will and within his sole discretion.
(1963 Ga. Laws, p. 2702; 1967 Ga. Laws, p. 2414)
Sec. 6-307. - Budget review.
The governing authority of Newton County and the grand jury shall be authorized to review the budgets submitted by the tax commissioner and to consult with the tax commissioner regarding the same, but neither the said governing authority nor the grand jury shall be authorized to reject or disapprove the budget submitted by the tax commissioner, and any changes made in said budget shall be approved by the tax commissioner. The governing authority of Newton County shall cause the budget submitted by the tax commissioner to be advertised in the official organ of Newton County once each week for two weeks during January of each calendar year.
(1963 Ga. Laws, p. 2707; 1967 Ga. Laws, p. 2414)
Sec. 6-308. - Future budget.
Any other provisions of this Act to the contrary notwithstanding, the budget covering the cost of operating the office of the tax commissioner of Newton County shall be the same in subsequent years as the budget approved for the calendar year 1970. However, the budget in future years may be increased upon written request by the tax commissioner to the board of commissioners of Newton County, provided such increase is approved by said board of commissioners.
(1963 Ga. Laws, p. 2707; 1970 Ga. Laws, p. 2355)
Sec. 6-309. - Fees.
All fees, fines, forfeitures, costs, commissions, emoluments, and perquisites of whatever nature provided by law for services rendered by the tax commissioner shall be charged and collected by said officer and shall be held by him as county funds. On or before the tenth day of each month, the tax commissioner shall pay over to the fiscal authority of Newton County, all such funds as shall have been collected by him for the county during the immediately preceding calendar month. The tax commissioner shall keep such books and records as shall be required for the efficient and orderly operation of his office, and all such records shall be open to the inspection of the public and the governing authority of Newton County at all times during the hours for which said office is open for business.
(1963 Ga. Laws, p. 2707; 1967 Ga. Laws, p. 2414)
Sec. 6-310. - Oath and bond.
The tax commissioner, before entering upon the duties of his office, shall take the oath prescribed for the tax collector and shall give bond as is provided by law.
(1963 Ga. Laws, p. 2707; 1967 Ga. Laws, p. 2414)
ARTICLE IV. - LICENSE FEE

Sec. 6-401. - Taxation for business in unincorporated areas.
The board of commissioners of Newton County is hereby authorized, for regulatory and revenue purposes to levy, assess and collect a license fee from any person, firm or corporation, except those subject to regulation by the state public service commission, who may maintain a place of business or who may in any manner engage in any type of business in any area of Newton County outside the incorporated limits of municipalities and to levy and collect excise taxes in connection with any amusement or sporting activity in any unincorporated area of Newton County. To provide for public welfare, health and security of the people of Newton County, the board shall have the right to regulate and exercise police powers over any businesses operated within the unincorporated areas of said county, except those subject to regulation by the state public service commission and to prescribe such rules and regulations as may be necessary to effectuate the powers herein granted. Violation of any regulations adopted by the board shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as such upon conviction thereof.
(1971 Ga. Laws, p. 945 as continued by 1986 Ga. Laws, p. 3908; 1973 Ga. Laws, p. 2878)
