ARTICLE XIV. - CONDITIONAL USES

Sec. 20-1401. - Permitted uses.
All of the following, and all matters directly related thereto are declared to be uses possessing characteristics of such unique and special form as to make impractical their being included automatically in any classes of use as set forth in the various zones herein defined, and the authority for the location and operation thereof shall be the subject to review and the issuance of a conditional use permit. The purposes of review shall be to determine what the characteristics of any such use shall not be unreasonably incompatible with type of use permitted in surrounding area and for the further purpose of stipulating such conditions as may reasonably assure that the basic purposes of this ordinance shall be served. Factors to be considered are (1) damage or nuisance from noise, smoke, odor, dust, vibration, etc., (2) hazard from explosion, contamination or fire, (3) hazard occasioned by unusual volume or character of traffic or the congregating of a large number of people or vehicles. Conditional Use Permits shall be processed in the manner specified in article XIV.
Cemeteries. (Excluded from R-1, and R-2 zones).
Churches.
Educational Institutions.
Public utilities or utilities operated by mutual agencies, consisting of water wells, gas metering and regulating stations, telephone exchanges, booster stations or conversion plants with the necessary buildings, apparatus or appurtenances incident thereto, but not including distribution mains.
(Code 1998, ยง 20-1401)
Sec. 20-1402. - Yard requirements.
The provisions for required front and side yards applicable to the particular zone in which any such use is proposed to be located shall prevail, unless in the findings and conditions recited in the resolution dealing with each such matter specific exceptions are made with respect thereto.
(Code 1998, ยง 20-1402)
Sec. 20-1403. - Height and area requirements.
The provisions for height and area applicable to the particular zone in which any such use is proposed to be located shall prevail, unless in the findings and conditions recited in the resolution dealing with each such matter specific exemptions are made with respect thereto.
(Code 1998, ยง 20-1403)
Sec. 20-1404. - Off-street parking requirements.
The requirements for provision of off-street parking applicable to the particular use shall prevail unless in the findings and conditions recited in the resolution dealing with each such matter specific exemptions are made with respect thereto.
(Code 1998, ยง 20-1404)
