ARTICLE III. - ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES, THE BOUNDARIES THEREOF AND LIMITING THE USES OF LAND THEREON

Sec. 20-301. - Names of zones.
In order to classify, regulate, restrict and segregate the uses of land and buildings, to regular [regulate] and restrict the height and bulk of buildings and to regulate the area of yards and other open spaces about buildings, and to regular [regulate] the density of population, eight classes of zones are by this ordinance established to be known as follows:
EXPAND
R-A Residential Agricultural Zone (20,000 sq. ft.)
R-1 One-Family Residential Zone (6,000 sq. Ft.)
R-MH One-Family Residential Zone-Mobile Homes Permitted
PUD One-Family, Multi-Family, Mixed Use
HDD Historic Darien District
R-2 One Family, Two-family Residential Zone (8,000 sq. ft.)
C-1 Neighborhood Commercial Zone
C-2 General Commercial Zone
MT- I General Maritime Zone
  (Code 1998, § 20-301)
Sec. 20-302. - Degree of restrictiveness.
"More restrictive uses" as employed in this ordinance means the following:
(1)
Those uses first permitted in the R-I zones are the most restrictive.
(2)
All other uses are less restrictive in the order they are first permitted in the zones in the sequence shown R-1, R-2, C-1, C-2.
(3)
Uses permitted in the R-A zone shall be considered to be as restrictive as those permitted in the R-I zone, except that those uses pertaining to animals shall not be considered as "more restrictive uses" for purposes of this ordinance.
(Code 1998, § 20-302)
Sec. 20-303. - Establishment of zones by map.
The location and boundaries of the various zones are as shown and delineated on the Zoning Map of the City of Darien, said map is made a part of this ordinance by reference as though fully set forth herein.
(Code 1998, § 20-303)
Sec. 20-304. - Division of zoning map.
The zoning map may, for convenience, be divided into parts and each such part may, for purposes of more readily identifying areas within such zoning map, be subdivided into units and such parts and units may be separately employed for purposes of amending the zoning map or for any official reference to the zoning map.
(Code 1998, § 20-304)
Sec. 20-305. - Changes in boundaries.
Changes in the boundaries of the zones shall be made by ordinance adopting an amended zoning map, or part of said map, or unit of a part of said map, which said amended maps, or parts or units of parts, when so adopted, shall be published in the manner prescribed by law and become a part of this ordinance.
(Code 1998, § 20-305)
Sec. 20-306. - Uncertainty of boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of any zone shown upon a zoning map or any part or unit thereof, the following rules shall apply:
(1)
Where such boundaries are indicated as approximately following street and alley lines or lot lines, such lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
(2)
In the case of unsubdivided property, and where a zone boundary divides a lot, the location of such boundaries, unless the same are indicated by dimensions, shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on said zoning map.
(3)
Where a public street or alley is officially vacated or abandoned, the area comprising such vacated street or alley shall acquire the classification of the property to which it diverts.
(4)
Areas of dedicated streets or alleys and railroad rights-of-way, other than such as are designated on the zoning map as being classified in one of the zones provided in this ordinance, shall be deemed to be unclassified and, in the case of streets, permitted to be used for purposes lawfully allowed.
(Code 1998, § 20-306)
Sec. 20-307. - Classification of annexed lands and unclassified property.
Any property which, for any reason, is not designated on the zoning map or in this ordinance as being classified in any of the zones established hereby, shall be deemed to be temporarily zoned R-1 until said land is classified after being processed as an amendment to the zone plan pursuant to this ordinance.
Areas annexed to the city shall be classified in the zone classification under this ordinance most comparable to the zone classification in which said area is classified in the county at the time of annexation, unless and until the city council adopts a different classification in the manner provided for zone changes in this ordinance. Such zone changes and variances and conditional use permits may be initiated and heard prior to the effective date of annexation to be effective upon annexation.
(Code 1998, § 20-307)
Sec. 20-308. - Limitation of land use.
Except as provided in this ordinance, no building shall be erected, reconstructed or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used for any purposes except as hereinafter specifically provided and allowed in the same zone in which such building and land is located.
(Code 1998, § 20-308)
Sec. 20-309. - Use and dimensional regulations.
Except as herein provided, no building or land shall be used except for the purposes permitted in the district as described in this chapter. A permit for the construction, alteration, enlargement, moving demolition or use of a building or structure shall not be issued by the building inspector unless it complies with the provisions of this chapter and/or has been granted a variance or special exception by the planning commission.
(Code 1998, § 20-309)
