Chapter 36 - FIRE DEPARTMENT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Local fire departments generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-1 et seq.; Georgia Firefighter Standards and Training Act, O.C.G.A. § 25-4-1 et seq.

Sec. 36-1. - Created; commanding office; purpose.
There is hereby created a department of the city government to be known as the fire department, the commanding officer of which shall be the fire chief. The purpose of the fire department shall be the prevention and extinguishment of fire and the protection of life and property within the limits of the city and such other areas as may be designated by the chief of the fire department, subject to approval of the city manager.
Sec. 36-2. - Composition.
The fire department, either fulltime, volunteer, or any combination, shall consist of a fire chief, fire marshal, and such subordinate officers and firefighters as may from time to time be provided for by the city manager following budgetary authorization by the city commission.
Sec. 36-3. - Rank.
Following the fire chief in rank shall be the fire marshal, the captain, the lieutenants, the training officer, and the firefighters, in order of seniority in each group.
Sec. 36-4. - Fire chief.
(a)
Appointment. The fire chief shall be appointed by the city manager and shall be the department head of the fire department, subject always to the orders of the manager and to the regulations of the city commission.
(b)
Oath. Prior to entering upon the discharge of his duties, the fire chief shall take and subscribe the oath prescribed by this Code.
(c)
Powers and duties. The fire chief shall be responsible for and have control over the fire department and all fire apparatuses belonging to the city and shall have the following duties:
(1)
To see the proper and speedy extinguishment of all accidental or intentionally caused fires;
(2)
To see to the enforcement of the fire prevention code adopted by the commission;
(3)
To keep or cause to be kept adequate records of all fires, inspections, equipment, fire prevention efforts, and other activities of the department;
(4)
To submit a monthly written report to the commission on the activities of the department;
(5)
To establish rules and regulations, subject to approval by the city commission, and governing the discipline, good order, proper conduct, care and management of the fire department;
(6)
To investigate the causes of all extended or destructive fires occurring within the city; and
(7)
To educate the public on fire safety.
(d)
Resignation, removal, death, disability. In the event of resignation, removal, death, or disability of the fire chief, the officer next in rank shall perform the duties of the chief until removal of such disability or until a successor has been appointed.
Sec. 36-5. - Fire marshal.
(a)
Appointment. The fire marshal shall be appointed by the city manager and shall be assistant department head of the fire department, subject always to the orders of the fire chief and the city manager.
(b)
Oath. Prior to entering upon the discharge of his duties, the fire marshal shall take and subscribe the oath prescribed by this Code.
(c)
Powers and duties. The fire marshal, in the absence of the fire chief or under his guidance, shall be responsible for and have control over the fire department and all fire apparatuses belonging to the city and any duties required therein, along with the following duties:
(1)
Enforcement of such regulations as specified in O.C.G.A. § 25-2-4, through the authority having jurisdiction assigned to the office of the city fire marshal.
(2)
Conduct occupancy inspections and fire safety inspections within all buildings outlined in O.C.G.A. § 25-2-4.
(3)
Plan and specifications review of all new construction as specified in O.C.G.A. § 25-2-4.
(4)
Conduct fire cause and determination investigations of all extended or destructive fires occurring within the city.
(5)
Issue citations in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 25-2-4 as well as this Code, as amended from time to time.
(d)
Vacancy; role of fire chief. The fire chief will perform the duties and have the powers of fire marshal if the position of fire marshal is vacant.
Sec. 36-6. - Firefighters.
(a)
Qualifications. Any person employed or accepted as a volunteer firefighter shall satisfy the qualifications imposed by the Georgia Firefighters and Standards Act (O.C.G.A. § 25-4-1 et seq.).
(b)
Oath. Prior to entering upon the discharge of their duties, all firefighters shall take and subscribe the oath prescribed by this Code.
(c)
Duties. It shall be the duty of all firefighters to become familiar with and proficient in the handling of all the apparatuses of the fire department, to be prepared at a moment's notice to respond to all alarms of fire, to observe all rules and regulations of the fire department established by the fire chief, and to obey all orders of the commanding officer at all fires.
Sec. 36-7. - Fire station inspections.
Each fire station and its equipment shall be examined regularly. Such inspections shall be rigidly made and shall ensure that all apparatuses are maintained in excellent working condition at all times and are ready for immediate service, and that all fire stations and surroundings are in a clean and sanitary condition.
Sec. 36-8. - Persons permitted on or using equipment.
No person other than a member of the fire department shall be permitted to ride upon the firefighting apparatus in going to or returning from fires. Furthermore, no person other than a member of the fire department shall be permitted to use or tamper with the firefighting equipment of the city unless directed to do so by the fire chief, fire marshal, or the city manager.
Sec. 36-9. - Command at fires.
In case of fire, the officer of the highest rank at the fire shall take command of the fire department and direct the management thereof for the suppression of the fire in the best manner possible. Such commanding officer may cause buildings to be removed, torn down, or destroyed when such acts are necessary for the protection of other property and for the prevention of the spread of the conflagration.
Sec. 36-10. - Use of equipment outside city limits.
Upon the orders of the fire chief or the city manager, members of the fire department are authorized to go outside the corporate limits of the city for the purpose of extinguishing fires or rendering aid to other fire departments, or for rendering aid in the case of accidents.
