Chapter 46 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Limitation on home rule powers of municipal corporations with respect to duplication of state criminal offenses, Ga. Const. art. III, § VI, ¶ IV, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2); Criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 46-1—46-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PROHIBITED CONDUCT

Sec. 46-19. - Disorderly conduct.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to:
(1)
Act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another person whereby such person is placed in reasonable fear of the safety of such person's life, limb, or health;
(2)
Act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another person whereby the property of such person is placed in danger of being damaged or destroyed;
(3)
Without provocation, use to or of another person in such other person's presence, opprobrious or abusive words which by their very utterance tend to incite to an immediate breach of the peace, that is to say, words which as a matter of common knowledge and under ordinary circumstances will, when used to or of another person in such other person's presence, naturally tend to provoke violent resentment, that is, words commonly called "fighting words"; or
(4)
Without provocation, use obscene and vulgar or profane language in the presence of or by telephone to a person under the age of 14 years which threatens an immediate breach of the peace.
(b)
Fighting between two or more persons in which physical contact is made, except that which occurs at boxing exhibitions duly authorized by the city, shall be deemed to be disorderly conduct within the meaning of this section.
(Code 1998, § 16-101)
Sec. 46-20. - Report of treatment of wounds.
All physicians, licensed registered nurses employed at the treatment facility, security personnel at the treatment facility, treatment facility superintendents, and all other personnel at the treatment facility who are involved with the care and treatment of patients in the city are hereby required to report to the city police department all patients treated by physicians or diagnosed or known to be suffering from wounds inflicted by a dangerous or deadly weapon of any kind. Such report may be made in writing or by telephone, giving the name of the reporting person and the patient and any other pertinent data requested by the police department. All reports shall be made within 24 hours after treatment by a physician or after admission to the hospital.
(Code 1998, § 16-103)
State Law reference— Reports by physicians and other personnel of non-accidental injuries to patients, O.C.G.A. § 31-7-9.
Sec. 46-21. - Throwing of missiles.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to throw any stone, rock or other missile upon or at any vehicle, building, tree, or other public or private property, or upon or at any person in any public or private way or place.
(Code 1998, § 16-104)
Sec. 46-22. - Ball playing.
It shall be unlawful for any person to play ball by throwing, catching, pitching, or batting a ball on any public street, alley, or sidewalk of the city.
(Code 1998, § 16-105)
Sec. 46-23. - Drinking in public.
modified
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to drink beer, wine, or other alcoholic beverage from metal cans, glass bottles, plastic bottles, glasses, cups, or any other container on any of the public streets, or on the public sidewalks, or in the public parks, or any other publicly owned spaces in the city.
(b)
Except as outlined below, it shall be unlawful for any person to carry about open metal cans, open glass bottles, open plastic bottles, or any other containers containing beer, wine, or any other alcoholic beverage on any of the public streets, or on the public sidewalks, or in the public parks or any other publicly owned spaces in the city.
Within the Cultural and Heritage Tourism Historic Downtown (CHT-HD), the following regulations apply:
(1)
An on-premises consumption licensee may sell one alcoholic beverage in a paper or plastic cup for removal from the premises; provided, however, that the alcoholic beverage is not placed in a can, bottle or other glass container and, further provided, that the licensee may dispense no more than one alcoholic beverage per person, and no person shall remove more than one alcoholic beverage from the premises; and
(2)
Any alcoholic beverage dispensed pursuant to this section shall not exceed 16 fluid ounces in size and no person shall possess an open container containing an alcoholic beverage in excess of 16 fluid ounces on the streets, sidewalks, parks, squares or other public places within the area described in this subsection.
(3)
Unless specifically provided otherwise by ordinance, the regulations provided by this section shall be in full force and effect during the Blessing of the Fleet and any other permitted festival.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to be intoxicated on any street, lawn, square, or in any shop, store, church, or other public place in the city.
(Code 1998, § 16-107; Ord. No. 2021-002, § I, 2-16-2021)
State Law reference— Public drunkenness prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-41.
Sec. 46-24. - Indecent exposure.
It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in any nude or indecent state in any street, lane, square, or any other public place in the city. It shall also be unlawful to make an indecent exposure of his or her body or of any other person's body within the city.
(Code 1998, § 16-112)
Sec. 46-25. - Obscene literature.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer to sell any obscene or indecent print, literature, pictures, or anything of the kind within the city.
(Code 1998, § 16-113)
Sec. 46-26. - Posting bills.
It shall be unlawful for any person to affix or post up any advertisement, show bill, pictures, or any other like material on any public property within the city limits, except by permission by council.
(Code 1998, § 16-115)
Sec. 46-27. - Defacing property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, damage, or cause to be defaced or damaged any public building, wall, fence, tree, or tree box within the city.
(Code 1998, § 16-116)
Sec. 46-28. - Driving or riding on sidewalk.
It shall be unlawful for anyone to ride any bicycle or automobile on the sidewalks of the city. It shall also be unlawful to ride any bicycle on the streets of the city without a headlight and reflective markers on the spokes of the wheels. Bicycle riding is authorized on the designated city bike paths.
(Code 1998, § 16-117)
Sec. 46-29. - Littering.
It shall be unlawful to throw waste paper, rubbish, trash, or filth of any kind in any of the streets, lanes, or thoroughfares within the city.
(Code 1998, § 16-120)
State Law reference— Municipal authority to prohibit public and private littering, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-42 et seq.
Sec. 46-30. - Skateboarding or roller skating on public streets.
It shall be unlawful for anyone to skateboard or roller skate on sidewalks, public streets of the city, or the bridge over the Darien River. Skateboarding and roller skate/blades are authorized on the designated city bike paths.
(Code 1998, § 16-125)
Sec. 46-31. - Undermining the authority of a municipal police officer.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to knowingly undermine, impair, or hinder a municipal police officer in the enforcement of the criminal law, the preservation of the peace, or the performance of a governmental function, including service of process.
(b)
It is no defense to a prosecution under this section that the municipal police officer was acting in an illegal manner, provided that the municipal police officer was acting under the peace officer's official authority.
(c)
Municipal police officer is defined as a certified law enforcement officer employed by the City of Darien and who meets the qualifications of O.C.G.A. § 35-8-8.
(Ord. No. 2016-001Y, § I, 11-15-2016)
Sec. 46-32. - Disruption of a municipal public meeting.
new
(a)
It shall be unlawful to intentionally and substantially obstruct or interfere with a municipal public meeting by physical action or verbal utterance.
(b)
For the purposes of this section, "municipal public meeting" shall be defined as including, but not limited to, a meeting or public hearing of the following: mayor and council, planning commission, downtown development authority, or any other public body, authority or committee duly formed and a part of the municipal government of the city.
(Ord. No. 2021-008, § I, 12-21-2021)
Secs. 46-33—46-68. - Reserved.
new
ARTICLE III. - MINORS

Sec. 46-69. - Curfew.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any minor 16 years of age or younger to loiter, wander, stroll or play in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, lanes, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, public places, public buildings, places of amusement, eating places, vacant lots or any place unsupervised by an adult having the lawful authority to be at such places between the hours of 9:00 p.m. on any day and 6:00 a.m. of the following day; provided, however, that on Fridays and Saturdays the effective hours are between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day; and provided that the provisions of this section shall not apply in the following instances:
(1)
When a minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or other adult person having lawful care and custody of the minor;
(2)
When the minor is upon an emergency errand by his or her parent or guardian or other adult person having the lawful care and custody of the minor;
(3)
When the minor is returning directly home from a school or church activity;
(4)
When the minor is returning directly home from lawful employment that makes it necessary to be in the above-referenced places during the prescribed period of time;
(5)
When the minor is attending or traveling directly to or from an activity involving the exercise of first amendment rights of speech, freedom of assembly, or free exercise of religion;
(6)
When the minor is in a motor vehicle with parental consent for normal travel, with interstate travel through the city excepted in all cases from the curfew;
(7)
When the minor is on the property of or the sidewalk directly adjacent to the building in which he or she resides.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian to permit or, by inefficient control, allow a violation of this section by a minor in his or her custody. A first violation of the section shall be punishable by a written warning. Further violations shall be punishable according to the general penalties described in section 1-8.
(Code 1998, § 16-205)
