Chapter 6 - ADULT ENTERTAINMENT

Sec. 6-1. - Findings.
(a)
It is the finding of the city council that public nudity (either partial or total) under circumstances related to the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages in so-called nude bars or establishments offering so-called nude entertainment or adult entertainment in conjunction with the sale of alcoholic beverages, begets criminal behavior and tends to create undesirable community conditions.
(b)
Among the acts of criminal behavior found to be associated with nudity and alcohol are disorderly conduct, prostitution, public indecency and drug trafficking. Among the undesirable community conditions identified with the concentration of adult entertainment are depreciation of property values in neighborhoods surrounding nude bars or adult entertainment establishments where alcoholic beverages are sold, increased expenditure for and allocation of law enforcement personnel to preserve law and order, increased burdens on the judicial system as a consequence of the criminal behavior described in this subsection and acceleration of community blight by the concentration of adult entertainment establishments in particular areas.
(c)
Other negative effects which are found by the city council are the apparent connection of these establishments to organized crime and illegal drug sales; the potential spread of communicable diseases to law enforcement personnel who answer calls at adult establishments and to patrons of such establishments; and the potential proliferation of adult entertainment establishments after the initial siting of an adult entertainment establishment in a particular neighborhood.
(d)
The city council, therefore, finds that it is in the best interest of the health, welfare, safety and morals and preservation of its businesses, neighborhoods, and of churches, schools, and parks to prevent the adverse impact of adult entertainment establishments. Furthermore, the city council finds that the prohibition of live nude conduct in establishments licensed to serve alcohol for consumption on the premises is in the public welfare by furthering legitimate governmental interests, such as reducing criminal activity, protecting against property devaluation and deterioration, and eliminating undesirable community conditions normally associated with establishments which serve alcohol and allow and/or encourage nudity, and that such prohibition will not infringe upon the protected constitutional rights of freedom of speech. To the end, this chapter is hereby enacted.
(Code 1998, ยง 16-201)
Sec. 6-2. - Definitions.
Words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following meanings, unless otherwise specified:
Alcoholic beverages means and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverage, wine or fortified wine.
Business establishment means a business within the incorporated area of the city where alcoholic beverages are offered for sale for consumption on the premises pursuant to a license issued by the governing body.
License means a license for the sale for consumption on the premises of alcoholic beverages issued by the governing body.
Licensee means any person to whom a license for sale for consumption on the premises of alcoholic beverages has been issued by the governing body, including the officers and agents of the licensee.
Live means any activity which is carried on by actual living persons in the physical presence of patrons.
Live entertainment means entertainment for the benefit of patrons which is carried on in the actual physical presence of such patrons, including, but not limited to dancing.
Mainstream performance house means a theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar establishment which regularly features live performances such as plays or concerts which are not distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the depiction, description or display or the featuring of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities and where such depiction, if any, is only incidental to the primary purpose of any performance.
Person includes any human being.
Premises means the definite closed or partitioned establishment, whether room, shop or building wherein alcoholic beverages are sold or consumed, including the sidewalk serving area or outside, open air or patio type serving area on the private property of an establishment.
Specified anatomical areas means any of the following:
(1)
Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals or pubic region; cleft of the buttocks; or any portion of the female breast encompassed within an area falling below the horizontal line one would have to draw to intercept a point above the top of the areola, or any portion of the areola, or any simulation thereof. This definition shall include the entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing apparel, provided the areola is not so exposed.
(2)
Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
Specified sexual activities means and includes any of the following:
(1)
The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
(2)
Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
(3)
Masturbation, actual or simulated;
(4)
The displaying of the male or female pubic hair, anus, vulva or genitals;
(5)
Excretory functions as part of or in conjunction with any of the activities set forth in subsections (1) through (4) of this definition.
(Code 1998, ยง 16-202)
Sec. 6-3. - Conduct prohibited.
The following types of entertainment, attire, and conduct are prohibited upon any premises licensed to sell, serve, or dispense alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises within the city:
(1)
The employment or use of any person live, in any capacity, in the sale or service of alcoholic beverages or food while such person is unclothed or in such attire, costume, or clothing, as to expose any portion of his or her specified anatomical areas.
(2)
Live entertainment where any person appears unclothed or in such attire, costume or clothing as to expose any portion of his or her specified anatomical areas or where such person performs acts of specified sexual activities or acts which simulate specified sexual activity, as defined herein.
(3)
The holding, promotion, sponsoring or allowance of any contest, promotion, special night, event or any other activity where live patrons of the licensed establishment are encouraged or allowed to engage in any of the conduct proscribed in subsections (1) and (2) of this section.
Nothing contained in this section shall apply to the premises of any mainstream performance house or museum which derives less that 20 percent of its gross annual income from the sale of alcoholic beverages.
(Code 1998, ยง 16-203)
Sec. 6-4. - Fines and punishment.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to perform any acts prohibited hereby and any person so doing shall be guilty of an offense and shall, upon conviction thereof in the municipal court, be punished according to the general penalties described in section 1-8.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for a licensee to permit any conduct prohibited hereby which he knows or has reasonable cause to know is taking place on the premises. Any licensee so permitting shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof in the municipal court, shall be punished according to the general penalties described in section 1-8.
(c)
The license of any licensee shall, upon his conviction of a violation of any provision in this chapter, be forthwith revoked.
(Code 1998, ยง 16-204)
