Chapter 35 - PARADES AND PUBLIC EVENTS
ARTICLE I. - PARADES AND SPECIAL EVENTS

Sec. 35-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Parade or special event: Any organized for-profit or nonprofit activity having as its purpose entertainment, recreation, fund raising, and/or education which takes place on state or county roads or rights of way in the unincorporated areas of Dade County, Georgia, and which requires or requests the temporary closing of state or county roads or rights of way. By way of example, special events include, but are not limited to, walks, races, parades, marches, processions, rallies, assemblies, festivals, concerts, holiday celebrations, bicycle runs, and block parties.
Producer. Any person, group of persons, organization, association, club, or other entity responsible for planning, producing and conducting an event.
(Ord. No. 11-05-09, § 1, 11-5-2009)
Sec. 35-2. - Permits required.
It shall be unlawful for any person, group, organization, association, club or other entity to conduct or cause to be conducted any parade or special event in unincorporated Dade County without having obtained a valid permit for such event.
(Ord. No. 11-05-09, § 2, 11-5-2009)
Sec. 35-3. - Application; fee.
(a)
A producer of a special event shall make application of a permit for such event at the office of the county executive on a form prescribed by the county executive. Application forms may be obtained from the office of the county executive.
(b)
An application for a special event shall be filed with the county executive at least sixty (60) days prior to the date that event is scheduled to occur. However, no application shall be accepted earlier than one (1) year prior to the date of the event.
(c)
A nonrefundable application fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be paid at the time the application for a permit is filed. Such fee shall be payable to Dade County by cash, money order, or cashier's check.
(d)
Events that are to occur along a route, including but not limited to, races, walks, runs, parades, marches, or processions, shall submit a map with the application for the permit, showing the exact route of the course for the event.
(Ord. No. 11-05-09, § 3, 11-5-2009)
Sec. 35-4. - Administrative review.
The county executive shall cause the application to be circulated to each government department and/or other agency whose services the county executive determines would be affected by the nature and activities of the proposed event. Each such department or agency shall review the application and note the services which it will be required to perform, the number of personnel to perform such services, the length of time to perform such services, the cost to perform such services, and any other information which would assist the county executive in facilitating the event and services required. For parades and special events, the county executive also shall cause the application to be forwarded to the district engineer of the Georgia department of transportation for review.
(Ord. No. 11-05-09, § 4, 11-5-2009)
Sec. 35-5. - Special conditions on permit.
Each county department reviewing an application may recommend in writing certain conditions or restrictions as deemed necessary to facilitate the event, to comply with other laws or regulations, and/or to ensure the safety, health and welfare of the community. In reviewing the recommendations of the department, the county executive may impose such conditions or restrictions as a part of the permit, and such special conditions so imposed shall be construed to have the full force and effect of law as a provision of this article. A violation of such conditions or restrictions shall be deemed a violation of this article.
(Ord. No. 11-05-09, § 5, 11-5-2009)
Sec. 35-6. - Final approval of permit.
The county executive is authorized to approve and issue a permit for a parade and special event after considering all comments and conditions of the reviewing departments and agencies as well as other information pertaining to the proposed events described on the application, and after the payment of all applicable fees and costs, and receiving the approval of the Georgia department of transportation when applicable.
(Ord. No. 11-05-09, § 6, 11-5-2009)
Sec. 35-7. - Emergency issuance of permit.
In extraordinary circumstances, the county executive shall be authorized to waive or otherwise expedite any or all of the review process and to issue a special event permit upon payment by the producer of all applicable fees and costs for such event.
(Ord. No. 11-05-09, § 7, 11-5-2009)
Sec. 35-8. - Permit fees.
(a)
The fee for a permit to conduct a special event shall be based on all services to be provided by the county for such event and shall be equal to the estimated actual cost to the county to provide such services. The initial permit fee shall be the aggregate of the estimated costs of such services calculated by each county department or agency The county executive may require a security bond or a cash deposit be provided by a producer, if it is determined that a security bond or deposit is necessary to provide for unanticipated expenses in connection with the event.
(b)
The initial permit fee must be paid in full prior to the issuance of a permit and no later than seventy-two (72) hours prior to the date of the event.
(c)
The fees required in this section shall be in addition to any other fees which may be required by any other ordinances or regulations that might be applicable.
(Ord. No. 11-05-09, § 8, 11-5-2009)
Sec. 35-9. - Liability.
The producer of any special event shall indemnify and hold harmless the government of Dade County, Georgia, its officers, department, constitutional officers, employees and agents from liability of damages arising from any acts or omissions emanating from a special event. Proof of such indemnification and waiver shall be filed with, and made a part of, the application form. The producer shall be responsible for providing liability insurance that may be necessary for any special event. The amount of liability insurance shall be based on the size of the event and shall designate the county as an additional insured.
(Ord. No. 11-05-09, § 9, 11-5-2009)
Sec. 35-10. - Transferability and duration of permit.
No permit under this article shall be transferable. No permit issued under this article shall be valid prior to or past the date of the special event for which it is issued.
(Ord. No. 11-05-09, § 10, 11-5-2009)
Sec. 35-11. - Violation; penalties.
Any violation of the provisions of this article shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by penalties and costs as set forth in § 1-19 of the county code of ordinances. In the event any provision of the article has been violated or is being violated, in addition to other remedies, the county may institute an injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceeding to correct or stop such violation.
(Ord. No. 11-05-09, § 11, 11-5-2009)
Sec. 35-12. - Enforcement of other laws not limited; severability; effective date.
(a)
This article shall not limit the authority of any state, county, or other governmental agency to enforce any other applicable laws, rules, regulations, or ordinances.
(b)
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this article is declared or adjudged to be unconstitutional, or otherwise contrary to law, such adjudication shall in no manner affect any other section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase, and shall remain in full force and effect as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional was not originally a part hereof.
(c)
This article shall become effective immediately upon its adoption, and all ordinances in conflict with this article are repealed to the extent of the conflict.
(Ord. No. 11-05-09, § 12, 11-5-2009)
