Chapter 18 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Flood control, ch. 26; duties and responsibilities of the county building inspector, § 26-48; health and sanitation, ch. 30; roads, ch. 38; signs, ch. 42; signs of work under construction, § 42-38; solid waste, ch. 46.
State Law reference— Authority to adopt technical codes, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(12); minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25; enforcement of minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 18-1—18-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BUILDING PERMITS

Sec. 18-31. - Required.
Any person desiring to construct, repair, enlarge, alter, improve, move or demolish any building or structure in the county, or to locate or relocate a mobile home or existing building or structure within or without the county, shall first be required to obtain a county building permit from the county building inspector.
(Ord. of 12-13-1973)
Sec. 18-32. - Examination of plans and specifications.
The county building inspector shall examine all plans and specifications for any proposed construction when application is made to him/her for a building permit.
(Ord. of 12-13-1973, § I)
Sec. 18-33. - Ensuring safety from flooding.
The county building inspector shall review all building permit applications for new construction or substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding. If a proposed building site is in a location that is a flood hazard, any proposed new construction or substantial improvement, including prefabricated and mobile homes, must:
(1)
Be designed, or modified, and anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
(2)
Use construction materials and utilize equipment that are resistant to flood damage; and
(3)
Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood damage.
(Ord. of 12-13-1973, § II)
Cross reference— Flood control, ch. 26.
Sec. 18-34. - Minimization of flood damage and flood hazard.
The county building inspector shall review subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments to ensure that:
(1)
All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood damage;
(2)
All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems are located, elevated and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage; and
(3)
Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
(Ord. of 12-13-1973, § III)
Cross reference— Flood control, ch. 26.
Sec. 18-35. - Design of water, sewage and waste disposal systems.
The county building inspector shall require new or replacement water supply systems and/or sanitary sewage systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into such systems and discharges from such systems into floodwaters. On-site waste disposal systems shall be located so as to avoid impairment of such systems or contamination from such systems during flooding.
(Ord. of 12-13-1973, § IV)
Secs. 18-36—18-65. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - ELECTRICAL INSPECTIONS

Sec. 18-66. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
County electrical inspector means any person employed by the county manager to perform the inspections and other duties required by this article. Such person shall have a minimum of four (4) years' experience in residential and commercial electrical wiring.
Manufactured home (mobile home) means a structure transportable in one (1) or more sections, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling, with or without a permanent foundation, when connected to the required utilities, and includes plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained in such structure. Manufactured homes and mobile homes shall have the same meaning and shall be used interchangeably in this article.
Modular home means a factory fabricated transportable building consisting of building units designed to be incorporated at a building site on a permanent foundation as a permanent structure with the appearance of a conventional on-site constructed building and to be used for residential purposes. A modular home is not a mobile home.
Structure means any building of any kind, including, but not limited to:
(1)
Conventional on-site constructed buildings;
(2)
Conventional dwellings;
(3)
Duplexes;
(4)
Apartments;
(5)
Commercial buildings; and
(6)
Manufacturing facilities.
(Ord. No. O-2-97, § I, 9-4-1997)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 18-67. - Code adopted.
For the purpose of establishing uniform rules and regulations to govern the electrical wiring of all structures in the county, the most recent edition of the National Electrical Code, with any amendments thereto, as adopted from time to time by the State of Georgia is adopted.
(Ord. No. O-2-97, § II, 9-4-1997; Ord. No. 04-05-07, 4-5-2007)
Sec. 18-68. - Compliance with code.
After the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived, it shall be unlawful to install, construct, alter or repair the electrical wiring in any manufactured home, modular home or new structure in the unincorporated areas of the county in violation of, or without complying with, the regulations set forth in the most recent edition of the National Electrical Code, with any amendments thereto, as adopted from time to time by the State of Georgia.
(Ord. No. O-2-97, § III, 9-4-1997; Ord. No. 04-05-07, 4-5-2007)
Sec. 18-69. - Inspection prior to service.
(a)
After the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived, suppliers of electrical power shall not provide temporary electrical service to any construction site for any proposed structure requiring electrical power until such time as the county electrical inspector has inspected and approved the electrical service entrance from the power supplier's point of attachment to the customer's temporary breaker box. The inspection and approval shall be evidenced by the attachment of a numbered, signed and dated county electrical inspection certificate to the meter base.
(b)
After the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived, suppliers of electrical power shall not provide permanent electrical service to any structure requiring electrical power until such time as the county electrical inspector has inspected and approved the electrical service entrance from the power supplier's point of attachment to the customer's breaker box. The inspection and approval shall be evidenced by the attachment of a numbered, signed and dated county electrical inspection certificate to the meter base.
(c)
After the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived, suppliers of electrical power shall not provide electrical service to any manufactured home or modular home requiring electrical power until such time as the county electrical inspector has inspected and approved the electrical service entrance from the power supplier's point of attachment to the customer's breaker box. The inspection and approval shall be evidenced by the attachment of a numbered, signed and dated county electrical inspection certificate to the meter base.
(d)
After the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived, temporary and/or permanent electrical utility connections for structures, manufactured homes or modular homes which are subject to the terms of this article are prohibited until such time as a duly authorized county electrical inspection certificate is affixed to the meter base by the county electrical inspector.
(Ord. No. O-2-97, § IV, 9-4-1997)
Sec. 18-70. - Enforcement.
The county manager or the county electrical inspector shall receive applications for electrical hookup inspections, conduct inspections, issue certificates, furnish the prescribed inspection certificates and enforce the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. O-2-97, § V, 9-4-1997)
Sec. 18-71. - Application for inspection; fees.
(a)
Prior to beginning construction on any structure requiring electrical power, the owner thereof must file an application with the county manager for the required electrical inspection. Applications shall be made on forms furnished by the county manager. Fees for the required inspection shall be established by the county manager.
(b)
Prior to installing any manufactured home or modular home requiring electrical power, the owner thereof must file an application with the county manager for the required electrical inspection. Applications shall be made on forms furnished by the county manager. Fees for the required inspection shall be established by the county manager.
(Ord. No. O-2-97, § VI, 9-4-1997)
Sec. 18-72. - Appeal.
(a)
Any person aggrieved by a determination of the county electrical inspector or county manager may, within ten (10) days from the date of such determination, file a written notice of appeal with the board of commissioners. The board of commissioners, after giving adequate notice, shall offer the aggrieved person a public hearing. At the hearing, the county electrical inspector or county manager shall present evidence and the aggrieved person may present evidence. At such hearing, the board of commissioners shall either confirm, modify or set aside the determination of the county electrical inspector or county manager. Any such ruling shall be in writing and a copy shall be served on the aggrieved person by registered or certified mail.
(b)
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the board of commissioners may appeal such decision to the county superior court by filing a written notice of appeal with the clerk of the superior court within ten (10) days from the date of issuance of the written decision of the board of commissioners. Such appeal shall be heard by the judge of the county superior court at such time and at such place as the judge may designate within his lawful authority under the constitution and the laws of the state, and the superior court judge may affirm, amend, remand or reverse the order or decision of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. O-2-97, § VII, 9-4-1997)
Secs. 18-73—18-80. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - MOBILE HOMES

Sec. 18-81. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Mobile home means a mobile or re-locatable home transportable in one (1) or more sections, which, in the travelling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in width, or forty (40) body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more square feet, and is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling or office with or without a permanent foundation; except that such term shall include any structure that meets all of the requirements set forth herein except the size requirements, and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 USC 5401 et seq.
Owner means any joint or sole owner of any legal or equitable interest in any mobile home located in the county during any portion of the year. However, excluded from this definition are dealers in mobile homes that engage in the business of selling mobile homes at a business location (so long as such business is engaged solely in the business of locating, selling, transporting, repairing and setting up or installing mobile homes); further excluded from the definition of owner are those owners who are transporting a mobile home through the county (so long as the mobile home is not located in the county for more than one (1) day).
(Ord. No. 02-05-09, § 1, 2-5-2009)
Sec. 18-82. - Planning rules not affected.
The completion of an application under the provisions of this article and/or the issuance of a permit or decal shall in nowise be construed as superseding any requirement as may be contained within other county ordinances or regulations now existing or that may be adopted or amended in the future by the county or any of its boards, agencies, or officers for the location or relocation of a mobile home.
(Ord. No. 02-05-09, § 2, 2-5-2009)
Sec. 18-83. - Application requirements.
(a)
No person shall own or have located within the county any mobile home unless the application available at the office of the tax commissioner shall have been completed for each mobile home owned by such person.
(b)
No person shall relocate any mobile home into the county without having made such application unless such person has presented to the tax commissioner the certificate required by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-495.
(Ord. No. 02-05-09, § 3, 2-5-2009)
Sec. 18-84. - Requirements of mobile home park owners and operators.
(a)
Every owner and operator of a mobile home park is required to give the tax commissioner a written inventory of all mobile homes located in the park as of January 1 of each year. This shall be done no later than January 20 of each year. The tax office will make available an inventory of record as of January 1.
(b)
Every manager, owner or operator of a mobile home park is required to report in writing to the tax commissioner any mobile home removal from the park prior to the mobile home's being removed, if known to the park manager, operator or owner; if not known, the manager, owner or operator shall report such removal in writing to the tax commissioner within ten (10) business days after such removal.
(c)
Every owner, manager or operator of a mobile home park shall furnish to the tax commissioner an updated lot map at each park showing all changes in ownership of mobile homes on each mobile home lot by January 1 of each year.
(d)
Owners of mobile homes locating their mobile homes in the county after January 1 of any year are required to report their mobile homes in writing to the tax commissioner's office within ten (10) business days after the location of such mobile home in the county.
(Ord. No. 02-05-09, § 4, 2-5-2009)
Sec. 18-85. - Decal location requirements.
(a)
All persons owning a mobile home located in the county on January 1 of each year are required to obtain from the tax commissioner a decal before May 1, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-5-493. This requirement shall include all mobile homes even if exempt from taxation because of homestead exemption or in accordance with state law.
(b)
The decal shall be displayed on the outside of the mobile home that faces the nearest driveway, road or street.
(Ord. No. 02-05-09, § 5, 2-5-2009)
Sec. 18-86. - Penalties and procedures.
(a)
Any person who shall do any act prohibited in any section of this article or who fails to do any act required by this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in § 1-19 of the county code of ordinances.
(b)
Any owner, whether sole, joint or otherwise, of any legal or equitable interest in any mobile home is responsible for compliance with this article; and any such owner can be charged individually or jointly for noncompliance with this article with any owners.
(c)
Upon a violation of any section or subsection of this article (except that requiring the obtaining of a decal), summons may issue and be served by personal service or tacking upon the door of the mobile home. This summons may provide that a hearing will be held, may list the address of the property, and may require the adult addressees domiciled in the mobile home to appear in court to answer the delinquency in ad valorem tax payment. Such addresses may be required in the summons to be and appear in magistrate court of the county to answer the summons and show cause why they should not be required to pay the fines set and comply with the provisions of this article. In lieu of such court appearance, the addressee may pay such delinquent ad valorem tax and pay a fine in the amount of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for each year of noncompliance. The addressee shall provide written evidence at such hearing of the ownership of the mobile home, together with the names, addresses and telephone numbers of the owners of the mobile home. If no evidence of ownership is produced at the hearing, the hearing may be continued in the discretion of the magistrate.
(Ord. No. 02-05-09, § 6, 2-5-2009)
Secs. 18-87—18-100. - Reserved.
new
ARTICLE V. - PLUMBING CODE

Sec. 18-101. - Adoption; amendments.
new
The International Plumbing Code as adopted as a State Minimum Standard code by the State of Georgia, and the regulations issued pursuant thereto, is hereby amended by adding the following:
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION 202
GENERAL DEFINITIONS
As used in this Code section, the term:
(1)
"Construction" means the erection of a new building or the alteration of an existing building in connection with its repair or renovation or in connection with making an addition to an existing building and shall include the replacement of a malfunctioning, unserviceable, or obsolete faucet, showerhead, toilet, or urinal in an existing building.
(2)
"Department" means the Department of Community Affairs.
(3)
"High efficiency plumbing fixtures and fittings" means as follows:
(A)
Dual flush water closet. A dual flush water closet or toilet that the average flush volume of two reduced flushes and one full flush does not exceed 1.28 gallons and is listed to the WaterSense Tank-Type High Efficiency Toilet Specification.
(B)
Kitchen faucet or kitchen faucet replacement aerator. A kitchen faucet or kitchen faucet replacement aerator that allows a flow of no more than 2.0 gallons of water per minute.
(C)
Lavatory faucet or lavatory faucet replacement aerator. A lavatory faucet or lavatory faucet replacement aerator that allows a flow of no more than 1.5 gallons per minute at a pressure of 60 pounds per square inch and is listed to the WaterSense High Efficiency Lavatory Faucet Specification.
(D)
Non-water urinal. A urinal that is designed to receive and convey only liquid waste through a trap seal into the gravity drainage system without the use of water for such function.
(E)
Single flush water closet. A single flush water closet or toilet, including gravity, pressure assisted, and electro-hydraulic tank types, that the average flush volume does not exceed 1.28 gallons and is listed to the WaterSense Tank-Type High Efficiency Toilet Specification.
(F)
Shower head. A shower head that allows a flow of no more than the average of 2.5 gallons of water per minute at 60 pounds per square inch of pressure.
(G)
Urinal. A urinal and associated flush valve that uses no more than 0.5 gallons of water per flush and is listed to the WaterSense Specification for Flushing Urinals.
(4)
"Lavatory faucet" means a faucet that discharges into a lavatory basin in a domestic or commercial installation.
(5)
The "Lead-free Pipe and Fittings" definitions is deleted in its entirety without substitution.
(6)
"Plumbing fixture" means a receptacle or device that receives water, waste or both and discharges water, waste or both into a drainage system, and that is either permanently or temporarily connected to the water distribution system of the premises and demands a supply of water there-from; discharges wastewater, liquid-borne waste materials or sewage either directly or indirectly to the drainage system of the premises; or requires both a water supply connection and a discharge to the drainage system of the premises. The term includes a kitchen sink, utility sink, lavatory, bidet, bathtub, shower, urinal, toilet, water closet, or drinking water fountain.
(6)
"Plumbing fixture fitting" shall mean a device that controls and directs the flow of water or conveys sanitary waste. The term includes a sink faucet, lavatory faucet, showerhead, or bath filler.
(7)
"Pressurized flushing device" means a device that contains a valve that:
(A)
Is attached to a pressurized water supply pipe that is of sufficient size to deliver water at the necessary rate of flow to ensure flushing when the valve is open; and
(B)
Opens on actuation to allow water to flow into the fixture at a rate and in a quantity necessary for the operation of the fixture and gradually closes to avoid water hammer.
(8)
"Public sewer" means that part of the drainage system of pipes installed or maintained by a city, township, county, public utility company or other public entity, on public property, in the street or in an approved dedicated easement of public or community use.
(9)
"Supply fitting" means a fitting that controls the volume and/or directional flow of water and is either attached to or accessible from a fixture, or is used with an open or atmospheric discharge.
(10)
"Toilet" means a water closet.
(11)
"Waste fitting" means a combination of components that conveys the sanitary waste from the outlet of a fixture to the connection to the sanitary drainage system.
(12)
"Water closet" means a fixture with a water-containing receptor that receives liquid and solid body waste and on actuation conveys the waste through an exposed integral trap into a drainage system and which is also referred to as a toilet.
(13)
"WaterSense" means a voluntary program of the United States Environmental Protection Agency designed to identify and promote water efficient products and practices.
(14)
"WaterSense Listed Plumbing Fixture or Plumbing Fixture Fitting" means a plumbing fixture or plumbing fixture fitting that has been tested by an accredited third-party certifying body or laboratory in accordance with the WaterSense Program of the United States Environmental Protection Agency, and has been listed (certified) by such body or laboratory as meeting the performance and efficiency requirements of the program, and has been authorized by the program to use its label.
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL REGULATIONS
SECTION 300
GENERAL APPLICABILITY STANDARDS
300.1 Scope. The provisions of this Code shall apply to the erection, installation, alteration, repairs, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of plumbing systems within the state of Georgia. This Code shall also regulate nonflammable medical gas, inhalation anesthetic, vacuum piping, nonmedical oxygen systems and sanitary and condensate vacuum collection systems. The installation of fuel gas distribution piping and equipment, fuel-gas-fired water heaters and water heater venting systems shall be regulated by the International Fuel Gas Code.
300.2 Appendices. Appendices are not enforceable unless they are specifically referenced in the body of the Code or adopted by the Department of Community Affairs or the Authority Having Jurisdiction.
300.3 Intent. The purpose of this Code is to provide minimum standards to safeguard life or limb, health, property and public welfare by regulating and controlling the design, construction, installation, quality of materials, location, operation and maintenance or use of plumbing equipment and systems.
300.4 Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Code.
300.5 General. The provisions of this Code shall apply to all matters affecting or relating to structures, as set forth in Section 300. Where, in any specific case, different sections of this Code specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern.
300.6 Maintenance. All plumbing systems, materials and appurtenances, both existing and new, and all parts thereof, shall be maintained in proper operating condition in accordance with the original design in a safe and sanitary condition. All devices or safeguards required by this Code shall be maintained in compliance with the code edition under which they were installed. The owner or the owner's designated agent shall be responsible for maintenance of plumbing systems. To determine compliance with this provision, the code official shall have the authority to require any plumbing system to be re-inspected.
300.7 Material and equipment reuse. Materials, equipment and devices shall not be reused unless such elements have been reconditioned, tested, placed in good and proper working condition and approved.
SECTION 301
GENERAL
301.1.1 Requirements for high efficiency plumbing fixtures. The installation of high efficiency plumbing fixtures shall be required in all new construction.
301.1.2 Waiver of requirements for high efficiency plumbing fixtures. Waivers to the requirements for the installation of high efficiency plumbing fixtures relative to new construction and to the repair or renovation of an existing building may be under the following conditions:
1.
When the repair or renovation of the existing building does not include the replacement of the plumbing or sewage system servicing toilets, faucets, or shower heads within such existing building;
2.
When such plumbing or sewerage system within such existing building, because of its capacity, design, or installation, would not function properly if the toilets, faucets, or shower heads required by this part were installed;
3.
When such system is a well or gravity flow from a spring and is owned privately by an individual for use in such individual's personal residence; or
4.
When units to be installed are:
a.
Specifically designed for use by person with disabilities;
b.
Specifically designed to withstand unusual abuse or installation in a penal institution; or
c.
Toilets for juveniles.
301.1.2.1 Procedures for applying for waiver of requirements. Applications for the waiver of the requirements of the high efficiency plumbing fixtures may be made by submitting a written application for the waiver with the Dade County Code Enforcement Officer prior to the erection, installation, alteration, repairs, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of plumbing systems, upon such forms as may be provided by the Code Enforcement Officer. Any person adversely affected by any determination made by the Code Enforcement Officer relative to the issuance or denial of a request for waiver may appeal such determination to the Dade County Board of Commissioners. Any such appeal must be filed with the County within fifteen (15) days after the issuance of the determination by the Code Enforcement Officer. The appeal may approve, modify, or reject the determination made by the Historic Preservation Commission. Appeals from decisions of the Board of Commissioners may be taken to the Superior Court of Dade County in the manner provided by law for appeals from conviction for the Dade County ordinance violations.
301.3 Exceptions to connections to drainage system requirements. Exception: Bathtubs, showers, lavatories, clothes washers and laundry trays shall not be required to discharge to the sanitary drainage system where such fixtures discharge to an approved gray water system for flushing of water closets and urinals or for subsurface irrigation. Gray water may also be used for other purposes when designed by an engineer licensed in the State of Georgia and the system is approved by the Authority Having Jurisdiction.
301.4 Connections to water supply. Exception: Reclaimed water provided from a reclaimed wastewater treatment facility permitted by the Environmental Protection Division may be used to supply water closets, urinals, trap primers for floor drains and floor sinks, water features and other uses approved by the Authority Having Jurisdiction, in motels, hotels, apartment and condominium buildings, and commercial, industrial, and institutional buildings, where the individual guest or occupant does not have access to plumbing. Also other systems that may use a lesser quality of water than potable water such as water chillers, carwashes or an industrial process may be supplied with reclaimed water provided from a reclaimed wastewater treatment facility permitted by the Environmental Protection Division.
CHAPTER 15
PENALTY PROVISIONS; REPEALER; EFFECTIVE DATE
1501.1 Penalty Provisions. Violations of any provisions of this Ordinance shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by the penalties and costs, and in the same manner, as set forth in Sec. 1-19 of The Code of Ordinances of Dade County, Georgia. In addition to other remedies, the County may institute an action for an injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceeding to correct or stop such violation.
15.02 Repealer. All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with this Ordinance are hereby repealed.
15.03 Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its passage.
(Ord. No. 06-07-18 , 6-14-2018)
