Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Related law reference—Updating Code of Ordinances, § 7.
State Law reference— County boundaries, O.C.G.A. § 36-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances and other enactments embraced in the following chapters and sections in subparts 1 and 2 shall constitute and be designated as "The Code of Gilmer County, Georgia," and may be so cited. It may also be referred to as the "Gilmer County Code."
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code, the definitions and rules of construction in this section shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the board of commissioners.
General. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling. The ordinary signification shall be applied to all words, except words of art or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter, which shall have the signification attached to them by experts in such trade or with reference to such subject matter.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(b).
Board, board of commissioners. The terms "board" and "board of commissioners" shall mean the board of commissioners of Gilmer County, Georgia.
Code and this Code. Whenever the terms "Code" and "this Code" are referred to without further qualification, it shall mean the Code of Gilmer County, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. When a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the person having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday provided for in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the person having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(3).
County. The terms "the county" and "this county" shall mean Gilmer County, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department of the county to do some act, it is to be construed to authorize him to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Fee, charge, rate, deposit. The terms "fee," "charge," "rate" or "deposit" shall mean a fee, charge, rate or deposit set from time to time by the board of commissioners and kept on file in the office of the board.
Following. The term "following" shall mean next after.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(8).
Gender. The masculine gender shall include the feminine and the neuter.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(4).
Joint authority. A joint authority given to any number of persons or officers may be executed by a majority of them.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(5).
Keeper, proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" shall mean persons, firms, associations, corporations, receivers, trustees, personal representatives, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
Month. The term "month" shall mean a calendar month.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(11).
Number. The singular or plural number shall each include the other.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(6).
Oath. The term "oath" shall include affirmation.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(12).
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." shall mean the current official codification of Georgia laws, as amended.
Officers, departments, etc. Whenever titles of various officers, departments or other agencies are used, they shall refer to such officers, departments or agencies of Gilmer County, Georgia.
Or, and. The term "or" may be read "and," and the term "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Owner. The term "owner," applied to a building or land, shall mean any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common or tenant in partnership of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" shall extend and be applied to organizations, associations, clubs, societies, companies, proprietorships, firms, partnerships, either general or limited, joint ventures, trusts, and bodies politic and/or corporate and other legal entities, as well as to individuals.
State Law reference— "Person" defined, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(14).
Personal property. The term "personal property" shall mean every species of property except real property, as herein described.
Preceding. The term "preceding" shall mean next before.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(15).
Property. The term "property" shall mean real and personal property.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(16).
Public place. The term "public place" shall mean any park, cemetery, schoolyard or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available and/or accessible to the public, regardless of whether it is privately or publicly owned.
Real property. The term "real property" shall mean lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The term "residence" shall mean the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Seal. The term "seal" shall mean the county seal.
Shall, may. The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is permissive.
State Law reference— "May" defined, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(10).
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" shall mean that portion of a street between the curblines, or the lateral lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use by pedestrians.
State Law reference— "Sidewalk" defined, O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1(57).
Signature, subscription. The "signature" or "subscription" of a person shall include a mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(19).
State. The terms "the state" or "this state" shall mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" shall mean the entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1(63).
Tenant, occupant. The terms "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, shall mean any person holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. The present or past tense shall include the future.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(7).
Title of officer, employee, department, board, commission or agency. Whenever the title of an officer, employee, department, board, commission or agency is given, it shall be construed as though the phrase "of Gilmer County" were added.
Week. The term "week" shall mean seven days.
Writing. The term "writing" shall mean printing and all numerals.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(23).
Year. The term "year" shall mean a calendar year.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(24).
Sec. 1-3. - Statutory rules of construction.
Except as otherwise provided in this Code, the same rules shall be applied in construing provisions of this Code, and other ordinances of this county, as are applied in construing the statutes of this state, which rules are found in O.C.G.A. §§ 1-3-1—1-3-3, and the same meanings are to be given words found in the ordinances as are given similar words found in the statutes of this state.
Sec. 1-4. - Catchlines of sections; headings of chapters, articles and divisions.
The catchlines of the sections of this Code and the headings of articles and divisions thereof are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents and shall not be deemed to be titles, nor as any part of the section, article or division, nor unless expressly so provided shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, articles or divisions, including the catchlines and headings, are amended or reenacted. No provision of this Code shall be held invalid because of deficiency in any such catchline or in any heading to any chapter, article or division.
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of Code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-5. - History notes.
The history notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect, but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the sections.
Sec. 1-6. - Editor's notes and references.
The editor's notes, related law references, cross references and state law references in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to assist the user of this Code.
Sec. 1-7. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as those of ordinances existing on the adoption date of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-8. - Severability.
The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code, and of codes or other provisions adopted by reference herein, are severable, and if any such phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section or the application thereof to any person or circumstance shall be declared invalid by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code and provisions adopted by reference, nor the application thereof to other persons or circumstances, since the same would have been enacted by the board of commissioners without the incorporation therein of any such invalid phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
State Law reference— Severability of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-9. - Service of citations concerning the condition of real property.
Whenever a citation is issued concerning the condition of real property, it may be served by:
(1)
Posting a copy of it on the door of the premises where the alleged violation occurred;
(2)
Mailing a copy of it by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery to the owner of such premises at the address of record maintained by the applicable tax commissioner. The certificate of mailing to the accused shall constitute prima-facie evidence of compliance with this subparagraph; and
(3)
Filing a copy of it with the clerk of magistrate court.
(Res. No. 20-046, 4-9-2020)
Sec. 1-10. - Penalties; continuing violations.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any other ordinance of the county any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision shall be punishable by the imposition of a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, by imprisonment in the county jail for a period of time not to exceed 60 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, or up to the limits of any penalty provided by state law for the ordinance.
(b)
Each day any violation of this Code or other ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Res. No. 20-046, 4-9-2020)
Editor's note— Res. No. 20-046, adopted April 9, 2020, added a new § 1-9, and directed for the renumbering of §§ 1-9—1-15 as §§ 1-10—1-16.
State Law reference— Violations of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. §§ 15-10-60 et seq., 36-1-20; punishment for misdemeanors, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; nuisances, O.C.G.A. title 41.
Sec. 1-11. - Provisions not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county or any evidence of the county's indebtedness;
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the county;
(4)
Any right or franchise granted by the county;
(5)
Any ordinance relating to specific public improvements or assessments therefor;
(6)
Any ordinance, consistent with this Code, providing for the levy or collection of taxes or for an annual budget or appropriations;
(7)
Any ordinance pertaining to zoning;
(8)
Any ordinance relating to the investment of county funds;
(9)
Any ordinance, consistent with this Code, prescribing regulations, compensation, positions, classification, retirement and other matters pertaining to county officers or employees;
(10)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the county;
(11)
Any ordinance naming, renaming, opening, closing, prescribing grades, etc., of streets, roads, bridges and other public ways;
(12)
Any ordinance, consistent with this Code, establishing fees, rates, deposits, service charges or other charges;
(13)
Any ordinance creating, establishing, prescribing or abolishing urban renewal projects;
(14)
Any ordinance prescribing or providing traffic regulations at specific places, such as speed limits, through streets, stop intersections, yield intersections, one-way travel, no left turns, no right turns, traffic control by electrical devices, truck routes, loading zones, no parking zones and limited parking zones;
(15)
Any ordinance continuing in force and effect local constitutional amendments.
All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
(Res. No. 20-046, 4-9-2020)
Editor's note— See editor's note following § 1-10.
Sec. 1-12. - Unlawful alteration of Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any part of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner (except by ordinance or other official act of the board of commissioners or the General Assembly) which will cause the law of the county to be misrepresented.
(Res. No. 20-046, 4-9-2020)
Editor's note— See editor's note following § 1-10.
State Law reference— False writings and documents, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-20.
Sec. 1-13. - Amendments; new provisions.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. Any and all additions and amendments to this Code, when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the board of commissioners to make the same a part of this Code, shall be deemed to be incorporated herein. A reference to this Code shall be understood and intended to include such additions and amendments.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _______ of the Code of Ordinances, Gilmer County, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That the Code of Ordinances, Gilmer County, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or division or article or chapter) to be numbered _______, which reads as follows:…." The new section (or division or article or chapter) may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or other provisions desired to be repealed should be repealed specifically by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Res. No. 20-046, 4-9-2020)
Editor's note— See editor's note following § 1-10.
Sec. 1-14. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the board of commissioners. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive parts of permanent and general ordinances passed by the board during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete. The new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In the preparation of a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances or parts thereof included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them in a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize ordinances and resolutions into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be or to "sections _______ to _______" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinances incorporated in the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of the ordinance or resolution sections inserted in the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Res. No. 20-046, 4-9-2020)
Editor's note— See editor's note following § 1-10.
Sec. 1-15. - Effective date of ordinances and resolutions.
Ordinances and resolutions which do not provide for their taking effect at a different time take effect immediately after their passage, or as otherwise provided by law.
(Res. No. 20-046, 4-9-2020)
Editor's note— See editor's note following § 1-10.
State Law reference— Effective date of legislative acts, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-4.
Sec. 1-16. - Effect of repeal of ordinances and resolutions.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance or resolution shall not revive any ordinance or resolution in force before or at the time the ordinance or resolution repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance or resolution shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance or resolution repealed, nor any right acquired or liability incurred under any ordinance or resolution repealed.
(Res. No. 20-046, 4-9-2020)
Editor's note— See editor's note following § 1-10.
State Law reference— Operation of laws, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-5.
