Chapter 22 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; courts, ch. 30; floods, ch. 74.
State Law reference— Emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 22-1—22-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT

Sec. 22-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin caused by enemy attack, sabotage, acts of domestic or international terrorism, civil disturbance, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, wave action, oil spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot or other hostile action, radiological action, or other causes. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services; police services; emergency medical services; rescue; engineering; warning services; communications; defense from radiological, chemical, biological, and other special weapons to include weapons of mass destruction; evacuation of persons from stricken areas; emergency welfare services; consequence management functions to include victim services; emergency transportation; plant protection; temporary restoration of public utility services; and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
Energy emergency means a condition of danger to the health, safety, welfare, or economic well-being of the citizens of this state arising out of a present or threatened shortage of usable energy resources; also any condition of substantial danger to the health, safety, or welfare of the citizens of this state resulting from the operation of any electrical power generating facility, the transport of any energy resource by any means whatsoever, or the production, use or disposal of any source material, special nuclear material, or byproduct, as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, 68 Stat. 919, 42 USC 2011 et seq.; also any nuclear incident, as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, occurring within or outside this state, substantially affecting the health, safety, or welfare of the citizens of this state.
Energy resources means all forms of energy or power including, without limitation, oil, gasoline, and other petroleum products; natural or synthetic gas; electricity in all forms and from all sources; and other fuels of any description, except wood.
(Res. of 9-25-1990, § I)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-3.
Sec. 22-32. - Office of the county emergency management director; duties.
(a)
In agreement with the governing officials of the cities within the county, there is hereby established the Ellijay-Gilmer County Emergency Management Agency. The chairperson of the board of commissioners with concurrence of the mayor of the City of Ellijay, shall nominate for appointment by the state director of emergency management, a director of emergency management for the entire county.
(b)
When appointed, the emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
To represent the governing officials of the county and cities therein on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
To assist county and city officials in organizing county and city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
To develop, in conjunction with county and city departments the Ellijay-Gilmer County Plan for emergency functions set forth in section 22-31. Such plan will be in consonance with the state natural disaster operations plan and nuclear emergency operations plan, and shall be submitted to the governing officials of the county and the City of Ellijay for approval, and then to the state emergency management agency for approval.
(4)
To maintain the emergency management agency and carry out the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
To submit reports as required by governing officials in keeping with good management practices, e.g., financial, daily activity, etc.
(6)
To obtain, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the county emergency operating center.
(7)
To coordinate the activities of the county emergency operating center staff during periods of an emergency, and under the supervision of county governing officials.
(Res. of 9-25-1990, § II)
Cross reference— Officers and employees, § 2-91 et seq.
Sec. 22-33. - Ellijay-Gilmer County Emergency Management Agency.
(a)
The Ellijay-Gilmer County Emergency Management Agency shall be established around existing county and city departments and the primary emergency functions listed in section 22-31 are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department/Agency Function
(1) Chairperson, county commissioners, mayors of cities ..... Direction and control
(2) Sheriff's office, police department ..... Search, rescue and recovery
Police services
(3) Emergency management agency ..... Communications and warning
Public information
State military support training
Preliminary damage assessment and reporting
Public property assistance
Attack preparedness
Specific hazards
Evacuation
(4) Fire department ..... Search, rescue and recovery
Fire services
Hazardous materials
Radiological protection
(5) Public works ..... Engineering
Petroleum and solid fuel services
Utilities
(6) School superintendent ..... Transportation services
Food services
(7) Health department ..... Health and Medical Services
(8) Clerk's office ..... Administrative services
Resources management
(9) Department of family and children services ..... Social services
Shelter and temporary housing
(10) County tax assessor ..... Damage assessment and reporting
  (b)
Heads of departments, listed in subsection (a) of this section are responsible for developing appropriate annexes to the local emergency operations plan (EOP) for their assigned emergency functions. Such annexes will be submitted to the emergency management director for inclusion in the local emergency operations plan for submission to appropriate local officials for approval.
(Res. of 9-25-1990, § III)
Sec. 22-34. - Powers during an emergency or disaster.
In the event of manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States, or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the county, the chairperson of the county commissioners, jointly with the mayors of the affected cities, or in their absences their legally appointed successors mayor pro tem may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such emergency or disaster exists or continues, the following powers:
(1)
To enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management, and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources;
(2)
To seize or take for temporary use, any private property for the protection of the public;
(3)
To sell, lend, give, or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county and to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies; and
(4)
To perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
(Res. of 9-25-1990, § IV)
Sec. 22-35. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the county and cities therein, performing emergency functions pursuant to this article, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as county and city officers and employees.
(Res. of 9-25-1990, § V)
Sec. 22-36. - Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this article, or any rule, order or regulation made pursuant to this article, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in section 1-9.
(Res. of 9-25-1990, § VI)
Sec. 22-37. - Liberality of construction.
This article shall be construed liberally in order to effectuate its purpose.
(Res. of 9-25-1990, § VII)
