Chapter 6 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Law enforcement, ch. 46; alcoholic beverage excise taxes, § 70-141 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcohol means ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
Alcoholic beverage means all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverage, wine or fortified wine.
Distilled spirits means any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume, including but not limited to all fortified wines.
Fortified wine means any alcoholic beverage containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term includes but is not limited to brandy.
Gallon or wine gallon means a United States gallon of liquid measure equivalent to the volume of 231 cubic inches or the nearest equivalent metric measurement.
Importer means any person who imports an alcoholic beverage into this state from a foreign country and sells the alcoholic beverage to another importer, broker or wholesaler and who maintains a stock of the alcoholic beverage.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than six percent alcohol by volume, and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer and strong beer. The term does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Manufacturer means any maker, producer or bottler of an alcoholic beverage. The term also means:
(1)
In the case of distilled spirits, any person engaged in distilling, rectifying or blending any distilled spirits;
(2)
In the case of malt beverages, any brewer; and
(3)
In the case of wine, any vintner.
Package means a bottle, can, keg, barrel or other original consumer container.
Person means any individual, firm, partnership, cooperative, nonprofit membership corporation, joint venture, association, company, corporation, agency, syndicate, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, fiduciary or other group or combination acting as a unit, body politic or political subdivision, whether public, private or quasi-public.
Retail consumption dealer means any person who sells distilled spirits for consumption on the premises at retail only to consumers and not for resale.
Retailer or retail dealer means, except as to distilled spirits, any person who sells alcoholic beverages, either in unbroken packages or for consumption on the premises, at retail only to consumers and not for resale. With respect to distilled spirits, the term means any person who sells distilled spirits in unbroken packages at retail only to consumers and not for resale.
Shipper means any person who ships an alcoholic beverage from outside this state.
Standard case means six containers of 1.75 liters, 12 containers of 750 milliliters, 12 containers of one liter, 24 containers of 500 milliliters, 24 containers of 375 milliliters, 48 containers of 200 milliliters, or 120 containers of 50 milliliters.
Tax stamp means the official mark, stamp or indication used to indicate the payment of taxes imposed by this chapter.
Taxpayer means any person made liable by law to file a return or to pay tax.
Wholesaler or wholesale dealer means any person who sells alcoholic beverages to other wholesale dealers, to retail dealers, or to retail consumption dealers.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term includes but is not limited to all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines, and like products. The term does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at that point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to the definition of wine contained in this section.
(Code 1980, §§ 7-2-4(1), 7-2-24(a), 7-2-41, 7-2-81)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2.
Sec. 6-2. - Possession of alcoholic beverages in public places.
It shall be unlawful to possess open cans or bottles containing alcoholic beverages on any public street, alley, right-of-way or other public facility or place within the city.
(Code 1980, § 9-1-8)
Sec. 6-3. - Drinking and/or possession in public.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drink alcoholic beverages or have opened containers containing alcoholic beverages in their possession on any public property, streets or sidewalks, or upon any open premises adjacent to any public business in the city, whether or not such person is located in a vehicle within boundaries of the city.
(Ord. of 4-8-74; Ord. of 3-27-17(1))
Sec. 6-4. - Sale on election days.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this chapter, the sale of alcoholic beverages on local election days is hereby authorized and permitted so long as such sales are in compliance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20.
(Res. of 8-13-84)
Cross reference— Elections, ch. 30.
Secs. 6-5—6-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MALT BEVERAGES

Sec. 6-36. - Retail licensee qualifications.
A retail malt beverage licensee must be a person of good moral character and a citizen of the United States.
(1)
The licensee shall not have been convicted within five years of the date of his application of a felony, or any violation of the laws of this state or any other state relating to the sale of alcoholic beverages.
(2)
The licensee shall be responsible for the management and operation of the business for which the license is granted.
(3)
The applicant shall make a sworn statement of his qualifications according to the above and shall place same on file with the city clerk before any license is issued.
(4)
If the application covers a partnership, all members of the partnership must be qualified to obtain a license and must make sworn statements of these qualifications.
(5)
No person shall be granted a license to engage in the sale of malt beverages at retail unless it shall appear to the satisfaction of the mayor and council that such person shall be of good moral character.
(6)
Any misstatement or concealment of fact in the application shall be grounds for revocation of the license issued and shall make the applicant liable to prosecution for perjury under the laws of the state.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-1)
Sec. 6-37. - Wholesale licenses.
Wholesale malt beverage licenses shall be issued only to those parties who are licensed by the state to sell and distribute malt beverages at wholesale. Application shall be made with the city clerk.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-2)
Sec. 6-38. - Regulations.
(a)
No holder of a license authorizing the sale of malt beverages at retail in the city nor any agent or employee of the licensee, shall do any of the following upon the licensed premises:
(1)
Knowingly sell beer to a minor.
(2)
Knowingly sell beer to any person while such person is in an intoxicated condition.
(3)
Sell beer upon the licensed premises or permit beer to be consumed thereon, on any day or at any time when such sale or consumption is prohibited by law.
(b)
In addition:
(1)
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or possess for the purpose of sale any malt beverages where such person does not have a license from the city to sell or possess for sale such beverages.
(2)
Malt beverages shall be received at or delivered to the premises of the retail licensee by no other means than by a conveyance owned and operated by a wholesale dealer with a permit from the mayor and council to make deliveries in the city.
(3)
Transportation of malt beverages by any other means shall be grounds for revocation of the wholesale permit.
(4)
Dealers in malt beverages shall not engage in the sale of such beverages on Sunday or any other days prohibited by state law.
(5)
Any violation of the provisions of this article shall be grounds for immediate revocation of a license by the mayor and council.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-3)
Sec. 6-39. - Joint responsibility; sales to minors; possession by minors.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for a minor to attempt to purchase or for any other person to purchase alcoholic beverages for a minor.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for a minor to exhibit faked, forged or borrowed credentials in an effort to obtain alcoholic beverages to which he is not legally entitled.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for a minor to have alcoholic beverages in his possession.
(d)
No person engaged in the business regulated under this article shall make or permit to be made any sales to minors.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-4)
Sec. 6-40. - Licenses.
(a)
Each wholesaler designated with the state revenue department to serve this city shall, upon written application, be issued a license on an annual basis for operation as a wholesale dealer.
(b)
The applicant for a retail license shall pay to the city at the time his license is received a fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk as an annual license fee for operation for one year beginning on February 1, or half of this amount if the license is issued during the last six months of the license year. Such licenses shall not be transferable from one person to another except with the expressed approval of the licensing body of the city.
(c)
A notice of each application for a license shall be advertised in the official gazette of the city once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the meeting of the mayor and council that the application is to be acted upon.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-5)
Sec. 6-41. - Hours of operation.
The permitted hours of operation of retail licensees for the sale of malt beverages shall be between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 1:00 a.m. weekdays, 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight Saturday, and 12:30 p.m. and 11:30 p.m. Sunday. The permitted hours of operation of wholesale licensee for the distribution of malt beverages within the city shall be between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. There shall be no malt beverages sold or distributed within the city on any days prohibited by state law.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-6; Ord. of 12-12-11(2))
Sec. 6-42. - Authority to issue licenses.
All applications for malt beverage licenses shall be presented to the mayor and council for approval, and if approved the licenses shall be issued by the city clerk upon the payment of the required fee.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-7)
Sec. 6-43. - Rules and regulations.
All the provisions of this article are and shall be subject to the regulations hereinafter prescribed by ordinance of the mayor and council as the same may be from time to time amended, setting forth the rules, terms and conditions upon which such licenses may be issued; the annual licensee fees; the qualifications of licensees; the restrictions on the business locations of licensees; the hours of operation of such licensees; the control of customers doing business with licensees; and any and all other matters which this body may deem it advisable to set forth for the proper regulation of the sale and consumption of malt beverages in this city; and all such licenses as may be hereafter issued shall be expressly subject to the provisions of such rules and regulations as may be then or thereafter in force; and all such licenses shall be nontransferable, except with express approval of the mayor and council.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-8)
Sec. 6-44. - Distance requirements.
No retail malt beverage license shall be granted to any person unless the entire business premises of the proposed location is situated beyond 100 yards from the property line of any church and beyond 200 yards from the property line of any school ground or college campus, the same to be measured by way of the nearest traveled road, street or highway, as provided by law. Each application for a retail malt beverage license shall include a scale drawing of the location of the proposed premises showing the distance to the nearest church or school or a certificate of a registered surveyor that such location complies with this article with reference to this section.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-9)
Secs. 6-45—6-75. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - WINE

Sec. 6-76. - Retail licensee qualifications.
A retail wine licensee must be an adult person of good moral character and a citizen of the United States.
(1)
The licensee shall not have been convicted within five years of the date of his application of a felony, or any violation of the laws of this state or any other state relating to the sale of alcoholic beverages.
(2)
The licensee shall be responsible for the management and operation of the business for which the license is granted.
(3)
The applicant shall make a sworn statement of his qualifications according to the above and shall place same on file with the city clerk before any license is issued.
(4)
If the application covers a partnership, all members of the partnership must be qualified to obtain a license and must make sworn statements to these qualifications.
(5)
No person shall be granted a license to engage in the sale of wine at retail unless it shall appear to the satisfaction of the mayor and city council that such person shall be of good moral character.
(6)
Any misstatement or concealment of fact in the application shall be grounds for revocation of the license issued and shall make the applicant liable to prosecution for perjury under the laws of the state.
(7)
A notice of each application for a license shall be advertised in the official gazette of the city once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the meeting of the governing body that the application is to be acted upon.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-21)
Sec. 6-77. - Wholesale licenses.
Wholesale wine licenses shall be issued only to those parties who are licensed by the state to sell and distribute wine at wholesale. Application shall be made with the city clerk.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-22)
Sec. 6-78. - Regulations.
(a)
No holder of a license authorizing the sale of wine at retail in the city, nor any agent or employee of the licensee, shall do any of the following upon the licensed premises:
(1)
Sell wine to a minor.
(2)
Sell wine to any person while such person is in an intoxicated condition.
(3)
Sell wine upon the licensed premises or permit wine to be consumed thereon, on any day or at any time when such sale or consumption is prohibited by law.
(b)
In addition:
(1)
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or possess for the purpose of sale any wine where such person does not have a license from the mayor and council to sell or possess for sale such beverages.
(2)
Wine shall be received at or delivered to the premises of the retail licensee by no other means than by a conveyance owned and operated by a wholesale dealer with a permit from the mayor and council to make deliveries in the city.
(3)
Transportation of wine by any other means shall be grounds for revocation of the wholesale permit.
(4)
Dealers in wine shall not engage in the sale of such beverages on Sunday or any other days prohibited by state law.
(5)
Any violation of the provisions of this article shall be grounds for immediate revocation of a license by the mayor and council.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-23)
Sec. 6-79. - Joint responsibility; sales to minors; possession by minors.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for a minor to possess or attempt to purchase or for any other person to purchase alcoholic beverages for a minor.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for a minor to exhibit faked, forged or borrowed credentials in an effort to obtain alcoholic beverages to which he is not legally entitled.
(c)
No person engaged in the business regulated hereunder shall make or permit to be made any sales to minors.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-24)
Sec. 6-80. - License fees.
(a)
The applicant for a wholesale wine license shall pay to the city at the time of his license being issued a fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk as an annual license fee for operation for one year beginning on February 1. The applicant for a retail license shall pay to the mayor and council at the time his license is received a fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk as an annual license fee for operation for one year beginning on February 1. Such licenses shall not be transferable from one person to another and shall not be transferable from one location to another except with the expressed approval of the mayor and council.
(b)
The license fee hereinbefore imposed shall be paid by the wholesale dealers to the city clerk within 24 hours after delivery based upon the units of wine sold during the previous 24 hours. Interest shall accrue on late payments at the rate of nine percent per annum.
(c)
The wholesale dealers shall keep true and correct records of all sales and shipments and shall, upon request, render a sworn statement of the same accompanying sales report to the mayor and council.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-25)
Sec. 6-81. - Hours of operation.
The hours of operation of retail licensees for the sale of wine shall be between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 1:00 a.m. weekdays, 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight Saturday, and 12:30 p.m. to 11:30 p.m. Sunday. The hours of operation of wholesale licensee for the distribution of wine within the city shall be between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. There shall be no wine sold or distributed within the city limits on any days prohibited by state law.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-26; Ord. of 12-12-11(2))
Sec. 6-82. - Authority to issue licenses.
All applications for wine licenses shall be presented to the mayor and council for approval, and if approved the licenses shall be issued by the mayor and council upon the payment of the required fee.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-27)
Sec. 6-83. - Rules and regulations.
All the provisions of this article are and shall be subject to the regulations hereinafter prescribed by ordinance of the mayor and council, as the same may be from time to time amended, setting forth the rules, terms and conditions upon which such licenses may be issued; the annual license fees; the prorated license fees, based on sales; the qualifications of licensees; the restrictions on business locations of licensees; the hours of operation of such licensees; the control of customers doing business with licensees; and any and all other matters that this body may deem it advisable to set forth for the proper control and regulation of the sale and consumption of wine in this city; and all such licenses as may be thereafter issued shall be expressly subject to the provisions of such rules and regulations as may be then or thereafter in force; and all such licenses shall be nontransferable except with express approval of the mayor and council.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-28)
Sec. 6-84. - Distance requirements.
No retail wine license shall be granted to any person unless the entire business premises of the proposed location is situated beyond 100 yards from the property line of any church and beyond 200 yards from the property line of any school ground or college campus, the same to be measured by way of the nearest traveled road, street or highway, as provided by law. Each application for a retail wine license shall include a scale drawing of the location of the proposed premises showing the distance to the nearest church or school or a certificate of a registered surveyor that such location complies with this article with reference to this section.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-29)
Secs. 6-85—6-115. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - INTOXICATING LIQUORS

Sec. 6-116. - Qualifications of applicant.
No retail liquor license shall be granted to any person unless such person is of legal age and has been a resident of the county for a minimum of one year prior to filing an application for such license.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-42; Ord. of 9-26-88, § 1)
Sec. 6-117. - Interests in other licenses prohibited.
Only one retail liquor license shall be issued to any one person in the city, and no person who holds a retail liquor license in any other county or municipality of the state, shall be eligible to receive a retail liquor license. The term "persons" as used in this section shall include all members of such licensee's family, and the term "family" shall be deemed to include any person related to the holder of such license within the first degree of consanguinity or affinity as computed according to the civil law.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-43)
Sec. 6-118. - Number of licenses limited.
No more than four retail liquor licenses shall be issued at any time, and no more than four retail liquor licenses shall exist at any time.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-44)
Sec. 6-119. - Distance requirements.
No retail liquor license shall be granted to any person unless the entire business premises of the proposed location is situated beyond 100 yards from the property line of any church and beyond 200 yards from the property line of any school ground or college campus, the same to be measured by way of the nearest traveled road, street or highway, as provided by law. Each application for a retail liquor license shall include a scale drawing of the location of the proposed premises showing the distance to the nearest church or school or a certificate of a registered surveyor that such location complies with this article with reference to this section.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-45)
Sec. 6-120. - Each location requires license.
A separate retail liquor license shall be required for each place of business.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-46)
Sec. 6-121. - Building requirements.
No retail liquor license shall be issued to any person unless the building in which the business will be located is complete and detailed plans of the building and outside premises are attached to the application, or unless proposed plans and specifications and a building permit of a proposed building to be built are attached to the application. The completed building or the proposed building shall comply with ordinances of the city, regulations of the state revenue commissioner, and the laws of the state. The proposed building shall also be subject to final inspection and approval when completed by the building inspector. Each building in which the business will be located shall contain sufficient lighting so that the building itself and the premises on all sides of the building are readily visible at all times from the front of the street on which the building is located so as to reveal the inside retail area of the building and so as to reveal all of the outside premises of the building. Each applicant for a retail liquor license shall attach to his application evidence of ownership of the building or proposed building or a copy of the lease if the applicant is leasing the building.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-47)
Sec. 6-122. - Unbroken packages only to be sold.
All licensed retailers shall sell or offer to sell in the original unbroken package only and shall sell no package containing less than one-half pint.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-48)
Sec. 6-123. - Sales of other products; consumption on premises prohibited.
No retailer shall sell or offer for sale or display or keep in stock, at his place of business where liquor is offered for sale, any other product or commodity except the following:
(1)
Wines and beer when properly licensed.
(2)
Beverages containing no alcohol commonly used to dilute distilled spirits.
No beverages of any kind may be opened or consumed in such place of business.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-49)
Sec. 6-124. - Deliveries off premises prohibited.
No retailer shall sell or deliver any liquor to any person except in the retailer's place of business.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-50)
Sec. 6-125. - Hours and days of sales.
No retailer shall be in his place of business, or open his place of business, or furnish, sell or offer for sale any liquor (distilled spirits) at any of the following times:
(1)
At any time on Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day;
(2)
At any time in violation of a local ordinance or regulation or of a special order of the mayor and council;
(3)
On Sunday before 12:30 p.m. or after 11:30 p.m.; and
(4)
On any other day before 8:00 a.m. or after 11:45 p.m.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-51; Ord. of 12-12-11(2))
Sec. 6-126. - Sales to certain persons prohibited.
No retailer shall give, sell or offer to sell any liquor to any person who is under the age of 21 years, or who is noticeably intoxicated, or who is of unsound mind, or who is an habitual drunkard whose intemperate habits are known to the retailer. At any time a state driver's license shall be considered the only legal proof of age that would relieve a person making a sale from responsibility thereof.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-52)
Sec. 6-127. - Sign; posting.
The holder of a license to sell liquor shall post in the most conspicuous place in his establishment a sign printed in letters at least four inches high reading as follows: "SALE OF LIQUOR TO MINORS STRICTLY PROHIBITED."
(Code 1980, § 7-2-53)
Sec. 6-128. - Inventory restrictions.
No licensed retailer shall keep any liquor stored in any bonded or other type warehouse in the city, nor shall he enter into any type of arrangement whereby liquor ordered by him is stored for him by any licensed wholesaler. A retailer shall keep no inventory or stock of liquor at any place except his licensed place of business, and within his licensed place of business his storage space for liquor shall be immediately adjacent to the room in which he is licensed to do business.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-54)
Sec. 6-129. - Application for license.
Application for a retail liquor license shall be made on forms furnished by the governing authority as follows:
(1)
A retail liquor license shall be valid only for the calendar year indicated thereon, and no such license may be renewed. A licensee who desires to continue in business during the next or subsequent calendar year must make a new application for such year on or before January 15 of the preceding year.
(2)
In addition to the completion and submission of application form as required by the mayor and council, each applicant shall attach thereto a completed application form with all attachments and requirements for a state license.
(3)
Before any retail liquor license is granted, the applicant must post with the mayor and council, along with his application, a personal performance bond, such bond to be conditioned requiring the faithful observance and performance by the licensee of the rules and regulations contained in this article. Upon the violation of this article or any part thereof, the amount of the bond to be forfeited will be determined by the seriousness of the violations as determined by the mayor and council after a hearing is held by the mayor and council after a three days' written notice is given the violator. Such bond is to be payable to the mayor and council in the amount of $500.00, to be approved by the mayor and council and shall be executed in a form to be furnished.
(4)
A notice of each application shall be advertised in the official gazette of the mayor and council once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the meeting of the mayor and council that the application is to be acted upon. Such notice shall contain the address of the proposed location described in the application.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-55)
Sec. 6-130. - License fee; excise tax.
The annual fee for a retail liquor license shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk and shall be paid prior to the issuance of any license, such fee to accompany the application and shall be either in cash or a bank certified check.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-56(a))
Sec. 6-131. - Financial responsibility of applicant.
Any applicant for a retail liquor license must show, to the satisfaction of the mayor and council, financial responsibility.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-57)
Sec. 6-132. - Additional qualifications of applicant.
Any applicant for a retail liquor license must be of good character, and all managers, clerks or other employees shall be of like character or application will not be considered.
(1)
No applicant for a license who has a criminal record (except minor traffic offenses) shall be granted a license.
(2)
The mayor and council, in its discretion, may consider any extenuating circumstances which may reflect favorably or unfavorably on the applicant, application or the proposed location of the business. If in its judgment circumstances are such that the granting of the license would not be in the best interest of the general public, such circumstances may be grounds for denying the application.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-58)
Sec. 6-133. - Applications presented in person.
All applications for a retail liquor license shall be presented in person.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-59)
Sec. 6-134. - Licenses not transferable.
No retail liquor license shall be transferable or assignable to any person or other location; and if a licensed business is sold or closed, it shall be the duty of the licensee to immediately surrender his license to the mayor and council.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-60)
Sec. 6-135. - Availability of regulations; liability for violations.
All holders of a license for the sale of liquor shall keep a copy of this article in his premises and shall instruct any person working there with respect to the terms hereof, and each licensee or his agents selling liquor shall at all times be familiar with the terms of this article. The licensee shall be held responsible for any acts of his employees in any violation of this article or of the laws of the state or the rules and regulations of the state revenue commissioner.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-61)
Sec. 6-136. - Inspection authority of officials.
The business premises of the holder of a retail liquor license for the sale of liquor shall be open to inspection at any and all times by officers or officials authorized to conduct such inspections.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-62)
Sec. 6-137. - False statements on application.
The making of any statement on an application for license to sell liquor that shall be later found to be false shall constitute grounds for revocation of the license.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-63)
Sec. 6-138. - Age of employees.
No person under 21 years of age shall be employed in any capacity in any place of business licensed under this article.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-64)
Sec. 6-139. - Prohibited acts.
There shall be no gambling, betting, games of chance, punchboards, vending machines, slot machines, pinball machines, lotteries or tickets or chances therein or the operation of any schemes for hazarding money or any other thing of value in any licensed retailer's place of business or in any room adjoining the same, owned, leased or controlled by the licensee; and any violation of this section shall be cause for suspension or revocation of the license.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-65)
Sec. 6-140. - Display of license.
Licenses under this article shall be displayed prominently at all times on the premises for which they were issued.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-66)
Sec. 6-141. - Compliance to laws and regulations.
No person shall engage in the sale of liquor in the city without first complying with the rules and regulations set out in this article. Any person violating the rules and regulations set out in this article shall be subject to revocation of his license and punishment as prescribed by the mayor and council. In addition to the rules and regulations hereinabove set out, each licensee doing business in the city under this article shall comply with all laws of the state, federal laws, and rules and regulations of the state revenue commissioner relating to the sale and distribution of distilled spirits in the state; and any violation of same shall subject the licensee to immediate suspension or revocation of his retail liquor license and also shall subject the licensee to criminal prosecution by the proper authority as provided by law and the ordinances of the city.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-67)
Secs. 6-142—6-170. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - CONSUMPTION ON-PREMISES

Sec. 6-171. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
License means the authorization by the mayor and council to engage in the sale of and consumption on the premises of alcoholic beverages.
Licensee for the sale of spirituous liquors by the drink on the premises means any person duly licensed to sell by the drink and for consumption only on the premises.
Lounge means a separate room connected with a part of and adjacent to a restaurant or located in hotels with all booths, stools and tables being unobstructed and open to view. All lounges shall be air conditioned and have a seating capacity of at least 25 persons. A lounge operated on a different floor in the premises, or in a separate building, or not connected to or adjacent to a restaurant shall be considered a separate establishment and shall pay an additional license fee therefor.
Nightclub means an establishment having a seating capacity of at least 25 persons with all booths and tables being unobstructed and open to view and providing a band and/or other professional entertainment, a minimum of 20 days per month, each month with the exception of holidays, vacations and periods of redecorating. All such nightclubs shall be equipped with air conditioning and shall maintain an adequate kitchen with a sufficient number of servants and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for their patrons, provided that nightclubs located in hotels having dining room and kitchen facilities may be excluded from maintaining a kitchen in connection with such nightclub. The principal business of such nightclubs shall be entertainment, and the serving of food and of spirituous liquors shall be incidental thereto.
Premises means the definite closed or partitioned-in locality, whether a room, shop or building, wherein spirituous liquors shall be sold and consumed therein.
Private club means a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the state, actively in operation within the city at least one year immediately prior to the application for a license hereunder, having at least 50 members regularly paying monthly, quarterly or semiannual dues, organized and operated exclusively for pleasure, recreation and other nonprofitable purposes, no part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any shareholder or member and owning, hiring or leasing a building or space therein for the reasonable use of its members with suitable kitchen and dining room space and equipment and maintaining and using a sufficient number of servants and employees for cooking, preparing and serving meals for its members and guests; provided, that no member or officer, agent or employee of the club is paid, or directly or indirectly receives, in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the sale of spirituous liquors to the club or its members or guests beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed by its members at any annual meeting or by its governing board out of the general revenue of the club.
Restaurant means any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place where meals are served and where meals are actually and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such place being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and seating capacity of at least 50 people, having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests. At least one meal per day shall be served at least six days a week, with the exception of holidays, vacations and periods of redecorating, and the serving of such meals shall be the principal business conducted, with the serving of distilled spirits to be consumed on the premises as only incidental thereto.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-81)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 6-172. - Compliance required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer to sell any alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises without first complying with the rules and regulations set out in this article.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-82)
Sec. 6-173. - Application for license.
No alcoholic beverages shall be sold by the drink for consumption on the premises except under a license granted by the mayor and council. Application for a consumption on the premises license shall be made on forms provided by the mayor and council as follows:
(1)
A consumption on the premises license shall be valid only for the calendar year indicated thereon, and no such license may be renewed. A licensee who desires to continue in business during the next or subsequent calendar year must make a new application for such year.
(2)
In addition to the completion and submission of the application form as required by the mayor and council, each applicant shall attach thereto a completed application form with all attachments and requirements for a state license.
(3)
A notice of each application shall be advertised in the official gazette of the city once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the meeting of the mayor and council that the application is to be acted upon.
(4)
Any applicant for a consumption on the premises license must show, to the satisfaction of the mayor and council, financial responsibility.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-83)
Sec. 6-174. - Qualifications of applicants.
Any applicant for a consumption on the premises license must be of good character; and all managers, clerks or other employees shall be of like character or the application will not be considered. Corporation applicants shall be of good business reputation.
(1)
No applicant for a license who has a criminal record (except minor traffic offenses) shall be granted a license.
(2)
The mayor and council, in its discretion, may consider any extenuating circumstances that may reflect favorably or unfavorably on the applicant, application or the proposed location of the business. If in its judgment circumstances are such that the granting of the license would not be in the best interest of the general public, such circumstances may be grounds for denying the application.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-84)
Sec. 6-175. - Applications presented in person.
All applications for a license for the sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink for consumption on the premises shall be presented in person.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-85)
Sec. 6-176. - Additional qualifications of applicant.
No consumption on the premises license shall be granted to an individual unless such individual is of legal age and has been a resident of the city for a minimum of one year prior to filing an application for such license.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-86)
Sec. 6-177. - Licenses not transferable.
No consumption on the premises license shall be transferable or assignable to any person or other location; and if a licensed business is sold or closed, it shall be the duty of the licensee to immediately surrender his license to the mayor and council.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-87)
Sec. 6-178. - Distance requirements.
No consumption on the premises license shall be granted to any person unless the entire business premises of the proposed location is situated beyond 100 yards from the property line of any church and beyond 200 yards from the property line of any school ground or college campus, the same to be measured by way of the nearest traveled road, street or highway, as provided by law. Each application for a consumption on the premises license shall include a scale drawing of the location of the proposed premises showing the distance to the nearest church or school or a certificate of a registered surveyor that such location complies with this article with reference to this section.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-88)
Sec. 6-179. - Each location requires separate license.
A separate consumption on the premises license shall be required for each place of business.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-89)
Sec. 6-180. - Building requirements.
No consumption on the premises license shall be issued to any person unless the building in which the business will be located is complete and detailed plans of the building, clearly delineating the area therein, where spirituous liquors shall be sold and consumed, and outside premises are attached to the application, or unless proposed plans and specifications and a building permit of a proposed building to be built are attached to the application. The completed building or the proposed building shall comply with ordinances of the city, regulations of the state revenue commissioner, and the laws of the state. The proposed building shall also be subject to final inspection and approval by the building inspector when completed. Each building in which the business will be located shall contain sufficient lighting so that the building itself and the premises on all sides of the building are readily visible at all times from the front of the street on which the building is located so as to reveal all of the outside premises of the building. Each applicant for a consumption on the premises license shall attach to his application evidence of ownership of the building or proposed building or a copy of the lease if the applicant is leasing the building. All premises for which a consumption on the premises license shall be issued shall afford therein adequate sanitary toilet facilities and shall be adequately illuminated so that all hallways, passage ways and open areas may be clearly seen by customers therein.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-90)
Sec. 6-181. - Sales or deliveries off premises prohibited.
No licensee shall sell or deliver any liquor to any person except on the premises for which a license has been issued under this article.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-91)
Sec. 6-182. - Hours and days of sales.
No consumption on the premises licensee or any unlicensed person shall open his place of business and/or remain open, or furnish in any manner, sell, or offer for sale or give away any alcoholic beverages in or upon any such premises of the licensee or the premises of an unlicensed person at any of the following times:
(1)
At any time on Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day;
(2)
On Sunday before 12:30 p.m. or after 12 midnight; and
(3)
At any time in violation of a local ordinance or regulation or of a special order of the mayor and council.
It shall be unlawful for any consumption on the premises licensee or any unlicensed person to keep open for business or admit the public to, or permit the public to remain within, or permit the consumption of alcoholic beverages in or upon the premises in which the alcoholic beverages are sold at retail for a period of longer that one hour after the hours within which the sale of alcoholic beverages are prohibited.
Please note: The terms "consumption on the premises licensee" and "unlicensed person" as used in this chapter 6, section 182 do not refer to any holder of a business tax certificate or occupation tax certificate as levied by the city according to chapter 70, article VI of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Vienna as amended.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-92; Ord of 12-12-11(1); Ord. of 3-27-17(2))
Sec. 6-183. - Sales to certain persons prohibited.
No consumption on the premises licensee shall give, sell or offer to sell any liquor to any person who is under the age of 21 years, or who is noticeably intoxicated, or who is obviously of unsound mind and such fact is known to the retailer, or who is an habitual drunkard whose intemperate habits are known to the retailer. At any time a state driver's license shall be considered the only legal proof of age that would relieve a person making a sale from responsibility thereof.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-93)
Sec. 6-184. - Inventory restrictions.
No consumption on the premises licensee shall keep any liquor stored in any bonded or other type warehouse in the city, nor shall he enter into any type of arrangement whereby liquor ordered by him is stored for him by any licensed wholesaler. A licensee shall keep no inventory or stock of liquor at any place except his licensed place of business, and within his licensed place of business his storage space for liquor shall be immediately adjacent to the room in which he is licensed to do business.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-94)
Sec. 6-185. - Purchases and sales of alcoholic beverages restricted to certain amounts.
No consumption on the premises licensee may purchase distilled spirits in containers smaller than one-fifth gallon. The sale of distilled spirits by any consumption on the premises licensee in unbroken packages or in any quantity for other than consumption on the premises is expressly prohibited.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-95)
Sec. 6-186. - License fee.
The annual fee for a consumption on the premises license shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk and shall be paid prior to the issuance of any license, such fee to accompany the application and shall be either in cash or a bank certified check.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-96(a))
Sec. 6-187. - Familiarity with regulations; liability for violations.
All holders of a consumption on the premises license shall keep a copy of this article on his premises and shall instruct any person working there with respect to the terms of this article, and each licensee or his agents selling liquor shall at all times be familiar with the terms of this article. The licensee shall be held responsible for any acts of his employees in any violation of this article or of the laws of the state or the rules and regulations of the state revenue commissioner.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-97)
Sec. 6-188. - Inspection authority of officials.
The business premises of the holder of a consumption on the premises license for the sale of liquor shall be open to inspection at any and all times by officers or officials authorized to conduct such inspections.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-98)
Sec. 6-189. - False statements on application.
The making of any false statement on an application for a license to sell liquor for consumption on the premises shall constitute grounds for revocation of the license.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-99)
Sec. 6-190. - Age of employees.
No person under 21 years of age shall be employed on the premises for which a license is issued under this article in any capacity in any place of business licensed under this article.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-100)
Sec. 6-191. - Prohibited acts.
There shall be no gambling, betting, games of chance, punchboards, vending machines, slot machines, pinball machines, lotteries or tickets or chances therein or the operation of any schemes for hazarding money or any other thing of value in any consumption on the premises licensee's place of business or in any room adjoining the same, owned, leased or controlled by the licensee; and any violation of this section shall be cause for suspension or revocation of the license.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-101)
Sec. 6-192. - Display of license.
Licenses under this article shall be displayed prominently at all times on the premises for which the license was issued.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-102)
Sec. 6-193. - Sales of malt beverages and wine.
A licensee for the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises shall also have the right to serve malt beverages or wine, provided he shall secure a license therefor.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-103)
Sec. 6-194. - Licenses issued only to certain types of establishments.
In addition to all other requirements, no license for consumption on the premises shall be issued to any applicant who does not meet the requirements of a private club, restaurant, hotel, nightclub, or lounge.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-104)
Sec. 6-195. - Penalties; revocation.
Any person violating the rules and regulations set out in this article shall be subject to revocation of his license and punishment as prescribed by the mayor and council. In addition to the rules and regulations set out in this article, each licensee doing business in the city under this article shall comply with all laws of the state, federal laws, and rules and regulations of the state revenue commissioner relating to the sale and distribution of distilled spirits in the state; and any violation of same shall subject the licensee to immediate suspension or revocation of his retail liquor license and also shall subject the licensee to criminal prosecution by the proper authority as provided by laws and the ordinances of the mayor and council.
(Code 1980, § 7-2-105)
